JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 42 Independent Auditors Report We read other information contained in the Annual Report Independent Auditors Report to the members of and consider whether it is consistent with the audited JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc accounts.
The other information comprises only the Financial We have audited the accounts of JPMorgan European Results, Chairmans Statement, Investment Managers Report, Investment Trust plc for the year ended 31st March 2008 which Summaries of Results, Financial Records, Ten Largest comprise the Income Statement, Balance Sheet, Statement of Investments, Portfolio Analyses, Lists of Investments, Total Recognised Gains and Losses, Reconciliation of Portfolio Income Statements, Portfolio Balance Sheets, Movements in Shareholders Funds and the Cash Flow Directors Report, Corporate Governance, the unaudited part Statement and the related notes 1 to 25.
These accounts have of the Directors Remuneration Report, Directors been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
Responsibilities in Respect of the Accounts, Information We have also audited the information in the Directors about the Company, Capital Structure and Conversion Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
between Share Classes, Shareholder Analyses, Notice of This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a Annual General Meeting, Appendix and Glossary of Terms.
body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act We consider the implications for our report if we become 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might aware of any apparent misstatements or material state to the Companys members those matters we are required inconsistencies with the accounts.
Our responsibilities do not to state to them in an auditors report and for no other extend to any other information.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not Basis of audit opinion accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Company and the Companys members as a body, for our Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
An audit includes examination, on Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual disclosures in the accounts and the part of the Directors Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the accounts Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally by the Directors in the preparation of the accounts, and of Accepted Accounting Practice as set out in the Statement whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the of Directors Responsibilities.
Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the part of the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance information and explanations which we considered necessary with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
reasonable assurance that the accounts and the part of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from a true and fair view, the accounts and the part of the material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of 1985 and the information given in the Directors Report is information in the accounts and the part of the Directors consistent with the accounts.
Remuneration Report to be audited.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not Opinion kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the In our opinion: information and explanations we require for our audit, or if the accounts give a true and fair view, in accordance with information specified by law regarding Directors United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31st March 2008 We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement and of its loss for the year then ended: reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Report to be audited have been properly prepared in Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, the information given in the Directors Report is consistent or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the with the accounts.
Companys corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
ERNST & YOUNG LLP Registered Auditors London, 9th June 2008 T H E C O M P A N Y
