28 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Independent Auditors Report We have audited the financial statements of JPMorgan We read the other information contained in the Annual American Investment Trust plc for the year ended Report as described in the contents section and consider 31st December 2008 which comprise the primary financial whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
statements such as the Income Statement, the Reconciliation We consider the implications for our report if we become of Movement in Shareholders Funds, the Balance Sheet, the aware of any apparent misstatements or material Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 23.
These inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our financial statements have been prepared under the responsibilities do not extend to any further information accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the outside the Annual Report.
information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is Basis of audit opinion described as having been audited.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International This report is made solely to the companys members, as a Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and state to the companys members those matters we are disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the required to state to them in an auditors report and for no Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do includes an assessment of the significant estimates and not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the company and the companys members as a body, for our financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual information and explanations which we considered necessary Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give statements in accordance with applicable law and United reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or Directors Responsibilities.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the information in the financial statements and the part of the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Opinion In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial the financial statements give a true and fair view, in statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Report to be audited have been properly prepared in Accounting Practice, of the state of the companys affairs accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to as at 31st December 2008 and of its loss for the year then you whether in our opinion the information given in the ended: Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
the financial statements and the part of the Directors In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and all the information and explanations we require for our the information given in the Directors Report is consistent audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors with the financial statements.
remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement DeloitteLLP reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the London, United Kingdom Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether 17 March 2009 the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the companys corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
