28 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 1 Independent Auditors Report To the members of JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys corporate governance procedures or its risk and control Trust plc procedures.
We have audited the accounts of the JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc for the year ended 30th June 2008 We read the other information contained in the Annual Report which comprise the Income Statement, the Reconciliation of and consider whether it is consistent with the audited accounts.
Movements in Shareholders Funds, the Balance Sheet, the Cash The other information comprises only the Financial Results, the Flow Statement and the related notes.
These accounts have been Chairmans Statement, the Investment Managers Report and the prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have other elements of the Investment Review, the Directors Report, also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration the Corporate Governance Statement and the unaudited part of Report that is described as having been audited.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
Our The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
and the accounts in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Basis of audit opinion Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of We conducted our audit in accordance with International Directors Responsibilities.
The Directors are also responsible for Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing preparing the Directors Remuneration Report.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the part of the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This preparation of the accounts, and of whether the accounting report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, for the Companys members as a body in accordance with consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to information and explanations which we considered necessary in whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
assurance that the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or true and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of the error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts and properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the accounts.
Opinion The information given in the Directors Report includes that In our opinion: specific information presented in the Chairmans Statement and the Investment Managers Report that is cross-referenced from the accounts give a true and fair view, in accordance with the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 30th June 2008 and of In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has its net return and cash flows for the year then ended: not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if Report to be audited have been properly prepared in information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and and other transactions is not disclosed.
the information given in the Directors Report is consistent We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement with the accounts.
reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing  LLP Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or London 26th September 2008 1 The accounts are published on www.
co. uk, which is a website maintained by the Companys Manager, JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM.
The maintenance and integrity of the website maintained by JPMAM or any of its subsidiaries is, so far as it relates to the Company, the responsibility of IPMAM.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of this website or any other website upon which the accounts may be published and accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may occur to the accounts following presentation on a website.
Visitors to any website containing the accounts need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the accounts may differ from legislation in their jurisdiction.
