JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 27 1 Independent Auditors Report To the shareholders of JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys corporate Investment Trust plc governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We have audited the accounts of JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile We read other information contained in the Annual Report and Investment Trust plc for the year ended 31st January 2008 which consider whether it is consistent with the audited accounts.
The comprise the Income Statement, the Reconciliation of other information comprises only the Financial Highlights, the Movements in Shareholders Funds, the Balance Sheet, the Cash Chairmans Statement, the Investment Managers Report and the Flow Statement and the related notes.
These accounts have been other elements of the Investment Review, the Directors Report, prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have the Corporate Governance Statement and the unaudited part of also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration the Directors Remuneration Report.
We consider the Report that is described as having been audited.
implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the accounts.
Our Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the accounts in accordance with applicable law and United Basis of Audit Opinion Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally We conducted our audit in accordance with International Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Directors Responsibilities.
The Directors are also responsible for Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, preparing the Directors Remuneration Report.
of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to Our responsibility is to audit the accounts and the part of the be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and preparation of the accounts, and of whether the accounting International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for information and explanations which we considered necessary in any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly assurance that the accounts and the part of the Directors agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or We report to you our opinion as to whether the accounts give a error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall true and fair view and whether the accounts and the part of the adequacy of the presentation of information in the accounts and Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information Opinion given in the Directors Report is consistent with the accounts.
In our opinion: The information given in the Directors Report includes that specific information presented in the Chairmans Statement and the accounts give a true and fair view, in accordance with the Investment Managers Report that is cross referenced from United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
the state of the Companys affairs as at 31st January 2008 and of its net return and cash flows for the year then ended: In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the accounts and the part of the Directors Remuneration the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if Report to be audited have been properly prepared in information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and and other transactions is not disclosed.
the information given in the Directors Report is consistent We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects with the accounts.
the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does  LLP not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or London, 27th March 2008 1 The accounts are published on the www.
co. uk website, which is a website maintained by the Companys Manager, JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM.
The maintenance and integrity of the website maintained by JPMAM or any of its subsidiaries is, so far as it relates to the Company, the responsibility of JPMAM.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of this website or any other website upon which the accounts may be published and accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may occur to the accounts following presentation on a website.
Visitors to any website containing the accounts need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the accounts may differ from legislation in their jurisdiction.
