J JPMor PMorgan R gan Russian Securities plc ussian Securities plc Annual R Annual Repor eport & Accounts 2008 t & Accounts 2008 25 25 Independent Auditors Report We read other information contained in the Annual Report Independent Auditors Report to the members of and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial JPMorgan Russian Securities plc statements.
The other information comprises only Features, We have audited the financial statements of JPMorgan Russian Financial Results, Chairmans Statement, Investment Securities plc for the year ended 31st October 2008 which Managers Report, Summary of Results, Performance, comprise the Income Statement, Reconciliation of Movements Financial Record, Ten Largest Equity Investments, Sector in Shareholders Funds, Balance Sheet, Cash Flow Statement Analysis, List of Investments, Board of Directors, Directors and related notes 1 to 21.
These financial statements have been Report, Corporate Governance, the unaudited part of the prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
Directors Remuneration Report, Information about the We have also audited the information in the Directors Company, Shareholder Analysis and Notice of Annual General Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Meeting, Appendix and Glossary of Terms.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might other information.
state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other Basis of audit opinion purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not We conducted our audit in accordance with International accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors The Directors responsibities for preparing the Annual Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are law and Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Directors appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Responsibilities in respect of the Accounts.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of Report to be audited have been properly prepared in information in the financial statements and the part of the accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and 2006.
We also Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
report to you whether the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion: We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the the financial statements give a true and fair view, in information and explanations we require for our audit, or if accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted information specified by law regarding Directors Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
as at 31st October 2008 and of its net loss for the year We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement then ended: reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions the financial statements and the part of the Directors of the 2008 Combined Code specified for our review by the Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the information given in the Directors Report is the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and consistent with the financial statements.
controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
ERNST & YOUNG LLP Registered Auditor London 5th February 2009
