Statement of the independent auditors to the members of Bunzl plc Pursuant to Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 We have examined the Summary Financial Basis of opinion Statement which comprises the Consolidated We conducted our work in accordance with income statement, Consolidated balance sheet, Bulletin 1999 6 The auditors statement on Consolidated cash flow statement, the related the summary financial statement issued by Notes and the Summary remuneration report the Auditing Practices Board.
Our report on set out on pages 25 to 30. the Groups full annual financial statements describes the basis of our audit opinion on This statement is made solely to the Companys those financial statements and the Directors members, as a body, in accordance with remuneration report.
Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our work has been undertaken so that we Opinion might state to the Companys members those In our opinion the Summary Financial matters we are required to state to them in Statement is consistent with the full annual such a statement and for no other purpose.
financial statements, the Directors report and To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do the Directors remuneration report of Bunzl plc not accept or assume responsibility to anyone for the year ended 31 December 2008 and other than the Company and the Companys complies with the applicable requirements members as a body, for our work, for this of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 statement, or for the opinions we have formed.
and the regulations made thereunder.
Respective responsibilities of directors KPMG Audit Plc and auditors Chartered Accountants The directors are responsible for preparing Registered Auditor the Annual Review and Summary Financial London Statement in accordance with applicable 23 February 2009 United Kingdom law.
Our responsibility is to The auditors have issued an unqualified report on the report to you our opinion on the consistency full financial statements containing no statement under of the Summary Financial Statement within Sections 237 2 or 237 3 of the Companies Act 1985. the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement with the full annual financial statements, the Directors report, the Directors remuneration report and its compliance with the relevant requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We also read the other information contained in the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Summary Financial Statement.
Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2008 Statement of the independent auditors 31
