Independent auditors report to the members of Bunzl plc We have audited the Group and parent company financial statements We read the other information contained in the Annual Review and the financial statements of Bunzl plc for the year ended 31 December Summary Financial Statement and the Directors Report and Accounts 2008 which comprise the Consolidated income statement, the and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
Consolidated and Company balance sheets, the Consolidated cash We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any flow statement, the Consolidated statement of recognised income and apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial expense and the related Notes.
These financial statements have been statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors remuneration report that is Basis of audit opinion described as having been audited.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, directors in the preparation of the financial statements and of whether we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
for this report or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Review and with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial Summary Financial Statement and the Directors Report and Accounts statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU, and for preparing the parent or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated company financial statements and the Directors remuneration report the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial in accordance with applicable law and UK accounting standards statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the be audited.
Opinion Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of In our opinion: the Directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance on Auditing UK and Ireland.
with IFRS as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Groups affairs at 31 December 2008 and of its profit for the year then ended: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part the Group financial statements have been properly prepared of the Directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the IAS Regulation: the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, report is consistent with the financial statements.
As described in the in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, Directors report, the information provided therein includes the specific of the state of the parent companys affairs at 31 December 2008: information presented in the separate Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement that is cross referred from the Principal activity the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors and business review section of the Directors report.
remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the the information given in the Directors report is consistent with information and explanations we require for our audit or if information the financial statements.
specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects Registered Auditor the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 London Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of 23 February 2009 the Financial Services Authority and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2008 Independent auditors report to the members of Bunzl plc 49
