36 Independent auditors report to the shareholders of The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. We have audited the group and parent company We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements the financial statements of The financial statements give a true and fair view and Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. for the year ended whether the financial statements and the part of the 31 December 2008 which comprise the group directors remuneration report to be audited have income statement, the group and Corporation been properly prepared in accordance with the statements of recognised income and expense, the Companies Act 1985 and whether, in addition, the group and Corporation balance sheets, the group group financial statements have been properly and Corporation cash flow statements and the prepared in accordance with Article 4 of the IAS related notes.
These financial statements have been Regulation.
We also report to you whether, in our prepared under the accounting policies set out opinion, the information given in the directors report therein.
is consistent with the financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the We have also audited the information in the company has not kept proper accounting records, if directors remuneration report that is described as we have not received all the information and having been audited.
explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors Respective responsibilities of directors remuneration and other transactions is not and auditors disclosed.
The directors responsibilities for preparing the We review whether the corporate governance annual report, the directors remuneration report and statement reflects the companys compliance with the financial statements in accordance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code applicable law and International Financial Reporting specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does are set out in the statement of directors not.
We are not required to consider whether the responsibilities.
boards statements on internal control cover all risks Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and controls, or form an opinion on the and the part of the directors remuneration report to effectiveness of the groups corporate governance be audited in accordance with relevant legal and procedures or its risk and control procedures.
regulatory requirements and International Standards We read other information contained in the annual on Auditing UK and Ireland.
report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
This other information comprises only that included on pages 1 to 29 and the unaudited parts of the directors remuneration report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. www.
com 37 Our report has been prepared pursuant to the Opinion requirements of the Companies Act 1985 and for no In our opinion: other purpose.
No person is entitled to rely on this the group financial statements give a true and fair report unless such a person is a person entitled to view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the rely upon this report by virtue of and for the purpose European Union, of the state of the groups affairs of the Companies Act 1985 or has been expressly as at 31 December 2008 and of its profit for the authorised to do so by our prior written consent.
year then ended: Save as above, we do not accept responsibility for this report to any other person or for any otherthe group financial statements have been properly purpose and we hereby expressly disclaim any and prepared in accordance with the Companies Act all such liability.
1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: the parent company financial statements give a Basis of audit opinion true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as We conducted our audit in accordance with adopted by the European Union as applied in International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland accordance with the provisions of the Companies issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit Act 1985, of the state of the parent companys includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence affairs as at 31 December 2008: relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the directorsthe parent company financial statements and the remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes part of the directors remuneration report to be an assessment of the significant estimates and audited have been properly prepared in judgments made by the directors in the preparation accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and of the financial statements, and of whether the the information given in the directors report is accounting policies are appropriate to the groups consistent with the financial statements.
and companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
BDO Stoy Hayward LLP We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain Registered Auditors all the information and explanations which we London, UK considered necessary in order to provide us with 27 February 2009 sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c.
