Supplementary Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report To the Directors of Legal & General Group Plc on the Supplementary Financial Statements We have audited the supplementary financial statements for the Opinion year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the Consolidated In our opinion, the supplementary financial statements for the Income Statement European Embedded Value basis, the year ended 31 December 2008 have been properly prepared in Consolidated Balance Sheet European Embedded Value basis all material respects in accordance with the EEV basis set out in and the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and the Basis of preparation.
Expense European Embedded Value basis and the related notes the supplementary financial statements which have been prepared in accordance with the European Embedded Value EEV basis set out in the Basis of preparation which should be read in conjunction with the Groups financial statements.
 LLP Chartered Accountants Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors London The directors are responsible for preparing the supplementary 24 March 2009 financial statements on the EEV basis in accordance with the Notes: EEV basis set out in the Basis of preparation.
Our responsibilities, a The supplementary financial statements are published on the website as independent auditors, in relation to the supplementary of Legal & General Group Plc, www.
The financial statements are, as set out in our letter of engagement maintenance and integrity of the Legal & General Group Plc website is the dated 17 March 2009, to report to you our opinion as to whether responsibility of the directors: the audit work does not involve consideration the supplementary financial statements have been properly of these matters and, accordingly, we accept no responsibility for prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the EEV any changes that may have occurred to the supplementary financial basis.
We also report to you if we have not received all the statements since they were initially presented on the website.
information and explanations we require for our audit of the supplementary financial statements.
This report, including the b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of supplementary financial statements may differ from opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys legislation in other jurisdictions.
directors as a body in accordance with our letter of engagement dated 17 March 2009, and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or in to whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Our audit included examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the supplementary financial statements.
This evidence included an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the supplementary financial statements, and of whether the Basis of preparation is appropriate to the Legal & General Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the supplementary financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the supplementary financial statements.
com Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 175 Independent Auditors Report To the Members of Legal & General Group Plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Basis of audit opinion Legal & General Group Plc for the year ended 31 December We conducted our audit in accordance with International 2008 which comprise the Balance Sheet, the Statement of Total Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Recognised Gains and Losses, the Reconciliation of Movement Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test in Total Equity and the related notes.
These parent company basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in financial statements have been prepared under the accounting the parent company financial statements and the part of the policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made been audited.
by the directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies We have reported separately on the Group financial statements are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently of Legal & General Group Plc for the year ended 31 December applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors information and explanations which we considered necessary The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable the Directors Remuneration Report and the parent company assurance that the parent company financial statements and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial Remuneration Report to be audited.
statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory Opinion requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and In our opinion: Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for the parent company financial statements give a true and fair and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the companys purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume affairs as at 31 December 2008: responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to the parent company financial statements and the part of the whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company financial statements.
the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the parent  LLP company financial statements.
The information given in the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Directors Report includes that specific information presented in London the Governance Section that is cross-referred from the Directors 24 March 2009 Report.
Notes: a The financial statements are published on the website of Legal & General In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has Group Plc, www.
The maintenance and not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all integrity of the Legal & General Group Plc website is the responsibility the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve information specified by law regarding directors remuneration consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no and other transactions is not disclosed.
responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in company financial statements.
The other information comprises other jurisdictions.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
176 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
