Independent Auditors Report To the Members of Legal & General Group Plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Legal & General Basis of audit opinion Group Plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise We conducted our audit in accordance with International the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Balance Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and the related of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the notes.
These Group financial statements have been prepared Group financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of under the accounting policies set out therein.
the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of We have reported separately on the parent company financial whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups statements of Legal & General Group Plc for the year ended circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
31 December 2008 and on the information in the Directors Report on Remuneration that is described as having been audited.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and assurance that the Group financial statements are free from the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in Opinion accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and In our opinion: International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, and of its loss and cash flows for the year then ended: in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other the Group financial statements have been properly prepared purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by the IAS Regulation: and our prior consent in writing.
the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs Group financial statements have been properly prepared in As explained in Note 1 to the Group financial statements, the Group accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
The information given in the Directors Report includes that specific information presented in In our opinion the Group financial statements give a true and fair the Governance section that is cross referred from the Directors view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Groups affairs Report.
as at 31 December 2008 and of its loss and cash flows for the year then ended.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
 LLP We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions London of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the 24 March 2009 Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if Notes: it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards a The financial statements are published on the website of Legal & General statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or Group Plc, www.
The maintenance and form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate integrity of the Legal & General Group Plc website is the responsibility governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept We read other information contained in the Annual Report and no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
The other information comprises only the Directors Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies jurisdictions.
with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
74 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
