FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE AUDITORS REPORT ON THE GROUPS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Auditors Report on the Groups Financial Statements Independent auditors report to the members of Man Group plc Basis of audit opinion We have audited the Group financial statements of Man Group plc for We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards the year ended 31 March 2008 which comprise the Group Income on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Statement, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Cash Flow Statement, An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the Group Statement of Changes in Recognised Income and Expense, the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
It also the Principal Accounting Policies and the related notes.
These Group includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies by the directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, set out therein.
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Man Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2008 and on the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information information in the Remuneration Report that is described as having and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide been audited.
us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and the Group financial statements.
International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities Opinion on page 42.
In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards Groups affairs as at 31 March 2008 and of its profit and cash flows on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has for the year then ended: been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown Regulation: and or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985  LLP and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with London the Group financial statements.
29 May 2008 The information given in the Directors Report includes that information presented in the Chief Executive Officers Report, Business Review, Core Investment Managers and Financial Performance, which is crossreferenced from the Principal activities, business review and results section of the Directors Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans Report and the unaudited part of the Remuneration Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
84 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008
