Independent auditors report to the members of Cable and Wireless plc We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Cable and Wireless plc for the year ended 31 March 2008 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense and the related notes.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Cable and Wireless plc for the year ended 31 March 2008 and on the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company, and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 64.
Our responsibility is to audit the consolidated financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
The information given in the Directors report includes that specific information presented in the Business Review that is cross referred from the Directors report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Groups financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the Groups financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion: the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2008 and of its profit for the year then ended: the consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor London 21 May 2008 66
