INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Independent Auditors Report to the shareholders of The Monks Investment Trust PLC the Company We have audited the financial statements of in the Directors Report includes that speci c amounts and disclosures in the financial The Monks Investment Trust PLC for the year information presented in the Chairmans statements and the part of the Directors ended 30 April 2008 which comprise the Statement and Managers Portfolio Review Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also Income Statement, the Balance Sheet, the that is cross-referenced from the Business includes an assessment of the signi cant Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Review section of the Directors Report.
estimates and judgments made by the Funds, the Cash Flow Statement and the Directors in the preparation of the financial In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, related notes 1 to 23.
These financial statements, and of whether the accounting the Company has not kept proper accounting statements have been prepared under the policies are appropriate to the Companys records, if we have not received all the accounting policies set out therein.
We have circumstances, consistently applied and information and explanations we require for also audited the information in the Directors adequately disclosed.
our audit, or if information speci ed by law Remuneration Report that is described as regarding directors remuneration and other We planned and performed our audit so as having been audited.
to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to Respective responsibilities of We review whether the corporate provide us with suf cient evidence to give Directors and Auditors governance statement re ects the reasonable assurance that the financial Companys compliance with the nine The Directors responsibilities for preparing statements and the part of the Directors provisions of the 2006 FRC Combined the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free Code speci ed for our review by the Listing Remuneration Report and the financial from material misstatement, whether caused Rules of the Financial Services Authority, statements in accordance with applicable by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In and we report if it does not.
We are not law and United Kingdom Accounting forming our opinion we also evaluated the required to consider whether the Boards Standards United Kingdom Generally overall adequacy of the presentation of statements on internal control cover all risks Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in information in the financial statements and and controls, or to form an opinion on the the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report effectiveness of the Companys corporate to be audited.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial governance procedures or its risk and statements and the part of the Directors control procedures.
Opinion Remuneration Report to be audited in We read other information contained in In our opinion: accordance with relevant legal and regulatory the Annual Report and consider whether requirements and International Standards the financial statements give a true it is consistent with the audited financial on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, and fair view, in accordance with statements.
The other information comprises including the opinion, has been prepared United Kingdom Generally Accepted the Company Summary, the One Year for and only for the Companys members as Accounting Practice, of the state of the Summary, the Five Year Summary, the Ten a body in accordance with Section 235 of Companys affairs as at 30 April 2008 Year Record, the Information on the Directors the Companies Act 1985 and for no other and of its net return and cash ows for and Management, the unaudited part of the purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, the year then ended: Directors Remuneration Report, the Chairmans accept or assume responsibility for any other Statement, the Managers Portfolio Review, the purpose or to any other person to whom this the financial statements and the part of Distribution of Portfolio, Thirty Largest Equity report is shown or into whose hands it may the Directors Remuneration Report to be Holdings and the List of Investments.
We come save where expressly agreed by our audited have been properly prepared consider the implications for our report if we prior consent in writing.
in accordance with the Companies Act become aware of any apparent misstatements 1985: and We report to you our opinion as to whether or material inconsistencies with the financial the financial statements give a true and fair the information given in the Directors statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend view and whether the financial statements Report is consistent with the financial to any other information.
and the part of the Directors Remuneration statements.
Report to be audited have been properly Basis of audit opinion  LLP prepared in accordance with the Companies We conducted our audit in accordance Chartered Accountants and Act 1985.
We also report to you whether with International Standards on Auditing UK Registered Auditors in our opinion the information given in and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Edinburgh the Directors Report is consistent with the Board.
An audit includes examination, on 6 June 2008 financial statements.
The information given a test basis, of evidence relevant to the Notes The following notes relate to financial statements published on a website and are not included in the printed version of the Annual Report and Accounts: The maintenance and integrity of the Baillie Gifford website is the responsibility of Baillie Gifford: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 25
