Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Murray Income Trust PLC whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all We have audited the Financial Statements of Murray Income risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of Trust PLC for the year ended 30 June 2008 which comprise the Company's corporate governance procedures or its risk the Income Statement, Balance Sheet, Reconciliation of and control procedures.
Movements in Shareholders Funds, Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 18.
These Financial Statements have been prepared on the basis of the accounting policies We read other information contained in the Annual Report set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having Financial Statements.
This other information comprises the been audited.
Corporate Summary, Chairmans Statement, Managers Review, Results, Performance, Investment PortfolioTwenty This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a Largest Investments, Investment Portfolio, Summary of body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act Investment Changes during the Year, Summary of Net 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might Assets, Sector Comparison with Benchmark, Information state to the Company's members those matters we are about the Manager, The Investment Process, Your Board of required to state to them in an auditors' report and for no Directors, Directors Report, Statement of Corporate other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do Governance, Statement of Directors Responsibilities, not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, How Company and the Company's members as a body, for our to Invest in Murray Income Trust PLC, Glossary of Terms and audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have Definitions, Notice of Annual General Meeting, Corporate formed.
Information and Share Capital History.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual any other information.
Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom Basis of Audit Opinion law and Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement We conducted our audit in accordance with International of Directors Responsibilities.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies statements give a true and fair view and whether the are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, financial statements and the part of the Directors consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the also report to you whether in our opinion the information information and explanations which we considered necessary given in the Directors' Report is consistent with the financial in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give statements.
reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also received all the information and explanations we require for evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of our audit, or if information specified by law regarding information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration and other transactions is not Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement In our opinion: reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions the Financial Statements give a true and fair view, in of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider 36 Murray Income Trust PLC Enfocus Software - Customer Support Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 30 June 2008 and of its loss for the year then ended: the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Directors' Deport is consistent with the financial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered Auditor Edinburgh 16 September 2008 The maintenance and integrity of the Murray Income Trust PLC web site is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the Auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
Murray Income Trust PLC 37 Enfocus Software - Customer Support
