"Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Murray International Trust PLC We have audited the financial statements of Murray Distribution of Investments, Distribution of Equity International Trust PLC the ""Company"" for the year ended Investments, Information about the Manager, The Investment Process, Your Board of Directors, Directors' 31 December 2008 which comprise the Income Statement, Report, Statement of Corporate Governance, unaudited part Balance Sheet, Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders of the Directors' Remuneration Report, Marketing Strategy, Funds, Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 20."
How to Invest in Murray International Trust PLC, Glossary of These financial statements have been prepared under the Terms and Definitions, Notice of Annual General Meeting, accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the Corporate Information, Recent Capital History and information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is Shareholder Information.
We consider the implications for described as having been audited.
our report if we become aware of any apparent This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are Basis of Audit Opinion required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do We conducted our audit in accordance with International not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and formed.
disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors includes an assessment of the significant estimates and The Directors' responsibilities for preparing the Annual judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, law and Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or and Ireland.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial information in the financial statements and the part of the statements give a true and fair view and whether the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly Opinion prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and In our opinion: whether the information given in the Directors Report is the financial statements give a true and fair view, in consistent with the financial statements.
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of affairs of the Company We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has as at 31 December 2008 and of its net return for the year not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received then ended: all the information and explanations we require for our audit, the financial statements and the part of the Directors or if information specified by law regarding Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent We review whether the Statement of Corporate Governance with the financial statements.
reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Ernst & Young LLP Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we Registered Auditor report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether 24 February 2009 the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and Edinburgh controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Companys corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
This other information comprises the Corporate Summary, Chairman's Statement, Manager's Review, Results, Performance, Investment Portfolio - Twenty Largest Investments, Investment Portfolio - Other Investments, Summary of Net Assets, Summary of Investment Changes During the Year, Attribution Analysis, Murray International Trust PLC 35
