Novae Group plc | Annual Report 2008 Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF NOVAE GROUP PLC 61 We have audited the Group and parent company financial We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements the financial statements of Novae Group plc statements give a true and fair view and whether the for the year ended 31 December 2008, which comprise financial statements and the part of the Directors the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated and Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Cash prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the in Equity and the related notes.
These financial statements IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our have been prepared under the accounting policies set out opinion the information given in the Directors Report is therein.
We have also audited the information in the consistent with the financial statements.
The information Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having given in the Directors Report includes that speci c been audited.
information presented in the Operating and Financial Review that is cross-referred from the Business Review This report is made solely to the Companys members, as section of the Directors Report.
a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company might state to the Companys members those matters we are has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not required to state to them in an auditors report and for no received all the information and explanations we require other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we for our audit, or if information speci ed by law regarding do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
the Company and the Companys members as a body, We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we re ects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions have formed.
of the 2006 Combined Code speci ed for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and Report and the Group financial statements in accordance controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU, and for preparing control procedures.
the parent company financial statements and the Directors We read the other information contained in the Annual Remuneration Report in accordance with applicable law Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted financial statements.
We consider the implications for our Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements Directors Responsibilities on page 60. or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
com 62 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF NOVAE GROUP PLC | continued Basis of audit opinion Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International In our opinion: Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the The consolidated financial statements give a true and Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the and of its pro t for the year then ended Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the signi cant estimates and The consolidated financial statements have been properly judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies and Article 4 of the IAS Regulations are appropriate to the Groups and Companys The parent company financial statements give a true and circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
fair view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Accounting Practice, of the state of the parent companys information and explanations which we considered necessary affairs as at 31 December 2008 in order to provide us with suf cient evidence to give The parent company financial statements and the part of reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies are free from material misstatement, whether caused by Act 1985 fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation The information given in the Directors Report is of information in the financial statements and the part of consistent with the financial statements the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Registered Auditors London 6 March 2009
