INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO OLD MUTUAL PLC ON THE OLD MUTUAL MARKET CONSISTENT EMBEDDED VALUE BASIS SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION We have audited the Old Mutual Market Consistent Embedded Value Old Mutual MCEV basis supplementary information the supplementary information of Old Mutual plc the Company on pages 281 to 327 in respect of the year ended 31 December 2008, including conversion of its comparative supplementary information for 2007, previously prepared on the European Embedded Value EEV basis, to an Old Mutual MCEV basis.
The supplementary information has been prepared in accordance with the basis of preparation as set out on page 284.
The supplementary information should be read in conjunction with the Group financial statements which are on pages 137 to 265.
This report is made solely to the Company in accordance with the terms of our engagement.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company those matters we have been engaged to state in this report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As described in the statement of directors responsibilities on page 279, the directors responsibilities include preparing the supplementary information in accordance with the basis of preparation set out on page 284.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditor, in relation to the supplementary information are established in the United Kingdom by the Auditing Practices Board, by our professions ethical guidance and the terms of our engagement.
Under the terms of engagement we are required to report to the Company our opinion as to whether the supplementary information has been properly prepared in accordance with the basis of preparation set out on page 284.
We also report if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for this audit.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit having regard to International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the supplementary information.
It also includes an assessment of the signi cant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the supplementary information, and of whether the accounting policies applied in the preparation of the supplementary information are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with suf cient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the supplementary information is free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of the supplementary information.
Opinion In our opinion, the Old Mutual MCEV basis supplementary information for the year ended 31 December 2008 has been properly prepared in accordance with the basis of preparation set out on page 284.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants 8 Salisbury Square London EC4Y 8BB 4 March 2009 Page 280 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008
