Directors responsibilities Directors responsibilities Financial staA temen uditots rs report Auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of Prudential plc We have audited the Group and parent company financial We read other information contained in the Annual Report statements the financial statements of Prudential plc for and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we consolidated Group income statement, the consolidated become aware of any apparent mis-statements or material Group and parent company balance sheets, the consolidated inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our Group cash flow statement, the consolidated Group statement responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
of change in shareholders equity and the related notes on pages 131 to 315.
These financial statements have been Basis of audit opinion prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International We have also audited the information in the directors Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing remuneration report on pages 102 to 127 that is described Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, as having been audited.
of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration This report is made solely to the Companys members, report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies significant estimates and judgements made by the directors Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether might state to the Companys members those matters we are the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other Companys circumstances, consistently applied and purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not adequately disclosed.
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report of the directors remuneration report to be audited are free and the Group financial statements in accordance with from material mis-statement, whether caused by fraud or other applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU, and for the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the preparing the parent company financial statements and the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration directors remuneration report in accordance with applicable report to be audited.
law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out Opinion in the statement of directors responsibilities on page 316.
In our opinion: Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the The Group financial statements give a true and fair view, part of the directors remuneration report to be audited in in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
and of its loss for the year then ended: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial the Group financial statements have been properly prepared statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of statements and the part of the directors remuneration report the IAS Regulation: to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the parent company financial statements give a true and the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally statements, Article 4 of the International Auditing Standards Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the parent Regulation IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether companys affairs as at 31 December 2008: in our opinion the information given in the directors report is the parent company financial statements and the part of consistent with the financial statements.
In addition, we report the directors remuneration report to be audited have been to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper properly prepared in accordance with the Companies accounting records, if we have not received all the information Act 1985: and and explanations we require for our audit, or if information the information given in the directors report is consistent specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other with the financial statements.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the KPMG Audit Plc Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report Chartered Accountants if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Registered Auditor Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and London controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and 18 March 2009 control procedures.
