Independent auditors report to Prudential plc on the European Embedded Value EEV basis supplementary information We have audited the EEV basis supplementary information Basis of audit opinion the supplementary information of Prudential plc on pages We conducted our audit having regard to International 318 to 356 in respect of the year ended 31 December 2008.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing The supplementary information has been prepared in Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, accordance with the European Embedded Value Principles of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the issued in May 2004 by the CFO Forum of European Insurance supplementary information.
It also includes an assessment of Companies and expanded by the Additional Guidance on the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors European Embedded Value Disclosures issued in October in the preparation of the supplementary information, and of 2005 together the EEV Principles using the methodology and whether the accounting policies applied in the preparation of assumptions set out on pages 322 to 330.
The supplementary the supplementary information are appropriate to the Groups information should be read in conjunction with the Group circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
financial statements which are on pages 131 to 315.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the This report is made solely to the Company in accordance information and explanations which we considered necessary with the terms of our engagement.
Our audit work has been in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give undertaken so that we might state to the Company those reasonable assurance that the supplementary information matters we have been engaged to state in this report and for is free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of the the Company for our audit work, for this report, or for the supplementary information.
Opinion Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor In our opinion, the EEV basis supplementary information As described in the statement of directors responsibilities for the year ended 31 December 2008 has been properly on page 357, the directors responsibilities include preparing prepared in accordance with the EEV Principles using the the supplementary information on the EEV basis in accordance methodology and assumptions set out on pages 322 to 330. with the EEV Principles.
Our responsibilities, as independent auditor, in relation to the supplementary information are established in the UK by the Auditing Practices Board, by our professions ethical guidance and the terms of our engagement.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Under the terms of engagement we are required to report to London the Company our opinion as to whether the supplementary information has been properly prepared in accordance with 18 March 2009 the EEV Principles using the methodology and assumptions set out on pages 322 to 330.
We also report if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for this audit.
358 Prudential plc Annual Report 2008 Additional information Additional information 360 Risk factors 364 Shareholder information 366 How to contact us
