Statement of total recognised gains and losses for the year ended 31 December 2008 2008 2007 Note 000 000 Profit after taxation for the year 38 24,968 7,288 Actuarial losses gains 44 44 270 Share based payments 46 429 816 Loss gain from change in fair value of available for sale equity securities 41 3,957 2,069 Deferred tax taken charged credited directly to equity shareholders funds 503 728 Total recognised gains and losses 20,035 9,539 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2008 117 Statement of total recognised gains and losses Notes to the individual accounts 37 significant accounting policies Basis of accounting The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 1985.
They have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain financial instruments, and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards and law.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption conferred by FRS 29 not to present the disclosures required by that standard relating to financial risks in the Companys solus accounts.
The principal accounting policies are summarised below.
They have all been applied consistently throughout the year and the preceding year.
Impairment Tangible fixed assets are subject to review for impairment in accordance with FRS 11: Impairment of fixed assets and goodwill.
The carrying values of tangible fixed assets are written down by the amount of any permanent impairment and the loss is charged as an operating cost to the profit and loss account in the period in which this occurs.
The carrying value of tangible fixed assets may be written up to a value no higher than the original depreciated cost, should an external event reverse the effects of a previous impairment.
At each balance sheet date the Company reviews the carrying amount of its financial assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
Where there is objective evidence that an available for sale security is impaired the cumulative loss that has been recognised in reserves is removed from reserves and recognised in the profit and loss account.
An impairment loss in respect of an investment in equity instruments classified as available for sale is not reversed through profit or loss.
If the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available for sale increases and the increase can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised in the profit and loss account, the impairment is reversed through the profit and loss account.
Fixed assets Fixed assets are stated at historical cost less depreciation.
Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the items.
Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed assets at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight line basis over its expected useful life, as follows: Leasehold premises: over the lease term Plant, equipment and computer hardware: over three to five years Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less provisions for impairment.
Available for sale equity securities Available for sale investments are those intended to be held for an indefinite period of time, which may be sold in response to needs for liquidity or changes in interest rates, exchange rates or equity prices.
Equity investments are initially recognised at fair value.
For unlisted securities, the Company establishes fair value by using valuation techniques, including the use of recent arms length transactions, discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing models and other valuation techniques commonly used by market participants.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the financial assets have expired or been effectively transferred, or where the Company has transferred substantially all risks and rewards of ownership.
Equity investments are subsequently carried at fair value.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value are recognised directly in equity except for changes arising from fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, which are recognised as income or expenditure in the profit and loss account for monetary assets and directly in equity for non-monetary assets, until the financial asset is derecognised or impaired at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity should be recognised in profit or loss.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2008 118 Notes to the individual accounts
