Independent auditors report to the members of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc We have audited the financial statements of The Royal Bank of Scotland In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept Group plc the company and its subsidiaries together the Group proper accounting records, we have not received all the information and for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the accounting explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law policies, the balance sheets as at 31 December 2008 and 2007, the regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not consolidated income statements, the cash flow statements, the disclosed.
statements of recognised income and expense for each of the three years in the period ended 31 December 2008, the related Notes 1 to 42 We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the and the information identified as audited in the Risk, capital and companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined liquidity management section of the Business review.
These financial Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We have also audited the information in the part of the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
The Listing Rules do not require us to consider whether the Board or managements statements on internal control cover all risks and This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, Accounts 2008 as described in the contents section, including the we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report, and consider company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the outside the Annual Report and Accounts 2008. directors remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Basis of audit opinion Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union, are set out in the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on statement of directors responsibilities.
Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board and with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the United States.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of directors remuneration report described as having been audited in evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the company and the the directors remuneration report described as having been audited Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, and as regards the Groups consolidated financial statements, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us opinion, the information given in the directors report is consistent with with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial the financial statements.
The information given in the directors report statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described includes that specific information presented in the Business review that as having been audited are free from material misstatement, whether is cross referred from the business review section of the directors report.
caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
172 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 UK opinion US opinion In our opinion: In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in respects, the financial position of the Group as at 31 December 2008 accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the and 2007 and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its loss the three years in the period ended 31 December 2008, in conformity and cash flows for the year then ended: with IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union and IFRS as issued by the IASB.
the company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union as applied The financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 were in accordance with the provisions of the companies Act 1985, of the restated for the matters disclosed in Note 1 of the Accounting Polices.
state of affairs of the company as at 31 December 2008: We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration Company Accounting Oversight Board United States, the Groups report described as having been audited have been properly internal control over financial reporting as at 31 December 2008, based prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as on the criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Regulation: and Commission.
the information given in the directors report is consistent with the Our report dated 25 February 2009 which will be included in the Annual financial statements.
Report on Form 20-F for the year ended 31 December 2008 to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, expressed an Separate opinion in relation to IFRS unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups internal control As explained in the accounting policies, the Group, in addition to over financial reporting of the Group.
complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Deloitte LLP In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view, in Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors accordance with IFRS, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 Edinburgh, United Kingdom December 2008 and of its loss and cash flows for the year then ended.
25 February 2009 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 173
