FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | | Annual Report and Accounts 2008 RSA 63 Independent auditors report to the members of RSA Insurance Group plc Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required We have audited the consolidated financial statements of RSA Insurance to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control recognised income and expense, the consolidated balance sheet, procedures.
the consolidated cashflow statement, significant accounting policies, estimation techniques, risks, uncertainties and contingencies, risk We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as management and related notes 1 to 34.
These consolidated financial described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out with the audited consolidated financial statements.
We have also audited the information in the remuneration implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent report that is described as having been audited.
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the consolidated financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial information outside the Annual Report.
statements of RSA Insurance Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2008.
Basis of audit opinion This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements and report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, the part of the remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, directors in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information remuneration report and the consolidated financial statements in and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union are set out in consolidated financial statements and the part of the remuneration the directors report.
report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we Our responsibility is to audit the consolidated financial statements in also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and the consolidated financial statements and the part of the remuneration International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view, whether the consolidated financial Opinion statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the In our opinion: Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and whether the part of the remuneration report described as having been audited r The consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view, has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its profit given in the directors report is consistent with the consolidated financial for the year then ended statements.
The information given in the directors report includes that r The consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared specific information presented in the Group CEOs business review, in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the the regional business reviews and the estimation techniques, risks, IAS Regulation uncertainties and contingencies that are cross referred from the r The part of the remuneration report described as having been business review section of the directors report.
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received r The information given in the directors report is consistent with the all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if consolidated financial statements.
information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Deloitte LLP We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined London, UK Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial 25 February 2009
