| | 124 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Independent auditors report to the members of RSA Insurance Group plc We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of RSA described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent Insurance Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 which with the audited Parent Company financial statements.
We consider comprise the Parent Company balance sheet, statement of changes the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent in equity of the Parent Company, Parent Company cashflow misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Parent Company statement and the related notes 1 to 10.
These Parent Company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further financial statements have been prepared under the accounting information outside the Annual Report.
Basis of audit opinion We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards RSA Insurance Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 and on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
on the information in the remuneration report that is described as An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to having been audited.
the amounts and disclosures in the Parent Company financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates This report is made solely to the Parent Companys members, as a and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the Parent body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the are appropriate to the Parent Companys circumstances, consistently Parent Companys members those matters we are required to state applied and adequately disclosed.
to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information to anyone other than the Parent Company and the Parent Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide opinions we have formed.
us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Parent Company financial statements are free from material misstatement, Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law information in the Parent Company financial statements.
and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union are set out in the directors report.
Opinion In our opinion: Our responsibility is to audit the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and r The Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the Parent Company state of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2008 financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Parent r The Parent Company financial statements have been properly Company financial statements have been properly prepared in prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you r The information given in the directors report is consistent with whether in our opinion the information given in the directors report the Parent Company financial statements.
is consistent with the Parent Company financial statements.
The information given in the directors report includes that specific Deloitte LLP information presented in the financial review, the Group CEOs business Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors review, the regional business reviews and in the estimation techniques, London, UK risks, uncertainties and contingencies that is cross referred from the 25 February 2009 business review section of the directors report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Parent Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
