Independent Auditors Report To the members of The Scottish Investment Trust PLC We have audited the financial statements of The Scottish We read the other information contained in the Annual Report Investment Trust PLC for the year ended 31 October 2008 as described in the contents section and consider whether it is which comprise the Income Statement, the Balance Sheet, consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the Cash Flow Statement, the Statement of Total Recognised the implications for our report if we become aware of any Gains and Losses, the Reconciliation of Movement in apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Stockholders Funds, and the related notes 1 to 18.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any financial statements have been prepared under the accounting further information outside the Annual Report.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as Basis of Audit Opinion having been audited.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing This report is made solely to the companys members, Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we in the financial statements and the part of the Directors might state to the companys members those matters we Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered and Auditors necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited statements in accordance with applicable law and United are free from material misstatement, whether caused by Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of of Directors Responsibilities.
information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in Opinion accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and In our opinion: International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial Accounting Practice, of the state of the companys affairs as statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial at 31 October 2008 and of its return for the year then ended statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report the financial statements and the part of the Directors to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 our opinion the information given in the Directors Report the information given in the Directors Report is consistent is consistent with the financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all Deloitte LLP the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors information specified by law regarding directors remuneration Edinburgh, UK and other transactions is not disclosed.
8 December 2008 We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the companys corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
44 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2008
