INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Independent Auditors Report to the members of Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC the Company We have audited the financial statements that is cross referenced from the Business Respective Responsibilities of of Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC Review section of the Directors Report.
We Directors and Auditors for the year ended 31 March 2008 which also report to you if, in our opinion, the The Directors responsibilities for preparing comprise the Income Statement, Balance Company has not kept proper accounting the Annual Report, the Directors Sheet, Reconciliation of Movements in records, if we have not received all the Remuneration Report and the financial Shareholders Funds, the Cash Flow information and explanations we require for statements in accordance with applicable Statement and the related notes.
These our audit, or if information specified by law law and UK Accounting Standards UK financial statements have been prepared regarding Directors remuneration and other Generally Accepted Accounting Practice under the accounting policies set out therein.
are set out in the Statement of Directors We have also audited the information in Responsibilities on page 28.
We review whether the Corporate the Directors Remuneration Report that is Governance Statement reflects the Our responsibility is to audit the financial described as having been audited.
Companys compliance with the nine statements and the part of the Directors This report is made solely to the Companys provisions of the 2006 FRC Combined Remuneration Report to be audited in members, as a body, in accordance with Code specified for our review by the Listing accordance with relevant legal and section 235 of the Companies Act.
Our Rules of the Financial Services Authority, regulatory requirements and International audit work has been undertaken so that we and we report if it does not.
We are not Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
might state to the Companys members those required to consider whether the Boards We report to you our opinion as to matters we are required to state to them in statements on internal control cover all risks whether the financial statements give a true an auditors report and for no other purpose.
and controls, or form an opinion on the and fair view and whether the financial To the fullest extent permitted by law, we effectiveness of the Companys corporate statements and the part of the Directors do not accept or assume responsibility to governance procedures or its risk and Remuneration Report to be audited have anyone other than the Company and the control procedures.
been properly prepared in accordance Companys members as a body, for our We read the other information contained with the Companies Act.
We also report to audit work, for this report, or for the opinions in the Annual Report and consider whether you whether in our opinion the information we have formed.
it is consistent with the audited financial given in the Directors Report is consistent statements.
We consider the implications with the financial statements.
The information for our report if we become aware of given in the Directors Report includes any apparent misstatements or material the specific information presented in the inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Chairmans Statement, the Managers Our responsibilities do not extend to any Review, the One Year Summary, the Five other information.
Year Summary and the Ten Year Record SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 29 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT Basis of Audit Opinion Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance In our opinion: with International Standards on Auditing UK the financial statements give a true and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices and fair view, in accordance with Board.
An audit includes examination, on UK Generally Accepted Accounting a test basis, of evidence relevant to the Practice, of the state of the Companys amounts and disclosures in the financial affairs as at 31 March 2008 and of its statements and the part of the Directors profit for the year then ended: Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also the financial statements and the part of includes an assessment of the significant the Directors Remuneration Report to be estimates and judgments made by the audited have been properly prepared directors in the preparation of the financial in accordance with the Companies Act: statements, and of whether the accounting and policies are appropriate to the Companys the information given in the Directors circumstances, consistently applied and Report is consistent with the financial adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as KPMG Audit Plc to obtain all the information and explanations Chartered Accountants which we considered necessary in order to Registered Auditor provide us with sufficient evidence to give Edinburgh reasonable assurance that the financial 14 May 2008 statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
