60 Carillion plc Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Independent auditors report to the members of Carillion plc We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company statements the financial statements of Carillion plc for the has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the Consolidated all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or Income Statement, the Consolidated and Parent Company information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the and other transactions is not disclosed.
Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and the related notes.
These financial statements have been prepared We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions audited the information in the Remuneration report that is of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the described as having been audited.
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate Our audit work has been undertaken so that we may state to governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the We read the other information contained in the annual report fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this become aware of any apparent misstatements or material report, or for the opinions we have formed.
inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report Basis of audit opinion and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable We conducted our audit in accordance with the International law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as Standards for Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing adopted by the EU, and for preparing the Parent Company Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, financial statements and the Remuneration report in accordance of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant Directors responsibilities on page 59. estimates and judgements made by the Directors in preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys of the Remuneration report to be audited in accordance with circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial assurance that the financial statements and the part of the statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be Remuneration report to be audited are free from material audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the to you whether in our opinion the information given in the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report Directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the Directors report includes that specific information presented in the Operating and Financial Review that is cross-referred from the Principal Activities and Business Review section of the Directors report.
Section 04 Governance 61 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Opinion In our opinion the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its profit for the year then ended the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2008 the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor 2 Cornwall St Birmingham B3 2DL 4 March 2009 62 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 55% Growth in underlying profit before tax to 157.5m Section 05 Financial statements 63 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 05 Financial statements 64 Consolidated income statement 65 Consolidated balance sheet 66 Consolidated cash flow statement 67 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net borrowing 67 Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 68 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 113 Company balance sheet 114 Notes to the Company financial statements 121 Shareholder information 122 Five year review 124 Board of Directors and Advisers 125 Further information Carillion has long-term contracts with the Highways Agency and Local Highways Authorities for the maintenance and management of around 20,000 kilometres of the UK road network.
Our services include all routine maintenance activities as well as providing support to the emergency services in the event of incidents and accidents.
