Independent Auditors report to the members of Standard Chartered PLC We have audited the Group Standard Chartered PLC and its We read other information contained in the Annual Report subsidiaries and Company Standard Chartered PLC financial and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements together referred to as the financial statements statements.
We consider the implications for our report if for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the we become aware of any apparent misstatements or Group Income Statement, the Group and Company Balance material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our Sheets, the Group and Company Cash Flow Statements, the responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Group and Company Statements of Recognised Income and Basis of audit opinion Expense, and the related notes.
These financial statements We conducted our audit in accordance with International have been prepared under the accounting policies set out Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a in the financial statements and the part of the Directors body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act Remuneration Report to be audited.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made state to the Companys members those matters we are by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, required to state to them in an auditors report and for no and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the and adequately disclosed.
Company and the Companys members as a body, for our We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
information and explanations which we considered necessary Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, assurance that the financial statements and the part of the the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from in accordance with applicable law and International Financial material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU are set irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 94. the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the Remuneration Report to be audited.
part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements Opinion and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with profit for the year then ended: the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial the Company financial statements give a true and fair view, statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU as applied you whether in our opinion the information given in the Report in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act of the Directors is consistent with the financial statements.
The 1985, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 information given in the Report of Directors includes information December 2008: presented in the Chairmans statement, the Group Chief Executives Review and the Financial and Business Reviews the financial statements and the part of the Directors that are cross referenced from the Report of the Directors.
In Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly addition we report to you if the Company has not kept proper prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 accounting records, if we have not received all the information and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 and explanations we require for our audit, or if information of the IAS Regulation: and specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other the information given in the Report of the Directors transactions are not disclosed.
is consistent with the financial statements.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the KPMG Audit Plc Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report London if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Chartered Accountants Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and Registered Auditor controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the 3 March 2009 Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
com 95 Financial statements and notes Corporate governance Business review
