214032 Temple Bar pp27-pp52 20 2 09 21:04 Page 28 Independent auditors report to the members of Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC We have audited the Group and Company financial We read other information contained in the Annual statements the financial statements of Temple Bar Report and consider whether it is consistent with the Investment Trust PLC for the year ended audited financial statements.
The other information 31 December 2008 which comprise the Consolidated comprises the Group Summary, Summary of Results, Income Statement, the Consolidated and Company Ten Year Record, Comparative Dividend Growth, Five Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, Year Summary, Directors, Management and the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Administration, Chairmans Statement, Twenty Largest Company Statement of Changes in Equity and the Investments, Asset Allocation, Managers Report, related notes 1 to 22.
These financial statements have Portfolio of Investments, Report of the Directors, been prepared under the accounting policies set out unaudited part of the Report on Directors therein.
We have also audited the information in the Remuneration, Corporate Governance, Useful Directors Remuneration Report that is described as Information for Shareholders and Notice of Meeting.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or This report is made solely to the Companys members, material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Our responsibilities do not extend to any other Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been information.
undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to Basis of audit opinion them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
We conducted our audit in accordance with To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland or assume responsibility to anyone other than the issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit Company and the Companys members as a body, for includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial have formed.
statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors the significant estimates and judgments made by the The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual directors in the preparation of the financial statements, Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate financial statements in accordance with applicable to the Groups and Companys circumstances, United Kingdom law and International Financial consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all Directors Responsibilities.
the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements evidence to give reasonable assurance that the and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to financial statements and the part of the Directors be audited in accordance with relevant legal and Remuneration Report to be audited are free from regulatory requirements and International Standards material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or on Auditing UK and Ireland.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation We report to you our opinion as to whether the of information in the financial statements and the part financial statements give a true and fair view and of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have Opinion been properly prepared in accordance with the In our opinion: Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group the Group financial statements give a true and fair financial information, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the We also report to you whether in our opinion the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs information given in the report of the directors is as at 31 December 2008 and of its return for the consistent with the financial statements.
year then ended: the Company financial statements give a true and In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we the European Union as applied in accordance with have not received all the information and explanations the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the we require for our audit, or if information specified by state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December law regarding directors remuneration and other 2008: transactions are not disclosed.
the financial statements and the part of the We review whether the Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the Companies Act 1985 as regards the Group financial nine provisions of the Combined Code specified for our statements and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not the information given in the Report of the Directors required to consider whether the Boards statements is consistent with the financial statements.
on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and Ernst & Young LLP control procedures.
Registered Auditor London 20 February 2009 28 Temple Bar Investment Trust
