Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Tullett Prebon plc We have audited the Group Financial Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you We planned and performed our audit Statements of Tullett Prebon plc for the whether in our opinion the information so as to obtain all the information and year ended 31 December 2008 which given in the Directors Report is consistent explanations which we considered comprise the Consolidated Income with the Group Financial Statements.
necessary in order to provide us with Statement, the Consolidated Statement suf cient evidence to give reasonable of Recognised Income and Expense, In addition we report to you if, in our assurance that the Group Financial the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the opinion, we have not received all the Statements and the part of the Report on Consolidated Cash Flow Statement information and explanations we require Directors Remuneration to be audited are and the related notes 1 to 38.
These for our audit, or if information speci ed by free from material misstatement, whether Group Financial Statements have been law regarding directors remuneration and caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
prepared under the accounting policies other transactions is not disclosed.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated set out therein.
We have also audited the overall adequacy of the presentation the information in the Report on Directors We review whether the Corporate of information in the Group Financial Remuneration that is described as having Governance Statement re ects the Statements and the part of the Report on been audited.
Companys compliance with the nine Directors Remuneration to be audited.
provisions of the 2006 Combined Code We have reported separately on the Parent speci ed for our review by the Listing Rules Opinion Company Financial Statements of Tullett Prebon of the Financial Services Authority, and we In our opinion: plc for the year ended 31 December 2008. report if it does not.
the Group Financial Statements give This report is made solely to the We are not required to consider whether a true and fair view, in accordance Companys members, as a body, in the Boards statements on internal control with IFRSs as adopted by the European accordance with section 235 of the cover all risks and controls, or form an Union, of the state of the Groups affairs Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups as at 31 December 2008 and of its pro t been undertaken so that we might state corporate governance procedures or its risk for the year then ended: to the Companys members those matters and control procedures.
we are required to state to them in an the Group Financial Statements have auditors report and for no other purpose.
We read the other information contained been properly prepared in accordance To the fullest extent permitted by law, we in the Annual Report as described in with the Companies Act 1985 and do not accept or assume responsibility the contents section and consider Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: to anyone other than the Company and whether it is consistent with the audited the Companys members as a body, for Group Financial Statements.
The other the part of the Report on Directors our audit work, for this report, or for the information comprises only the Directors Remuneration described as having been opinions we have formed.
Report, the Chairmans Statement, the audited has been properly prepared in unaudited part of the Report on Directors accordance with the Companies Act Respective responsibilities of directors Remuneration, the Business Review and 1985: and and auditors the Corporate Governance Statement.
The directors responsibilities for preparing the information given in the Directors the Annual Report, the Report on We consider the implications for our report Report is consistent with the Group Directors Remuneration and the Group if we become aware of any apparent Financial Statements.
Financial Statements in accordance with misstatements or material inconsistencies applicable law and International Financial with the Group Financial Statements.
Our Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted responsibilities do not extend to any further As explained in Note 2 a to the Group by the European Union are set out in the information outside the Annual Report.
Financial Statements, the Group, in Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
addition to complying with its legal Basis of audit opinion obligation to comply with IFRSs as Our responsibility is to audit the Group We conducted our audit in accordance adopted by the European Union, has also Financial Statements in accordance with with International Standards on Auditing complied with the IFRSs as issued by the relevant legal and regulatory requirements UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing International Accounting Standards Board.
and International Standards on Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes UK and Ireland.
examination, on a test basis, of evidence In our opinion the Group Financial relevant to the amounts and disclosures Statements give a true and fair view, in We report to you our opinion as to in the Group Financial Statements and accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the whether the Group Financial Statements the part of the Report on Directors Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 give a true and fair view, whether the Remuneration to be audited.
It also and of its pro t for the year then ended.
Group Financial Statements have been includes an assessment of the signi cant properly prepared in accordance with the estimates and judgements made by the Deloitte LLP Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the directors in the preparation of the Group Chartered Accountants IAS Regulation and whether the part of Financial Statements, and of whether the Registered Auditors the Report on Directors Remuneration accounting policies are appropriate to United Kingdom described as having been audited has been the Groups circumstances, consistently London properly prepared in accordance with the applied and adequately disclosed.
10 March 2009 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 45 shareholder information financial statements governance business review
