Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Tullett Prebon plc We have audited the Parent Company In addition we report to you if, in our Opinion Financial Statements of Tullett Prebon opinion, the Company has not kept In our opinion: plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 proper accounting records, if we have which comprise the Balance Sheet and not received all the information and the Parent Company Financial the related notes 1 to 8.
These Parent explanations we require for our audit, or Statements give a true and fair view, Company Financial Statements have been if information speci ed by law regarding in accordance with United Kingdom prepared under the accounting policies directors remuneration and other Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, set out therein.
of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2008: We have reported separately on the Group We read the other information contained the Parent Company Financial Financial Statements of Tullett Prebon in the Annual Report as described in the Statements have been properly plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 contents section and consider whether prepared in accordance with the and on the information in the Report on it is consistent with the audited Parent Companies Act 1985: and Directors Remuneration that is described Company Financial Statements.
The other as having been audited.
information comprises only the Directors the information given in the Directors Report, the Chairmans Statement and Report is consistent with the Parent This report is made solely to the the Business Review.
We consider the Company Financial Statements.
Companys members, as a body, in implications for our report if we become accordance with section 235 of the aware of any apparent misstatements Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has or material inconsistencies with the Deloitte LLP been undertaken so that we might state Parent Company Financial Statements.
Chartered Accountants and to the Companys members those matters Our responsibilities do not extend to Registered Auditors we are required to state to them in an any further information outside the London, United Kingdom auditors report and for no other purpose.
10 March 2009 To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility Basis of audit opinion to anyone other than the Company and We conducted our audit in accordance the Companys members as a body, for with International Standards on Auditing our audit work, for this report, or for the UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing opinions we have formed.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence Respective responsibilities of directors relevant to the amounts and disclosures in and auditors the Parent Company Financial Statements.
The directors responsibilities for It also includes an assessment of the preparing the Annual Report and the signi cant estimates and judgements Parent Company Financial Statements made by the directors in the preparation of in accordance with applicable law and the Parent Company Financial Statements, United Kingdom Accounting Standards and of whether the accounting policies United Kingdom Generally Accepted are appropriate to the Companys Accounting Practice are set out in the circumstances, consistently applied and Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Parent We planned and performed our audit Company Financial Statements in so as to obtain all the information and accordance with relevant legal and explanations which we considered regulatory requirements and International necessary in order to provide us with Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
suf cient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Parent Company We report to you our opinion as to Financial Statements are free from whether the Parent Company Financial material misstatement, whether caused Statements give a true and fair view and by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In whether the Parent Company Financial forming our opinion we also evaluated Statements have been properly prepared the overall adequacy of the presentation in accordance with the Companies Act of information in the Parent Company 1985.
We also report to you whether Financial Statements.
in our opinion the Directors Report is consistent with the Parent Company Financial Statements.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2008 87 shareholder information financial statements governance business review
