Independent Auditors Report to the members of Witan Investment Trust plc We have audited the group and parent company financial further information outside the Annual Report.
statements the financial statements of Witan Investment Basis of audit opinion Trust plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise We conducted our audit in accordance with International the consolidated income statement, the consolidated and parent Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing company balance sheets, the consolidated and parent company Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, cash ow statements, the consolidated and parent company of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the statements of changes in shareholders equity and the related financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration notes 1 to 25.
These financial statements have been prepared Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Report the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the that is described as having been audited.
accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and companys This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the information and explanations which we considered necessary in companys members those matters we are required to state to order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the assurance that the financial statements and the part of the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from responsibility to anyone other than the company and the material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, Report to be audited.
the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements Opinion in accordance with applicable law and International Financial In our opinion: Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the the state of the groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in its loss for the year then ended: accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and the parent company financial statements give a true and fair International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent companys statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial affairs as at 31 December 2008: statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report the financial statements and the part of the Directors to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group financial prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Regulation: and Report is consistent with the financial statements.
The the information given in the Directors Report is consistent information given in the Directors Report includes that specic with the financial statements.
information presented in the Business Review section of the Directors Report on pages 7 to 19.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs As explained in Note 1 to the group financial statements, the In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if complied with the IFRSs as issued by the International information specified by law regarding directors remuneration Accounting Standards Board.
and other transactions is not disclosed.
In our opinion the group financial statements give a true and fair We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reects view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the groups affairs the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 as at 31 December 2008 and of its loss for the year then ended.
Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We Deloitte LLP are not required to consider whether the boards statements on Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion London on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance 6 March 2009 procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Note to those who access this document by electronic means We read the other information contained in the Annual Report, An audit does not provide assurance on the maintenance and integrity of the website, including controls used to achieve this, and in particular on whether any as described in the Contents section, and consider whether it is changes may have occurred to the financial statements since first published.
These consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider matters are the responsibility of the directors but no control procedures can provide the implications for our report if we become aware of any absolute assurance in this area.
apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any financial information differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
