Independent Auditors Report to the members of Centrica plc Independent Auditors report to the members of We read other information contained in the Annual Report and Centrica plc consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group Financial We have audited the Group Financial Statements of Centrica plc Statements.
The other information comprises only At a Glance, for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the Group Financial Highlights, the Chairmans Statement, the Directors Income Statement, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Cash Report, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, Flow Statement, the Group Statement of Recognised Income and the Gas and Liquids Reserves, Five Year Record and Shareholder Expense and the related notes.
These Group Financial Statements Information.
We consider the implications for our report if we have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group Financial Statements.
Our We have reported separately on the parent Company Financial responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Statements of Centrica plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that Basis of audit opinion is described as having been audited.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group and the Group Financial Statements in accordance with applicable Financial Statements.
It also includes an assessment of the law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement in the preparation of the Group Financial Statements, and of of Directors Responsibilities.
whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups Our responsibility is to audit the Group Financial Statements in circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, information and explanations which we considered necessary including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 assurance that the Group Financial Statements are free from of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or in overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group to whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our Financial Statements.
Opinion We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group Financial In our opinion: Statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group x the Group Financial Statements give a true and fair view, in Financial Statements have been properly prepared in accordance accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 We also report to you whether, in our opinion the information and of its result and cash flows for the year then ended: given in the Directors Report comprising the Directors Report x the Group Financial Statements have been properly prepared Business Review and the Directors Report Governance is in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of consistent with the Group Financial Statements.
the IAS Regulation: and In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not x the information given in the Directors Report is consistent received all the information and explanations we require for our with the Group Financial Statements.
audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing  LLP Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards London statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form 26 February 2009 an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
