Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Centrica plc Independent Auditors report to the members Basis of audit opinion of Centrica plc We conducted our audit in accordance with International We have audited the parent Company Financial Statements of Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Centrica plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 which Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of comprise the Balance Sheet and the related notes.
These parent evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent Company Financial Statements have been prepared under the Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made described as having been audited.
by the Directors in the preparation of the parent Company Financial Statements, and of whether the accounting policies We have reported separately on the Group Financial Statements are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently of Centrica plc for the year ended 31 December 2008. applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, information and explanations which we considered necessary the Directors Remuneration Report and the parent Company in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and assurance that the parent Company Financial Statements and the United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the Our responsibility is to audit the parent Company Financial overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent Statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report Company Financial Statements and the part of the Directors to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory Remuneration Report to be audited.
requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Opinion Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for In our opinion: and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance x the parent Company Financial Statements give a true and fair with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to at 31 December 2008: whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come x the parent Company Financial Statements and the part of save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent Company properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Financial Statements give a true and fair view and whether the 1985: and parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the x the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly the parent Company Financial Statements.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report comprising the Directors Report Business Review and the Directors Report Governance is consistent with the parent Company Financial Statements.
 LLP In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all London the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if 26 February 2009 information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent Company Financial Statements.
The other information comprises only At a Glance, Financial Highlights, the Chairmans Statement, the Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, the Gas and Liquids Reserves, Five Year Record and Shareholder Information.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent Company Financial Statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
