FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ASTRAZENECA PLC 165 We have audited the Company Financial We report to you our opinion as to whether We planned and performed our audit so as Statements of AstraZeneca PLC for the year the Company Financial Statements give to obtain all the information and explanations ended 31 December 2008 which comprise a true and fair view and whether the Company which we considered necessary in order to the Balance Sheet and the related notes on Financial Statements and the part of the provide us with sufficient evidence to give pages 166 to 171.
These Company Financial Directors Remuneration Report to be audited reasonable assurance that the Company Statements have been prepared under the have been properly prepared in accordance Financial Statements and the part of the accounting policies set out therein.
We have with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report Directors Remuneration Report to be audited also audited the information in the Directors to you whether in our opinion the information are free from material misstatement, whether Remuneration Report that is described as given in the Directors Report is consistent caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
with the Company Financial Statements.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation We have reported separately on the Group In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, of information in the Company Financial Financial Statements of AstraZeneca PLC the Company has not kept proper accounting Statements and the part of the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2008. records, if we have not received all the Remuneration Report to be audited.
information and explanations we require for This report is made solely to the Companys our audit, or if information specified by law opINIoN members, as a body, in accordance with regarding Directors remuneration and other section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. transactions is not disclosed.
In our opinion: Our audit work has been undertaken so that The Company Financial Statements give we might state to the Companys members We read the other information contained in the a true and fair view, in accordance with those matters we are required to state to Annual Report and Form 20-F Information UK Generally Accepted Accounting them in an auditors report and for no other and consider whether it is consistent with Practice, of the state of the Companys purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by the audited Company Financial Statements.
affairs as at 31 December 2008. law, we do not accept or assume responsibility We consider the implications for our report The Company Financial Statements and to anyone other than the Company and the if we become aware of any apparent the part of the Directors Remuneration Companys members as a body, for our audit misstatements or material inconsistencies Report to be audited have been properly work, for this report, or for the opinions we with the Company Financial Statements.
prepared in accordance with the have formed.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any Companies Act 1985. other information.
The information given in the Directors RESpECTIvE RESpoNSIbIlITIES oF Report is consistent with the Company dIRECToRS ANd AudIToRS bASIS oF AudIT opINIoN Financial Statements.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing We conducted our audit in accordance with kpmg AudIT plC the Annual Report and Form 20-F Information, International Standards on Auditing UK and Chartered Accountants the Directors Remuneration Report and the Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Registered Auditor Company Financial Statements in accordance An audit includes examination, on a test 8 Salisbury Square with applicable law and UK Accounting basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts London EC4Y 8BB Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting and disclosures in the Company Financial Practice are set out in the Statement of Statements and the part of the Directors 29 January 2009 Directors Responsibilities on page 98.
Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant Our responsibility is to audit the Company estimates and judgements made by the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors in the preparation of the Company Directors Remuneration Report to be audited Financial Statements, and of whether the in accordance with relevant legal and accounting policies are appropriate to the regulatory requirements and International Companys circumstances, consistently Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008
