FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AudITorS rEPorTS oN ThE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANd oN INTErNAL 99 CoNTroL ovEr FINANCIAL rEPorTINg SArbANES-oxLEy ACT SECTIoN 404 The report set out below is provided in Exchange Commission.
Those reports are KPMG Audit Plc has also reported separately compliance with International Standards on unqualified and include opinions on the on the Company Financial Statements of Auditing UK and Ireland.
KPMG Audit Plc Financial Statements and on the effectiveness AstraZeneca PLC and on the information has also issued reports in accordance with of internal control over financial reporting as in the Directors Remuneration Report that auditing standards of the Public Company at 31 December 2008 Sarbanes-Oxley Act is described as having been audited.
This Accounting Oversight Board in the US, which Section 404.
The Directors statement on audit report is set out on page 165. will be included in the Annual Report on Form internal control over financial reporting is set 20-F to be filed with the US Securities and out on page 98.
INdEPENdENT AudITorS rEPorT To ThE MEMbErS oF ASTrAZENECA PLC We have audited the Group Financial relevant legal and regulatory requirements Group Financial Statements, and of whether Statements of AstraZeneca PLC for the and International Standards on Auditing the accounting policies are appropriate to the year ended 31 December 2008 which UK and Ireland.
Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, We report to you our opinion as to whether the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Group Financial Statements give a true We planned and performed our audit so as the Consolidated Statement of Recognised and fair view and whether the Group Financial to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order Income and Expense and the related notes Statements have been properly prepared in on pages 100 to 164.
These Group Financial accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and to provide us with sufficient evidence to Statements have been prepared under the Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report give reasonable assurance that the Group accounting policies set out therein.
to you whether in our opinion the information Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or given in the Directors Report is consistent We have reported separately on the Company with the Group Financial Statements.
In forming our Financial Statements of AstraZeneca PLC opinion we also evaluated the overall for the year ended 31 December 2008 In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group Financial Statements.
and on the information in the Directors we have not received all the information Remuneration Report that is described as and explanations we require for our audit, having been audited.
or if information specified by law regarding opINIoN Directors remuneration and other transactions In our opinion: This report is made solely to the Companys is not disclosed.
members, as a body, in accordance with The Group Financial Statements give a true section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and, We review whether the Corporate Governance and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as in respect of the separate opinion in relation Statement reflects the Companys compliance adopted by the EU, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 to International Financial Reporting Standards with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined IFRSs as issued by the International Code specified for our review by the Listing and of its profit for the year then ended.
Accounting Standards Board IASB, on terms Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and The Group Financial Statements have been that have been agreed with the Company.
We are not required to properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the Our audit work has been undertaken so that consider whether the Boards statements on we might state to the Companys members internal control cover all risks and controls, or IAS Regulation.
those matters we are required to state to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the The information given in the Directors them in an auditors report and, in respect Groups corporate governance procedures Report is consistent with the Group of the separate opinion in relation to IFRSs or its risk and control procedures.
as issued by the IASB, those matters that we have agreed to state to them in our report, We read the other information contained in SEpARATE opINIoN IN RElATIoN To IFRSs and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent the Annual Report and Form 20-F Information As explained in the accounting policies set permitted by law, we do not accept or and consider whether it is consistent with assume responsibility to anyone other than the audited Group Financial Statements.
out in the Group Financial Statements, in the Company and the Companys members We consider the implications for our report if we addition to complying with its legal obligation as a body, for our audit work, for this report, become aware of any apparent mis-statements to comply with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, the Group has also complied with IFRSs as or for the opinions we have formed.
or material inconsistencies with the Group Financial Statements.
Our responsibilities do issued by the IASB.
RESpECTIvE RESpoNSIbIlITIES oF not extend to any other information.
dIRECToRS ANd AudIToRS In our opinion the Group Financial Statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with bASIS oF AudIT opINIoN The Directors responsibilities for preparing the IFRSs as issued by the IASB, of the state of Annual Report and Form 20-F Information and We conducted our audit in accordance with the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 the Group Financial Statements in accordance International Standards on Auditing UK and and of its profit for the year then ended.
with applicable law and IFRSs as adopted Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices by the European Union EU are set out in Board.
An audit includes examination, on a KPMG Audit Plc the Statement of Directors Responsibilities test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts Chartered Accountants on page 98. and disclosures in the Group Financial Registered Auditor 8 Salisbury Square Statements.
It also includes an assessment Our responsibility is to audit the Group of the significant estimates and judgments London EC4Y 8BB Financial Statements in accordance with made by the Directors in the preparation of the 29 January 2009 ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008
