Financial statements Report of the independent auditors consolidated financial statements Basis of audit opinion United Kingdom opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Independent auditors report to the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing members of BT Group plc Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, We have audited the consolidated financial statements of BT of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2008 which comprise consolidated financial statements.
It also includes an assessment the Group income statement, the Group balance sheet, the of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors Group cash ow statement, the Group statement of recognised in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, and income and expense, Accounting policies and the related notes.
of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the These consolidated financial statements are set out on pages 88 groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately to 138 and 144.
These consolidated financial statements have disclosed.
been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the We have reported separately on the parent company financial information and explanations which we considered necessary in statements of BT Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2008 order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable and on the information in the Report on directors remuneration assurance that the consolidated financial statements are free that is described as having been audited.
This separate report is from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other set out on page 140. irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Respective responsibilities of directors consolidated financial statements.
"and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report Opinion and the consolidated financial statements in accordance with In our opinion: applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair "" IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Statement of directors responsibilities."
Union, of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 March Our responsibility is to audit the consolidated financial 2008 and of its profit and cash ows for the year then statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory ended: requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and the consolidated financial statements have been properly Ireland.
"This report, including the opinion, has been prepared "" for and only for the companys members as a body in prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose."
"We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or the information given in the Report of the Directors is "" assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other consistent with the consolidated financial statements."
person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs We report to you our opinion as to whether the consolidated As explained in the accounting policies, the group in addition to financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRSs as consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared in adopted by the European Union, has also complied with the accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
We also report to you whether in our opinion In our opinion the consolidated financial statements give a the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the with the consolidated financial statements.
groups affairs as at 31 March 2008 and of its profit and cash In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not ows for the year then ended.
received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance Statement reects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of  LLP the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if London, United Kingdom it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards 14 May 2008 statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and Form 20-F and consider whether it is consistent with the audited consolidated financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Overview and the Report of the Directors.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the consolidated financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 85 Financial statements Financial statements Report of the independent auditors United States opinion audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial Report of Independent Registered Public reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and Accounting Firm to the Board of Directors testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of and Shareholders of BT Group plc internal control based on the assessed risk.
Our audits also In our opinion, the accompanying Group income statements, included performing such other procedures as we considered Group balance sheets, Group cash ow statements and group necessary in the circumstances.
We believe that our audits Statements of recognised income and expense present fairly, in provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
all material respects, the financial position of BT Group plc and A companys internal control over financial reporting is a its subsidiaries at 31 March 2008 and 2007 and the results of process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the their operations and cash ows for each of the three years in reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial the period ended 31 March 2008, in conformity with statements for external purposes in accordance with generally International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as issued by accepted accounting principles.
A companys internal control the International Accounting Standards Board.
Also, in our over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures opinion the company maintained, in all material respects, that i pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable effective internal control over financial reporting as of 31 March detail, accurately and fairly reect the transactions and 2008, based on criteria established in the Turnbull criteria.
The dispositions of the assets of the company: ii provide reasonable companys management are responsible for these financial assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit statements, for maintaining effective internal control over preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and internal control over financial reporting, included in expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance managements evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control with authorizations of management and directors of the over financial reporting as set out in the first three paragraphs company: and iii provide reasonable assurance regarding of Internal control over financial reporting in the Report of the prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, Directors, Corporate governance of the Form 20-F. Our or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements effect on the financial statements.
and on the companys internal control over financial reporting Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over based on our audits which were integrated in the years ended financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
We conducted our audits in Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future accordance with the standards of the Public Company periods are subject to the risk that controls may become Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those standards inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting  LLP principles used and significant estimates made by management, London, United Kingdom and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
Our 14 May 2008 86 BT Group plc Annual Report & Form 20-F
