52 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CHEMRING GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Chemring Group PLC FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 OCTOBER 2008 We have audited the Group financial statements of We review whether the Statement on Corporate Governance Chemring Group PLC for the year ended 31 October 2008 which re ects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated the 2006 Combined Code speci ed for our review by the Listing Statement of Recognised Income and Expense, the Consolidated Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards Notes to the Cash Flow Statement and the related Notes 1 to 39. statement on internal control covers all risks and controls, or These Group financial statements have been prepared under form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
We read the other information contained in the annual report as described in the contents section including the unaudited part We have reported separately on the individual company of the Directors Remuneration Report and consider whether it financial statements of Chemring Group PLC for the year ended is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
We 31 October 2008. consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. any further information outside the annual report.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to Basis of audit opinion state to them in an Auditors Report and for no other purpose.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial report, or for the opinions we have formed.
statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the signi cant Respective responsibilities of directors estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether the accounting and auditors policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
the Directors Remuneration Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the information and explanations which we considered necessary in European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors order to provide us with suf cient evidence to give reasonable Responsibilities in the Directors Report.
assurance that the Group financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the as having been audited in accordance with relevant legal and overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, whether the Group financial Opinion statements have been properly prepared in accordance with In our opinion: the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in and whether the part of the Directors Remuneration Report accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of described as having been audited have been properly prepared the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 October 2008 and of in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report its pro t for the year then ended: to you whether in our opinion the information given in the the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Directors Report is consistent with the Group financial accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the statements.
The information given in the Directors Report IAS Regulation: includes that speci c information presented in the Statement by the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as the Chairman, the Review by the Chief Executive and the Review having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance by the Finance Director that is cross referred from the review of with the Companies Act 1985: and the year and results section of the Directors Report.
the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for Deloitte LLP our audit, or if information speci ed by law regarding directors Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
