Report of the Auditors Report of the Auditors Independent Auditors Report to the Members of The British Land Company PLC Basis of audit opinion We have audited the Group financial statements of The British Land Company PLC for We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing the year ended 31 March 2008 which comprise the consolidated income statement, UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated statement of recognised income on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group and expense, the reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds, the consolidated financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
cash flow statement and the related notes 1 to 25.
These Group financial statements It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether the the information in the directors remuneration report that is described as having accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied been audited.
We have reported separately on the individual Parent Company financial We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and statements of The British Land Company PLC for the year ended 31 March 2008. explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements and the part with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so of the directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group financial by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion In our opinion: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the directors remuneration IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and as at 31 March 2008 and of its loss for the year then ended: International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and UK and Ireland.
the information given in the directors report is consistent with the Group We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a financial statements.
true and fair view, whether the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and whether the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the directors report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
The information given in the directors report includes that specific information presented in the business review that is cross-referred Deloitte & Touche LLP from the business review section of the directors report.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the London, United Kingdom information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified 19 May 2008 by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
The British Land Company PLC 99
