Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Brixton plc We have audited the parent Company financial statements of Basis of audit opinion Brixton plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards the Balance Sheet and the related notes A to O.
These parent on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Company financial statements have been prepared under the An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the to the amounts and disclosures in the parent Company financial information in the Report on Directors Remuneration that is statements and the part of the Report on Directors Remuneration to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant described as having been audited.
estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of of the parent Company financial statements, and of whether the Brixton plc for the year ended 31 December 2008. accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the information and explanations which we considered necessary Companys members those matters we are required to state to in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest assurance that the parent Company financial statements and the extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility part of the Report on Directors Remuneration to be audited are to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the have formed.
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Report on Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors Directors Remuneration to be audited.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Report on Directors Remuneration and the parent Company Opinion financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom In our opinion: law and Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the statement the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted of Directors Responsibilities.
Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as Our responsibility is to audit the parent Company financial statements at 31 December 2008: and the part of the Report on Directors Remuneration to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Report on Directors Remuneration to be audited have been International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent Company and financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Report on the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with Directors Remuneration to be audited have been properly prepared the parent Company financial statements.
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report Emphasis of matter going concern is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in In forming our opinion on the financial statements, which is the Directors Report includes that specific information presented in not qualified, we have considered the adequacy of the disclosures the Business Review and the Financial Review that is cross referred made in note A i to the financial statements concerning the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
These from the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
disclosures, regarding the possible impact of further investment In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has property valuation deficits on the Companys compliance with its not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all borrowing covenants, and the options being considered to the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if reduce the Companys indebtedness, indicate the existence of information specified by law regarding directors remuneration a material uncertainty which may cast significant doubt about the and other transactions is not disclosed.
Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The financial We read other information contained in the Annual Report and statements do not include the adjustments that would result if consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent Company the Company was unable to continue as a going concern.
The other information comprises only the Ernst & Young LLP Registered auditor Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review, the Business London Review, the Financial Review, the Directors Report, and the unaudited part of the Report on Directors Remuneration.
We 23 April 2009 consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any Notes: apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Brixton plc website is the responsibility of the Company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these to any other information.
matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
