Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Brixton plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Brixton plc for Basis of audit opinion the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the Group We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Income Statement, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Cash Flow on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Statement, and the Group Statement of Recognised Income and An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant Expense and the related notes 1 to 35.
These Group financial to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
statements have been prepared under the accounting policies It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the Group set out therein.
financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are We have reported separately on the parent Company financial appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied statements of Brixton plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 and adequately disclosed.
and on the information in the Report on Directors Remuneration We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the that is described as having been audited.
information and explanations which we considered necessary This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our assurance that the Group financial statements are free from material audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
Companys members those matters we are required to state to In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest the presentation of information in the Group financial statements.
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members Opinion as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we In our opinion: have formed.
the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable United its loss for the year then ended: Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in as adopted by the European Union are set out in the statement of accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the Directors Responsibilities.
IAS Regulation: and Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and the Group financial statements.
International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial Emphasis of matter going concern statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial In forming our opinion on the financial statements, which is not statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the qualified, we have considered the adequacy of the disclosures Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also made in note 1 to the financial statements concerning the Groups report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the ability to continue as a going concern.
These disclosures, regarding Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
The the possible impact of further investment property valuation deficits information given in the Directors Report includes that specific on the Groups compliance with its borrowing covenants, and the information presented in the Business Review and the Financial options being considered to reduce the Groups indebtedness, Review that is cross referred from the Business Review section of indicate the existence of a material uncertainty which may cast significant doubt about the Groups ability to continue as a going the Directors Report.
The financial statements do not include the adjustments In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received that would result if the Group was unable to continue as a all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if going concern.
information specified by law regarding directors remuneration Ernst & Young LLP Registered auditor and other transactions is not disclosed.
London We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 23 April 2009 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We Notes: are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Brixton plc website is the responsibility of the internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
or its risk and control procedures.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination We read other information contained in the Annual Report and of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review, the Business Review, the Financial Review and the Directors Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
