Group financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Cobham plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Cobham Basis of audit opinion plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the balance We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on sheet, the reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds, the Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit related notes and the accounting policies.
These parent company includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies and disclosures in the parent company financial statements and the part set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys Cobham plc for the year ended 31 December 2008. circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide Directors remuneration report and the parent company financial us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements of information in the parent company financial statements and the and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, Opinion including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys In our opinion: members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2008: save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors parent company financial statements.
remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you  LLP whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors report Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Southampton 4 March 2009 In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and Notes: explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law The maintenance and integrity of the Cobham plc website is the responsibility of regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider initially presented on the website.
whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination statements.
The other information comprises the sections comprising of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
the Business overview including the Chief Executives review and the Business review, Corporate governance excluding the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited and Other information set out in the contents page and the Group financial record.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
106 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
