Group financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Cobham plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Cobham plc for overview including the Chief Executives review and the Business the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the consolidated review, Corporate governance excluding the part of the Directors income statement, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated remuneration report to be audited and Other information set out cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of recognised income in the contents page and the Group financial record.
We consider and expense, the related notes and the accounting policies.
These Group the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial set out therein.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial Basis of audit opinion statements of Cobham plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards and on the information in the Directors remuneration report that is on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
described as having been audited.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
It also Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and by the Directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors responsibilities.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, in the Group financial statements.
accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come Opinion save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its profit and cash flows Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report for the year then ended: to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in report and those sections of it incorporated by reference is consistent accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS with the Group financial statements.
Regulation: and the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received Group financial statements.
all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects Southampton the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined 4 March 2009 Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to Notes: consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all The maintenance and integrity of the Cobham plc website is the responsibility of risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The other information comprises the sections comprising the Business 48 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
