36 Independent auditors report to the members of Aegis Group plc We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Aegis Group plc the Basis of audit opinion Group for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the consolidated We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing income statement, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash flow UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes statement, the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures and the related Notes 1 to 35.
These Group financial statements have been in the Group financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates the information in the directors remuneration report that is described as having and judgement made by the directors in the preparation of the Group financial been audited.
statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Aegis Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2008.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements and undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, in the Group financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Opinion The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the directors In our opinion: remuneration report and the Group financial statements in accordance with the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs by the European Union are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
as at 31 December 2008 and of its profit for the year then ended: Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: UK and Ireland.
the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and a true and fair view, whether the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the the information given in the directors report is consistent with the Group IAS Regulation and whether the part of the directors remuneration report described financial statements.
as having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the directors report is consistent with the Group financial Deloitte LLP statements.
The information given in the directors report includes that specific Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors information presented in the operating reviews and financial review that is cross London referred from the review of business and future developments section of the 18 March 2009 directors report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the annual report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
