CG40001 RA p115-128 9 12 08 15:17 Page 116 Parent Company financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Compass Group PLC Introduction Basis of audit opinion We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Compass Group PLC for the year ended 30 September 2008 which on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
comprise the Parent Company balance sheet, accounting policies An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant and the related notes 1 to 9.
These Parent Company financial to the amounts and disclosures in the Parent Company financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant set out therein.
estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements, and of whether We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys Compass Group PLC for the year ended 30 September 2008 and circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
on the information in the Directors Remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our assurance that the Parent Company financial statements are free audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other Companys members those matters we are required to state to irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Parent extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility Company financial statements.
to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we Opinion have formed.
In our opinion: Respective responsibilities of directors the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted and auditors Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, at 30 September 2008: the Directors Remuneration report and the Parent Company the Parent Company financial statements have been properly financial statements in accordance with applicable law and prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the the Parent Company financial statements.
Our responsibility is to audit the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK Deloitte & Touche LLP and Ireland.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London We report to you our opinion as to whether the Parent Company 26 November 2008 financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the Directors Report is consistent with the Parent Company financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Parent Company financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Parent Company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
116 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2008
