CG40001 RA p55-65 9 12 08 14:50 Page 56 Consolidated financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Compass Group PLC We read the other information contained in the Annual Report Introduction as described in the contents section and consider whether it is We have audited the Group financial statements of Compass Group consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
We consider PLC for the year ended 30 September 2008 which comprise the the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial recognised income and expense, the consolidated balance sheet, statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further the consolidated cash flow statement, the accounting policies and information outside the Annual Report.
These Group financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We Basis of audit opinion have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant statements of Compass Group PLC for the year ended to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements 30 September 2008. and the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Group accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors and adequately disclosed.
report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit information and explanations which we considered necessary work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited are free from material Respective responsibilities of directors misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
and auditors In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group financial statements The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration report and the Group financial and the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited.
statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Opinion Union are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities.
In our opinion: Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the state of the Groups affairs as at 30 September 2008 and of its profit for the year then ended: We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in statements give a true and fair view, whether the Group financial accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the IAS Regulation: Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the part of the Directors Remuneration report described as having whether the part of the Directors Remuneration report described been audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the as having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance Companies Act 1985: and with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent the Group financial statements.
with the Group financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and Deloitte & Touche LLP other transactions is not disclosed.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London We review whether the Corporate Governance statement reflects 26 November 2008 the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
56 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2008
