Annual Report 2008 SEGRO plc Independent Auditors Report to the members of SEGRO plc We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial We read other information contained in the Annual Report as statements the financial statements of SEGRO plc for the year described in the contents section and consider whether it is ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the Group Income consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the Statement, the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent Group and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, the Group and misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial Parent Company Statements of Recognised Income and Expense, statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other the Group and Parent Company Reconciliation of Movements in information outside the Annual Report.
Equity and the related notes 1 to 34.
These financial statements have Basis of audit opinion been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Report that is described as having been audited.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements members those matters we are required to state to them in an made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and anyone other than the Company and the Companys members adequately disclosed.
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the we have formed.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with Opinion relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International In our opinion: Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have its loss for the year then ended: been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the Parent Companys financial statements.
affairs as at 31 December 2008: In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not the financial statements and the part of the Directors kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly information and explanations we require for our audit, or if prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the other transactions is not disclosed.
IAS Regulation: and We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined the financial statements.
Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not Deloitte LLP required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the London, United Kingdom effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its 4 March 2009 risk and control procedures.
