We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with Independent the audited financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Performance Summary, the auditors report Chairmans Statement, the Business Review, the Directors Report, Corporate Governance, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, the Nomination Committee Report, the To the Members of Shaftesbury PLC Audit Committee Report, Corporate Responsibility, We have audited the Group and Parent Company the Valuers Summary Report and the Directors financial statements the financial statements of Responsibilities.
We consider the implications for Shaftesbury PLC for the year ended 30 September our report if we become aware of any apparent 2008 which comprise the Group Income Statement, misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group and Company Balance Sheets, the Group the financial statements.
Our responsibilities and Company Cash Flow Statements, the Group and do not extend to any other information.
Company Statement of Changes in Shareholders Equity and the related notes.
These financial Basis of audit opinion statements have been prepared under the accounting We conducted our audit in accordance with policies set out therein.
We have also audited the International Standards on Auditing UK and information in the Directors Remuneration Report Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
that is described as having been audited.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures Respective responsibilities in the financial statements and the part of the of Directors and Auditors Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
The directors responsibilities for preparing the It also includes an assessment of the significant Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report estimates and judgments made by the directors and the financial statements in accordance with in the preparation of the financial statements, and applicable law and International Financial Reporting of whether the accounting policies are appropriate Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European to the groups and companys circumstances, Union are set out in the Statement of Directors consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements obtain all the information and explanations which and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report we considered necessary in order to provide us with to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance regulatory requirements and International Standards that the financial statements and the part of the on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the free from material misstatement, whether caused companys members as a body in accordance with by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, of the presentation of information in the financial accept or assume responsibility for any other statements and the part of the Directors purpose or to any other person to whom this report Remuneration Report to be audited.
is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Opinion We report to you our opinion as to whether the In our opinion: financial statements give a true and fair view and - the Group financial statements give a true and fair whether the financial statements and the part of the view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs been properly prepared in accordance with the as at 30 September 2008 and of its loss and cash Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group flows for the year then ended: financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the - the Parent Company financial statements give information given in the Directors' Report is a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs consistent with the financial statements.
The as adopted by the European Union as applied in information given in the Directors Report includes accordance with the provisions of the Companies that specific information presented in the Business Act 1985, of the state of the Parent Companys Review and Corporate Responsibility that is cross affairs as at 30 September 2008 and of its cash referred from the Business Review section of the flows for the year then ended: Directors Report.
- the financial statements and the part of the In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited company has not kept proper accounting records, have been properly prepared in accordance with if we have not received all the information and the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the explanations we require for our audit, or if information Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS specified by law regarding directors remuneration Regulation: and and other transactions is not disclosed.
- the information given in the Directors' Report is We review whether Corporate Governance reflects consistent with the financial statements.
the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review  LLP by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Chartered Accountants and Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not Registered Auditors required to consider whether the boards statements London on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups 3 December 2008 corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
