INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF WORKSPACE GROUP PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of Workspace We read other information contained in the Annual Report and Group PLC for the year ended 31 March 2008 which comprise the consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of statements.
The other information comprises only the Performance Recognised Income and Expense, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, Highlights, Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes.
These Business Review, Report of the Directors, Directors Responsibilities, Group financial statements have been prepared under the accounting Corporate Governance, Directors Remuneration Report, the parent policies set out therein.
company financial statements and related notes, and the other items included in the contents section.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Workspace Group PLC for the year ended 31 March We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of 2008 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the that is described as having been audited.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report Basis of audit opinion and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant of Directors Responsibilities.
to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Group accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the adequately disclosed.
Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior group financial statements are free from material misstatement, consent in writing.
whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial information in the Group financial statements.
statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance Opinion with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
In our opinion: We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors' Report is consistent with the Group financial the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the that specific information presented in the Operating and Financial state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2008 and of its loss and Review that is cross referred from the Business Review section of cash flows for the year then ended: the Directors Report.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in We also report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information Regulation: and specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
the information given in the Directors' Report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the  LLP Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal London control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the 6 June 2008 effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Workspace Group PLC 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2008
