qxd 5 6 08 17:45 Page 105 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2008 Independent auditors report to the members of Dairy Crest Group plc 105 We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has statements the financial statements of Dairy Crest Group plc for not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received the year ended 31 March 2008 which comprise the Consolidated all the information and explanations we require for our audit, income statement, the Consolidated and Parent Company balance or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration sheets, the Consolidated and Parent Company statements of and other transactions are not disclosed.
recognised income and expense, the Consolidated and Parent Company cash flow statements, and the related notes 1 to 35.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the These financial statements have been prepared under the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not as having been audited.
required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. or its risk and control procedures.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to We read other information contained in the Annual Report and them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members report, the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we the Chairmans statement, Operating review, the Chief Executives have formed.
statement, the Financial review and the Corporate governance statement.
We consider the implications for our report if we become Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to Directors remuneration report and the financial statements in any other information.
accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Basis of audit opinion Union are set out in the Statement of directors responsibilities.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant of the Directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited have adequately disclosed.
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group financial information, Article 4 of the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information and explanations which we considered necessary in information given in the directors report is consistent with the order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable financial statements.
The information given in the Directors report assurance that the financial statements and the part of the includes that specific information presented in the Chief Executives Directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material review, Operating review and Financial review that is cross referred misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
from the Business review section of the Directors report.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
The figures in detail DC Accounts v5.0.
qxd 4 6 08 18:16 Page 106 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2008 106 Independent auditors report to the members of Dairy Crest Group Plc continued Opinion In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 March 2008 and of its profit for the year then ended: the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 March 2008: the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered auditor London 19 May 2008
