Independent auditors report to the shareholders of Kesa Electricals plc We have audited the parent Company financial statements of Kesa Basis of audit opinion Electricals plc for the 15 months ended 30 April 2008 which comprise We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards the balance sheet and the related notes.
These parent Company on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors to the amounts and disclosures in the parent Company financial remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates We have reported separately on the Group financial statements and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the parent of Kesa Electricals plc for the 15 months ended 30 April 2008.
Company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors and adequately disclosed.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual report, the Directors remuneration report and the parent Company financial We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Practice are set out in the statement of Directors responsibilities.
parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material misstatement, Our responsibility is to audit the parent Company financial statements whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited in opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and of information in the parent Company financial statements and the part International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Opinion Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, In our opinion: accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 30 April 2008: We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent Company financial the parent Company financial statements and the part of the statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent Company Directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the parent Company financial statements.
information given in the Directors report is consistent with the parent Company financial statements.
The information given in the Directors  LLP report includes that specic information presented in the operating Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors business and financial review that is cross referred from the business London review section of the Directors report.
24 June 2008 In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent Company financial statements.
The other information comprises the Directors report, the Chairmans statement, the operating business and financial review, the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report and the corporate governance statement together with all other information as set out in the contents page.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent Company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2007 08 101
