53 fide La Rue Annual Report 2008 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of fide La Rue plc We have audited the Group financial statements of fide La Rue Basis of Audit Opinion plc for the year ended 29 March 2008 which comprise the Group We conducted our audit in accordance with International Income Statement, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Cash Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Flow Statement, the Group Statement of Recognised Income and Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, Expense and the related notes.
These Group financial statements of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the We have reported separately on the parent Company financial preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether the statements of fide La Rue plc for the year ended 29 March 2008 accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
that is described as having been audited.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, information and explanations which we considered necessary in in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the assurance that the Group financial statements are free from Companys members those matters we are required to state to material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members financial statements.
as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion In our opinion: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, of the state of the law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as Groups affairs as at 29 March 2008 and of its profit for the year adopted by the EU are set out in the Statement of Directors then ended: Responsibilities on page 37. the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements Regulation: and and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial the Group financial statements.
statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes KPMG Audit Plc that specific information presented in the Business Review that is Chartered Accountants cross referred from the Principal Activities and Business Review Registered Auditor section of the Directors Report.
London 21 May 2008 In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
