MAC RF63831 01 tp 8 4 09 14:32 Page 35 Group Accounts 35 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DIGNITY PLC We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Dignity plc for the 52 week period ended 26 December 2008 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and the related notes.
These consolidated financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Dignity plc for the 52 week period ended 26 December 2008 and on the information in the Report on Directors Remuneration that is described as having been audited.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the consolidated financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes that specific information presented in the Business Review and Financial Review that is cross referred from the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Directors Statement on Corporate Governance reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited consolidated financial statements.
The other information comprises the Directors Report, the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Overview, the Business Review, the Financial Review, the Corporate and Social Responsibility Report, the unaudited section of the Report on Directors Remuneration, the Directors Statement on Corporate Governance and all of the other information listed on the contents page.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the consolidated financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the consolidated financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion: The consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the groups affairs as at 26 December 2008 and of its profit and cash flows for the 52 week period then ended: The consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and The information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Birmingham 12 March 2009
