52 Dimension Data Annual Report 2008 Independent auditors report To the members of Dimension Dimension Data Holdings plc We have audited the Group and parent Company financial statements the financial statements of Dimension Data Holdings plc for the year ended 30 September 2008 which comprise the consolidated Income Statement, the consolidated and parent Company Balance Sheets, the consolidated and parent Company Cash Flow statements, the consolidated and parent Company Statements of Changes in Equity and the related Notes 1 to 40 and a to g for the consolidated and parent Company financial statements respectively.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors' Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS The Directors' responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors' Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors' Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors' Report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the Directors' Report includes that specific information presented in the Chief Executive Officers Review and the Chief Financial Officers Review of Operations that is cross referred from the Business Review section of the Directors' Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors' remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Report reflects the Company's compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Board's statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group's corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors' Report, the unaudited part of the Directors' Remuneration Report, the Chairman's Letter, the Chief Executive Officers Review, the Chief Financial Officers Review of Operations and the Corporate Governance Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group's and Company's circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited.
53 Dimension Data Annual Report 2008 OPINION In our opinion: the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Group's affairs as at 30 September 2008 and of its profit for the year then ended: the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent Company's affairs as at 30 September 2008: the financial statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and the information given in the Directors' Report is consistent with the financial statements.
SEPARATE OPINION IN RELATION TO IFRSS As explained in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with the IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
In our opinion the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Group's affairs as at 30 September 2008 and of its profit for the year then ended.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors London, United Kingdom 11 November 2008
