Independent Auditors Report to the Members of DS Smith Plc We have audited the Group and parent Company financial statements Basis of Audit Opinion the financial statements of DS Smith Plc for the year ended 30 April 2008 We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group and parent Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit Company Balance Sheets, the Group Statement of Cash Flows, the Group includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and the related notes 1 to 34 and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors in the Group financial statements and notes 1 to 11 in the parent Company Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of financial statements.
These financial statements have been prepared the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, as auditable.
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements or for the opinions we have formed.
and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Opinion The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and In our opinion: the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups European Union, and for preparing the parent Company financial affairs as at 30 April 2008 and of its profit for the year then ended: statements and the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
IAS Regulation: Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing Accounting Practice, of the state of the parent Companys affairs UK and Ireland.
as at 30 April 2008: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and whether, in the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the addition, the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in financial statements.
accordance with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the Deloitte & Touche LLP Directors Report includes that specic information presented elsewhere Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors in the Report and Accounts that is cross referred from the Principal London, United Kingdom Activities and Business Review section of the Directors Report.
25 June 2008 In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors Remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
DS Smith Plc DS Smith Plc Annual Repor Annual Report 2008 t 2008 55 55
