InDepenDent AuDItorS report Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2008 37 Independent auditors report to the members of Elementis plc We have audited the Group and Company financial statements We read the other information contained in the Annual Report the financial statements of Elementis plc for the year and consider whether it is consistent with the audited ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the Consolidated financial statements.
We consider the implications for our income statement, the Consolidated and Company balance report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements sheets, the Consolidated cash flow statement, the Consolidated or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
statement of recognised income and expense and the related Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited Basis of audit opinion the information in the Directors remuneration report that is We conducted our audit in accordance with International described as having been audited.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985. disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state Directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes to the Companys members those matters we are required to an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or statements, and of whether the accounting policies are assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors the information and explanations which we considered The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to Report and the Group financial statements in accordance give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and with applicable law and International Financial Reporting the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU, and for preparing are free from material misstatement, whether caused by the Company financial statements and the Directors fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we remuneration report in accordance with applicable law and also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting information in the financial statements and the part of the Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors Directors remuneration report to be audited.
Opinion Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and In our opinion: the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial of its profit for the year then ended: statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration the Groups financial statements have been properly report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group and article 4 of the IAS regulations: financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also the parent company financial statements give a true report to you whether in our opinion the Directors report and fair view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted is consistent with the financial statements.
The information Accounting Practice, of the state of the parent companys given in the Directors report includes that information affairs as at 31 December 2008: presented in the Business review that is cross referred from the principal activities, business review and future the parent company financial statements and the part development section of the Directors report.
In addition of the Directors remuneration report to be audited we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not have been properly prepared in accordance with the kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all Companies Act 1985: and the information and explanations we require for our audit, the information given in the Directors report is or if information specified by law regarding directors consistent with the financial statements.
remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions KPMG Audit Plc of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we 24 February 2009 report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
