ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 69 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Eurasian We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider Natural Resources Corporation PLC for the year ended 31 December whether it is consistent with the audited consolidated financial 2008, which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, Statement, the Chief Executive Officers Statement, the Business the Consolidated Statement of Change in Equity and the related Review, the Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Remuneration notes to the consolidated financial statements.
These consolidated Report and all other information referred to on the contents page.
financial statements have been prepared under the accounting We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of policies set out therein.
any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the consolidated financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend We have reported separately on the parent company financial to any other information.
statements of Eurasian Natural Resources Corporation PLC for the year ended 31 December 2008 and on the information in the Remuneration Basis of audit opinion Report that is described as having been audited.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable law statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors consolidated financial statements, and of whether the accounting Responsibilities.
policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Our responsibility is to audit the consolidated financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement, Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it information in the consolidated financial statements.
may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Opinion We report to you our opinion as to whether the consolidated financial In our opinion: statements give a true and fair view and whether the consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view, the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and Directors Report is consistent with the consolidated financial of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes the consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared that specific information presented in the Chairmans Statement, in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS the Chief Executive Officers Statement, the Business Review and the Regulation: and Corporate Governance Report that is cross referred from the Business the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Review section of the Directors Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received  LLP all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and London other transactions is not disclosed.
8 April 2009 We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Corporate Information Reserves Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Group Overview
