Business Review Chief Executive Of ficer s Review continued Raw material price increases and the rising related office automation sector.
Growth is cost of energy were a feature of trading expected to resume in 2008 09, led by the throughout the year, driven by the increase digital printer market demand.
Flexible pricing strategies with customers enabled many of Fenner Drives integrated the acquired these costs to be recovered.
The focus B-LOC business and produced excellent remains on performance critical products results with synergies from the acquisition which are not selected on price alone but being achieved during the year.
Sales the value they add to the customer.
increased rapidly in targeted markets as a result of the investments made during the FAST continued with its recent strong prior two years.
The business continues to performance and achieved yet another develop and market a growing range of record year of growth.
Continuing demand innovative, proprietary products which solve for seals used in oil, gas and mining problems in the motion control, power applications remains robust but there has transmission and unit handling markets.
The also been an increase in demand for general industrial markets are feeling the products used in general hydraulic and effects of the economic slowdown, aerospace applications.
The roll out of the particularly in the latter stages of the year Six Sigma continuous improvement under review, and this trend is expected to programme continued across all locations continue into the first half of the new with the result that lead times and availability financial year.
improved significantly during the year.
FAST remains committed to its geographical The Prodesco and Secant Medical expansion of markets served to include Asia businesses have yet to complete a full year and South America.
Some product areas are within the Fenner Group but early indications expected to be impacted by the slowdown are very positive and the cultural fit with AEP in the economy, principally seals used in the is excellent.
They produced encouraging semiconductor industry, processing results in the half year they have been equipment and seals for hydraulic owned by Fenner.
A strategic review of the equipment used in the construction industry.
business was carried out during the year to Any weakening of demand is expected to help identify future growth and development.
be compensated for by the initiatives that Secant Medical is believed to be cushioned have been put in place to grow the business from the effects of the slowing economy overall.
because its growth is largely driven by the demographics of an ageing population.
The The James Dawson hose business finished Prodesco business is exposed to the the year well despite some unforeseen industrial and aerospace markets.
adverse impacts of VAT changes in China.
Demand levels were good for the first three The AEP division will continue to look for quarters of the year but slowed in the final growth opportunities and to build upon its quarter as the effects of the downturn in the considerable strengths and overall is construction industry impacted on the making good progress against the current off-road equipment market.
The outlook for strategic plan.
the construction industry is not expected to improve in 2008 09.
The operation in China OUTLOOK continues to grow in strength and capability Given the global financial crisis, we continue as domestic Chinese manufacturers seek to to monitor very closely all relevant aspects redesign engines and vehicles to comply of our business including credit, customer with emissions legislation which was and supplier stability and raw material price enacted in China in the summer of 2008. volatility.
Although commodity prices are weakening, the volume demand remains Fenner Precision completed the acquisition strong and it is volume rather than price of Winfield Industries in March 2008 and which leads to consumption of our products.
quickly integrated the global sales and The niche nature of our businesses provides marketing activities of both businesses so significant additional strength in times of that the consolidated sales force is focused uncertainty.
This has resulted in new opportunities for growth being EMPLOYEES identified.
Fenner Precision enjoyed strong Fenner continues to benefit from a stable, demand from the ATM sector as well as the skilled and committed workforce in both our commercial digital printing market but there acquired and existing businesses and we was some shortfall from the consumer acknowledge the importance of our 8 Fenner PLC employees contribution to the performance preserves the autonomy of the operations of the Group.
All businesses have processes whilst setting challenging and detailed that require high levels of skill and technical expectations which they must strive to expertise.
Many of the end products are achieve.
The full policy is available on our used in safety critical applications, perhaps web site.
epitomised by the Secant Medical substrates, and therefore a skilled and During the year, one location achieved motivated workforce is essential to maintain OHSAS 18000 accreditation and Hampton product safety, reliability and quality.
won a second RoSPA health and safety Gold award.
Six other operations are Average employee numbers rose to over working toward external recognition of their 3,900 and so employment costs continue to health and safety systems.
have significant impact on profitability.
Productivity is therefore a key factor to Many of our employees work on customers' success.
Due to the increasing diversity of sites and job safety assessments are our operations, productivity for the Group as mandatory prior to work commencing.
For a whole is best measured by total sales per these businesses, our health and safety employee.
management systems are a significant unique selling proposition.
Accidents and SALES PER EMPLOYEE near misses are recorded and reviewed operationally and safe systems of work updated if necessary.
Accidents involving lost time are reported through divisional management and up to the main Board.
Where relevant, the details of an incident and the measures taken are shared around Group operations to prevent similar accidents elsewhere.
"YEAR The absolute number of lost time incidents The graph shows that sales per employee ""LTIs"" is a KPI which measures the success have risen, reflecting the investment in new of the health and safety policy and ethos of buildings and production facilities the Group."
The selection of an absolute outweighing the growth in our service measure across the whole Group, which businesses which generate lower sales per does not reflect the increase in employee employee than manufacturing businesses.
numbers or hours worked, demonstrates our belief that no injuries are acceptable.
The Major Group milestones and developments following table shows the results over the are reported to all employees through our in last five years: house magazine Fenner Focus, together with matters of operational significance.
of LTIs Fenner Focus is published four times a year 2003 04 120 and is supplemented by most operations 2004 05 96 with their own newsletter highlighting local 2005 06 98 achievements and initiatives.
2006 07 86 2007 08 91 HEALTH AND SAFETY The Group is absolutely committed to On a per employee basis, there continues to ensuring that all employees can work safely be improvement in our health and safety at all times.
This overriding commitment to performance.
The introduction of the Health provide a safe and secure working and Safety Management System Framework environment extends to those employees of not only drives further improvement in our other companies working on our behalf, as established businesses but is also the basis well as customers, visitors and neighbours for integrating acquisitions into the Group's who may be affected by our activities.
The above quote is the opening of the ENVIRONMENT revised Health & Safety Policy adopted by The Group is committed to identifying and the Board in June 2008.
In addition to assessing the risks of pollution and other restating the priority given to health and forms of environmental impairment arising safety, the policy introduces a management out of its activities.
We seek to reduce our framework which is a mechanism which Fenner PLC 9 000 Business Review Chief Executive Of ficer s Review continued impact on the environment to the lowest significant local issue, for example in practical levels and with each new Australia, where our conveyor belting plant investment ensure that we exemplify the in Melbourne voluntarily reduced best contemporary practice in respect of the consumption by over 60%.
At Board level, the Chief Executive Officer has specific responsibility Air quality can be adversely affected by for the development of policy and some of our processes and significant management systems.
Responsibility for investment and maintenance costs are environmental matters in each operating incurred to ensure this does not happen.
division is designated to the Divisional A number of locations use processes which Managing Director and, at a local level, to a involve a range of chemicals which are senior manager on each site.
Each generically referred to as volatile organic Divisional Managing Director is required to compounds VOCs.
These chemicals are report to the Board on a regular basis and to subject to strict regulation with their storage advise the Board immediately of any and use carefully controlled.
In addition to environmental risks or other incidents likely minimising any emissions to air of VOCs, to be significant to the business.
No new potential substitutes are assessed as soon risks or incidents were reported to the Board as they become commercially available.
The majority of the Groups businesses have All acquisitions are subject to appropriate occupied their sites for many years, some environmental due diligence which is for over 100 years.
The Group therefore specifically extended to include recognises and manages risk of exposure to environmental management systems and environmental legacy issues.
Compliance with applicable regulatory standards is a Fenner continues to be committed to minimum which is subject to official audit: undertaking regular reviews of its activities other larger facilities validate their and the workings of the environmental policy management systems by independent audit.
to ensure that it is comprehensive and Significant progress is being made on effective, identifying objectives and standards environmental management systems with that will enable a demonstrable continuous one site achieving ISO 14000 and six other improvement in environmental matters.
locations actively progressing towards accreditation in 2008 or 2009.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Fenner considers the following to be the We are exploring suitable environmental most significant risk factors for Fenner to KPIs for the Group as a whole which can consider, but the risk factors listed do not then be reported in future years.
Areas necessarily comprise all those associated being looked at include energy consumption with Fenner and are not set out in any and waste management, both of which particular order of priority.
potentially have a direct environmental and business impact.
A small number of Additional risks and uncertainties not operations have assessed their carbon presently known to Fenner or that Fenner footprint with a view to seeing if some currently deems immaterial may also have meaningful actions can result from such an adverse effect on its business.
measures and to prepare for a local compliance requirement.
To date the view is Strength of key markets that, whilst progress is being made, carbon The impact of the recent unprecedented footprint estimates are not yet a valid financial market movements and consistent measure comparable across the subsequent government interventions on wide range of sizes, technologies and Fenners key markets are uncertain.
locations of the Groups units.
However, Fenner is well positioned to benefit from the underlying volume growth in energy In addition to our environmental markets, particularly oil and coal, and responsibilities, there are sound commercial recovery in industrial markets.
Although reasons to minimise and recycle waste.
As a Fenner has successfully traded through manufacturing Group, the obvious focus is previous cycles, a substantial downturn in on raw materials as the reduction one or more of these key markets could opportunities are well known and, for the have a material adverse impact on the residual waste, recycling well understood.
Fenner continues to look for However, in a number of locations there is opportunities that are counter cyclical to substantial water usage.
This can be a help balance out any market downturn.
10 Fenner PLC Fluctuations in raw material costs key employees could have a material Volatility in raw material costs continues to adverse effect on the business.
be a key risk for the Group as there is a direct impact on the costs of production and Fluctuations of revenues, expenses and managing customer expectation.
The Group operating results continues to try to manage raw material Fenners revenues, expenses and operating costs.
For example, where materials are a results could vary from period to period as a significant cost of sale, we have long term result of a variety of factors, some of which supply agreements and arrangements which are outside Fenners control.
These factors, are driven by the constraints of the markets which are actively monitored and into which we sell.
However, increases in considered in all relevant management such costs could have a material adverse decisions, include general economic impact upon the Groups profitability and conditions, adverse movements in interest cash flow if such increases cannot be rates, conditions specific to the energy recovered through increased sales prices.
markets, seasonal trends in revenues, capital expenditure, other costs and the Climate change introduction of new products by Fenner or its Increasing media attention is being given to competitors.
climate change and the political will to act appears to be responding to that coverage.
In response to a changing competitive Fenner takes full account of the substantive environment, Fenner may elect from time to publicised research in evaluating its time to make certain pricing, service or strategic projects.
The adoption of non-fossil marketing decisions or acquisitions that fuel generation substantially in excess of the could have a material adverse effect on the IEA Advanced Technology Scenario would Groups revenues, results of operations and have a material adverse effect on the financial condition.
strength of Fenners order book and order pipeline, there is no guarantee that these Fluctuations in foreign currency orders and expected orders will be Due to the global nature of the Group, converted into sales, which could have a Fenner derives a large proportion of its material adverse effect upon continuing revenues from overseas and hence has an profitability and cash flow.
exposure to foreign currency fluctuations.
Whilst the Group seeks to reduce this risk Employee benefit schemes through formal contracts and borrowings, The Group has a number of employee adverse movements in foreign currencies, benefit schemes, including defined benefit particularly the US dollar relative to sterling, pension schemes and US healthcare could lead to material adverse movements programmes.
These schemes expose the in reported earnings.
Group to changes in interest rates, other investment returns and inflation as well as Competition the longevity of scheme members.
Products are available which compete Developments in medical science and directly or indirectly with the Groups changes in healthcare management can products.
New technology, changing significantly increase the cost of maintaining commercial circumstances and new entrants benefits in the future.
Appropriate financial to the markets in which the Group operates and legal advice is taken on the rules and may adversely affect the Groups business.
funding of all such schemes.
One source of competition comes from the low cost economies but whilst these can Major projects compete on price, they cannot always The successful completion of major projects, compete on quality or service.
Aggressive or such as significant capital expenditure predatory pricing from competitors could projects or acquisitions, is important to both lead to a reduction in margin or volume.
sustain and grow the business.
All major projects have clearly identified resources Dependence on key personnel and management responsibilities The future success of Fenner is dependent established during the approval process.
on the continued services of key personnel.
However, failure to deliver on major projects Although the Group has succession plans could have a material adverse impact on and seeks to develop and promote from Fenners ability to maximise both profitability within, the loss of the services of the and cash flow.
executive officers of the Group and other Fenner PLC 1 1 Business Review Chief Executive Of ficer s Review continued Litigation Subsidiaries of the Group are currently involved in certain disputes, actual and threatened, and regulatory investigations.
These disputes are actively managed in conjunction with our lawyers, other advisors and insurers, with appropriate Board reporting and oversight.
If such disputes and investigations are not resolved in accordance with the directors expectations or in favour of the relevant subsidiary of the Group or if a subsidiary incurs significant and unexpected costs or is required to devote significant additional resources, including management time, in the pursuit, defence or investigation of these matters, such disputes and investigations may have a material adverse impact on the business, financial resources, results and or future operations of the Group.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain statements contained in this document including those under the captions Outlook and Principal Risks and Uncertainties, constitute forward-looking statements.
Such forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of Fenner, or industry results, to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such statements.
Such risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among others: growth in the energy markets, general economic conditions and the business environment, especially following the recent unprecedented financial market movements and subsequent government interventions.
Mark Abrahams Chief Executive Officer 12 Fenner PLC Business Review Gr oup Finance Dir ectors Review REVENUE AND OPERATING PROFIT additional deferred tax charge in the UK Reported Group revenue increased by 15% caused by the phasing out of industrial to 437.8m 2007 380.8m.
These were offset by increase, 10% was generated by existing lower rates elsewhere, which included the businesses and 5% by businesses acquired utilisation of tax losses and tax assets not during the year.
previously recognised for deferred taxation, particularly in the UK and continental In the CB Division, revenue increased to Europe, and the benefit of a tax holiday in 292.2m 2007 255.8m, with growth in all China.
territories as demand for its products and services remained strong in the principal EARNINGS PER SHARE AND DIVIDENDS territories in which it operates.
Basic earnings per share was 15.5p 2007 15.0p and, adjusted for amortisation of In the AEP Division, revenue increased to intangible assets acquired and exceptional 145.6m 2007 125.0m from acquisition items, was 17.5p 2007 15.1p.
activity and strong growth from the seals businesses.
The interim dividend of 2.2p 2007 2.075p was paid on 8 September 2008.
The Board Group operating profit before amortisation of is recommending a final dividend of 4.4p intangible assets acquired and exceptional 2007 4.15p to make a total dividend for the items increased by 26% to 49.3m 2007 year of 6.6p 2007 6.225p.
Divisional profits contributed were 29.1m 2007 24.2m from the CB Division ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS and 26.1m 2007 20.0m from the AEP The Group has completed seven Division.
acquisitions during the year and two after the year end.
One business was divested Exceptional items incurred of 3.4m 2007 during the year.
0.2m related to costs associated with the expansion of the conveyor belting business The acquisitions completed during the year in North America of 3.7m 2007 1.9m, are disclosed in note 33 to the Group acquisition integration costs of 0.4m 2007 financial statements.
The total cash 0.8m and a 0.7m profit on disposal of the payments made in respect of these lightweight PVC conveyor belting business amounted to 45.9m.
The present value of in the US.
contingent and deferred consideration payable in future periods is estimated at Amortisation of intangible assets acquired 8.9m at the year end, with a maximum increased to 2.1m 2007 0.6m, reflecting present value amount payable of 10.1m.
acquisitions completed in the year.
The provisional fair value of net assets acquired, including intangible amounts, was Group operating profit increased by 15% to 41.0m and goodwill of 13.7m was 43.8m 2007 38.2m.
INTEREST In October 2008, after the year end, 31.0m The net finance cost was 7.5m 2007 was paid for the businesses of the Conveyor 4.6m and included 0.3m 2007 0.2m of Services Corporation group of companies, finance costs on both discounted provisions including Loadout Services, and Solid and contingent deferred consideration on Systems Engineering, LLC.
The increase largely reflected value of contingent and deferred the growth of net debt in the year as a result consideration payable is estimated at of the planned acquisitions and capital 22.0m based on exchange rates at the expenditure.
Interest cover was 6.8 times dates of completion, with a maximum 2007 8.9 times.
present value of 25.0m and excluding any adjustment relating to the final value of TAXATION working capital acquired.
The taxation rate for the year was 29% 2007 29%.
The underlying taxation rate In July 2008, substantially all of the assets before amortisation of intangible assets and liabilities of our non-core lightweight acquired and exceptional items was 30% PVC conveyor belting operation held within 2007 30%.
Although the overall rate did Fenner Dunlop Charlotte, Inc was not change, the mix of the taxation charge disposed of for 5.0m, excluding costs, and reflected relatively high taxation rates resulted in an exceptional profit on disposal incurred on North American profits and an of 0.7m.
Fenner PLC 13 Business Review Gr oup Finance Dir ectors Review continued CASH FLOW, NET DEBT AND FINANCING maturing in May 2013 was secured to assist Stronger profits generated a 53.9m 2007 in the funding of our Australian operations 42.5m operating cash flow before expansion.
This was achieved on covenant movements in working capital.
To terms which were aligned with the UK accommodate growth in the business and committed facility.
At 31 August 2008, maintain an effective pipeline of inventory 65.2m 2007 33.5m of these facilities holding while our order book increased in were drawn down leaving 51.3m 2007 the final quarter, an investment in working 41.5m available.
capital of 8.2m 2007 decrease of 10.8m was made.
The resultant net cash from In March 2008, a placing of 15.7m new operations was 45.7m 2007 53.3m.
After ordinary shares with institutional investors at payment of interest of 6.3m 2007 4.3m 233p per share raised 35.4m after costs.
and taxation of 11.2m 2007 10.2m, the net cash from operating activities was The Groups other principal source of funds 28.2m 2007 38.8m.
Capital expenditure remained two US dollar private placements: increased to 63.7m 2007 32.0m in $90m of Senior Notes repayable in June accordance with our strategic expansion 2017 carry a fixed interest coupon of 5.78%: plans.
This compares to a depreciation and $27.2m 2007 $34.1m of Senior Notes, charge of 10.1m 2007 8.0m.
After repayable between 2009 and 2012 carry a funding these expansion programmes and fixed interest coupon of 7.29%.
disposing of assets of 0.5m 2007 0.2m the free cash outflow was 35.0m 2007 The committed bank facilities and the 2017 inflow of 7.0m.
private placement have net debt to EBITDA ratio and interest cover covenants.
At 31 The net outflow on acquisition and disposal August 2008, the Groups net debt to activity was 41.0m 2007 3.6m.
EBITDA ratio was 1.7 times 2007 0.8 times.
Dividends paid of 9.9m 2007 9.5m and The increase reflects the planned an inflow from other financing activities of expenditure in the year and remains 35.5m 2007 0.4m, principally relating to comfortably within the Boards parameters.
the share placing outlined below, gave an For compliance with loan covenants, the increase in net debt before the effects of EBITDA reported in the financial statements exchange rate movements of 50.4m 2007 is adjusted for, inter alia, acquisitions and 5.7m.
The translation effect of stronger disposals, which makes the net debt to exchange rates increased this amount by EBITDA ratio significantly lower.
10.9m 2007 decrease of 2.5m which resulted in an increase in net debt of 61.3m The Group is well placed, notwithstanding to 97.6m 2007 36.3m.
the current disruption of financial markets, to fund and support its operations, with Gross debt at the year end amounted to continuing access to medium and long term 141.2m 2007 102.4m.
Cash and cash debt finance, cash resources and, where equivalents at the year end were 43.6m necessary, shorter term facilities.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES The Group is financed principally by a mix The Group financial statements have been of equity, retained earnings, US dollar prepared in accordance with the accounting private placement loan notes and committed policies described in note 1 to the Group bank facilities.
The principal loan facilities financial statements, in accordance with are raised centrally whilst operating IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
companies supplement this funding with local overdraft and working capital facilities.
The Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the To support the Groups growth, a mix of accounting policies described in note 1 to additional sources of funding was secured the Company financial statements, in during the year.
In November 2007, the committed revolving FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT credit bank facility with three leading UK In the normal course of business, the Group banks was increased from 75m to 100m is exposed to certain financial risks, on the same terms as previously agreed in principally foreign exchange risk, interest June 2007.
In May 2008, an Australian $35m rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
These 16.5m committed five year bank facility risks are managed by the central treasury 14 Fenner PLC function in conjunction with the operating POST-RETIREMENT BENEFITS units, in accordance with risk management The Group operates a number of defined policies that are designed to minimise the benefit post-retirement schemes for qualifying potential adverse effects of these risks on employees in operations around the world.
The policies are reviewed and approved by the Board.
The principal scheme is the Fenner Pension Scheme which is based in the UK.
The most The exposures are managed through the recent funding valuation of the Fenner use of foreign currency and sterling Pension Scheme was carried out with an borrowings, derivatives and credit effective date of 31 March 2008.
The use of has yet to be formally completed, the derivatives is undertaken only where the Trustees and the Group have agreed to underlying interest or currency risk arises continue funding the Scheme in broadly the from the Groups operations or sources of same way going forward.
No speculative trading in reflects the strong covenant provided by the derivatives is permitted.
Group and a commitment to fund the Scheme over the long term.
In the normal course of business, derivatives have been used to hedge future nonThe total defined benefit post-retirement functional currency cash flows arising from liability as calculated by the schemes' trading transactions relating to the sale and actuaries in accordance with IAS 19 purchase of goods and services.
The Group 'Employee Benefits' and recorded on the has chosen not to hedge account for such balance sheet increased to 19.1m 2007 transactions under the requirements of IAS 14.1m.
Of this amount, the Fenner Pension 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Scheme represents 15.5m 2007 13.1m Measurement, recognising that cash flows and the overseas schemes totalled 3.6m through to the maturity of the derivative are 2007 1.0m.
During the year, the fair value unaffected.
In compliance with IAS 39, all of assets in the schemes has reduced due to financial instruments have been measured falling equity markets whilst the present value at their fair value as at the balance sheet of obligations has also reduced as corporate date.
A charge or credit to the income bond yields increased.
statement has been recognised for the loss or gain on these instruments.
In addition, in KEY FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE accordance with IAS 21 The Effects of INDICATORS Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates, all 2008 2007 foreign currency monetary items have been re-translated at the closing rate, with Adjusted earnings changes in value charged or credited to the per share 17.5p 15.1p income statement.
Interest cover times 6.8 8.9 The interest rate swap entered into in 2006 to hedge interest rate cash flows continued Net debt to EBITDA ratio 1.7 0.8 during the year.
This instrument fixes the interest rate on $40m of floating rate bank Return on gross borrowings until 2011.
At 31 August 2008, capital employed 18% 20% the fair value of this instrument was a liability of 1.5m 2007 0.7m.
In 2007, the Group Richard Perry also swapped $27.2m of the 2017 private Group Finance Director placement into ?20.0m, with cash flows mirroring the private placement at a fixed rate of 5.05%.
This swap matures in June 2017 when the private placement is repayable.
At 31 August 2008, the fair value of this instrument was a liability of 0.3m 2007 nil.
These swaps have been accounted for as hedges in accordance with IAS 39, with the charge or credit recognised directly in equity.. Fenner PLC 15
