Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Ferrexpo plc We have audited the Group and parent company financial Report, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, statements the financial statements of Ferrexpo plc for the year the Chairmans and Chief Executive Officers Review, the ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the Consolidated Business Review and the Corporate Governance Statement.
income statement, the Consolidated and Parent Company We consider the implications for our report if we become aware balance sheets, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the related the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to notes 1 to 48.
These financial statements have been prepared any other information.
under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Remuneration report that is Basis of audit opinion described as having been audited.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Companys members those matters we are required to state Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors information and explanations which we considered necessary The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and for misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
preparing the parent company financial statements and the In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance with applicable presentation of information in the financial statements and the part United Kingdom law and Accounting Standards United Kingdom of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Opinion In our opinion: Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
of its profit for the year then ended: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to IAS Regulation: be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the the parent company financial statements give a true and fair Companies Act 1985, in addition, the Group financial statements view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted have been properly prepared in accordance with Article 4 of the Accounting Practice, of the state of the parent companys IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the affairs as at 31 December 2008: information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the the parent company financial statements and the part of the financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly includes that specific information presented in the Business prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and Review that is cross referred from the Business Review section of the information given in the Directors Report is consistent the Directors Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has Ernst & Young LLP not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all Registered auditor the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if London information specified by law regarding directors remuneration 23 March 2009 and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects The maintenance and integrity of the Ferrexpo plc website is the the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on presented on the website.
the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in We read other information contained in the Annual Report and other jurisdictions.
consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors 57 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Financial statements 4 58 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 In this section 60 Consolidated Income Statement 61 Consolidated Balance Sheet 62 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 63 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 64 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Information 109 Accounting policies 111 Glossary 114 Shareholder information 59 Ferrexpo plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
