Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Forth Ports PLC We have audited the Group and Parent company been properly prepared in accordance with the financial statements the financial statements of Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group Forth Ports PLC for the year ended 31st December financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2008 which comprise the Consolidated Income We also report to you whether in our opinion the Statement, the Group and Company Statements of information given in the Directors Report is Recognised Income and Expense, the Group and consistent with the financial statements.
The Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Company information given in the Directors Report includes Cash Flow Statements, the principal accounting that specific information presented in the Business policies and the related notes.
These financial Review that is cross referred from the Directors statements have been prepared under the Report.
accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Remuneration Report that is described as having company has not kept proper accounting records, been audited.
if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information Respective responsibilities of directors specified by law regarding directors remuneration and auditors and other transactions is not disclosed.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the We review whether the Corporate Governance Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report Statement reflects the Companys compliance with and the financial statements in accordance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 applicable law and International Financial Reporting specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does Union are set out in the Statement of Directors not.
We are not required to consider whether the Responsibilities.
Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements of the Groups corporate governance procedures or and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to its risk and control procedures.
be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards 69 We read other information contained in the Annual on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including Report and consider whether it is consistent with the the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the audited financial statements.
The other information Companys members as a body in accordance with comprises only Chairman and Group Chief Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no Executives Report, the Business Review, the other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, Directors Report, the Corporate Governance Report, accept or assume responsibility for any other the Report of the Audit Committee, the unaudited part purpose or to any other person to whom this report is of the Directors Remuneration Report, the Report of shown or into whose hands it may come save where the Nomination Committee and all of the other expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
information listed on the contents page.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware We report to you our opinion as to whether the of any apparent misstatements or material financial statements give a true and fair view and inconsistencies with the financial statements.
whether the financial statements and the part of the Annual Report Our responsibilities do not extend to any other Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have and Accounts information.
2008 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Forth Ports PLC continued Basis of audit opinion Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with In our opinion: International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit the group financial statements give a true and includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the by the European Union, of the state of the financial statements and the part of the Directors groups affairs as at 31st December 2008 and of Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes its loss and cash flows for the year then ended: an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation the parent company financial statements give a of the financial statements, and of whether the true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as accounting policies are appropriate to the groups adopted by the European Union as applied in and companys circumstances, consistently applied accordance with the provisions of the and adequately disclosed.
Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 31st December 2008 and We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain cash flows for the year then ended: all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with the financial statements and the part of the sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that Directors Remuneration Report to be audited the financial statements and the part of the Directors have been properly prepared in accordance with Remuneration Report to be audited are free from the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we Regulation: and also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements the information given in the Directors Report is and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to consistent with the financial statements.
70  LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Edinburgh 16th March 2009
