Financial Statements Dir Auditors ectors R Repor eport t Independent Auditors Report to the Members of GKN plc We have audited the Group financial statements of GKN plc for the year We read other information contained in the annual report and ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the consolidated income consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statement, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors flow statement, the consolidated statement of recognised income and report, the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives statement, expense and the related notes.
These consolidated financial statements the Business review, the corporate governance statement and the have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
other information listed on the contents page of the annual report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any We have reported separately on the Company financial statements of apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group GKN plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 and on the information financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been information.
Basis of audit opinion Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
It also European Union are set out in the Directors responsibility statement on includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements page 72. made by the Directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and disclosed.
International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group financial statements.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Opinion Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also In our opinion: report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in Directors report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the The information given in the Directors report includes that specific state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its loss information presented in the Chairmans statement, the Chief and cash flows for the year then ended: Executives statement and the Business review that is cross referred from the business review section of the Directors report.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received Regulation: and all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control  LLP procedures.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Birmingham 25 February 2009 Notes: a The maintenance and integrity of the GKN plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
