GSK Annual Report 2008 101 Financial statements Independent Auditors report to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc We have audited the Group financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
plc for the year ended 31st December 2008 which comprise Basis of audit opinion the Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated balance We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards sheet, the Consolidated cash flow statement, the Consolidated on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
statement of recognised income and expense and the related notes.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant These Group financial statements have been prepared under the to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
accounting policies set out therein.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and We have reported separately on the parent company judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are ended 31st December 2008 and on the information in the appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and information and explanations which we considered necessary in the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted assurance that the Group financial statements are free from material by the European Union are set out in the Directors statement of misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
Responsibilities page 100 opposite In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group financial statements.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and Opinion International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, In our opinion: including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving state of the Groups affairs as at 31st December 2008 and of its this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to profit and cash flows for the year then ended: any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial IAS Regulation: and statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report with the Group financial statements.
to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Report of Separate opinion in relation to IFRS the Directors is consistent with the Group financial statements.
As explained in Note 1 to the Group financial statements, the Group In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRS received all the information and explanations we require for as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with the IFRS our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
In our opinion the Group financial statements give a true and fair We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the view, in accordance with IFRS, of the state of the Groups affairs companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined as at 31st December 2008 and of its profit and cash flows for the Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial year then ended.
Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to  LLP consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups London corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
3rd March 2009 We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
The other information comprises only Chairman and CEO Summary, our Strategy, Report of the Directors excluding the audited part of the Remuneration report, Directors statement of responsibilities and Shareholder information.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
