14909HALFORDS:Layout 1 27 5 08 14:30 Page 94 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT We read other information contained in the Annual We have audited the Company financial statements of Report and consider whether it is consistent with the Halfords Group plc for the 52 weeks to 28 March 2008 audited Company financial statements.
The other which comprise the Company Balance Sheet and the information comprises only the Chairmans Statement, related notes.
These Company financial statements the Business Review, the Finance Directors Report, the have been prepared under the accounting policies set unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report out therein.
We have also audited the information in the and the Corporate Governance Statement.
We Directors Remuneration Report that is described as consider the implications for our report if we become having been audited.
aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Company financial statements.
We have reported separately on the Group financial Our responsibilities do not extend to any other statements of Halfords Group plc for the 52 weeks to information.
Basis of audit opinion Respective responsibilities of Directors We conducted our audit in accordance with and Auditors International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence Company financial statements in accordance with relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Company financial statements and the part of the Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of includes an assessment of the significant estimates Directors Responsibilities.
and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the Company financial statements, and Our responsibility is to audit the Company financial of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration the Companys circumstances, consistently applied Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and adequately disclosed.
and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all including the opinion, has been prepared for and only the information and explanations which we considered for the Companys members as a body in accordance necessary in order to provide us with sufficient with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for evidence to give reasonable assurance that the no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, Company financial statements and the part of the accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free or to any other person to whom this report is shown or from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud into whose hands it may come save where expressly or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we agreed by our prior consent in writing.
also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Company financial statements and We report to you our opinion as to whether the the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be Company financial statements give a true and fair view audited.
and whether the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be Opinion audited have been properly prepared in accordance In our opinion: with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the the Company financial statements give a true and Directors Report is consistent with the Company fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom financial statements.
The information given in the Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the Directors Report includes that specific information state of the Companys affairs as at 28 March 2008: presented in the Chairmans Statement, the Business the Company financial statements and the part of Review and the Finance Directors Report that is crossthe Directors Remuneration Report to be audited referred from the Business Review section of the have been properly prepared in accordance with the Directors Report.
Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Directors Report is In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the consistent with the Company financial statements.
Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and  LLP explanations we require for our audit, or if information Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and Birmingham other transactions is not disclosed.
4 June 2008 94 Halfords Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 14909 27 05 2008 Proof 3 149
