14909HALFORDS:Layout 1 27 5 08 14:30 Page 61 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT We have audited the Group financial statements of not required to consider whether the Boards Halfords Group plc for the 52 weeks to 28 March 2008 statements on internal control cover all risks and which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of and control procedures.
Change in Shareholders Equity and the related notes.
These Group financial statements have been prepared We read other information contained in the Annual under the accounting policies set out therein.
Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
The other We have reported separately on the Company financial information comprises only the Chairmans Statement, statements of Halfords Group plc for for the 52 weeks the Business Review, the Finance Directors Report, the to 28 March 2008 and on the information in the Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Directors Directors Remuneration Report that is described as Remuneration Report, the Corporate Governance having been audited.
Statement, the Corporate Social Responsibility report and the Five Year Record.
We consider the implications Respective responsibilities of Directors for our report if we become aware of any apparent and Auditors misstatements or material inconsistencies with the The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not Report and the Group financial statements in extend to any other information.
accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by Basis of audit opinion the European Union are set out in the Statement of We conducted our audit in accordance with Directors Responsibilities.
International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence statements in accordance with relevant legal and relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group regulatory requirements and International Standards on financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the the significant estimates and judg3ments made by the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Directors in the preparation of the Group financial Companys members as a body in accordance with statements, and of whether the accounting policies are Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept applied and adequately disclosed.
or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all whose hands it may come save where expressly the information and explanations which we considered agreed by our prior consent in writing.
necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements are free from material financial statements give a true and fair view and whether misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other the Group financial statements have been properly irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you information in the Group financial statements.
whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Group financial Opinion statements.
The information given in the Directors In our opinion: Report includes that specific information presented in the Chairmans Statement, Business Review, and the the Group financial statements give a true and fair Finance Directors Report that is cross-referred from the view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 28 March 2008 and of its profit and cash flows In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have for the 52 weeks then ended: not received all the information and explanations we the Group financial statements have been properly require for our audit, or if information specified by law prepared in accordance with the Companies Act regarding Directors remuneration and other 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and transactions is not disclosed.
the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
We review whether the Corporate Governance  LLP Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified Birmingham for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial 4 June 2008 Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
com Halfords Group plc 61 stockcode: HAL Annual Report and Accounts 2008 14909 27 05 2008 Proof 3 Auditors Report
