Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Heritage Oil Limited We have audited the Group financial statements of Heritage Oil Basis of Audit Opinion Limited for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices recognised income and expense, consolidated balance sheet, Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence consolidated cash flow statement and related notes.
These financial relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and out therein.
judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and in accordance with Article 110 of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 adequately disclosed.
and, in respect of our work on the Corporate Governance Report, on terms that have been agreed with the Company.
Our audit work We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys information and explanations which we considered necessary in members those matters we are required to state in an auditors order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable report and, in respect of our work on the Corporate Governance assurance that the financial statements are free from material Report, those matters that we have agreed to state to them in our misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
report, and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the presentation of information in the financial statements.
the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Opinion In our opinion: Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors the Groups financial statements give a true and fair view, in As described in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, pages 49 to 50, the Companys Directors are responsible for of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 preparation of the financial statements in accordance with and of its loss for the year then ended: and applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards the financial statements have been properly prepared in IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with the relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
KPMG Audit Plc We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements Chartered Accountants give a true and fair view and are properly prepared in accordance 8 Salisbury Square with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
We also report to you if, in London EC4Y 8BB our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records United Kingdom or if we have not received all the information and explanations we 28 April 2009 require for our audit.
We read the Directors Report accompanying the financial statements and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements within it.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Report reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
52 Heritage Oil Limited Annual Report & Accounts 2008
