qxp 27 3 09 22:46 Page 93 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 93 Annual report 2008 Independent auditors report to the members of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of Hikma In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have Pharmaceuticals PLC for the year ended 31 December 2008 not received all the information and explanations we which comprise the consolidated income statement, the require for our audit, or if information specified by law consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash ow regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions statement, the consolidated statement of changes in equity is not disclosed.
These Group financial We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement statements have been prepared under the accounting policies reects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Directors remuneration report that is described as having Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we been audited.
We are not required to consider whether We have reported separately on the parent company the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and financial statements of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC for the controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the year ended 31 December 2008.
Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and This report is made solely to the Companys members, control procedures.
as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies We read the other information contained in the Annual Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we Report as described in the contents section and consider might state to the Companys members those matters we are whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial required to state to them in an auditors report and for no statements.
We consider the implications for our report if other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
the Company and the Companys members as a body, for Our responsibilities do not extend to any further our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we information outside the Annual Report.
Basis of audit opinion Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors We conducted our audit in accordance with International The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Report, the Directors remuneration report and the Group Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, financial statements in accordance with applicable law and on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as disclosures in the Group financial statements and the part adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also of Directors Responsibilities.
includes an assessment of the significant estimates and Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory Group financial statements, and of whether the accounting requirements and International Standards on Auditing policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, UK and Ireland.
consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain financial statements give a true and fair view, whether the all the information and explanations which we considered Group financial statements have been properly prepared in necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial the IAS Regulation and whether the part of the Directors statements and the part of the Directors remuneration remuneration report described as having been audited has report to be audited are free from material misstatement, been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall information given in the Directors Report is consistent with adequacy of the presentation of information in the the Group financial statements.
Group financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
qxp 27 3 09 22:46 Page 94 94 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Financial results Annual report 2008 Independent auditors report to the members of Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC continued Opinion In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs As explained in Note 2 to the Group financial statements, the Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with the IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
In our opinion the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its profit for the year then ended.
Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors, London, United Kingdom 16 March 2009
