Independent Auditors Report to the Members of HMV Group plc We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements the financial statements of HMV Group plc for the statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors 52 weeks ended 26 April 2008 which comprise the Group Income Report, the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration Statement, the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the report, the Chairmans Statement, the Business and financial Group and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, the Group review and the Corporate Governance Statement.
We consider and Parent Company Statements of Recognised Income and the implications for our report if we become aware of any Expenses and the related Notes 1 to 37.
These financial apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors other information.
Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, Basis of audit opinion as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies We conducted our audit in accordance with International Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing state to the Companys members those matters we are required Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors report, or for the opinions we have formed.
in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, adequately disclosed.
the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and information and explanations which we considered necessary in International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable by the European Union are set out in the Statement of assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors Responsibilities.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial be audited.
statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report Opinion to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with In our opinion: the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in information, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, to you whether in our opinion the information given in the of the state of the Groups affairs as at 26 April 2008 and of Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
its profit for the 52 weeks then ended: The information given in the Directors Report includes that specific information presented in the Business and Financial the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair Review that is cross referred from the Business Review section view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European of the Directors Report.
Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company Companies Act 1985, of the state of the Parent Companys has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received affairs as at 26 April 2008: all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if the financial statements and the part of the Directors information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly and other transactions are not disclosed.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of IAS Regulation: and the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it the information given in the Directors Report is consistent does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards with the financial statements.
statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate Ernst & Young LLP governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report 30 June 2008 41 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2008
