Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 01-37 38-57 58-120 Inside back cover 113 Report of the Auditors Independent Auditorsreport to the members of Inchcape plc Basis of audit opinion We have audited the Group Financial statements of Inchcape plc We conducted our audit in accordance with International for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing consolidated income statement, the consolidated balance Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, sheet, the consolidated cash ow statement, the consolidated of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group statement of recognised income and expense, the Accounting Financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the policies and the related notes.
These Group Financial statements significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
preparation of the Group Financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, We have reported separately on the parent Company Financial consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
statements of Inchcape plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 and on the information in the Remuneration report that is described We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the as having been audited.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors assurance that the Group Financial statements are free from The  for preparing the Annual Report and material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other the Group Financial statements in accordance with applicable law irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Financial statements.
responsibilities section of the Corporate Governance report.
Opinion Our responsibility is to audit the Group Financial statements in In our opinion: accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, the Group Financial statements give a true and fair view, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, and of its profit and cash ows for the year then ended: in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other the Group Financial statements have been properly prepared purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior the IAS Regulation: and consent in writing.
the information given in the Directorsreport is consistent with We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group Financial the Group Financial statements.
statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group Financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance  LLP with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given London in the Directorsreport is consistent with the Group Financial 19 March 2009 statements.
The information given in the Directorsreport includes that specic information presented in the Operating review and the Financial review that is cross-referred from the Business review section of the Directorsreport.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance report reects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group Financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors report, the Chairmans statement, the Group Chief Executives review, the Operating review, the Financial review, the Corporate responsibility, the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, the Corporate Governance report, the Remuneration report, the Five year record and Company details.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group Financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
