Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Inmarsat plc We have audited the consolidated financial statements form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate of Inmarsat plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense, We read the other information contained in the Annual the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Statement and the related notes 1 to 37.
These consolidated consolidated financial statements.
The other information financial statements have been prepared under the accounting comprises only the Directors Report, the Chairman and Chief policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information Executive Ofcers Business Review, the unaudited part of the in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as Directors Remuneration Report, the Chief Financial Ofcers having been audited.
Review and the Corporate Governance.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent We have reported separately on the Company misstatements or material inconsistencies with the consolidated financial statements of Inmarsat plc for the year ended financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any 31 December 2008. further information outside the Annual Report.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a Basis of audit opinion body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act We conducted our audit in accordance with International 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing state to the Companys members those matters we are required Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or consolidated financial statements and the information in the assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements report, or for the opinions we have formed.
made by the Directors in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, and adequately disclosed.
the Directors Remuneration Report and the consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable law and We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted information and explanations which we considered necessary in by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Responsibilities.
assurance that the consolidated financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by Our responsibility is to audit the consolidated financial fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and information in the consolidated financial statements and the part regulatory requirements and International Standards on of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the consolidated Opinion financial statements give a true and fair view, whether the In our opinion: consolidated financial statements have been properly prepared the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the IAS Regulation and whether the part of the Directors of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and Remuneration Report described to be audited has been of its profit for the year then ended: properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act the consolidated financial statements have been properly 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and information given in the Directors Report is consistent with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: the consolidated financial statements.
The information given the part of the Directors Remuneration Report described as in the Directors Report includes that specic information having been audited has been properly prepared in presented in the Chairman and Chief Executive Ofcers accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and Business Review and in the Chief Financial Ofcers Review the information given in the Directors Report is consistent that is cross referred from the Principal Activities and Business with the consolidated financial statements.
Review section of the Directors Report.
As explained in Note 2, the Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply those IFRSs adopted by the In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not European Union, has also complied with the IFRSs as issued by received all the information and explanations we require for the International Accounting Standards Board.
Accordingly, in our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view in remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement profit for the year then ended.
reects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it Deloitte LLP does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or London 12 March 2009 48 Inmarsat plc Annual report and accounts 2008 5354 Inmarsat 08 28-96 DR00 REV.
