100 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Independent auditors report to the members of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC In relation to the parent company We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements financial statements.
The other information comprises only the We have audited the parent company financial statements Highlights, Chairmans statement, Chief Executives review, of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC for the year ended Business Review, Directors Report, Corporate Governance, Audit 31 December 2008 which comprise the Company balance sheet Committee Report and the unaudited part of the Remuneration and related notes 1 to 10.
These parent company financial Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become statements have been prepared under the accounting policies aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
do not extend to any other information.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC for the year ended Basis of audit opinion 31 December 2008.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report Companys members those matters we are required to state to to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Respective responsibilities of Directors information and explanations which we considered necessary and auditors in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company financial statements and The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited are free the Remuneration Report and the parent company financial from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the law and Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration of Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report Opinion to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory In our opinion: requirements and International Standards on Auditing the parent company financial statements give a true and fair UK and Ireland.
view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs financial statements give a true and fair view and whether as at 31 December 2008: the parent company financial statements and the part of the parent company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly the Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and report to you whether, in our opinion, the information given in the the information given in the Directors Report is consistent Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
The with the parent company financial statements.
information given in the Directors Report includes that specific information that is cross referred from the Business Review, Directors and Employees sections of the Directors Report.
Ernst & Young LLP, In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has Registered auditor, London.
not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all 16 February 2009 the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
