C Ino dm ep pe an nd y efinnta anud cia itl or sta st reem por entts for the year ended 31 December 2008 176 IIn nt te er rn na at tiio on na al l P Po ow we er r A An nn nu ua al l R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 08 8 Independent auditors report to the members of International Power plc We have audited the Group and parent company financial Basis of audit opinion statements the financial statements of International Power plc We conducted our audit in accordance with International for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing consolidated income statement, the consolidated and Company Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, balance sheets, the consolidated statement of recognised income of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the and expense, the consolidated cash flow statement and the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration related notes to the consolidated and Company financial report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the statements.
These financial statements have been prepared significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether audited the information in the Directors remuneration report the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups that is described as having been audited.
and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the information and explanations which we considered necessary Companys members those matters we are required to state in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the assurance that the financial statements and the part of the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume Directors remuneration report to be audited are free from responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors report to be audited.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the consolidated financial statements in accordance with Opinion applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards In our opinion: IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and for preparing the parent the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, company financial statements and the Directors remuneration in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state report in accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its profit Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set for the year then ended: out in the statement of Directors responsibilities on page 102. the Group financial statements have been properly prepared Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the Directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance of the IAS Regulation: with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International the parent company financial statements give a true and fair Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial Practice, of the state of the parent companys affairs as at statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial 31 December 2008: statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report the parent company financial statements and the part of to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Directors remuneration report to be audited have the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report Act 1985: to you whether, in our opinion, the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
the information given in the Directors report is consistent The information given in the Directors report includes that with the financial statements.
specific information that is cross-referred in the Business Review section of the Directors report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors KPMG Audit Plc remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
Chartered accountants We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects Registered auditor the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 10 March 2009 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules 8 Salisbury Square of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
London EC4Y 8BB We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
