Independent auditors report to the members of Interserve Plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Interserve We read the other information contained in the Annual report Plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the as described in the contents section and consider whether it is Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated balance consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
We sheet, the Consolidated cash flow statement, the Consolidated consider the implications for our report if we become aware of statement of recognised income and expense and the related any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with notes 1 to 35.
These Group financial statements have been the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
extend to any further information outside the Annual report.
We have also audited the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International We have reported separately on the parent company financial Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing statements of Interserve Plc for the year ended 31 December Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test 2008. basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements and the part of the Directors This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might by the directors in the preparation of the Group financial state to the Companys members those matters we are statements, and of whether the accounting policies are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do and adequately disclosed.
not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements and The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited the Directors remuneration report and the Group financial are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud statements in accordance with applicable law and or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of by the European Union are set out in the Directors information in the Group financial statements and the part responsibility statement.
of the Directors remuneration report to be audited.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in Opinion accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements In our opinion: and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European financial statements give a true and fair view, whether the Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at Group financial statements have been properly prepared in 31 December 2008 and of its profit for the year then ended: accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and whether the part of the Directors the Group financial statements have been properly remuneration report described as having been audited has prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the part of the Directors remuneration report described the Group financial statements.
as having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our the information given in the Directors report is consistent audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors with the Group financial statements.
remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and Deloitte LLP controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and London, United Kingdom control procedures.
11 March 2009 62 Interserve Plc Annual report 2008
