com Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to whether the financial statements and the part of the Members of Intertek Group plc the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited We have audited the Group and Parent Company have been properly prepared in accordance with financial statements the financial statements of the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group Intertek Group plc for the year ended 31 December financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
2008 which comprise the Consolidated Income We also report to you whether in our opinion the Statement, the Consolidated and Parent Company information given in the Directors Report is Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Statement of Cash consistent with the financial statements.
Flows, the Consolidated Statement of Recognised In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, Income and Expense and the related notes.
These the Company has not kept proper accounting financial statements have been prepared under the records, if we have not received all the information accounting policies set out therein.
We have also and explanations we require for our audit, audited the information in the Directors or if information specified by law regarding Remuneration Report that is described as having Directors remuneration and other transactions been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys We review whether the Corporate Governance members, as a body, in accordance with section Statement reflects the companys compliance with 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code has been undertaken so that we might state to the specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Companys members those matters we are required Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does to state to them in an auditors report and for no not.
We are not required to consider whether the other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by Boards statements on internal control cover all risks law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to and controls, or form an opinion on the anyone other than the Company and the Companys effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance members as a body, for our audit work, for this procedures or its risk and control procedures.
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We read the other information contained in Respective responsibilities of the Annual Report and consider whether it is Directors and auditors consistent with the audited financial statements.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the We consider the implications for our report if we Annual Report and the Group financial statements become aware of any apparent misstatements in accordance with applicable law and International or material inconsistencies with the financial Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend the EU, and for preparing the Parent Company to any other information.
financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance with applicable Basis of audit opinion law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally We conducted our audit in accordance with Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 58. issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report financial statements and the part of the Directors to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes regulatory requirements and International Standards an assessment of the significant estimates and on Auditing UK and Ireland.
judgements made by the Directors in the We report to you our opinion as to whether the preparation of the financial statements, and of financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 28653 pp059-067.
indd 66 5 3 09 23:50:44 67 Annual Report 2008 67 the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2008: the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor 8 Salisbury Square London EC4Y 8BB 9 March 2009 28653 pp059-067.
