INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF INVENSYS PLC We have audited the Group financial statements financial We read other information contained in the Annual report statements of Invensys plc for the year ended 31 March 2008 and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial which comprise the Consolidated income statement, Consolidated statements.
This other information comprises the Board of balance sheet, Consolidated cash flow statement, Consolidated directors, the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives statement of recognised income and expense, Accounting policies, statement, Business review, Corporate governance report, the related Notes 1 to 35 and the list of Principal subsidiaries as at Remuneration report, Statement of directors responsibilities, 31 March 2008.
These financial statements have been prepared Financial summary, listing of Principal subsidiaries as at 31 March under the accounting policies set out therein.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatement We have reported separately on the Parent company financial or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
statements of Invensys plc for the year ended 31 March 2008 and Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
the information in the Remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body, in on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
members those matters we are required to state to them in an It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies anyone other than the Company and the Companys members are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied as a body, for our audit work, for this report or for the opinions and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors information and explanations which we considered necessary in The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United assurance that the financial statements are free from material Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as set out in the error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall Statement of directors responsibilities.
adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Opinion Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
In our opinion: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial the financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance statements give a true and fair view, the financial statements have with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2008 and of its profit 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the information given for the year then ended: in the Directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
the financial statements have been properly prepared in We also report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if of the IAS Regulation: and information specified by law regarding directors remuneration the information given in the Directors report is consistent and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements Ernst & Young LLP on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion Registered Auditor on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance London procedures or its risk and control procedures.
14 May 2008 Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008 63
