INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF INVENSYS PLC We have audited the Parent company financial statements Company Basis of audit opinion financial statements of Invensys plc for the year ended 31 March 2008 We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards which comprise the Company balance sheet, Accounting policies and on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
These Company financial statements have An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have the amounts and disclosures in the Company financial statements and also audited the information in the Remuneration report that is the part of the Remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an described as having been audited.
assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Company financial statements, and We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys Invensys plc for the year ended 31 March 2008. circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body, in We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors Company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of work, for this report or for the opinions we have formed.
information in the Company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report, the Opinion Remuneration report and the Company financial statements in In our opinion: accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice the Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in as set out in the Statement of directors responsibilities.
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2008: Our responsibility is to audit the Company financial statements and the Company financial statements and the part of the the part of the Remuneration report to be audited in accordance with Remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the Company financial statements.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Ernst & Young LLP Act 1985 and the information given in the Directors report is consistent Registered Auditor with the Company financial statements.
We also report to you if, in London our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, 14 May 2008 if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Company financial statements.
This other information comprises the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives statement, Business review, Corporate social responsibility statement, Board of directors, Corporate governance statement, unaudited part of the Remuneration report, Statement of directors responsibilities, Financial summary, listing of Principal subsidiaries as at 31 March 2008 and Shareholder information.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatement or material inconsistencies with the Company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008 123
