Independent Auditors report to the members of J Sainsbury plc We have audited the Group and Company financial statements the Basis of audit opinion financial statements of J Sainsbury plc for the 52 weeks ended We conducted our audit in accordance with International 22 March 2008 which comprise the Group income statement, Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing the Group and Company Statements of recognised income and Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of expense, the Group and Company Balance sheets, the Group and evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial Company Cash ow statements, and the related notes.
These statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited.
financial statements have been prepared under the accounting It also includes an assessment of the signi cant estimates and policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial the Remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors and adequately disclosed.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards information and explanations which we considered necessary in IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the order to provide us with suf cient evidence to give reasonable Statement of Directors responsibilities.
assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited are free from material Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity part of the Remuneration report to be audited in accordance with or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited.
the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Opinion Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving In our opinion: this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, consent in writing.
of the state of the Groups affairs as at 22 March 2008 and of its pro t and cash ows for the 52 weeks then ended: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial the Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union as statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Act 1985, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 22 March 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of 2008 and cash ows for the 52 weeks then ended: the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration the information given in the Directors report is consistent with report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance the financial statements.
The information given in the Directors with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group report includes that speci c information presented in the Business financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and review that is cross referred from the Business review section of the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the Directors report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has  LLP not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if London information speci ed by law regarding Directors remuneration 13 May 2008 and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Statement of corporate governance re ects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 speci ed for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures Notes: or its risk and control procedures.
The maintenance and integrity of the J Sainsbury plc website We read other information contained in the Annual Report is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any statement, the Business review, the Directors report, the changes that may have occurred to the financial statements Statement of corporate governance and the unaudited part of the since they were initially presented on the website.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities and dissemination of financial statements may differ from do not extend to any other information.
34 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
