Independent auditors report to the members of J D Wetherspoon plc We have audited the financial statements of J D Wetherspoon We read other information contained in the Annual Report plc for the 52 week period ended 27 July 2008 which comprise and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial the Income Statement, the Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow statements.
The other information comprises only the Statement, the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Directors and the related notes.
These financial statements have been Remuneration Report, the Chairmans Statement, the Finance prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have Review, the Corporate Social Responsibility Report and the also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration Corporate Governance Statement.
We consider the Report that is described as having been audited.
implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, other information.
the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Basis of audit opinion Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the We conducted our audit in accordance with International European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Responsibilities.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and estimates and judgments made by the directors in the International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only accounting policies are appropriate to the companys for the companys members as a body in accordance with circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to information and explanations which we considered necessary whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Report to be audited have been properly prepared in financial statements and the part of the Directors accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to Remuneration Report to be audited.
you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
Opinion The information given in the Directors Report includes that In our opinion: specific information presented in the Financial Review that is cross referred from the Business Review section of the the financial statements give a true and fair view, in Directors Report.
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the companys affairs as at 27 July 2008 and of its In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company profit and cash flows for the period then ended: has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not the financial statements and the part of the Directors received all the information and explanations we require for Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly our audit, or if information specified by law regarding prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether  LLP the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the London companys corporate governance procedures or its risk and 5 September 2008 control procedures.
