Chairmans statement CEOs statement Operational review Financial review CR review Directors reports Financial statements 02-03 04-11 12-23 24-31 32-37 38-54 55-99 57 Independent Auditors Report to the members of JKX Oil & Gas plc We have audited the Group financial statements of the audited Group financial statements.
The other JKX Oil & Gas plc for the year ended 31st December information comprises only the Directors Report, 2008 which comprise the Group Income Statement, the the unaudited parts of the Directors Remuneration Group Balance Sheet, the Group Cash Flow Statement, Report, the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives the Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense, Statement, the Operating and Financial Review, the the accounting policies and the related notes.
These Corporate Governance Statement, the Corporate Group financial statements have been prepared under the Responsibility Review and all of the other information accounting policies set out therein.
listed on the contents page.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent We have reported separately on the Parent Company misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements of JKX Oil & Gas plc for the year Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not ended 31st December 2008 and on the information in extend to any other information.
the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, Report and the Group financial statements in accordance on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts with applicable law and International Financial Reporting and disclosures in the financial statements.
It also Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are includes an assessment of the significant estimates set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
and judgments made by the directors in the preparation Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial of the Group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all companys members as a body in accordance with the information and explanations which we considered Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any statements are free from material misstatement, other person to whom this report is shown or into whose whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall prior consent in writing.
adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements.
financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have been properly Opinion prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 In our opinion: and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to the Group financial statements give a true and fair you whether in our opinion the information given in the view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the Directors Report is consistent with the Group financial European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as statements.
The information given in the Directors Report at 31st December 2008 and of its profit and cash flows includes that specific information presented in the Chief for the year then ended Executives Statement and the Operating and Financial Review that is cross referred from the Business Review the Group financial statements have been properly section of the Directors Report.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require the information given in the Directors Report is for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding consistent with the Group financial statements.
directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement London reflects the companys compliance with the nine 6th April 2009 provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services The maintenance and integrity of the JKX Oil & Gas plc website is the Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors to consider whether the boards statements on internal does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the procedures or its risk and control procedures.
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with
