Chairmans statement CEOs statement Operational review Financial review CR review Directors reports Financial statements 02-03 04-11 12-23 24-31 32-37 38-54 55-99 91 Independent Auditors Report to the members of JKX Oil & Gas plc We have audited the parent company financial statements listed on the contents page.
We consider the implications of JKX Oil & Gas plc for the year ended 31st December for our report if we become aware of any apparent 2008 which comprise the Balance Sheet, the accounting misstatements or material inconsistencies with the policies and the related notes.
These parent company parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities financial statements have been prepared under the do not extend to any other information.
accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the directors remuneration report that Basis of audit opinion is described as having been audited.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the We have reported separately on the Group financial Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, statements of JKX Oil & Gas plc for the year ended on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and 31st December 2008. disclosures in the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant The directors responsibilities for preparing the estimates and judgments made by the directors in the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and preparation of the parent company financial statements, the parent company financial statements in accordance and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting the companys circumstances, consistently applied and Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted adequately disclosed.
Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration to give reasonable assurance that the parent company Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal financial statements and the part of the Directors and regulatory requirements and International Standards Remuneration Report to be audited are free from on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or opinion, has been prepared for and only for the companys other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, information in the parent company financial statements in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to any other purpose or to any other person to whom this be audited.
report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Opinion We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent In our opinion: company financial statements give a true and fair view and the parent company financial statements give a true whether the parent company financial statements and the and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of have been properly prepared in accordance with the the companys affairs as at 31st December 2008 Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is the parent company financial statements and the part consistent with the parent company financial statements.
of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited The information given in the Directors Report includes have been properly prepared in accordance with the that specific information presented in the Chief Executives Companies Act 1985: and Statement and the Operating and Financial Review that the information given in the Directors Report is cross referred from the Business Review section of the is consistent with the parent company financial Directors Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we  LLP have not received all the information and explanations Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors we require for our audit, or if information specified by law London regarding directors remuneration and other transactions 6th April 2009 is not disclosed.
The maintenance and integrity of the JKX Oil & Gas plc website is the We read other information contained in the Annual responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors Report and consider whether it is consistent with the does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, audited parent company financial statements.
The the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented other information comprises only the Directors Report, on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from Report, the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives legislation in other jurisdictions.
Statement, the Operating and Financial Review, the Corporate Governance Statement, the Corporate Responsibility Review and all of the other information
