Directors Report: Governance Independent Auditors Report to the Shareholders of Kazakhmys PLC We have audited the Group and parent company financial Basis of audit opinion statements the financial statements of Kazakhmys PLC for the We conducted our audit in accordance with International year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the Consolidated Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Income Statement, the Consolidated and Company Balance Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, Sheets, the Consolidated and Company Cash Flow Statements, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the the Consolidated and Company Statement of Changes in Equity financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration and the related notes 1 to 49.
These financial statements have Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in have also audited the information in the Directors Remuneration the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the Report that is described as having been audited.
accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to information and explanations which we considered necessary the Companys members those matters we are required to state in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the assurance that the financial statements and the part of the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free from responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the report, or for the opinions we have formed.
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors to be audited.
The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in Opinion accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and International In our opinion: Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in and of its profit for the year then ended: accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements the Companys financial statements give a true and fair and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial Union as applied in accordance with the provisions of the statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial Companies Act 1985, of the state of the Companys affairs statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report as at 31 December 2008: to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the financial statements and the part of the Directors the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the Report is consistent with the financial statements.
IAS Regulation: and In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has the information given in the Directors Report is consistent not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all with the financial statements.
the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration Ernst & Young LLP and other transactions are not disclosed.
Registered Auditor We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reects London, United Kingdom the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 30 March 2009 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Business Review, the Directors Report, the Corporate Governance Report and the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report.
We consider the implications for our Report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
70 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008
