INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF KELLER GROUP PLC Independent Auditors Report to the Members of We read other information contained in the Annual Report Keller Group plc and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report statements the financial statements of Keller Group plc for if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the Group material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Income Statement, the Group and Parent Company Balance Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Sheets, the Group Cash Flow Statement, the Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and the related notes.
Basis of audit opinion These financial statements have been prepared under the We conducted our audit in accordance with International accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test described as having been audited.
basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a in the financial statements and the part of the Directors body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act Remuneration Report to be audited.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made state to the Companys members those matters we are by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the and adequately disclosed.
Company and the Companys members as a body, for our We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors reasonable assurance that the financial statements and The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited and the Group financial statements in accordance with are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and for preparing evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of the Parent Company financial statements and the Directors information in the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report in accordance with applicable law and Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Opinion Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 42.
In our opinion: Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2008 and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
and of its profit for the year then ended: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial the Group financial statements have been properly prepared statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report the IAS Regulation: to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair with the Companies Act 1985 and whether, in addition, the view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Group financial statements have been properly prepared in Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Parent accordance with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report Companys affairs as at 31 December 2008: to you whether in our opinion the information given in the the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been The information given in the Directors Report includes that properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act specific information presented in the Operating Review and 1985: and the Financial Review that is cross-referred from the Business the information given in the Directors Report is consistent Review section of the Directors Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if KPMG Audit Plc information specified by law regarding directors remuneration Chartered Accountants and other transactions is not disclosed.
Registered Auditor We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement 8 Salisbury Square reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of London EC4Y 8BB the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing 2 March 2009 Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Independent Auditors Report Keller Group plc 43
