InDEPEnDEnt aUDItORs REPORt tO thE mEmbERs Of KIER GROUP PLC We have audited the Group and parent company financial statements We read the other information contained in the annual report and the financial statements of Kier Group plc for the year ended consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
30 June 2008 which comprise the consolidated income statement, We consider the implications for our report if we become aware the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the the consolidated balance sheet, the Company balance sheet, the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other consolidated cash flow statement and the related notes.
statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set Basis of audit opinion out therein.
We have also audited the information in the directors We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys of the directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors information and explanations which we considered necessary in The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and assurance that the financial statements and the part of the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material IFRS, and for preparing the parent company financial statements and misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
the directors remuneration report in accordance with applicable law In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of Practice are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities on the directors remuneration report to be audited.
Opinion Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part In our opinion: of the directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International accordance with IFRS, of the state of the Groups affairs as at Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
30 June 2008 and of its profit for the year then ended: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited have IAS Regulation: been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, the information given in the directors report is consistent with the of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 30 June 2008: financial statements.
The information given in the directors report the parent company financial statements and the part of the includes that information presented in the operating and financial directors remuneration report to be audited have been properly review that is cross-referred from the business review section of the prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and directors report.
the information given in the directors report is consistent with the In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has financial statements.
not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if KPMG Audit Plc information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and Chartered Accountants other transactions is not disclosed.
Registered Auditor London We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects 17 September 2008 the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
KIER GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2008 51
