90 Independent auditors report to King sher Annual Report and Accounts the members of Kingfi sher plc 2007 08 We have audited the Group financial statements of King sher plc for the Basis of audit opinion year ended 2 February 2008 which comprise the Consolidated income We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on statement, the Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense, Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit the Consolidated balance sheet, the Consolidated cash ow statement includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and the related notes.
These Group financial statements have been prepared and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
It also includes an under the accounting policies set out therein.
assessment of the signi cant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether We have reported separately on the Parent company financial statements of the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, King sher plc for the year ended 2 February 2008 and on the information in consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with The directors responsibilities for preparing the Group financial statements suf cient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group financial statements.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance Opinion with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards In our opinion: on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
affairs as at 2 February 2008 and of its pro t and cash ows for the year We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other then ended: purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements Regulation: and give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Group been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and financial statements.
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
The information given in the Directors report includes  LLP that speci c information presented in the Operating review and Financial review Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors that is cross referred from the business review section of the Directors report.
London 26 March 2008 In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information speci ed by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement re ects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 speci ed for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review, the Operating review, the Financial review, the Directors report, the Directors responsibilities statement, the Corporate Governance report, the Audit Committee report and the Nomination Committee report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
