102 Independent auditors report to King sher Annual Report and Accounts the members of Kingfi sher plc 2007 08 We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of King sher plc Basis of audit opinion for the year ended 2 February 2008 which comprise the Company balance We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on sheet and the related notes.
These Parent company financial statements Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts also audited the information in the Remuneration Report that is described and disclosures in the Parent company financial statements and the part as having been audited.
of the Remuneration report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the signi cant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of King sher preparation of the Parent company financial statements, and of whether plc for the year ended 2 February 2008. the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Remuneration We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and Report and the Parent company financial statements in accordance with explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom suf cient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Parent company Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Directors financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited responsibility statement.
are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other Our responsibility is to audit the Parent company financial statements and the irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall part of the Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant adequacy of the presentation of information in the Parent company financial legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and Opinion only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 In our opinion: of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving the Parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 2 February 2008: save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the Parent company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration We report to you our opinion as to whether the Parent company financial report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with statements give a true and fair view and whether the Parent company the Companies Act 1985: and financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the Parent have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. company financial statements.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the Parent company financial statements.
The information given in the Directors report includes that speci c information  LLP presented in the Operating review and Financial review that is cross referred Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors from the business review section of the Directors report.
London 26 March 2008 In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information speci ed by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Parent company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review, the Operating review, the Financial review, the Directors report, the Directors responsibilities statement, the Corporate Governance report, the Audit Committee report and the Nomination Committee report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
indd 102 18 4 08 16:25:17 18 4 08 16:25:17 Kingfi sher plc fi five year history 103 King sher Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 The amounts disclosed for 2003 04 are stated on the basis of UK GAAP because it is not practicable to restate amounts for periods prior to the date of transition to IFRS.
The principal differences between UK GAAP and IFRS impacting the Group are the treatment of goodwill, post employment bene ts, deferred and current taxes, accounting for share-based payments, leases and the valuation of properties.
The Group has undergone a signi cant amount of restructuring including the demerger of Kesa Electricals in 2003 04.
The income statement information presented below represents continuing operations only.
2 Under IFRS, pro ts and losses on disposal of xed assets are included in operating pro t within exceptional items.
3 Before exceptional items, acquisition goodwill amortisation UK GAAP only, acquisition intangible amortisation IFRS only and nancing fair value remeasurements IFRS only.
