INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF LADBROKES PLC We have audited the parent Company financial statements of Ladbrokes Basis of audit opinion plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the Balance We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Sheet and the related notes 1 to 18.
These parent Company financial Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors and disclosures in the parent Company financial statements and the part Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the We have reported separately on the Group financial statements directors in the preparation of the parent Company financial statements, of Ladbrokes plc for the year ended 31 December 2008. and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent Company for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the or for the opinions we have formed.
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors to be audited.
The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the parent company financial Opinion statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and In our opinion: Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Our responsibility is to audit the parent Company financial statements and Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2008: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared on Auditing UK and Ireland.
in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent Company financial parent Company financial statements.
statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the parent Ernst & Young LLP Company financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Registered auditor Report includes that specific information presented in the Financial London Review that is cross referred from the Business Review section of the 19 February 2009 Directors Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent Company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors Report, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, the Chairmans Statement and the Financial Review.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent Company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
