INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF LADBROKES PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of Ladbrokes plc for the Basis of audit opinion year ended 31 December 2008 which comprise the Consolidated Income We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Statement, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit of Recognised Income and Expense, the Consolidated Cash Flow includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts Statement and the related notes 1 to 39.
These Group financial statements and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
It also includes an have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups of Ladbrokes plc for the year ended 31 December 2008 and on the circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not in the Group financial statements.
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, Opinion or for the opinions we have formed.
In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the affairs as at 31 December 2008 and of its profit for the year then ended: group financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Regulation: and Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards Group financial statements.
on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Ernst & Young LLP Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion Registered auditor the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Group London financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes 19 February 2009 that specific information presented in the Financial Review that is cross referred from the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors Report, the Chairmans Statement, the Financial Review and the Corporate Governance Statement.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
98 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTENTS 100 106 Company balance sheet 12 Share capital 101 107 Notes to the Company financial 13 Reconciliation of shareholders funds statements and movements on reserves 101 107 1 Basis of accounting 14 Employee share ownership plans 101 108 2 Change in accounting policies 15 Pensions 101 109 3 Summary of significant 16 Share-based payments accounting policies 109 102 17 Contingencies 4 Profit and loss account of the 109 parent Company 18 Events after the balance sheet date 102 110 5 Dividends paid and proposed Statement of Directors responsibilities 103 in relation to the financial statements 6 Fixed asset investments 103 7 Debtors 104 8 Creditors amounts falling due within one year 104 9 Creditors amounts falling due after more than one year 105 10 Provisions for liabilities and charges 106 11 Financial risk management objectives and policies Annual Report and Accounts 2008 99
