Overview Review of Operations Financial Review Sustainable Development Review Governance Accounts Operating Statistics 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Independent Auditors Report 61 to the Members of Lonmin Plc We have audited the Group and parent company financial statements the financial statements of Lonmin Plc for the year ended 30 September 2008 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and the related notes.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Remuneration Committee Report that is described as having been audited on page 37.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU, and for preparing the parent company financial statements and the Remuneration Committee Report in accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 62.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Committee Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Committee Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes that specific information presented in the Financial Review that is cross referred from the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Committee Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Committee Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Committee Report to be audited.
Opinion In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 30 September 2008 and of its profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: the parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 30 September 2008: the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Committee Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
KPMG Audit Plc Chartered Accountants Registered Auditor London 17 November 2008 62 Responsibility Statement of the Directors in respect of the Annual Report and Accounts We confirm on behalf of the Board that to the best of our knowledge: a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and b the management report entitled Business Review includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
For and on behalf of the Board Sir John Craven Alan Ferguson Chairman Chief Financial Officer 17 November 2008
