56 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC Auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of We read other information contained in the Annual report Marks and Spencer Group plc and consider whether it is consistent with the audited We have audited the group and parent company financial financial statements.
The other information comprises statements the financial statements of Marks and Spencer only the Key performance indicators, the Business review, Group plc for the year ended 29 March 2008 which comprise the Financial review, the Corporate governance statement, the Consolidated and Company income statements, the the unaudited part of the Remuneration report, the Group Consolidated and Company balance sheets, the Consolidated financial record and the Shareholder information.
We consider and Company cash flow statements, the Consolidated the implications for our report if we become aware of any statement of recognised income and expense, the Company apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with statement of changes in shareholders equity and the the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend related group and parent company notes.
These financial to any other information.
statements have been prepared under the accounting policies Basis of audit opinion set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual report, basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures the Remuneration report and the financial statements in in the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration accordance with applicable law and International Financial report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European significant estimates and judgments made by the directors Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements Companys circumstances, consistently applied and and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited in adequately disclosed.
accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and the information and explanations which we considered only for the Companys members as a body in accordance necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited are responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial Remuneration report to be audited.
statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be Opinion audited have been properly prepared in accordance with In our opinion: the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial the financial statements give a true and fair view, in statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, you whether in our opinion the information given in the Group of the state of the Groups and the Parent Companys affairs Directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
as at 29 March 2008 and of the Groups and the Parent The information given in the Group Directors report includes Companys profit and cash flows for the year then ended: that specific information presented in Key performance indicators and Business review that is cross referred from the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration the Business review section of the Group Directors report.
report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all IAS Regulation: and the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remunerationthe information given in the Group Directors report and other transactions is not disclosed.
is consistent with the financial statements.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we  LLP report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks London and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the 19 May 2008 Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
