15494WOLVERHA:Layout 2 10 12 08 14:59 Page 43 43 MARSTONS PLC Annual Report 2008 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT We have audited the Group financial statements of Marstons PLC for the period ended 4 October 2008 which comprise the Group income statement, the Group balance sheet, the Group cash flow statement, the Group statement of recognised income and expense and the related notes.
These Group financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent Company financial statements of Marstons PLC for the period ended 4 October 2008 and on the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union are set out in the statement of Directors responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes that specific information presented in the Business review that is cross-referenced from the Business review section of the Directors Report.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the annual report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans statement, the Business review, the Directors Report, the Corporate Governance Report, the Corporate and Social Responsibility Report, the Five year record, the Financial highlights, Group at a Glance, Getting the Measure of Marstons, Our Markets, and the non-auditable part of the Directors remuneration report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion: The Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 4 October 2008 and of its profit and cash flows for the period then ended: The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and The information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Birmingham 5 December 2008 www.
co. uk Stock Exchange Code: MARS 15494 10 12 2008 Proof 11 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE DIRECTION GROUP ACCOUNTS
