Corporate social responsibility We are determined, in our fast-growing business, to remain aware and prepared.
In 2005, we launched a programme to reinvigorate our understanding of ethical principles and practice, publishing and publicising our new code of conduct and developing the business ethics training tools to support it.
During 2005, we focused not only on ensuring regulatory compliance in our operations but exploiting it as a business enabler, implementing a global export compliance programme of the highest standard to enhance the confidence of customers and regulators.
Responsible corporate citizenship a global export compliance Health and safety at Meggitt is informed by principles programme of the highest standard We promote the health, safety and reflected in management practice to enhance the confidence of welfare of our employees and site and which enable us to respond customers and regulators.
visitors through safety training and with clarity to corporate social protective equipment.
In 2005, we responsibility CSR reporting continued to roll out the groups CSR responsibility requirements.
health and safety audit programme.
Headquarters: Terry Twigger, A further 12 Meggitt sites were Chief Executive, assisted by audited and a similar number will Meggitts CSR principles Philip Green, Group Corporate be audited in 2006. sound corporate governance Affairs Director standards Operations: strategic business compliance with relevant unit managing directors Environment legislation and regulations As a manufacturer, we regard continual improvement of Governance and compliance health, safety and environmental financial, social and environmental Meggitt has always conducted its issues as a CSR cornerstone.
In performance embracing: business based on sound principles 2005, Meggitt committed itself - a supportive, rewarding and of corporate governance as set out to the Society of British Aerospace safe working environment in the Directors Statement page 33.
Companies Sustainable Aviation for employees Its profits are real.
Certification of our - minimisation of the inflow from operating activities in environmental management has environmental impact 2005 continues to show Meggitts now reached 23 of Meggitts 34 sites, of products and processes ability to convert a very high with a further six making progress - ethical business conduct percentage of operating profit.
- local community support Minimising the environmental For our stakeholders, this means impact of operations continues with Risk financial probity, effective risk a programme of external audits.
Systems across the group identify identification: robust internal and 12 Meggitt sites were audited in 2005 and manage financial, operational, external reporting and control and key performance indicators are environmental and compliance risk.
systems: dynamic business continuity being identified.
Key risks are reviewed regularly by plans: safe working environments: the management and main boards.
independent audits: internationally Our internal risk management process Customers and suppliers accredited environmental is robust and described under Internal The supply of safety and mission management systems: training and Control page 34.
In 2005, we continued critical products requires the highest modern operational practices: lasting to develop our business continuity standards of performance, delivery customer relationships: and the management plans, integrating and quality if we are to sustain and social and economic enrichment them with a new risk identification win new business.
We promote a of local communities.
and management process based on robust quality ethos accordingly.
During 2005, we focused not only the latest risk evaluation models.
The majority of our sites have been on ensuring regulatory compliance Seven Meggitt sites implemented certified to IS09001, the international in our operations but exploiting it as plans and 21 developed and quality management standard.
Our a business enabler, implementing enhanced existing plans.
relationships with aerospace and 24 Meggitt PLC report and accounts 2005 defence customers are well Employees by segment programmes are exemplified at established and many Meggitt operational level by Endevco.
This businesses receive regular customer Aerospace 73.7% Meggitt sensor business in the US commendations and performance provides a state university with an Defence systems 8.5% awards.
Vibro-Meter, Meggitts annual engineering scholarship.
Electronics 16.9% engine diagnostics business, regularly Meggitts UK headquarters provides Other 0.9% receives supplier-of-the-year awards a local comprehensive school with from Airbusevery year for the last a board director as a governor, an threeand in 2005, an award for annual award for outstanding student Employees by location technology innovation from Flight musicianship and sponsors music International, one of the industrys projects to develop performance UK 40.7% foremost journals.
Meggitt PLC continues to sponsor a local National Health Europe 17.3% Service hospital trust with North America 39.8% Ethical business educational bursaries, service and In 2005, the Board adopted an ethics Rest of World 2.3% achievement awards and responds and business conduct policy and code to ad hoc requests for financial help, of conduct see www.
In 2005, appointing a group ethics and business Employees by length of service Meggitt matched employee conduct manager to implement it.
contributions to the Tsunami We are firmly committed to integrity Under 5 years 43.7% and Hurricane Katrina appeals.
and honesty in all our relationships 5 10 years 19.5% from customers to suppliers and 10 15 years 7.0% local communities.
In particular, we The future expect the highest standards of ethical 15 20 years 9.7% Meggitt will continue to develop behaviour from our employees and and implement CSR practices that 20 25 years 6.2% those who represent us.
From the benefit our businesses, employees, Over 25 years 13.9% Chief Executive to the shopfloor, all customers, suppliers and local Meggitt staff will be trained on the communities, supporting Meggitts policy and code during 2006 and we new code of conduct and training Since modern, operational practice will relaunch and renew awareness requirements vigorously.
We see is vital to the groups continuing of the independent ethics helplines ethical and regulatory compliance success, we sponsor education through which employees can seek as a key business enabler, ensuring through apprenticeships, MBAs advice or report breaches without those with whom we deal experience and graduate courses.
compromising their position or the same high degree of probity we professional relationships.
We are also will receive refresher training on Local communities standardising our regulatory and ethical issues, which will form part We make an important economic compliance response processes to of induction.
ensure consistency and quality across Salaries, tax and social security the group.
This includes all aspects contributions across the group of health, safety and the environment Working at Meggitt amounted to 224 million in 2005 and export compliance, which is Our international business with its around 36 per cent of sales.
Local, especially important to an international diverse workforce is subject to equal community-oriented donations, group with defence interests.
sponsorships and education Barney Rosenberg Group Ethics and Business Conduct Manager Meggitt PLC, California Im a corporate lawyer with a strong for employees and their families to lead background in white collar criminal good lives.
Under pressure, people can defence.
At first hand, Ive seen the wander unprepared into grey areas.
consequences of corporations failing And thats when most companies get to do things right, casting a cloud over caught out.
The clear cut, straightforward blameless peopleand reputations.
business decisions are not the problem.
At Meggitt, my mission is to maintain They are easy for most people to awareness of ethics as we grow.
I see the challenge as making Customers, suppliers and shareholders sure we get good at doing business in expect nothing less.
If we get it right, a more complex world economy.
we will continue to provide opportunities Meggitt PLC report and accounts 2005 25
