22 Responsible Gaming As a pioneer in the online gaming industry 888 has sought our member support staff proactively monitor members to take the lead in setting the industry standards for activity, such as total spend, time, length and frequency selfregulation and is fully committed to responsible gaming.
of playing sessions, in order to identify potential problem gamblers: Gaming is a form of entertainment enjoyed by many in cases where members are confirmed as having a people and it is 888s aim to provide members with a gaming problem or financial difficulties their accounts comprehensive selection of gaming activities in a secure, are immediately blocked and can only be opened again trustworthy environment.
after a suspension period and after ascertaining that the financial or other problems have been resolved: and Self-Regulation our member support team is trained in all the above 888 was a founding member of eCOGRA eCommerce Online issues to be able to identify and deal with such problems Gaming Regulation and Assurance, an independent body at the earliest practicable stage.
that has developed a series of selfregulatory guidelines.
888s Casinos have adopted the recommendations and Underage Gaming procedures laid down by eCOGRA.
Compliance with these 888 takes underage gaming extremely seriously, acting recommendations and procedures is subject to independent quickly to close an account and return monies whenever a review.
This review bolsters and supplements the internal complaint or suspicion is raised regarding a members age.
control procedures in place at 888 in order to ensure that objectives of player protection, fair gaming and responsible 888 is involved in continuous dialogue with payment conduct are met.
888 was awarded a seal of approval by processors, the industry and industry regulatory bodies, eCOGRA for its casinos following a due diligence audit such as eCOGRA, to establish and implement the best process by an independent committee of the board possible solutions to prevent underage gaming.
In the UK, where some debit cards are issued to minors, 888 is a founding member of the Gibraltar Betting and we have developed specific systems to deal with underage Gaming Association which has been set up to represent gaming.
888 has created its own tools for identifying the gaming industry in Gibraltar.
possible underage gaming by SOLO, Switch and Visa Electron card holders.
888 is also an active participant in the Interactive Gaming Council IGC an online gaming trade association, which Additionally, 888 has recently installed the stateoftheart was founded to establish, promote and enforce a uniform URU You Are You system, a new eauthentication scheme code of conduct across the entire online gaming industry for age and identity verification launched by British Telecom and has adopted the IGCs Code of Conduct.
and a data management software provider, GB Group.
URU does not require members to create an online identity by Problem Gaming providing personal details to the service, which then To promote responsible gaming 888 has a number of authenticates them but instead uses existing information technological and policy measures in place to identify to verify an individuals identity.
The system can confirm an irregular playing patterns.
Systems exist to identify individuals identity in seconds by checking a number of behaviour patterns that may indicate problem gaming, public and private databases.
including the following: all our sites have clear and visible links to assist 888 strives to take the lead in evolving best practice, with gaming problems Gamblers Anonymous and developing new systems and keeping its policies and Helping Hand : procedures under continuous review.
there are progressive limits on deposits, as well as table limits, that are in place to prevent members from spending large amounts of money over a short period of time:
