Misys plc Corporate responsibility Misys aims to be admired for creating The Working Groups remit is to software that makes things that really identify risks and process improvements matter, work better.
In pursuing this in environmental, health and safety aim, the Directors recognise that Misys practices across the Group.
The terms operations have a direct impact on the of reference of the Working Group local communities in which they will be published on the corporate operate and the Directors endeavour website.
The Working Group meets to monitor the Groups environmental, approximately four times a year and ethical and social impact as well as will report to the Misys plc Board on the health and safety of its employees.
The Directors are mindful of the Code of ethics interests of the Groups stakeholders, It is essential that Misys, its employees, including investors, employees, advisers and agents meet a high ethical customers, suppliers and business standard whenever and wherever they partners, when operating the business.
do business around the world.
Ethical Environment, health and safety conduct promotes trust and Misys is a constituent member of the encourages collaboration.
The Directors are Misys is committed to conducting its firmly committed to developing and business with integrity.
The Board has maintaining sound environmental, adopted a code of ethics and a health and safety standards across whistleblowing policy which will be its range of businesses and in all its distributed to all employees.
Misys is committed to of each will appear on the corporate 24 assessing its impact on the environment website.
Among other matters covered wherever practicable and to evaluating by the Code is an undertaking to the scope for reducing it over the respect the human rights of all medium and long term.
employees and subcontractors and Misys depends on the hard work and to avoid under-age or forced labour.
It Employees recognises its legal responsibilities to Misys recognises that its success employees, subcontractors and visitors depends on the quality of the people to Misys premises and seeks to ensure it employs and believes that everything their safety and well being in the work starts with talent.
Misys thus seeks to place.
As reported in 2004 an external FTSE4GOOD INDEX select, develop and retain employees international consultancy undertook an Created by the independent on the basis of ability and qualifications financial index company FTSE environmental, health and safety audit for the task employed.
Group, FTSE4Good is a financial of key Misys sites in the UK, US and index series that is designed to India and reported to the Board in Misys invests in training focussed around identify and facilitate investment in companies that meet globally December 2004.
The report concluded business needs so that employees recognised corporate responsibility that those key sites were substantially continually develop appropriate skills.
Companies in the compliant with all relevant legislation.
Misys aims to provide its employees FTSE4Good Index Series are doing more to manage their social, with facilities, equipment and training The Board has set up an Environmental, ethical and environmental impacts, to enable them to perform to the and are better positioned to Health and Safety Working Group to maximum of their abilities.
capitalise on the benefits of oversee the implementation throughout responsible business practice.
Misys of the recommendations of Misys is committed to the principles of the report.
The Working Group is equal opportunity in all its employment sponsored by the Finance Director and practices, policies and procedures and is chaired by the Company Secretary.
does not tolerate harassment or Its members consist of key facilities discrimination.
The Company seeks managers from around the business.
to ensure that all employees and job
