Corporate Responsibility a framework to ensure that employees have the right knowledge, skills and leadership to work efficiently.
MITIE is also an Equal Opportunities employer that is pleased to have the opportunity of recruiting disabled people from the Shaw Trust, individuals from the Skills for Life Initiative for numeracy and literacy, as well as people from the Employment & Regeneration Partnership for the long-term unemployed.
MITIE believes that exceptional effort deserves recognition, reward and thanks.
This is reflected in the numerous awards initiatives throughout MITIE, including the David Telling Excellence Awards and the IMPACT awards.
The former are selected at a Group level for individuals or teams of people who have achieved or behaved exceptionally and made a outstanding contribution to the business.
The latter are awards, where employees can be nominated by fellow colleagues or clients for showing initiative, providing exceptional customer satisfaction, supporting colleagues or motivating others.
Winning childs design for front cover of a MITIE brochure We have recently become members of Business in the Community which looks to inspire, challenge and support businesses by continually improving their impact on society.
We have made a commitment to action through the three membership obligations: integrate: manage and measure: and responsible business practice.
MITIE became a corporate member of the Drug & Alcohol Training Service DATS scheme during the year.
This will help raise drug and alcohol awareness through the implementation of workplace policies and training to support those staff affected by substance misuse and underlines the organisations commitment to socially responsible employee relations.
MITIE recognises its obligations to follow the latest Helping the younger generation guidance regarding informing and consulting with appreciate the importance of its employees.
MITIE considers that this will benefit safeguarding the environment the company in terms of additional lines of communication and provide enhanced knowledge in the and the contribution they can important roles that our employees have to play in make to the future.
helping the Group achieve its goals.
At the same time it provides a forum to discuss personal development and training of our employees.
To this end the MITIE has recently been engaged with a local MITIE Employees Forum has now been established.
eco-school in Caerphilly, South Wales, to Elections for delegates are to take place representing research childrens views on the future enviall the Group businesses.
The Chief Executive will ronment.
MITIE sponsored a competition for chair two meetings a year.
the school children to design an eco-poster showing what damage they believe adults are Ethics doing to the environment and how pollution MITIE adopts the highest ethical standards and princican be stopped.
We are using the winning ples with all of our stakeholders and ensures that our illustration as the front cover for MITIEs ethical performance is regularly reviewed.
Our Code Waste & Environmental brochure.
of Ethics is communicated to employees at all levels in order that they are able to raise any concerns regardEvery child received a sapling for them to take ing behaviour which may be perceived as unethical.
home and plant in their own gardens and took part in planting two Japanese maple trees, In line with emerging best practice, MITIE has initiatpresented by MITIE, in the playground.
The ed a Whistle-blowing policy and procedure enabling school received a donation for their library and our employees to report on any areas where they feel enjoyed a lecture on sustainability, helping the that our corporate values are not being upheld.
younger generation appreciate the importance of safeguarding the environment and the conMITIEs data protection policy and code of practice tribution they can make to the future.
In line with safeguarding our employees interests, in-house seminars are held regularly to train and increase awareness on the problems associated with the data protection legislation.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report 2005 21 Health and Safety Managed Services, Cleaning and Engineering The need to maintain a safe and healthy workforce Maintenance are certified to the environmental remains a priority for MITIE and we are continually standard ISO 14001 and operate a management striving to improve our safety performance.
This is system in accordance with the controls, policies and taken extremely seriously from the Board down, systems applicable for that standard.
Employees commencing with the Chief Executive, who has are trained in accordance with an internal package overall responsibility for health and safety.
Our trainers have been accredited by the Chartered Institute of Waste It is essential to recognise, however, that it is not Management.
A further ten percent of our employees possible for one individual to safeguard employees are operating in manned guarding security and their wellbeing and MITIE has acknowledged the imporwork has no material impacts or aspects relating to tance of our employees taking ownership for their the environment.
The remaining businesses are welfare while at work.
Therefore, during the last making progress towards ISO 14001. year, we have commenced a publicity campaign to communicate to staff the importance of taking MITIE held a waste management forum to help responsibility for their own health and safety.
This bring clients up to date with compliance issues and has seen the production of posters and wallet-sized changes in European and UK directives, which are cards highlighting our partnership approach to being introduced in the coming financial year.
keeping all employees fit and healthy while at work Waste management is also being advanced on our and underlining the standards MITIEs managecontracts, with the creation of TREEHUGGER, a ment should aim to achieve when dealing with paper-saving device which aims to lessen the strain health and safety.
In addition, we have produced an on natural resources.
Over 12,000 units are being in-depth safety video that is used during the inducused by clients to boost their recycling efforts.
tion and training of all employees.
Community We recognise the importance of safety training MITIE has continued to embrace social responsibility in developing our workforce and have embarked on by participating in several community projects, a thorough review of such needs of all MITIE but principally by developing a national initiative employees.
Subsequently, we are now working with for construction skills centres.
What was initially a variety of training providers to design and deliver a one-off concept, launched at St Lukes School, training specific to individuals needs, to improve Portsmouth in 2001, will now be rolled-out to three our safety performance and reduce costs.
other schools in 2005 with the intention to open three more in 2006.
They will be known as the One of the major risks faced by many MITIE MITIE Skills Centres and will be used by the schools employees is that presented from road travel.
to teach nationally recognised qualifications.
In August 2004 we commissioned the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents to carry out a review Another community project included an Enginof MITIEs road risk and identify areas where we eering-led scheme to develop sustainable solutions at could improve our management of this area of Kingsmead Primary School, Liverpool, where MITIE MITIEs operations.
created an intelligent Building Management System, which automatically controls ventilation, heating, MITIE has been prepared for the introduction of the lighting and roof-light shading to significantly reduce Work at Height Regulations 2005 that came into the clients energy bills.
As well as serving to save costs force in April 2005 and has had a work at height and energy, the system acts as an educational tool for policy in place since June 2003, exceeding the staff, pupils and the local community.
requirements of the new legislation.
A wide range of fundraising activities have also We continue to improve our accident reporting and taken place for the NSPCC, our Charity of the Year investigation procedures and during the last year we for the second year running, including a national have added the capacity to record accident investibowling competition where over 55,000 was gation data to our accident reports, enabling us to raised, as well as marathons and triathlons, quiz better identify the causes of accidents.
nights, golf days and parachute jumps.
Other local initiatives included supporting the Lions InterEnvironment national Spectacle Recycling Scheme with client MITIE endeavours to identify, monitor and manage Land Securities, collecting over 1,500 pairs of glasses, the impact of its activities on the environment that were later repaired and classified and then and is fully committed to environmental accountdistributed to developing countries.
MITIE also ability and protection.
All MITIE businesses are donated old workwear to In Kind Direct, a charity covered by the Group Environment Policy.
This founded by HRH The Prince of Wales, which sent all policy is communicated to employees when they of the clothing to Africa for distribution.
At the end receive their induction training at the start of of the period under review, our two-year relationtheir employment.
ship with the NSPCC came to an end.
We held an employee vote to select our new corporate charity In excess of 75% of the Companys activities, and Cancer Research UK received overwhelming in terms of employee numbers, are covered by support.
We look forward to building a fundraising a certified environmental management system.
22 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report 2005 Board of Directors David C Ord Ian R Stewart Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Aged 56, he was appointed to the Board in Aged 63, he was appointed to the Board in October 2002 and became Chairman in January 1990 and became Chief Executive in September 2003.
He is Managing Director of August 2001.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of The Bristol Port Company.
Generation UK Ltd. Sir John Jennings CBE, FRSE Ruby McGregor-Smith ACA Non-Executive Deputy Chairman, Group Finance Director Chairman of the Nomination Committee and Aged 42, she joined the Group and was appointed Senior Independent Non-Executive Director to the Board in December 2002.
She was previously Aged 68, he became a Director in 1998 and at Serco Group plc.
is a member of the International Advisory Boards of the Bechtel and Toyota Corporations, Colin S Acheson a Director of Bechtel Group International and Director responsible for Engineering Services Chancellor of Loughborough University.
He was Aged 54, he joined the Group in December previously Chairman of the Shell Transport and 1989 and was appointed to the Board in Trading Company plc.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of The Platform Company Holdings Ltd and Manish J Chande The Platform Company UK Ltd. Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee N Roger Goodman Aged 49, he was appointed to the Board in July Group Corporate Development Director 2002.
He is Chief Executive of Mountgrange Capital Aged 58, he joined the Group in June 1993 and plc and also Non-Executive Chairman of National was appointed to the Board in August 2001.
He was previously Chief Executive of Land Securities Trillium Ltd and a board member Colin S Hale of Land Securities plc.
Head of Support Services Aged 48, he joined the Group in April 1998 and Cullum McAlpine was appointed to the Board in August 2001.
Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee Bill Robson Aged 58, he was appointed to the Board on 1 April Director responsible for Property Services 2003.
He is also a Director of Sir Robert McAlpine Ltd Aged 54, he joined the Group in January 1992 and Chairman of Renewable Energy Systems Ltd. and was appointed to the Board in August 2001.
Member of the Remuneration Committee.
Member of the Audit Committee.
Member of the Nomination Committee.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report 2005 23
