qxd 6 1 05 7:59 PM Page 19 Corporate responsibility Looking ahead, our businesses have major IT projects to underpin the business strategy.
These include Mobile communications are an everyday part of peoples lives, offering exciting new ways to keep in touch initiatives to improve our agility and time-to-market, which are expected to impact the coming year, both socially and in business.
We focus on nding new ways to reward customer loyalty and go to great and projects to further enhance billing and care, and to ensure a consistently high-quality end-to-end lengths to understand their individual needs and concerns.
To achieve this, we recognise that customers customer experience.
sometimes have contrasting attitudes to their mobile phone.
They may see it as a vital accessory to their lives, but also have concerns about the technology and the way we behave as a company.
We are engaging Intellectual property with a wide variety of interest groups to understand better what is expected from our business.
Our aim is We have actively taken steps to protect our brand, including the acquisition of core trade mark registrations to match our market offering with responsible and accountable policies and bring the benets of mobile for the O brand and related brand materials.
In addition, we have other pending trade mark applications in communications to society at large.
2 ancillary classes in the UK, the European Community and other countries worldwide.
We are determined to take full account of the social, environmental and ethical SEE impacts of In the last year we have also strengthened the monitoring procedures in respect of the use of our brand and our business.
We approach this as a daily challenge requiring processes, measurement and stretching have increased the amount of enforcement action we take in response to infringement.
Our key SEE risks are covered in this section of the report and in more detail in our separate corporate responsibility report.
The steps we are taking to protect our brand include litigation and we are currently pursuing two significant trade mark infringement actions through the courts: one in the UK for infringement of our bubble Our corporate responsibility achievements have received wide external recognition.
We are represented in imagery and one in Europe for infringement of O. the main sustainability indices and funds: the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes, the Business in the 2 Community Corporate Responsibility index as the highest scoring mobile operator, the FTSE4Good Index, Insurance and as members of the Ethibel investment and sustainability registers.
During 2004 05, we received the We maintain the types and amounts of insurance customary in the industries and countries in which our Association of Chartered and Certied Accountants Sustainability Reporting commendation for innovative Group operates, including coverage for employee-related accidents and injuries and property damage.
reporting, the Charities Aid Foundation Corporates and Communities Awards for Online CSR Reporting We consider our insurance coverage and that of our operating businesses to be adequate both as to the and the European Strategic Risk Management Award for Best CSR Programme of the Year.
nature of the risks covered and amounts insured for the business conducted by us.
Governance and management of corporate responsibility issues To cope with constant change requires a commitment to risk management and we use it to identify, measure and control uncertain future events that could threaten the assets, revenue, brand, reputation or shareholder value of the Company.
We adhere to the Disclosure Guidelines on Social Responsibility set out by the Association of British Insurers to manage the significant SEE risks that may affect us.
We manage these risks by assessing their potential impact, likelihood and our appetite to manage them, and develop strategies to mitigate them.
We update a Group-wide risk register every month with the key risks we face, supported by separate registers in each of our operating businesses.
The Combined Code Turnbull Guidance section guides our risk management policy and procedures.
Controls are scrutinised as part of a cyclical risk-based audit approach, overseen by our Audit Committee.
Our corporate responsibility activities are managed by full-time practitioners in each of our operating businesses.
Their work is co-ordinated through the monthly Corporate Responsibility Forum chaired by Corporate Affairs Director Richard Poston.
significant issues are reported to our Executive Committee at least every six months and through quarterly corporate responsibility updates.
An executive Director or senior o2.
qxd 6 1 05 7:59 PM Page 20 Corporate responsibility continued manager champions each key SEE aspect and reports regularly to the Group Board.
Their remuneration is Health partly linked to their success in meeting key SEE objectives.
Although research has found no evidence of health risks from mobile technology operating below the scientically based exposure guidelines, we respond to public concerns about handsets, masts In 2004 05, the Board was briefed on a range of SEE issues through six-monthly corporate responsibility and cell sites.
O2 is committed to funding independent research in this area, and helps to fund the joint reports as well as through specic reports on issues including community investment, health and safety, UK industry government Mobile Telecommunications and Health Research programme, and the German mast siting, privacy, adult content, child protection, environmental management, diversity and general Deutsches Mobilfunk Forschungsprogramm, as well as contributes to the World Health Organisations employment issues.
A summary report on our condential help facility set up to enable our employees International EMF Project on radio frequency emissions.
We participate in and help fund a number of to report ethical concerns, in confidence was also presented at each Audit Committee meeting.
industry groups, including the UK Mobile Operators Association MOA and GSM Europe GSME within which we are chairing the Health and Environment Working Group.
The MOA champions the Ten Our environmental and health and safety practices are monitored through third party audits carried out by Commitments on responsible mast siting.
O2 Airwave and O2 UK are working openly to meet these.
certication agencies for our ISO14001 and OHSAS 18001 registrations.
An external party assesses all SEE Our other operating companies have committed to comply with similar guidelines by GSME.
risks and this newly established risk review underpins our insurance arrangements.
UK compliance to the industry-agreed Ten Commitments on responsible mast siting is independently reviewed by Deloitte & We have restated our commitment to providing health and safety information to the public and published Touche on behalf of the Mobile Operators Association.
Assurance for our separate corporate responsibility a new O2 advisory leaet on these issues, available in O2 stores and online on www.
report is provided by Ernst & Young.
Environment and sustainability Business Principles The direct environmental impact of our business activities is relatively small but environmental protection is a We have developed our own set of Business Principles which dictate the high standards of behaviour we set critical element of our operations.
We have set targets for each area of potential impact which we describe ourselves as a company.
Everyone within O2 is made aware of our Business Principles and encouraged to in our separate corporate responsibility report.
take responsibility for living by them in their work.
Uptake of mandatory training has increased in this area.
During the year, we issued a new compliance leaet to our employees.
They are encouraged to report any Our participation in the Fonebak initiative enables the recovery and recycling of mobile phones in the UK, potential breaches of our principles in confidence and we maintain a register of any concerns.
Ireland and the Isle of Man through our ofces, retail and online outlets.
Since its launch in 2002, we have recovered nearly 170,000 phones and a growing number of corporate customers are now involved.
In Marketplace Germany, we use a similar scheme by Greener Solutions.
New mobile services and devices are transforming the way we live and interact.
But the technology poses some important social challenges.
Crucial among these is the protection of children and ethical sourcing.
During 2004 05, all of our operating businesses achieved registration to the international environmental standard ISO14001, a first in our industry.
We continue to review and control our environmental We have proactively raised awareness about child protection and helped develop industry codes of practice performance through the O2 Environmental Forum.
During 2004 05, our energy consumption reached on the responsible use of mobile services.
We do not market mobile phones to under-16s, we monitor our 239,359 tonnes of CO. We initiated a number of programmes reducing our carbon footprint and establishing 2 chat rooms and offer call barring and age verication processes to ensure proper controls.
We have alternative power sources.
These initiatives are important to help us minimise our increasing energy published a series of consumer leaets on the safe and responsible use of mobile services.
We have also consumption following the uptake of 3G services.
By the end of March 2005, we were procuring 17 per taken part in the Prison Me No Way awareness workshops in schools in the UK and have helped fund and cent of our electricity from renewable sources.
We have reduced our waste to landll by recycling and develop a module on the responsible use of mobiles to be included in the German curriculum.
O2 Ireland segregating our waste streams, and established a new measure for reusing and recycling IT equipment.
led Europes first trial in conjunction with the Irish mobile industry to test the capability of software for We support a number of bio-diversity projects, including the work of our charity partners Rainforest Concern, ltering mobile camera phone images and offensive websites.
and the National Tree Council of Ireland, and by establishing conservation areas around our ofce facilities in Germany.
We undertook our first supplier audits in 2004 05 to assess ethical practices in our supply chain.
We encourage our suppliers to adopt high-level working practices and materials sourcing, and refer to our Workplace Business Principles in all Group-wide contracts.
We are working through the Global e-Sustainability Initiative We nurture a high-performance workplace culture in which diverse people can thrive, offering competitive to establish a common framework for supplier audits and to promote ethical practices across the industry.
rewards, opportunities for personal development, a modern working environment and exible working arrangements.
