Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate social responsibility review The Group is committed to continuous improvement in its Corporate Social Responsibility CSR activities and has analysed the businesses in terms of their impact on all stakeholders and has identified areas where the Groups performance can be improved: recognising that people are the key to success through the recruitment of talented people and by offering all employees the opportunity to enhance their learning and development: improving awareness of health and safety issues throughout the Group and working to reduce accident incidence rates across the Groups own and subcontracted workforce: improving the Groups performance in environmental management and the impact of its activities on the environment: and developing Group initiatives by investing in the communities in which it operates through voluntary fund raising activities, encouraging employees to undertake community business work, training programmes for young offenders and mentoring programmes with local schools.
During 2005 the Group has continued its aim of establishing a fully integrated management system within each of its divisions that will connect its activities in addressing health and safety, environmental management, community and people issues.
These key areas of activity are covered by a consolidated CSR policy document, which is available on the Groups intranet and website.
Paul Whitmore is the executive director responsible for CSR matters on behalf of the Board and held the chair of the CSR Forum until November 2005 when the Groups deputy company secretary took over the chair.
The CSR Forum was set up in 2002 to review the Groups activities in terms of its employees and the wider community, health and safety and the environment and to develop a co-ordinated approach across the Group to these matters.
The CSR Forum comprises representatives from the four divisions.
During the year membership of the CSR Forum was extended to include the Groups head of procurement to assist the forum in involving the Groups consultants, suppliers and subcontractors in its overall review of health and safety and environmental issues.
The CSR Forum set each division a target to achieve accreditation under three internationally recognised schemes by the end of 2005 and to date they have achieved the following results: BS EN ISO9001 2000 Quality Management System 99% of the Group by revenue has an accredited system with the remaining 1% working towards achieving accreditation by the end of 2006: BS EN ISO14001 Environmental Management System 100% of the Group has an accredited system: and OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety System 68% of the Group has an accredited system in place with 28% having a currently uncertified health and safety management system.
It is anticipated that 99% of the Group will have secured accreditation by the end of 2006 with the remaining 1% expected to achieve accreditation in 2007.
As shown above, although the divisions have made significant progress in securing ISO accreditations for their quality, environment and health and safety systems, the initial target has been revised in terms of achieving full accreditation under ISO9001 2000 and OHSAS 18001.
Once the divisions have achieved accreditation, the next stage will be to develop integrated management systems to link all of the above.
Employees The CSR forum has established a human resources committee, with a rotational chair, that consists of the heads of human resources in the four divisions.
The committee regularly reviews human resources policies and procedures, employee remuneration and benefit packages across the Group to ensure that they are in line with current legislation, represent best practice and have a degree of consistency whilst reflecting the specific needs and requirements of individual divisions.
During 2005 the divisions have actively involved employees and sought their views through the use of facilitated focus groups and employee surveys.
Certain divisions have an Employee Assistance programme which provides employees with a confidential external counselling service through which they can discuss a range of issues including personal, legal, tax and financial matters and aspects of the employees work and career.
The Group offers a variety of training to its employees including induction, job specific training and personal and general management development courses.
In 2005 the average number of training days per employee in the Group was five 2004: four.
In 2004 Morgan Sindall introduced a modular development programme MSDP for all senior management that runs over a two year period based upon five residential modules.
There are currently 130 2004: 39 senior managers in the Group at various stages of MSDP.
In 2006, the Group will monitor statistics in the following areas: proportion of the Group by revenue with human resources policies and procedures: number of employees: employee turnover rate: average number of days absence due to sickness per employee: statistics for gender, ethnicity and disability as a percentage of the total number of employees: and training statistics for the number of training days per employee.
24 Corporate social responsibility review Health and safety The Board recognises and acknowledges the fundamental importance of health and safety in all its activities.
Paul Whitmore is the executive director responsible on behalf of the Board for health and safety matters.
The other members of the committee are the health and safety managers of the four divisions.
The terms of reference of this committee are set out in the policy statement given below and the policy itself is available to all employees on the Groups intranet.
The Groups health and safety policy states: Morgan Sindall plc and its divisions are committed to providing a healthy and safe working environment for all the Groups employees and others affected by our works.
We accept the aims and provisions of the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974 and all regulations made thereunder.
We recognise that the successful management of health and safety contributes to overall performance in a quality business.
We are committed therefore to: developing a positive health and safety culture throughout the organisation: constantly reviewing health and safety management and performance in accordance with the objectives identified by the Groups policy: developing organisational structures within the subsidiary companies appropriate to meeting those objectives in each operating location: the systematic identification and management of risks to health and safety and the environment: and providing information, instruction, training, supervision and consultation with employees and clients as necessary to implement and maintain industry standards of excellence in all matters in the field of health and safety.
All employees of the Group are expected to give full co-operation and every possible assistance to the successful implementation of the health and safety policies and procedures within their respective divisions and to take reasonable care for their own safety and that of others involved in or affected by our works.
The Group has decided to bring its reporting of health and safety statistics in line with the Groups financial year end reporting as opposed to the fiscal year ending 5 April as used in previous years.
The health and safety statistics for the Group for the years ending 31 December 2003, 2004 and 2005 are: Accident Category 2005 2004 2003 Fatal Number Major incidents AIR 203 216 209 Over 3 day incidents AIR 778 858 866 Total of all reportable incidents AIR 981 1,074 1,075 Accident Incidence Rate AIR is per 100,000 persons employed and is calculated as: number of reported incidents x 100,000 average number of persons employed The Group has stabilised the rate of Major incidents and has reduced the incidence of Over 3 day incidents by 9%.
In overall terms the annualised AIR has reduced by approximately 9%.
In 2005 the Group introduced a policy on occupational health monitoring which has been implemented across the Group.
The divisions are using external consultants to screen all existing and new employees for the symptoms of hand arm vibration syndrome, vibration white finger, impaired hearing, dermatitis and muscular skeletal disorders, in keeping with the Major Contractors Groups health and safety charter.
Specific ventures are being developed in partnership with strategic suppliers to publish information in respect of vibration exposure times and ratings applicable to key items of mechanical plant in everyday use on the Groups sites.
As at 31 October 2005, 87% 2004: 88% of the Groups employees had passed the health and safety test and secured the appropriate Construction Skills Certification Scheme CSCS card.
The percentage of subcontractors certified as compliant has increased to 61% 2004: 55% against the same criteria.
Both results reflect the outcome of an audit carried out on a single date, and the Group is aware that the site population can vary considerably from day to day.
The Groups focus is on improving the quality of its supply chain and seeking to employ subcontractors who are able to demonstrate the adoption of competent health and safety management systems and adherence to the CSCS criteria.
The Group is continuing the development and expansion of its existing health and safety programmes.
The Your Life Their Loss initiative in Affordable Housing and the Work Safe Home Safe initiative in the remaining divisions are both now entering their third year.
The directors consider that there has been marked success in the adoption of an improving health and safety culture on its construction sites.
The programmed development of material to support daily safety briefings, toolbox talks and bi-monthly or quarterly key health and safety themes is continuing with full participation from all divisions.
25 Morgan Sindall Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate social responsibility review In order to increase awareness and change behaviour, the Group is actively participating in the Health and Safety Executives New Intervention Strategy.
Throughout 2005 Fit Out has continued with a programme of health and safety secondments with four site managers being seconded to the Fit Out health and safety team for periods of up to three months in order to better understand health and safety issues.
Both Affordable Housing and the Construction division have undertaken health and safety talks in primary schools in the vicinity of their various projects to raise awareness amongst children of the dangers of building sites.
In 2006, the Group will encourage further a caring and supportive culture in which everyone takes responsibility for their part in keeping themselves, their colleagues and the general public safe and free from avoidable harm.
There will be a strong emphasis placed upon reducing the frequency and impact of the most commonly occurring accidents, slips, trips and falls and the elimination of cuts to hands through the reinforcement of a gloves policy tailored to meet everyday tasks, in partnership with specialist industrial glove manufacturers.
Environment The Group is committed to minimising the impact of its business and its processes on the natural environment and the community at large.
To achieve this each division has implemented an effective environmental management system to the acknowledged standard BS EN IS014001.
The purpose of such systems is to: ensure continual improvement is achieved: comply with relevant legal requirements: control construction processes and design to protect the natural environment and built heritage: ensure that construction materials are ethically procured and used: reduce nuisance and disturbance associated with the Groups activities: reduce wastage and consumption of materials and energy: train employees and subcontractors on environmental issues and controls: and establish procedures for publishing information regarding the Groups progress.
Paul Whitmore is the executive director responsible on behalf of the Board for environmental affairs.
The environment committee is responsible for agreeing and implementing the Groups environmental management procedure and consists of the environmental managers from each division.
The committee is also responsible for: developing and maintaining a corporate register of relevant legislation, reviewing any imminent changes to legislation and ensuring that operational controls throughout the Group are sufficient to maintain compliance: identifying environmental incidents, monitoring trends and ensuring that effective controls are implemented to prevent recurrence: and disseminating information on best practice through the management teams of each division.
The table below sets out the four priorities that the Group set itself for environmental monitoring in 2005 and details of the Groups progress in these areas to date: 2005 Objectives 2005 Progress Completion of the accreditation process for all 100% of the Group by turnover has implemented environmental parts of the Group.
management systems which have achieved accreditation to ISO14001.
The Group did not receive any prosecutions or cautions in 2005 although Maintaining the Groups performance in terms it did receive environmental notices for: of prosecutions and minimising the number of cautions and enforcement notices received.
a notice under Section 34 35 of the Environmental protection Act 1990 was received by Affordable Housing relating to the transfer of excavated material from site.
The division has complied with the notice and subsequent investigation identified that all Duty of Care requirements had been met: and a Section 60 notice under the Control of Pollution Act 1974 was issued by a Westminster Council noise control officer to Fit Out, in response to a complaint by a resident.
In order to alleviate the problem, night work was suspended at the site pending agreement between the Client and Westminster Council.
The Group has developed a quarterly reporting programme for Development and implementation of a data reporting system available on the Companys environmental data which currently covers waste and energy.
website, addressing initially waste and energy.
In 2005, the Group finalised its policy on the ethical procurement of Conformity with ethical trading practices for timber products.
The Group will work towards collating data on the timber products.
amount of timber procured from sustainable sources in 2006.
26 Corporate social responsibility review Affordable Housing has set up an office waste paper recycling programme which has seen the planting of 18 trees to compensate for their paper usage during the year and is introducing waste segregation and recycling initiatives on their sites.
Within the Fit Out division, both Overbury and Vivid became carbon neutral in 2005 with Overbury offsetting 520 tonnes of carbon dioxide generated by its three offices and from business travel.
Similarly Vivid will offset the 90 tonnes of carbon dioxide which it is expected to generate in 2006.
In addition, Backbone has begun recycling clients unwanted furniture through a charitable organisation.
At a project in Havant, the Construction division identified at an early stage that it had sufficient space to introduce a comprehensive waste management system on the site.
Working with partners they installed separate skips for timber, mixed waste, metal, rubble, hardcore and a bulker for reducing cardboard and packaging.
The division also worked with suppliers and subcontractors to minimise the amount of packaging used in the supply and delivery of materials.
This has enabled it to reduce the burden on landfill, minimise the number of wagon movements together with offering a financial saving over the course of the project.
Where practicable, the division will seek to introduce similar systems on future projects.
For their work at the Evesham Sewage Treatment Works Development Scheme, Infrastructure Services was awarded the Platinum Award at Severn Trents sustainability awards for a well presented project to augment an existing asset which had a strong focus on environmental management aspects.
The Group has set itself the following objectives for 2006: maintaining ISO14001 accreditations within each division: developing strategies for reducing carbon dioxide emissions and waste streams: monitoring prosecutions, cautions and environmental notices as a basic measure of environmental performance: and engaging with the supply chain in each division to develop strategies for improving their environmental performance and to assist in further improving the Groups performance.
Community The Group has developed a variety of initiatives for interacting with and assisting the communities in which they operate.
Some examples of these are given below: In 2005, the Affordable Housing division has continued to promote its Company Mentoring Scheme, whereby it works in partnership with a national network of schools and colleges to develop construction skills and career aspirations for 14 to 18 year olds.
Under a new initiative developed during the year with HM Prison Onley near Rugby, the division is providing training and employment opportunities for ex-offenders who have completed the prisons brickwork construction course.
The schemes first two bricklayers are currently training at a construction site in the Midlands.
Various Affordable Housing employees have also been involved in projects to improve community facilities in the vicinity of their projects.
Infrastructure Services has a number of senior engineers who are involved in promoting the engineering profession to school children through careers lectures, engineering days in schools, supporting business days and leadership conferences.
They also undertake mock interviews with school leavers in order to help them hone their interview skills prior to entering the workplace.
They work alongside the CITB in promoting careers in construction and provide work experience placements in engineering design.
The Group supports the Women in Construction Initiative and an Affordable Housing employee is currently the Scottish representative of the National Association of Women in Construction.
The divisions are also involved in various local authority action zone projects.
The Group supports local charities in a variety of ways either through financial assistance or benefits in kind, such as the donation of office equipment.
Details of charitable donations are shown on page 22.
In 2005, the Group also actively participated in the Metropolitan Police campaign Street Vibe in which it sponsored educational support for teenage children at the New North Community School in Islington aimed at educating them about the potential damage inflicted by alcohol, drugs, street and car crime, bullying and violence.
The Group actively supports the principles enshrined in the Considerate Contractors Schemes and in 2005 these principles were applied to 176 2004: 173 projects.
Summary As illustrated above, the Group is establishing an effective strategy to plan and develop its CSR activities.
Through commitment to the education of its employees and the expansion of knowledge of CSR issues, the Group is well positioned to meet its CSR obligations as it continues to grow.
