Corporate Responsibility Reliable, resourceful and responsible Corporate responsibility is at the heart SAFETY of the National Express Group: its about In 2005 we continued to reduce the risk what we do and how we do it.
During of passenger and employee injuries across 2005, we continued to make a positive our operations.
Following the launch of the contribution to the quality and accessibility Groups first combined Health, Safety and of public transport in the communities Environment Plan in 2004, the 2005 06 where we operated.
plan seeks to encourage continuous improvement.
During 2005, the Groups Transport is fundamental to the success safety philosophy, policy and resources were of communities.
It affects productivity, reviewed by an independent third party, stability and growth, and by influencing the Arthur D Little.
This report concluded that movement of people and goods it has a there were many positive aspects to the wide social impact on the economy.
At National Express Group, we provide a The London bombings in July 2005 socially inclusive service with environmental illustrated that public transport remains a benefits.
We believe we provide a solution target for terrorist attack.
However, to many of the sustainability issues that supported by many selfless contributions concern key stakeholders.
By the very to passenger safety by our employees, and nature of what we do, we contribute to backed by the determination of customers, communities.
travel patterns have on the whole returned We recognise that we need to legitimately to normal.
influence the views of policy makers by OPERATIONS promoting policies that benefit public We operate a devolved business with all transport.
In February we held our first bus our operations managed locally.
We are conference which focused on ways in which committed to constant improvement in our we can stimulate further growth in the bus services and track our performance market.
Well attended by a range of key through both independent and industry stakeholders with interests in the growth of monitoring.
A wide range of key public transport, the conference provided performance indicators are used to manage an excellent platform for the sharing of best the business.
The major issues are: practice across the industry.
This year, we punctuality, reliability, safety, value for money, have worked with the Department for accessibility and comfort of our customers.
Transport to develop the UK rail system for the future through its Making the Case for We also continue to focus on how Rail initiative.
Operationally, we believe that technology and innovation can make public improving service performance, which was transport more accessible.
Through the a key focus in 2005, will encourage more development of our new Levante vehicle, customers onto the rail network.
Overseas, coach travel is for the first time easy for our North American and Spanish divisions customers with mobility issues.
pride themselves on the provision of first class services.
Corporate responsibility is at the heart of the Group: its about what we do and how we do it.
22 There are considerable economic, social and environmental benefits of using public transport.
We believe encouraging customers to use these services is good for society as a whole.
ENVIRONMENT PLANNING FOR THE FUTURE On a per passenger kilometre basis, the In developing transport for the future, we train, coach and bus services operated by must consider the requirements of users, Top The new easy-access Levante coach our Group are significantly more whether business, commuter or leisure Middle environmentally friendly than journeys travellers.
Transport planning requires longWinners of the Express Awards, undertaken using a car.
Using public term strategy, as demonstrated by the way the Groups reward and recognition scheme transport instead of the car is the single in which a quality transport network was Bottom best way in which to reduce our individual instrumental in winning the 2012 Olympics.
Crystaleye technology providing environmental footprint.
As a major service provider and employer onboard monitoring in the area, we look forward to playing an New technology can play a key role in important part in this.
helping us to improve our environmental performance.
However, bus and coach We constantly look for ways to improve prioritisation on roads and the efficient our products.
However, we believe there running of the rail network can also have a are still further opportunities to improve dramatic impact on emissions performance.
the utilisation of the existing infrastructure In addition, if we can reduce journey times such as through the use of smart then more people will be attracted to our technology: and through the increased services which will further improve our roll-out of priority schemes for public performance on a per passenger kilometre transport and better use of road space.
The significant environmental issues We also believe that as national and which impact our business are: emission of regional transport infrastructure is greenhouse gases: emission of local developed, the planning system needs to atmospheric pollutants: incidents and show greater linkage between the provision prosecutions: and depot infrastructure & of housing and the location of jobs.
For a full account of our progress on the PEOPLE social, ethical, environmental, employee During 2005, our primary objective was and community challenges that face to engage more actively with employees our business please see our 2005 at all levels.
Understanding our employees Corporate Responsibility Report.
in greater depth will enable managers to It is available for download at develop the business.
com a strong correlation between employee satisfaction and customer satisfaction and during the year we placed greater focus on analysing the results from these two areas.
Although contact with employees is generally undertaken at a local level, we have developed initiatives which we believe benefit all our subsidiaries.
Our Human Resources Forum shares best practice across the Group.
Our key people challenges are: employee satisfaction: succession planning: training and development: recruitment and retention, industrial relations, diversity and equal opportunities.
