Corporate Responsibility Statement Since publishing its 2004 Corporate Responsibility CR report NEXT has been consolidating and integrating CR commitments throughout the Group.
A third party has been commissioned to provide independent assurance on the content of the 2005 CR report, which will be published on the Companys website later this year.
The Groups commitment to CR matters has also been recognised externally by its continuing membership of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
A CR Manager has been appointed and a CR forum has been created to develop and implement the Groups strategy.
The CR forum is made up of 15 senior managers and directors representing key areas of the business.
The objective of the forum is to review key business drivers and associated risks in order to embed CR considerations within the Groups business operations.
The CR Manager holds regular updates with the executive director responsible for CR matters.
The Group has identified its supply chain as a key area of consideration and its supplier Code of Practice remains at the heart of the Groups operations.
The code specifies compliance standards for environmental protection, labour, wages and other issues relating to working conditions.
During the year the Global Code of Practice team has been increased in number and has revised areas of responsibility to strengthen the monitoring of supplier compliance.
Last years report commented on the Groups plans to concentrate efforts on improving waste stream management.
As a result, its stores and warehouses recycled over 11,000 tonnes of cardboard and over 700 tonnes of polythene.
This area is capable of further improvement and it will remain an area of focus during 2005.
The introduction of the Waste of Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive is anticipated in 2005.
Throughout 2004 the Group has worked with the government and other retailers represented on the British Retail Consortium to ensure that the Directive offers a workable solution for all parties involved.
During 2005, the Group will take steps to further analyse the environmental impact from the manufacture and transport of Group products, and the use of energy in stores, warehouses and office buildings.
People are a key asset to the business.
NEXT is an equal opportunities employer and will continue to ensure it offers career opportunities without discrimination.
The Group has established policies for recruitment, training and development of personnel and is committed to achieving excellence in the areas of health, safety, welfare and protection of the working environment.
It has adopted policies aimed at minimising risk in the Groups activities to ensure that they do not harm employees, customers or the general public, all of whose interests are regarded as critical to business success.
The Group directly employs over 2,000 people in Sri Lanka and, as a large purchaser of goods, is indirectly involved with the livelihood of thousands of others.
Following the horrifying devastation caused by the Indian Ocean tsunami, the Group has to date raised a total of 797,000, comprising 306,000 of Group funds plus donations from directors, employees, associated companies and suppliers of the Group.
Some of the total amount raised was used to provide immediate medical assistance, however the majority will finance the building of 200 homes in Sri Lanka and social facilities for dispossessed people.
All monies contributed in respect of the tsunami disaster are in addition to existing commitments and will not reduce the Groups established corporate charity and sponsorship programme.
