delivering on CSR Responding to consumer eating trends Dounne snacking on a low fat cereal bar Ensuring food safety Supporting health & safety requirements Elizabeth, food tasting panellist Leroy, tray cleaner 22 Corporate social responsibility review Northern Foods plc Sudan 1 CSR overview: Our food safety systems were put to the test in February 2005 when the Sudan 1 issue emerged.
In 2003, surveillance data Fulfilling its Corporate Social Responsibility CSR commitments identified the potential for Sudan 1 adulteration of some chilli is one of the means by which Northern Foods can demonstrate its powders and oils.
Our database allowed us to identify potential leadership position in the food industry.
We have a long-standing at risk suppliers and alert them to the possible hazard.
Therefore, commitment to CSR and recognise that we have a duty to all our when the information about a problem began to emerge stakeholders including employees, shareholders, customers, consumers, we were able to identify immediately which of our sites had suppliers, the wider community and the environment.
potentially received the Worcester sauce containing Sudan 1 and alerted them to begin contingency planning.
As information While the company continues to fulfil its obligations, we view the emerged about the specific batches affected, we were able to shift in our business to an integrated organisation as an opportunity to break the supply chain and successfully recall products in line revisit and re-scope our activities in this area and to establish common with our customers requirements.
The following day, substitute targets for the business.
sources of vegetarian Worcester sauce were already in use at our sites.
We co-operated throughout with the FSA so when To that end, a new CSR Steering Group, chaired by a member of the the public alert was issued three days later, action had already operating board, has been set up to explore best practice, review overall been taken on all of our products.
As a result, we minimised risk CSR objectives and assess risks and opportunities for the business.
to consumers and the financial impact on our business.
Food safety Protecting consumers by ensuring the safety of the food we produce Food safety measures 2004 05 2003 04 Comments is a core requirement of the business and our central laboratory Site audits conducted 100% 100% Audits support the BRC Global services and site technical audit processes remain accredited to the Standards highest agreed international standards.
Our systems of monitoring performance at our sites, at our suppliers and in our laboratories, Supplier audits 128 108 Suppliers audited on a risk-assessed basis allow us to assure food safety, encourage continuous improvement and react very quickly when food hazards such as Sudan 1 arise in Laboratory audits 100% 100% Certified to Northern Foods the food supply chain.
standards Trained in HACCP 128 101 A rolling process ensures Because of our long-established technical standards, the introduction Hazard Analysis and multi-disciplinary teams exist of the General Food Regulations 2004 on 1 January 2005 with new Critical Control Points on all sites requirements for traceability within the food chain, had no significant Trained in technical audit 73 108 Another rolling process.
More than impact on the business.
During the year we also centralised our 330 people now trained risk-assessed supplier audit programme and extended the activities of our food safety auditors to reflect new Food Standards Agency FSA guidelines.
An online training project was also initiated and is available to employees through our intranet.
we have a long-standing commitment to corporate social responsibility Northern Foods plc Corporate social responsibility review 23 Health and safety Employee involvement and participation Northern Foods continues its commitment to industry leadership In a rapidly changing business environment, we recognise that in the area of health and safety and works hard to sustain a positive employee involvement and participation are key to maintaining a health and safety culture, thereby reducing the number of accidents motivated workforce.
Considerable effort has been made to involve and associated absences.
Health, safety and risk management are Northern Foods people in continuous improvement activities.
There represented at the operating board and we continue to give clear is an emphasis on improving communication and consultation, both leadership and guidance to our sites through our dedicated Health within individual sites and across Northern Foods.
Regular leadership and Safety team.
The success of our approach has been recognised events and information cascades have been a feature of the year, externally.
During the year, five sites secured occupational health and ensuring that employees are informed about major business initiatives.
Four of these were Gold Awards, and one was a Gold Medal, reflecting five years of continuous improvement.
An agreement between Northern Foods and employee representatives confirmed that we have met our obligations under the Information Year-on-year performance has been maintained despite the major and Consultation of Employees Regulations 2004.
The Northern Foods business change programme now underway.
With a focus on continuous National Forum continued in the year and, to reflect the new improvement, we have a system for auditing sites to identify major organisation, the company is extending this consultative approach priorities and create programmes to drive related improvements.
by creating new divisional forums.
We also hold regular business Slips and trips were identified as a major cause of injury for us and reviews with trade unions at national level to update them on the food industry as a whole.
We have therefore set specific targets business performance.
for reducing such accidents in the next financial year.
Our commitment to employee consultations is producing benefits for the company and employees alike.
Many innovative answers to Reducing rack-related accidents problems have resulted and more efficient ways of working have been One of our sites recognised that a high number of its accidents developed and implemented.
In addition, the skills of our workforce were associated with the manoeuvring of racks.
Steps to identify have grown as a result of significant investment in their training in a better designed castor were taken in conjunction with a supplier new techniques.
There are over 50 working groups now set up and and the Health & Safety Laboratory.
The successful trial delivered we plan to increase this number significantly over the coming year.
a reduction in rack-related accidents over a two-year period from 41 per cent to 17 per cent.
Our commitment to adult education also continued through ongoing support of learning centres which are in place at many of our sites.
Health & safety Operating models vary, but typically involve financial and resourcing performance measures 2004 05 2003 04 Comments contributions from the company, a local college and the on-site union, all helping to set up and resource a dedicated area for learning.
Priority areas are slips, manual handling The approach benefits both individuals and the company, contributing and being struck by objects to improved employee participation and engagement.
Reportable accidents 472 541 A 13% reduction for accidents Employee teamwork drives continued improvement Major injuries per 0.92 0.75 A disappointing increase but A key part of the manufacturing excellence programme has 1,000 employees well below the food industry average of 3.0 been the creation of working groups to bring the initiative to life and to gain the feedback and support of our employees.
Reportable accidents 11.2 12.3 9% decrease versus an industry Through the use of daily reviews and KPI tracking, the sites are per million hours worked average rate of 14.5 able to monitor progress and identify areas for improvement.
Days lost due to accidents 10,335 11,128 A reduction of 7% The approach is already delivering financial dividends, for example, one team achieved a 40 per cent saving by focusing on how to Environment reduce waste on their pizza line.
Importantly the approach is also As a major food manufacturer, Northern Foods is very aware of its driving employee involvement.
In the words of one of our factory duty to protect the environment and recognises its role in supporting managers: People now have ownership and feel accountable long term environmental management initiatives.
During the year for the changes taking place.
Recognition of a job well done the company continued to enhance its environmental performance has been an important part of the transformation.
in line with its dual policy objectives of meeting legal obligations and assessing and managing environmental risks.
We continue to help shape the food sector environment agenda through liaison with the policy makers and the regulators.
Northern Foods has exceeded the second energy efficiency target for the UK Climate Change Levy Agreement by an amount equivalent to 11,000 tonnes of carbon emissions saved.
It also met its obligations related to packaging waste and pollution prevention and control legislation.
In anticipation of the full implementation in January 2006 of the Animal By-Products England Regulations 2003, Northern Foods with the help of the Chilled Food Association has continued to work with Defra and the waste management industry to improve the infrastructure for the treatment of waste containing animal by-products.
24 Corporate social responsibility review Northern Foods plc Addressing consumer needs Community involvement and charitable giving Three trends dominate todays consumer eating patterns: convenience: Northern Foods has an active policy of supporting local community a desire for indulgence, taste and quality: and a desire for healthy projects and international charities.
During the year, we donated eating.
Our range of meals, snacks and treats provides choices in 273,000 2004: 291,000 in cash to charities and voluntary groups all three areas.
both in communities where we operate and in the wider world.
Donations remained steady as a proportion of operating profit.
At the same time, the government, through its Health of the Nation white paper, is seeking to address predicted rises in health provision Our main focus is on disadvantaged groups close to our manufacturing costs relating to unhealthy lifestyles.
Reducing the salt, sugar and fat sites and we have made donations to many charities to help the content of prepared food is high on the agenda, alongside labelling, homeless, the unemployed, young people suffering exclusion, ethnic diet and lifestyle education.
It is clear that Northern Foods, as one minorities, ex-offenders and others.
We also support educational of the UKs leading food manufacturers, has a role to play in shaping projects in local schools and universities, either in cash or in kind, the debate and in effecting change.
We achieve this in three ways: through employee involvement in activities such as individual mentoring.
through the government: through consumers: and through retailers.
Northern Foods is part of a global supply chain and we recognise Firstly, we continue to work with government and other interested our responsibility to help the global community.
We are one of parties, both directly and via our membership of the Food & Drink Oxfams longest standing corporate partners and we continued that Federation, the Chilled Food Association and the Federation of Bakers.
support in the year by donating 30,000 towards its policy and We are actively working to reduce salt in products in line with the advocacy work.
The company also pledged 50,000 to support the FSA targets and the FSA has acknowledged our leading contribution creation of two child orphanages in Southern India and Sri Lanka, to this work.
We have been invited to contribute to setting targets following the Tsunami disaster.
Our manufacturing sites have raised for salt reduction in other food categories.
a further 12,000 towards the appeal through local employee fundraising activities.
Secondly, we are working to develop products which satisfy consumers healthy eating goals and fulfil targeted reductions.
Good sales of our Ethical procurement Officially Low Fat range prove that you can achieve both objectives Northern Foods is one of the UKs leading buyers of raw goods the range contains less than 3g of fat per 100g, which constitutes and materials.
We source products globally, in line with broadening low fat according to the official view of the FSA.
Range extensions consumer tastes and the requirement to purchase at the best are planned in 2005 06. price available.
With much of our business in own label, our activity on salt, sugar The ethical dimension of our procurement strategy is becoming and fat reduction generally takes place in conjunction with our increasingly important.
We need to satisfy growing stakeholder customers who are equally aware of the health debate.
Our third interest about safe and sustainable sourcing and protect the area of focus is therefore to work closely with them to develop new employment conditions of the people who produce the goods products that reflect both changing tastes and regulatory pressures.
The recent appointment of a new group director of procurement will deliver progress in this area.
Addressing FSA sodium targets The process of centralising our procurement function has meant In October 2004 a cross-functional team in the Frozen division was that progress in registering with SEDEX, a secure web-based system set up to address FSA sodium targets.
Using pizzas as its model, for companies to maintain data on labour standards at production the company looked at each individual key component in the sites, has been slower than anticipated.
To date, 16 Northern Foods recipe pizza bases, sauces, cheeses and meats for opportunities sites are registered and 11 have completed the required self assessment.
The team identified that reduced sodium pizza Prior to initiatives currently underway to reduce our overall supplier bases, cheeses and meats could be developed.
With a low sodium numbers, 24 Northern Foods suppliers were registered on SEDEX.
yeast extract in the pizza sauce, consumer desire for salt and We have set a target for all sites to register with SEDEX by the savoury flavours could still be satisfied.
Development is complete end of 2005 06. and the new reduced sodium ingredients are now ready for implementation.
Overall, the effect on finished products should Through the Northern Foods Farm Assurance policy, first published be a 20 per cent reduction in sodium.
in 2000, we continued our commitment to ensuring standards of animal welfare through the supply chain.
Northern Foods plc Corporate social responsibility review 25
