CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Involvement and development The group recognises the importance of good communications and relations with its team members, as its ability to meet the needs of its customers in a profitable and competitive manner depends on the contribution of team members throughout the group.
Team members are encouraged to develop their contribution to the business wherever they work.
In many areas, ongoing programmes focused on quality and customer service, provide an opportunity for everyone to be involved in making improvements and in developing their own skills to that end.
The companys Investors in People accreditation, first achieved in 1999, comes to be assessed for renewal in 2006.
The companys well-established practices in encouraging team member development and involvement provide substantial support for the renewal of this award.
Pension trusteeship Team member involvement also extends to the boards of trustees of the companys various occupational pension schemes, details of which appear on page 31 within the Remuneration Report.
A total of seven employee representatives, who broadly reflect the businesses from which scheme beneficiaries originate, served either directly as trustees or as directors of the schemes corporate trustees during the year.
Share schemes and incentives Team members financial participation is encouraged through the companys Sharesave scheme, which attracts membership from all levels within the groups business.
A variety of bonus schemes provide team members with rewards linked to the growth and prosperity of the business.
At 31 December 2005 a total of 2,500 team members 22% participated in ownership of shares and or schemes linked to the companys share performance.
Communication The challenges presented by the size of the group and the importance of consistency drive the company to devise and implement ever more innovative and timely means of communication.
Video, internal web-site messaging and face to face presentations are used to keep team members up-to-date with the companys strategy and performance.
The leadership of the groups businesses are a particular focus for channelling communications and regular briefings for all team members at each location provide a forum for sharing both corporate and local information.
The company promotes a number of internal publications which aim particularly to recognise the achievements of individual team members and celebrate outstanding business performance.
Community As a multi-site, predominantly retail operator, the groups community involvement is generated by its individual businesses, which contribute to their local areas in a variety of ways.
During the year dealerships have also responded to international humanitarian crises by holding fund-raising events.
Closer to home, local schools, hospitals and medical charities as well as Comic Relief and the BBCs Children in Need Appeal have all been beneficiaries of charity events organised by team members.
The company supports and encourages these activities and welcomes the opportunities they present for team-building within the businesses and  with the communities they serve.
Environment Although not generally regarded as a high environmental impact sector, motor retailing and its associated aftersales service activities carries with it a range of responsibilities relating to protection of the environment.
The companys policy is to promote and operate processes and procedures which, so far as is reasonably practicable, avoid or minimise the contamination of water, air or the ground: and to manage responsibly the by-products of our activities, such as noise, waste packaging and substances and vehicle movements.
The companys statement of environment policy is available on the Pendragon PLC website.
Health and safety The company recognises its responsibility to all team members and others working in or visiting its facilities to provide, so far as is reasonably practicable, an environment which is safe and without risk to their health.
The companys policy is to identify all potential hazards and assess the risks presented by its activities and to provide systems and procedures which allow team members at all levels to take responsible decisions in their day to day work in relation to their own and others health and safety.
The companys health and safety policy is available on the Pendragon PLC website.
In matters of health and safety the company promotes awareness of potential risks and hazards and implementation of corresponding preventative or remedial actions through its on-line health and safety systems, operations manuals and regular communication on topical issues.
A clear hierarchy of responsibility is published to team members and reinforced through regular on-site monitoring.
Team members are supported in discharging their responsibilities by specialist guidance from the companys health and safety function and a recently introduced on-line training tool.
Disabled people The group recognises its responsibilities in employing and training people who are disabled, not all of whom are formally registered disabled persons in UK terms.
If any team member becomes disabled it is standard practice, in all but the most extreme circumstances, to offer an alternative job or adapt the existing job and provide retraining where necessary.
24 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED Equal opportunities The quality of the companys relationships with its stakeholders will, in large measure, determine its success.
Critical to those relationships is its ability to attract, motivate and retain the best team members.
The companys policy is to ensure that team members achieve their full potential within the business and that all employment decisions, from the advertisement of a vacancy through to the offer of development opportunities and further advancement, are taken without reference to any form of discriminatory criteria.
The companys equal opportunities policy is available on the Pendragon PLC website.
Vacancies are first advertised internally on the Pendragon intranet to maximise the opportunity for career progression within the group.
The companys bonus and incentive programmes are carefully researched and designed to ensure they are tailored to match reward to performance and recognise outstanding contributions to the groups business.
