10549 R&A 2005 Mid 20 3 06 11:58 Page 43 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY The Board is committed to Corporate Responsibility CR and the need PERSIMMON IN THE COMMUNITY to take proper account of our impact on the environment, our effect on the We seek to develop meaningful relationships with the local communities in communities in which we build, the morale and welfare of our employees and which we build.
We encourage consultation and dialogue as this provides useful the satisfaction of our customers.
We have a duty to our shareholders to consider input when planning and building our homes.
Moreover, it helps to increase all the complex social and environmental issues that could affect our business.
awareness of the Group and its developments, attracts a wider pool of skilled We take a pragmatic view and favour an operational approach, where CR employees and enables our employees to contribute to their communities.
policies and initiatives are integrated with existing activities.
We have In 2005, the Group donated 203,000 to support community initiatives and developed a formal CR Policy which articulates our values and approach to charitable causes, including a donation of 100,000 to the Disaster Emergency our stakeholders.
This forms the basis of our CR strategy and covers how we Committee Tsunami Earthquake Appeal in January 2005.
Persimmon manage our impact on the environment, our work with the community, the has pledged long term support to the York Minster Development Campaign and way we work and our relationships with our stakeholders.
will donate 700,000 over the next ten years to help train apprentices in the The Risk Committee has the delegated responsibility to consider operational, ancient craft skills which will be used to repair and conserve the East Front financial and compliance risks including those arising from social, of York Minster.
It also takes account of the emerging WORKING AT PERSIMMON guidance on CR related disclosures such as the new EU Accounts Modernisation Directive and the guidelines established by the Association of British Insurers.
Persimmon recognises that our success is due in large part to our 4,613 employees.
The skills, expertise and experience of our employees enable us to Operational responsibility for CR rests with the Companys CR Committee, a build houses that people want to buy and enjoy.
We ensure our employees sub committee of the Risk Committee comprised of senior managers and welfare is considered, they have good working conditions, they receive relevant representatives from across the Group.
Day to day responsibility for CR rests training and have equal access to opportunities.
with the Group Company Secretary and Legal Director.
We are pleased to report that our Homing in on Opportunity initiative was PERSIMMON & THE ENVIRONMENT recognised as the best training and staff initiative at the inaugural Home This year we have revised our Environmental Policy, to better reect our Builders Federation and House Builder Magazines House Building Innovation business and our significant impacts.
This scheme forms the backbone of our approach to training and development and aims to encourage people from both within and outside the Minimising the amount of waste we produce Group to take up and develop a fullling career in the house building industry.
Making efficient use of materials We continue to recruit and train a large number of apprentices.
In 2005, we had 393 apprentices within the business, each of whom were offered the opportunity Protecting and enhancing the natural habitat and local surroundings to study for a National Vocational Qualication in a relevant trade.
Since 2002, Making the most efficient use of land the number of apprentices within the Group has doubled.
Designing houses to minimise their environmental impact HEALTH & SAFETY Preventing pollution Health and safety is a key issue for the Group.
We had no prosecutions by the Health and Safety Executive in 2005 and the number of reportable incidents in We had no prosecutions relating to environmental matters during the year.
2005 has fallen by 9% against the prior year.
This reduction is attributable to This reects our continued work to develop more robust environmental better on site training and increased awareness.
Further information can be management systems and procedures, and our proactive approach when found in the Directors Report on page 32. planning and developing our sites.
CUSTOMERS We acknowledge that waste is our most significant environmental impact and are now able to report on this area for the Group.
Detailed information on Buying a home is a significant emotional and financial investment for our this can be found in our Corporate Responsibility Report, which is available on customers.
It is important to us that we are able to make this experience as easy our website.
and straightforward as possible for them.
We aim to build energy efficient homes.
The average energy efficient rating We have invested heavily in training our sales and other staff to improve for our homes, based on the Government's recommended SAP rating system, customer service and implemented systems to monitor how well we are has improved this year.
Persimmon won the Energy efficient Housebuilder performing.
We measure customer satisfaction in a number of ways and this of the Year at the 2005 Building Communities Awards, sponsored by the Energy information is collated and reported to our management teams on a regular Savings Trust.
Over the past year, we have seen an increase in our customers overall level of satisfaction.
We have continued our Modern Methods of Construction trial to build four different homes using innovative materials and techniques, for example, the use of modular and recycled components to reduce waste and Further information on our CR activities, policies and performance, including geothermal energy as a central heating source.
objectives for the coming year, can be found in our 2005 Corporate Responsibility Report on our website at www.
By order of the Board Neil Francis Group Company Secretary 24 February 2006 43 Persimmon Plc Annual Report 2005
