Corporate social responsibility The Board recognises that it must win and retain the support of various constituencies in order to keep improving the groups services, thereby safeguarding the Companys future success and sustainability.
The Company believes that to maximise long-term shareholder value, it must take account of its shareholders, customers, employees and communities if it is to improve its performance and develop its reputation.
The Company is currently reviewing the groups Corporate Social Responsibility CSR policy with the aim of ensuring that all group activities are consistent with these objectives wherever the location.
This report outlines the groups current activities.
The Company believes that it demonstrates that it has much to be proud of and that it has laid a solid foundation for further CSR development.
Petrofac: the business Petrofac employees are guided by the Companys values to be safe, ethical, innovative, cost-conscious, responsive to customers and focus relentlessly on delivering results.
These values are embodied within a variety of practical policies and procedures that Recordable injuries Lost time injuries govern areas of our activity: health and safety: security: environment per 200,000 man hours per 200,000 man hours and ethical business conduct.
The group uses a system of risk management to assess the impact of its activities on health, safety, Despite meeting these important targets, the Board deeply regrets security and the environment.
there was an incident in July 2005, which resulted in a fatal injury to an employee of our joint venture with AMEC Spie on the BTC SCP Health, safety and security pipeline project in Georgia.
The group immediately carried out an The health, safety and security of everyone who works with us and investigation in conjunction with AMEC Spie into the incident as a for us is critical to the success of our business.
The health and safety result of which the joint venture made various procedural of the public and communities who may be affected by our business improvements in the way it works.
activities is also a priority to us.
The Board has recently endorsed a review of the Companys Health Management Programme in 2006.
In Petrofac people addition, the Board has approved the development and Petrofac is an international organisation and as such, the Company implementation of a group Security Policy including the introduction believes that its workforce, management and recruitment should of revised security plans for each locality where the Company works.
reflect the diverse communities in which the group operates.
The The Board will be monitoring progress on both these matters Company is committed to employing, training and developing local throughout 2006. staff and leaders in its operations across the globe.
The Company has a policy of equal opportunity where decisions on recruitment, The Company has a well established group safety management career development, promotion, training and reward are based solely strategy, which is part of the groups business management system.
The Company is committed to developing an Managers are accountable for ensuring that safety risks are properly open and honest working environment where people are treated with assessed and as far as possible mitigated.
The Company does not tolerate bullying or harassment in great emphasis on training and ensuring that facilities are well the work place.
Many Petrofac employees are shareholders, as the maintained.
Management closely monitor safety performance Company has long encouraged employee share ownership through through the setting and monitoring of Key Performance Indicators the operation of various schemes.
The Company will continue to KPIs.
The Board is regularly updated on matters relating to Safety.
support employee share ownership and introduced three new share incentive schemes at the time of listing.
During 2005, approximately 38 million man-hours were worked across the groups operations 2004: 40 million.
During the year, the The Company understands that it is vital to communicate with its staff group experienced 107 Recordable Injuries RIs 2004: 109, a RI especially since they work in many locations around the world.
The frequency rate of 0.55 per 200,000 man-hours 2004: 0.55 and 13 Company publishes a quarterly in-house magazine, Petrofacts, and Lost Time Injuries LTIs 2004: 13, a LTI frequency rate of 0.07 per has developed a number of local intranet sites for employees.
This performance is comparable addition, the Company relies on targeted e-mails, management with the best in the oil & gas industry and also within targets set at presentations and team briefings.
Petrofac believes that effective 0.70 RI and 0.070 LTI for the group in 2005.
The Board is pleased communication facilitates employee awareness of the financial, that the overall RI and LTI performance is being sustained despite the economic, social and environmental factors affecting potentially higher risks associated with the increase in the number of Petrofacs performance.
new operations started during the year.
It is believed that the group wide rollout of the programme, the eight Golden Rules of Safety, during 2005, has assisted in sustaining performance.
30 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2005 03 0.65 04 0.55 05 0.55 03 0.05 04 0.07 05 0.07 The Company continues to emphasise the importance of doing The group has recently decided to focus a number of its community business ethically.
The Standards of Business Conduct policy is kept targeted projects around education and training themes.
Petrofac under regular review and communicated to the workforce.
The has a longstanding and nationally acclaimed education-industry Company has a clear anti-corruption policy, including a prohibition on partnership with Kincorth Academy in Aberdeen.
Not only has the bribes and other inducements and the making of unauthorised Company helped raise significant funding for the Academy but it has facilitation payments.
If an employee is found to have acted in breach provided pupils with an insight into the oil & gas industry and the of this policy, the individual will be subject to disciplinary action which general working environment through mentoring programmes and may result in dismissal.
In the Middle East, Petrofac has supported the American Universities in Sharjah and Beirut.
Funding provided by The environment Petrofac has assisted their Engineering Faculties to invest in leading Petrofac understands that it must give proper consideration to edge technologies and to enhance standards of educational protecting the environment.
The Company seeks to balance excellence.
Maroun Semaan currently sits on the board of trustees of environmental concerns with operational objectives wherever the American University in Sharjah.
Petrofac has also made possible.
The Board has recently approved the development and a significant donation to the Sharjah English School towards implementation of a group environmental policy, which will result in the construction of a new chemistry laboratory in the new secondary the introduction of environmental plans for all activities.
the Company have certified environmental management systems and the Company has committed to working towards certification to ISO The Company looks forward to expanding its support for education, 14001:1996 for all its business operations.
learning and training as its geographical spread increases.
In particular, the Company intends to replicate its Kincorth style Society education-industry partnership with an academic institution in India The Company is mindful of its responsibilities to the communities in through its Mumbai office.
It tries to ensure that its relationships with nongovernmental organisations NGOs, customers, suppliers, The Company has a policy of not making political contributions.
communities and governments are founded on the basis of mutual respect.
Petrofacs relationships last for many years, so it is essential that the Company understands the aspirations of those with whom it does business.
The Company has decided that in its formal assessment regarding whether or not to undertake a particular piece of business, it will in future formulate a specific community relations strategy for each major project taking account of the particular longterm local needs.
The Company places particular emphasis upon contributing to the communities in which it operates.
In the UK, Petrofacs Community Involvement Group CIG provides support to a number of charities, groups and individuals.
In 2005, CIG named Cornerstone Community Care as its charity of the year for the third year running and, through fundraising activities, supported the charity in offering services and support to people with learning disabilities.
CIG continued to provide support to Kenny Herriot, a wheelchair athlete.
Petrofac has sponsored Kenny since 2001 following an accident in 2000 that left him paralysed.
In 2005, Petrofac helped Kenny to compete in major competitions throughout the world.
In recognition of the essential role of arts and science in building quality of life, Petrofac continues to be a main sponsor of the Aberdeen Youth Festival, which showcases the musical, dancing and acting talents of young people from around the world: and Techfest, a festival of science, technology and engineering in Aberdeen visited by over 10,000 school pupils.
Annual report and accounts 2005 Petrofac 31
