Arla Foods UK plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate social responsibility 5,810 employees at over 100 locations across the UK We are committed to attaining the highest standards of corporate social We encourage and develop our people to realise their full potential responsibility CSR, based on a real understanding of the importance through high quality training providing employees with the technical of our corporate behaviour and our contribution to society as a whole.
and professional skills required to contribute fully in their roles.
The establishment of a leadership programme aimed at high potential We have made good progress with our CSR initiatives and have retained managers, from all areas of the business, ensures that we continue to our position in the FTSE4GOOD Index for the third consecutive year.
develop the skills of our leaders of the future and a strong workforce.
This index is designed to measure the performance of companies that meet globally recognised CSR standards and provides a meaningful By taking a proactive stance on employment policies we ensure performance benchmark for socially responsible investors.
that we maintain our position as an employer of choice.
We strive to develop flexible employment practices in advance of statutory We are members of Business in the Community and continue to benefit requirements, thereby promoting staff motivation and recognising from its commitment and support and to contribute to its core the value of a practical balance between work and family life.
Developing policies to promote a fair working environment is Our employees essential to us and we have introduced new policies on equal In September 2005 we employed 5,810 people, a reduction of opportunities, dignity at work, stress management, and alcohol 240 since October 2004.
Based at over 100 locations across the UK, and drugs.
Our maternity and paternity schemes have also been our employees carry out a diverse range of tasks and responsibilities.
extended in addition to an industry-leading benefit that utilises the new Child Trust Fund facility.
We are committed to the development of our people and believe that all employees should have the opportunity to share in the companys Future policy developments will include the new employee voluntary success.
The Share Incentive Plan we introduced in 2004, in which benefits offering a greater use of tax-free initiatives.
the company awards one matching share for every two partnership shares, is available to everyone employed in the business.
Almost A system of annualised hours, providing staff with flexibility of 1,000 employees participate in the scheme.
employment, operates successfully within our business.
Six dairies currently use the system which allows the company to work in line Our values underline our commitment to our people.
These values with processing requirements.
We are continuing to explore options were established following the merger and have been disseminated to roll this out to other areas of the business.
Our Taking the Lead initiative has been introduced through a comprehensive programme of training, which We continue to maintain positive employee relations with four encourages employees to incorporate the values and identify and trade unions and continue to engage with our union colleagues deliver performance improvements.
through briefings and joint consultative mechanisms at all levels.
We continue to align individual performance and development with Our suppliers our business goals and, as part of Taking the Lead, we have introduced We work closely with Arla Foods Milk Partnership on farm standards, a performance management scheme across the business.
The new ensuring that the legislative requirements on quality, traceability, scheme will be fully rolled out during the first quarter of 2006. hygiene and animal welfare are exceeded.
All Partnership farms are 20 Arla Foods UK plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 regularly audited using Arlas own farm auditing team operating to We fulfil this commitment by ensuring that occupational health, safety the internationally accredited National Dairy Farm Assured Scheme and environmental controls are an integral part of our business strategy NDFAS requirements.
We are also working with other suppliers to and are applied simply and effectively.
ensure continuity in the quality and standards required.
We identify the significant risks and opportunities for the business Our community and set clearly defined objectives and targets for achievement.
Our We strongly believe in supporting the communities in which we management systems and activities are audited and reviewed against operate.
We therefore seek to build long-term relationships with stated aims and international best practice.
people, companies and organisations through which we can contribute to community development.
Our primary objective is to reduce the impact that our processing sites have on the environment by reducing direct emissions and indirect The Right to Read scheme is an example of the company encouraging impact to the environment from the usage of raw materials and employees to work within the local community.
This has resulted in the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions participating in either the Leicestershire Education Business Company by 14 per cent and total energy consumption by 12 per cent during facilitated scheme or the Reading Matters scheme in Leeds, which the year.
recruits local volunteers to support children in schools with their reading development.
By further reducing our wastage, we will increase the effectiveness of our operations, improve occupational health and safety performance, We have also worked closely with Education Leeds, organising one-day and reduce emissions of greenhouse gases.
We also look continually school conferences to enhance the potential employability of students to reduce water consumption across our sites nationwide, and this year from local schools.
Employees act as team advisers working with a achieved a further reduction of nine per cent.
small group of students on a series of interactive exercises with emphasis on participation and learning through action.
Our target to achieve certification to ISO 14001 and OHSAS standards for all our sites remains on track.
Five of our sites have been certified Supporting employees fund-raising activities is also important to us.
to ISO 14001 Environmental Management Systems Standard and This year we supported a visit to Romania delivering aid to orphanages, our remaining processing sites will become certified to ISO 14001 hospitals and old peoples homes.
and OHSAS 18001 standards by September 2006.
In addition, we have pledged a donation to the Outward Bound Fuel efficiency targets have now been set for each distribution depot charity to help send under-privileged children from across the UK to minimise fuel consumption within our transport fleet.
Our vehicles on outdoor training schemes to develop their team working and are compliant with Euro IV emission standards and use low sulphur social skills.
diesel in order to reduce emissions that may cause acid rain.
Our Cravendale brands sponsorship of Leicestershire County Cricket It is also our responsibility to look after the health and well-being Club, and its community programme in local schools, is now in its of our employees.
Standards for occupational health have been third year and the brands support for the local community continues harmonised across the business and the number of accidents at with the sponsorship of the Leeds Rhinos mascot, Ronnie the Rhino.
our processing sites has fallen by 25 per cent over the past year.
Our work environment We are committed to growing and sustaining our business through the careful management of our people and resources to prevent pollution, ensure legal compliance and improve our work performance.
9% 14% carbon dioxide water consumption emissions 8% 14% 12% gas and oil electricity total energy consumption consumption consumption 21
