Health, safety, environment and security summary Technical expertise observed at the premises was exceptionally high, and could be Our health, safety, environment and security HSES function used as a benchmark for best practice.
We are committed to is headed by the group HSES manager based in the corporate providing a safe place of work for all our employees and contractors headquarters in London.
The manager is supported by dedicated and are extremely pleased that our efforts are being recognised.
local HSES teams in Indonesia and India and roving teams of retained advisors for other countries of operation.
These teams The LTIF was therefore 0.68 per million man-hours.
This was an have been selected for their individual expertise in seismic, drilling, improvement on 2004 1.02 and sustains our improving performance construction and production operations both onshore and offshore year-on-year.
However, we prefer to report our safety performance and are further supported by specialists in areas such as quantitative in terms of both lost-time injury LTI and restricted workday case risk assessment QRA and environmental impact assessments.
RWDC frequency to better capture our safety performance trends.
In 2005, many of our key HSES professionals, drilling managers, When combined these are referred to as significant injuries.
In and asset and country managers received specialist training in 2005, we anticipated we would incur seven significant injuries in an accident investigation techniques and emergency preparedness.
estimated 5 million man-hours worked and thus set our KPI target Operational areas are also supported by global service providers in as 2.6.
We actually incurred three significant injuries in 2.9 million the areas of health, travel and security assessment, oil spill response man-hours, resulting in a combined LTI RWDC frequency of 1.02 and media liaison.
Emergency response plans are regularly tested per million man-hours worked.
This represents a 28 per cent to ensure readiness and are formally exercised prior to any significant improvement from 2004 1.43 and continues the significant operation.
These skills and resources form an essential part of our improvements achieved in LTI RWDC frequency performance worldwide crisis management teams and business continuity plans.
over the last three years.
In 2004, Premiers global drilling function achieved certification In 2003, Premier started to collate environmental performance to both ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001.
In 2005 our Indonesian data for public reporting.
We included this in the 2004 Premier production operations also achieved ISO 14001 and are well on Sustainability Report, which followed the Global Reporting Initiative the way to achieving OHSAS 18001.
ISO 14001 is an international GRI reporting framework.
In 2004, we improved on this strategy standard to which a companys environmental management system and prepared fully GRI-compliant environmental performance may be certified.
OHSAS 18001 is a standard to which a companys reports for each well and production asset.
This has continued health and safety management system may be certified.
Certification in 2005 and with these data sets we are now in a position to set demonstrates that an accredited certifying body has independently environmental performance improvement targets for 2006.
2005 verified that Premiers management systems fully comply with the also saw us clarify our biodiversity policy to ensure that we include standard.
Successful certification and ongoing surveillance audits risks to local biodiversity as part of our risk management process.
confirm that Premier will continue to meet the highest standards This is now specifically included in our corporate HSES policy.
Together these teams provide both proactive and reactive assurance that all our operations meet the stringent The advent of bird flu in Asia and the threat of a global pandemic, requirements of our management systems.
together with a rising tide of global terrorist activities, particularly in locations previously considered low-risk, ie London has seen Financial commitment us re-evaluate our business continuity plans.
We now have in place Premier is fully committed to excellent HSES performance crisis management strategies and plans to ensure that we may and recognises that this comes at a cost, particularly in new and continue our key operations as long as practicable.
remote areas where increased effort may be required.
We therefore conduct risk assessments for each operation we undertake and During 2005 our corporate HSES policy document has been use the resulting risk registers to ensure that we both recognise updated.
It remains our policy to ensure that the impact of our major risks and commit sufficient resources to manage and control activities on the health and safety of our employees, and all them, where practicable.
personnel affected by and involved in our activities will be reduced to a level that is as low as reasonably practicable, to maintain the Operational successes security of our personnel and assets and to strive to achieve 2005 has seen another excellent year for Premiers health, safety, excellence in environmental performance.
Our primary key performance indicator KPI, also used by most other exploration External stakeholders and production companies in our industry, centres on the lost-time We are currently looking at potential partnerships with external injury frequency LTIF.
In 2005 we incurred two lost-time incidents stakeholders in order to both better appreciate the focus such in some 2.9 million man-hours worked.
Both incidents involved slips, organisations are seeking and to facilitate proactive dissemination one occurred on the Lakkhi drilling rig in India and the other in the of our performance.
At present we are in discussion with Earthwatch London office.
Fortunately, they only resulted in minor injury from and Fauna and Flora with a view to identifying a scope and level which the injured parties fully recovered.
The UK health and safety of participation for 2006. authorities followed up the London incident with an inspection of our premises and management system, after which they wrote: the standard of health and safety management implementation Premier Oil Annual Report and Accounts 2005 13
