CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW Our full Corporate Responsibility report, DELIVERING policies and practices can be viewed on our website www.
co. uk RESPONSIBLY Corporate Responsibility at Arriva is about recognising the contribution we can make to communities and the impact we have on our environment.
We play a vital role in the social and economic lives of the communities we serve across eight European countries.
We take our responsibilities as a large business seriously and we work hard to build positive relationships with all of our stakeholders.
Our Board of Directors recognises that our long-term success depends on these positive relationships and our values being embedded into the culture of our company.
We established our Corporate Responsibility Working Group in 2004 which consists of representatives from each Arriva business.
Reporting directly to the Board at regular intervals, this group reviews best practice, reports on new initiatives, and works on corporate responsibility benchmarking.
We have continued to work closely with Business in the Community to embed best practice throughout the business and to help us report to our stakeholders in a meaningful way.
Our policies, which are published at www.
co. uk, set out our approach to the wider community.
20 Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
co. uk ARRIVA IS LONDONS LARGEST BUS OPERATOR, WITH MORE THAN 1,400 VEHICLES OPERATING UNDER CONTRACT TO TRANSPORT FOR LONDON SAFETY We have an extensive portfolio of in-house The safety of our customers and employees always training initiatives, ranging from the Institution of comes first.
Occupational Safety and Health IOSH approved programmes in the UK, to courses that develop Our Group-wide practices are reviewed regularly by competence in risk assessment, fire safety, display the Board Safety Committee which is chaired by a screen equipment, manual handling and first aid.
In 2005, we received further recognition of our commitment to health and safety with a total of six We play a vital role in the social and economic safety awards: the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents RoSPA Gold Award for Managing lives of the communities we serve across eight Occupational Road Risk: the RoSPA merit award for European countries.
Occupational Health and Safety: the Institute of Transport and Logistics Excellence in Safety award: This Committee reviews the key safety performance the Brake Best Risk Managed company of the Year indicators across the Group and the operation of the award supported by highly commended rankings in self-certification programme.
Reporting to the Board, the Safety in Vehicle Maintenance and Road Safety the Committee also reviews Arrivas in-house safety in the Community awards.
management system and supports the Groups health and safety policy.
We were the first public transport company to sign up to support the European Road Safety Charter, Each of the Groups businesses is accountable for its which aims to achieve a 50 per cent reduction in own safety performance, and follows self-certification road accidents by 2010.
We have contributed to and self-auditing processes which reflect best practice the development of the road safety debate at guidelines for successful health and safety events throughout 2005. management.
In Denmark, we have received the prominent As part of the self-certification process, Arriva managers European Certificate of Working Environment conduct annual reviews of their business to ensure that DS OH 18001 standard for Occupational Health they meet Group safety standards.
The reviews are and Safety Management Systems.
The self-certification process, which is underpinned by the audit procedure, ensures that safety is reviewed regularly by senior management.
Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 21 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW continued OUR REPUTATION FOR EXCELLENT SERVICE DELIVERY IN DENMARK CONTINUES WITH HIGH CUSTOMER SATISFACTION ENVIRONMENT We are working hard to reduce the environmental Our environmental policy is in place across all of the impact of our business by using different fuels, Groups operations and in determining this policy, including ultra low sulphur diesel and compressed we sought advice from external consultants.
policy complies with all legal requirements and incorporates industry best practice.
In some parts of Arriva, innovative trials of alternative fuels are taking place.
Arriva PEG in Germany is the Our three key areas are the promotion and use of worlds first transport company to use palm oil based public transport, the reduction of waste emissions biodiesel to operate several of its trains.
In late 2005, and the efficient use of water and energy.
representatives from the business were invited by the Malaysian German Chamber of Industry and Commerce in Kuala Lumpur to talk about the trials.
We manage the environmental impact of our We are now exploring opportunities as to how we operations and encourage the sustainable can use this biofuel elsewhere.
Across the Group, we aim to dispose of all waste We continue to research ways of reducing further using environmentally sympathetic means.
Waste is the level of harmful emissions we release into the segregated at source and is stored pending the most environment.
During 2005, we made progress in appropriate and effective disposal by relevant specialist several ways.
We invested over 130 million in new contractors.
This includes recycling and reducing the buses, all of which meet Euro III environmental amount of waste being sent to landfill sites.
Some of our older buses have been fitted with Euro III compliant engines.
In Denmark, we EMPLOYEES operate 29 new Coradia Lint trains which have Euro We have more than 30,000 employees, across eight III compliant engines.
We announced plans to buy 43 European countries, who are key to Arrivas success.
new Stadler diesel-electric trains worth around 95 million when we won a 15 year extension of our rail We are committed to creating a working environment franchise in the north of the Netherlands.
These trains where everyone has the opportunity to learn and also comply with Euro III standards.
In Italy, several develop, and where we share many common values.
Arriva companies use white diesel a water in diesel-oil emulsion which can be used in diesel Over the past few years, we have grown our engines without the engines being modified.
This has transport business significantly and developed led to a reduction in emissions of fine particulates through contract wins and acquisitions.
We have and nitrogen oxides.
established a series of policies and procedures to help employees integrate and to ensure that their training needs are addressed.
22 Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
co. uk WE CONTINUE TO INVEST IN EMPLOYEE TRAINING TO EMPOWER OUR PEOPLE TO DELIVER FOR OUR CUSTOMERS AND THE GROUP Leadership, Management and Supervisor Meanwhile, in Denmark, we provide our drivers and mechanics with advanced training covering areas such Development as dealing with conflict, service and quality, and We are committed to developing our people and computer skills.
provide development opportunities for employees across Arriva.
In Portugal, our vocational training programmes deliver great results.
In Lisbon, we offer drivers In 2005, we launched our Graduate Development refresher training to adopt better defensive driving Programme, the first phase of which will be a techniques.
We measure fuel consumption during recruitment drive across Europe to encourage training, showing environmental and safety benefits graduates to work in the passenger transport industry.
as well as clear cost savings.
To encourage people to apply, we have launched our In Portugal and in Italy we have been awarded the graduate website www.
Other development programmes within Arriva include: Mastering People Skills for supervisors and Valuing Difference middle managers in UK bus operations: the Institute Arriva aims to acknowledge, understand and value of Leadership and Management programme for differences in people, whether they are our customers middle managers in Arriva Trains Wales: a or employees.
Management Development programme for head office managers, and Arrivas NVQ in Customer Care.
We introduced the Arriva Approach to Diversity to create an environment that maximises the potential Our Danish business continues to develop its of all current and future employees.
programme to train bus drivers to be managers within the organisation following a 12 month training period.
As part of this approach, and highlighting Arrivas commitment to the diversity agenda, we have a Diversity Committee and Diversity Best Practice Forum.
Vocational Training Our UK vocational training programme is a major Committee members include senior managers from part of our investment in developing Arriva people.
across our businesses who meet regularly and report to the Board annually.
In our UK bus operations, dedicated Development Managers provide support to businesses by focusing In the UK, we have recently run awareness workshops on basic skills and vocational training.
for 2,060 employees utilising 90 trained, internally appointed facilitators.
Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 23 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW continued Valuing Employees Arriva has worked hard to establish a series of longWe value the work of our employees and the term partnerships giving not only financial, but also contribution they make towards the successful practical support.
One such partnership is with development of Arriva, and periodically seek their Age Concern.
As part of this developing partnership, feedback.
in 2004 we supported Age Concerns information technology IT project in Hertfordshire to help older The Arriva Learning and Development Gateway ALDG people take part in computer training.
A facility was gives employees access to an extensive range of online established to help them use IT in a number of areas, courses and provides them with the opportunity to including keeping in touch with family and friends, further their learning and development.
The popularity finding out information such as bus and train of the Gateway has grown and, in 2005, there were timetables and ordering shopping for home delivery.
around 12,000 visits to the site by our employees.
Arrivas support has meant that this project was able to continue throughout 2005.
COMMUNITY We have joined forces with the Wales Deaf Rugby We know that we are an important part of the Union as official sponsor of the team in another communities we serve.
By the very nature of our successful partnership.
In addition to supporting the business, we have a responsibility to these development of deaf rugby in communities right communities across the UK and mainland Europe.
across Arrivas rail network, the partnership is also helping us to understand better the needs of people For that reason, our community relations activities who are hard of hearing and ensure we offer the are at the heart of our commitment to corporate best possible service to all our customers.
Our Community Relations Committee, which is Employees in the Community chaired by an executive director, Steve Clayton, Our employees are involved in our Community includes representatives from across the Group and it Relations Programme and vote each year for their continues to work towards the vision we established Charity of the Year for the UK.
This has been in 2004: running for six years and provides employees with the opportunity to select a charity that they would As a people business, we value, encourage and like the Group to support for 12 months.
celebrate the contribution our employees and others make to the communities we serve.
Our employees voted for Cancer Research UK as the 2006 Charity of the Year for the third year running.
24 Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
co. uk WE ARE COMMITTED TO DEVELOPING PUBLIC TRANSPORT THROUGH INNOVATION AND WORKING IN PARTNERSHIP WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS In the Netherlands, some of the charities we have Business in the Community supported during 2005 include Doo een Wens, We are a national member of Business in the the Dutch Make a Wish Foundation whose aim is to Community BITC and we actively support some grant the wishes of children with life-threatening of its initiatives.
illnesses around the world: Cool Flevoland, a youth panel initiative which aims to improve young peoples BITC is a charitable organisation which helps interest in politics and social themes, and Dance4Life businesses contribute to the social and economic which has been set up by young people to fight the regeneration of local communities.
During 2005, Arriva employees from the north east Many of our employees across the UK and mainland of England took part in a reading programme with Europe make valuable contributions to their local a local primary school, which selected pupils it felt communities outside of their working life with Arriva.
would benefit from extra support.
They listened to We value this and we recognise many of their the children read and helped with the reading efforts through our Community Action Awards.
The project proved enjoyable and worthwhile for both the children and volunteers.
Employees are encouraged to tell us about their charitable work.
In return, they are put forward for We were also named as one of BITCs top ten overall consideration of an award, which is donated to the performers in the Race for Opportunity awards.
In 2005, we presented 57 recognises efforts that organisations make to ensure cash awards to our employees for their chosen causes.
that their workforce is diverse and that differences are valued and understood.
Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 25
