38 ANNUAL REPORT 2005 ACCOUNTS ACCOUNTS ANNUAL REPORT 2005 39 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Internal control PZ Cussons is committed to running its business with integrity and with care insofar as the social and environmental impact of our activities is The board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage concerned.
We aim to make a positive impact on society through the products we manufacture and sell, through our commercial operations rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurances against and through the voluntary contributions we make to the community.
Corporate social responsibility CSR is a traditional value for the PZ Cussons organisation and is key to the way the company operates The board is of the view that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups signi cant risks, that it has throughout the world.
Through competitive employment policies we add value into the areas in which we operate by helping to meet the been in place for the year ended 31st May 2005 and up to the date of the annual report and accounts, that it is regularly reviewed by the differing product needs of customers in developing countries and investing in more ef cient production technologies and systems.
board and that it accords with the Turnbull guidance for directors on the Combined Code.
PZ Cussons takes regular account of the signi cance of social, ethical and environmental SEE matters to the business of the company.
We The process includes: have ensured the availability of adequate information to assess and manage SEE issues and these are covered in the training of directors and senior personnel.
The company strives to maintain the highest standards of ethical conduct and corporate responsibility to ensure that Frequent communication between the board and subsidiary management on all critical business issues.
reputable business practices are applied worldwide and ethical issues are dealt with in an effective and transparent manner.
There is a strong Regular visits to operating units by the board, head of ce management and internal audit.
emphasis throughout the organisation on commitment, trust, teamwork, personal accountability and commercial acumen.
A detailed system of budgeting, reporting and forecasting.
The environment Regular review by the board of a risk management document produced by the risk management committee.
PZ Cussons takes regular account of the signi cance of environmental matters to the business of the company and has identi ed and assessed any risks arising from its operations both to the environment and to the companys short and long-term value.
PZ Cussons is At its July 2005 meeting, the board carried out the annual assessment for the year to 31st May 2005 by considering documentation from the committed to playing its part in protecting the environment, for the bene t of its employees and the public at large.
The company has executive committee, risk management committee and internal audit, and taking account of events since the year end.
ensured and will continue to ensure that it complies with environmental laws and regulations at all times and will continue to identify the environmental impacts of all aspects of the business and nd effective ways of reducing them.
The company continues to take steps to embed internal control and risk management further into the operations of the business and to deal with areas of improvement which come to the attention of management and the board.
We continue to implement systems to enable the measurement of certain environmental indicators, such as energy and water use, emissions to air or water and waste generation and we design all our new and upgraded plants and processes to be energy ef cient and low Relations with shareholders maintenance.
We also work closely with relevant local water authorities in order to identify potential water saving methods.
In the UK the The company has periodic discussions with institutional shareholders on a range of issues affecting the Groups performance.
All shareholders, company has focused on waste collection and recycling to improve the management of our waste and to improve recycling.
including private investors, have an opportunity to present questions to the board at the annual general meeting and the directors are Our manufacturing processes, facilities, distribution practices and products are all designed to minimise the effect on the environment.
The available to meet informally with shareholders after the meeting.
The company responds throughout the year to correspondence received company ensures that the design and development of new products take into account the potential environmental impact of production and from shareholders on a wide range of issues and a subscription e-mail service is available for all interested parties through the companys appropriate measures are taken to contain such impacts.
website enabling access to company noti cations and news releases.
The company will continue to provide the guidance necessary to ensure high standards are achieved at our manufacturing sites around the Compliance statement world whilst promoting continuous improvement based on careful risk assessment and comprehensive management systems.
The directors consider that, throughout the accounting period, the company complied with the provisions of section 1 of the Combined Code as published in July 2003 and contained in the rules of the UK Listing Authority with the following exception: Health and safety PZ Cussons aims to maintain a safe workplace at all locations in which it operates.
We continue to ensure that our business activities are Code Provision A.
3.2 undertaken in a responsible manner and in accordance with the relevant statutory legislation and that employees at all levels participate in The board recognises that the Code speci es that at least half of the members on the board excluding the chairman should be independent the development, promotion and maintenance of a safe and healthy working environment for employees, visitors and the public.
Throughout the year the board comprised the chairman, seven executive directors and four non-executive directors recent years there have been major factory operating and ef ciency improvements throughout the Group as we move towards world class determined by the board to be independent and whose respective backgrounds clearly indicate that they are of suf cient calibre and number manufacturing excellence.
The company employs health and safety specialists and, where appropriate, provides on-site medical facilities for their views to carry signi cant weight in the boards decisions.
The company continues to monitor and increase standards of health and safety at work through risk assessment, safety audits, formal incident investigation and training.
Our investment in plant and equipment enables us to modernise designs and operate safer and more ef cient processes.
Employment and staff development As an international group, and particularly bearing in mind our operations in developing countries, we focus resource on the employment and development of local staff with the intention of assisting both our operations in those countries and the local community.
Employees are involved at all levels of decision-making throughout the Group with effective communication via regular consultation groups and brie ngs.
Training is vital to ensuring continuous improvements in performance and over the past year employees of all grades have received training through a wide range of courses.
The employment policies of the Group embody the principles of equal opportunity, training and development and rewards appropriate to local markets which are tailored to meet the needs of its business and the areas in which they operate.
This includes procedures to support the Groups policy that disabled persons shall be considered for appropriate employment and subsequent training and career development.
The company continues to share valuable experience and best practice within the Group through employee secondment.
