Social responsibility statement Randgold Resources is committed to the integration of Budget a percentage of profit to be used for environmental and social impact management into its sustainable community development projects.
The optimum utilisation of mineral projects are selected and prioritised in consultation and other resources encompasses the protection and with communities and carried out in cooperation conservation of the existing environment.
Within this with community members.
framework, the company strives to assist the communities Aim to forge a pact with employees through having most affected by its operations to develop in a sustainable respect for fundamental human rights, including way and to give all its employees a high quality of work workplace rights, employee development and the life, including a safe workplace.
need for a healthy and safe workplace.
Strive for the highest quality of rehabilitation, waste Its integrated social and environmental management management and environmental protection in the process identifies potentially significant negative and most cost effective manner.
The implementation of environmental Strive to optimise the consumption of energy, water and social responsibility strategies aims to minimise and other natural resources.
negative impacts and maximise the positive impacts of Through the introduction of new alternative its activities, commensurate with its business strategy environmentally friendly products and processes, and within National and World Bank standards.
The as they become available, avoid, where possible, strategies it uses to achieve this include the following: the use or release of substances which, by themselves or through their manufacturing process, Encourage and reward the use of integrated may damage the environment.
environmental management to ensure that Practice responsible environmental stewardship management decision making process includes a to meet the demands of local communities, host sensitive and holistic consideration of environmental country government requirements and international issues.
To facilitate this, all projects must include standards and strive for continuous improvement of a comprehensive environmental and social impact environmental performance.
Where appropriate, specialist consultants are employed.
Maintain positive relationships with neighbouring communities, local and national government authorities, NGOs and aid agencies and the public: Respect and consult with the communities in the For details of the implementation of the social areas affected by its operations so that these responsibility statement, refer to the Review of Operations communities receive fair treatment and where on page 18 and 22 and Human Resources report possible benefit from the companys activities.
