24 Corporate responsibility An Early Childhood Development site in KwaMakhuta, South Africa, made possible Live Ink, offered by Harcourts Holt imprint, provides by a Reed Elsevier Cares donation.
web-based support to US literacy students.
Members of RBI UKs green team with their office waste at a recycling plant.
Corporate responsibility Our CR commitment Throughout the year, we received feedback on our Our dedication to being a leader in all our markets CR activities at 43 meetings with government, encompasses Corporate Responsibility CR : our non-governmental organisations, and socially commitment to operate profitably, ethically and openly, responsible investors analysts.
making continuous improvements, for the benefit of stakeholders, including shareholders, employees, customers, We reached 3,025 employees through direct and distance suppliers, our communities and local environments.
training to further their understanding of the RE Code of Ethics and Business Conduct.
New initiatives included 2005 CR objectives enhancing the policy zone for employees on our corporate We set a number of objectives in the five areas comprising intranet.
our core CR risks and opportunities, among them: Governance: Use CR Forum to monitor CR risks, policy Marketplace and programmes: proactive steps on CR legislation: The RE value, Customer Focus, was expressed through promotion of RE Code of Ethics and Business Conduct development of new online products and services for Marketplace: Customer Focus through value-added customers including Elseviers Library Services Webpages online services: a group editorial policy: active on ScienceDirect, allowing global customers to make promotion of the Supplier Code of Conduct online changes in holdings, IP-numbers and customer Workplace: Tangible advance of Valuing our People, status, and Harcourts Live Ink Reading Help, an e-tool one of the five RE values: progress the group health providing US students with visual cues to sentence and safety survey structure.
Community: Deepen RE Cares programme in major business locations: increase volunteerism With cross-business input we created a group editorial by 10% from 2004 benchmark policy which makes explicit our journalists editorial Environment: Advance key facility environmental goals: independence and records our responsibility to produce Green Teams in 50% of key facilities information of the highest quality, which is original, accurate, comprehensible, fair, and timely and which 2005 CR achievements makes a clear distinction between editorial and advertising Governance or other content.
The CR Forum, chaired by CEO Sir Crispin Davis, and comprised of executives representing all major business We established a new socially responsible supplier network functions, met twice to review CR policies, objectives, and across the group to reinforce our Supplier Code of Conduct, achievements.
CR was also the focus at an RE board and developed new tools like an internal audit checklist.
Reed Elsevier Annual Review 2005 25 Elsevier volunteers in Edinburgh supporting LexisNexis employees in New York participating vulnerable young people through the sale of in a health and safety training session.
UK employees building reed beds in St James Park, London.
Workplace Environment We seek to employ a diverse workforce that reflects our With the help of a new environmental coordinator we customer base.
In 2005, our senior management group advanced environmental goals by key facilities, conducting comprised 15 nationalities, with women occupying 22% of site audits at all four divisions.
We introduced a new Personal Development commitment to reduce energy usage by 1.2 million kWh Plan to better identify employee strengths and training across 11 main sites and further specific reductions across needs and began roll-out of a 1:1 coaching programme.
We also conducted a more comprehensive group Health For World Environment Day we launched our 2005 and Safety Survey, which showed that work-related environmental campaign, War on Waste, and incidents for our US operations are down by 15%, from 286 further engaged employees on environmental issues by during 2004 to 248 during 2005.
We reinforced health and introducing Green Teams in more than 50% of our key safety through ongoing training sessions, wellness facilities.
In the UK, our businesses reduced their seminars, and free, confidential counselling.
electricity consumption by 7% and a key facility in Austin, Texas was awarded an Energy Star label by the United Community States Environmental Protection Agency.
Our RE Cares programme expanded to new locations including China and India, and we increased group wide Reed Elsevier is a member of FTSE4Good, the Per Cent volunteerism by 30%, exceeding our target.
Our third Club, the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, and has been annual international RE Cares Month featured over voted one of the Global 100 most sustainable corporations.
100 activities and touched thousands of employees.
We were awarded a highly commended certificate for our CR activities in the UK National Business Awards, and We donated 2 million in charitable cash donations came first among commercial media companies in including matching gift programmes and the equivalent of Business in the Communitys Corporate Responsibility nearly 2 million in gifts of products, services, and staff Index for the second consecutive year.
This included over 1 million in tsunami, hurricane, and earthquake relief efforts.
Our flagship Our full CR report is available at www.
partnership with BookAid International has channelled over 500,000 of our books over the last three years to institutions in the developing world.
