81795x 1140i 28 2 06 7:12 PM Page 56 Operational review continued Rio Tintos Compliance guidance requires that the identification of risk be systematic and ongoing.
It recommends that each Group Society and company undertakes a structured risk profiling exercise to identify, categorise and weigh the risks it faces in the conduct of its business.
environment Each Group company puts systems in place to ensure that risks are reviewed at an appropriate frequency.
Group employees Principal employee Total remuneration is related to performance through the use of locations 2005 approximate average annual bonuses, long term incentives and stretching targets for for year personal, financial and safety performance.
The boards Committee on social and environmental accountability reviews the effectiveness of policies and procedures.
The committee comprises four non executive directors.
It meets three times annually with the chief executive and heads of Technology, Health, Safety and Environment and Communication and Sustainable Development.
Reports for the committee summarise significant matters identified through Rio Tintos assurance activities.
These include reviews every Australia New Zealand 12,000 four years of each business to identify and manage strategic risks in relation to health, safety, and the environment: audits against Rio Tinto North America 10,000 standards: annual risk management audits: risk reviews for specific Equity accounted Africa 4,000 units concerns: procedures and systems for reporting critical and significant issues and incidents: completion of annual internal control Other 6,000 questionnaires by all Group business leaders covering the full spectrum Subsidiaries of business and operational risk: and findings and recommendations of and jointly the independent external assurance and data verification programme.
controlled assets 01 02 03 04 05 Policies, programmes and results Rio Tinto is in business to create value by finding and developing world Implementation of the policies in The way we work is discussed in the class mineral deposits and operating and eventually closing operations following sections according to each policy area.
Known risks arising safely, responsibly and efficiently.
To do so, the Group takes a disciplined from social and environmental matters and their management in Group and integrated approach to the economic, social and environmental businesses are described in the relevant Group operations section.
aspects of all its activities.
The approach to achieving this is through implementation of the Safety policies described in The way we work, Rio Tintos statement of Safety is a core value and a major priority.
Rio Tinto believes that all business practice, at all levels of the business.
injuries are preventable and its goal is zero injuries.
To achieve this, full The statement was revised and redistributed in 2003 and is now and consistent implementation of and accountability for Rio Tintos available in 21 languages.
It is the result of wide internal consultation comprehensive standards, guidance, systems and procedures is and discussion and represents shared values from around the Group.
The Group is also building a supportive safety The document was published initially in January 1998.
It was revised in culture that requires visible leadership, ongoing education and training 2002 in the light of experience, following further Groupwide review and and a high level of participation by everyone in the workplace.
consultation, external benchmarking of policies against the best practice While the safety record improved for the sixth consecutive year in of other organisations and approval by the Rio Tinto board.
2005, there is still some way to go in achieving the goal of zero injuries.
The way we work commits the Group to transparency consistent In 2005, very regrettably two employees lost their lives at managed with normal commercial confidentiality, corporate accountability and the operations.
The Group has demonstrated strong improvements in the application of appropriate standards and internal controls.
It sets the lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR and all injury frequency rate AIFR basis for how Group companies employees work and also provides from 2004, with reductions of 14 per cent and 11 per cent respectively.
guidance for joint venture partners and others.
Every employee is The LTIFR for 2005 was 0.56 per 200,000 hours worked by employees responsible for implementing the policies in the document.
Rio Tinto set targets in 2003 Rio Tinto has adopted the Association of British Insurers 2003 for a 50 per cent reduction in LTIFR and AIFR by 2008.
The LTIFR is on disclosure guidelines on social responsibility in preparing this report.
track, while AIFR is slightly behind.
Details of the Groups overall and individual businesses social and Fines for infringement of safety regulations involved 11 operations, environmental performance continue to be published on the Rio Tinto totalling US$87,600 2004: US$19,200.
This includes a fine website: www.
com se and in the Sustainable development review.
of US$62,942 for an incident at Energy Resources of Australias Ranger mine in 2004, resulting in a significant injury requiring Board responsibilities hospitalisation.
The directors of Rio Tinto, and of Group companies, are responsible for monitoring adherence to the Group policies outlined in The way we Occupational health work.
Assurance for performance in these areas involves checking, Rio Tinto strives to protect physical health and well being in the reviewing and reporting each businesss implementation of the policies, workplace.
This requires clear standards, consistent implementation, their compliance with regulations and voluntary commitments, and the transfer of best practice and improvement through Groupwide reporting effectiveness of management and control systems, while also providing and tracking of remedial actions.
Seventy six per cent of employees work at operations that have As discussed in the section on Corporate governance on page 78, fullly implemented the occupational health standards.
Of the remaining the boards established a process for identifying, evaluating and 11 businesses, ten have applied a risk based approach to managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
Directors meet implementation and should complete implementation in 2006.
In 2005 regularly, have regular scheduled discussions on aspects of the Groups there were 54 new cases of occupational illness per 10,000 employees, strategy and full and timely access to the information required to a 26 per cent improvement compared with 73 in 2004.
The Group has discharge their responsibilities fully and effectively.
achieved a 49 per cent reduction in new cases of occupational illness 56 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual report and financial statements OPERATIONAL REVIEW 200 5 30,000 6,000 36,000 29,000 8,000 37,000 29,000 7,000 36,000 28,000 4,000 32,000 28,000 4,000 32,000 81795x 1140i 25 2 06 10:17 am Page 57 since 2003, approximately 40 per cent of which has been due to the implementing this policy.
The guidance covers questions relating to divestment of Rio Tinto Zimbabwe.
compliance and implementation: gifts and entertainment: the use of Rio Tintos southern African operations completed implementation agents and intermediaries: and facilitation payments.
of the Group HIV AIDS strategy in 2005, which provides access to Rio Tinto avoids making facilitation payments anywhere in the antiretroviral therapy which is affordable for employees and a nominated world.
Bribery in any form is prohibited.
Gifts and entertainment are only partner.
offered or accepted for conventional social and business purposes and In 2004, Rio Tinto set targets to focus attention on reducing noise then only at a level appropriate to the circumstances.
induced hearing loss across the Group.
The target of zero exposure of employees to a noise dose of more than 82 decibels averaged over Communities eight hours and allowing for the use of hearing protection has now been Rio Tinto sets out to build enduring relationships with its neighbours that met, with less than 0.1 per cent of employees still exposed to noise are characterised by mutual respect, active partnership, and long term greater than this limit.
Fines for infringement of occupational health regulations in 2005 Every business unit is required to have rolling five year community involved two operations, totalling US$58,100 2004: US$257,000.
This plans which are updated annually.
In 2004, a series of pilot studies were includes a fine of US$57,204 for an incident at Energy Resources of completed aimed at achieving a deeper level of understanding of the Australias Ranger mine in 2004 relating to drinking water contamination.
linkages between mining activities and the economies in which they take place.
Environment All Group businesses produce their own reports for their local Wherever possible Rio Tinto prevents, or otherwise minimises, mitigates communities and other audiences.
Community assurance of the quality and remediates, harmful effects of the Groups operations on the and content of these reports is increasing.
This provides an opportunity environment.
for engagement with the community on their views of programmes To do this, the Group seeks to understand the environmental sponsored by the operations.
aspects and impacts of what it does, build what is learned into systems Businesses managed by Rio Tinto contributed US$93.4 million to to manage and minimise those impacts, and set targets for community programmes in 2005 2004: US$87.8 million calculated on improvement.
the basis of the London Benchmarking Group model.
Of the total Rio Tinto believes that emissions of greenhouse gases GHGs from contributions, US$37.3 million was community investment and human activities are contributing to climate change.
As a major US$29 million in direct payments made under legislation or an producer and user of energy products, the Group is working to reduce agreement with a local community.
greenhouse gas emissions from its processes and in the use of its products.
The Group has five year targets to reduce GHG emissions by Human rights four per cent per tonne of product and improve energy efficiency by five Rio Tinto supports human rights consistent with the Universal per cent per tonne of product by 2008 compared to a 2003 baseline.
Declaration of Human Rights and also respects those rights in Performance in 2005 against the energy target is ahead of conducting the Groups operations throughout the world.
trajectory 2.7 per cent improvement, while performance against the Rio Tinto also supports the UN Secretary Generals Global GHG target is slightly behind 0.9 per cent reduction.
Positive Compact, the US UK Voluntary Principles on Security and Human engagement with governments and stakeholders who are also trying to Rights and the Global Sullivan Principles.
find solutions to climate change remains an important focus of the Rio Tintos Human rights guidance is designed to assist managers Group.
In 2005 a Climate Change Leadership Panel was formed to in implementing the Groups human rights policy in complex local ensure Group actions remain effective and that Rio Tinto maintains a situations.
It was revised and republished in 2003.
In 2004, a web leading position in this area.
based training module was developed to instruct managers on what the By the end of 2005, 90 per cent of operations had certified ISO policy means in practice and how to respond to difficult situations.
14001 or an equivalent environmental management system EMS.
All Rio Tinto operations were required to have had a certified EMS by the Employment end of June 2005.
There were eight significant environmental incidents Rio Tinto recognises that business performance is closely linked to in 2005, of which two were spills, compared to 16 in 2004, of which four effective people development.
It has a long term plan to strengthen were spills.
Fines for infringements of environmental regulations involved approaches to the training and development of leaders in the Group.
three operations and totalled US$67,900 2004: US$53,800.
This In 2004, a suite of formal leadership programmes was developed includes a fine of US$57,204 for an incident in 2004 at Energy and implemented for both strategic and Group business leaders.
In Resources of Australias Ranger mine relating to a breach of radiation total, ten customised leadership development programmes, involving clearance procedures for equipment leaving site.
250 participants, were successfully run in 2005 in partnership with leading business schools in Europe, North America and Australia.
All Land access product groups and businesses were represented.
Rio Tinto seeks to ensure the widest possible support for its proposals As well as using the open programmes run by the London throughout the life cycle of the Groups activities by coordinating Business School and International Institute for Management economic, technical, environmental and social factors in an integrated Development for future leaders, Rio Tinto commissioned the design of a process.
customised, operational leadership programme which was launched in This involves negotiation of mining access agreements with 2005 with eight programmes involving about 240 further participants indigenous landowners: responsible land management and from across the Group at manager and superintendent level.
rehabilitation: planning for closure: developing and implementing a These programmes are all focused on ensuring that leaders, at all biodiversity strategy: and forming strategic partnerships with external levels, are well prepared for the wide range of current and future organisations.
challenges they will face in taking forward a complex and commercially successful organisation.
All of these programmes are closely integrated Political involvement with the core leadership competencies Rio Tinto has identified as Rio Tinto does not directly or indirectly participate in party politics nor necessary for effective leaders wherever they work in the organisation.
make payments to political parties or individual politicians.
Groupwide workshops to improve the capability of those involved in A Business integrity guidance, addressing bribery, corruption and managing careers were organised in 2005. political involvement, was issued in 2003 to assist managers in People development in Rio Tinto is focused on improving technical Rio Tinto 2005 Annual report and financial statements 57 OPERATIONAL REVIEW 200 5 81795x 1140i 25 2 06 10:18 am Page 58 Operational review continued and professional competencies.
In 2005, development of core risks associated with non compliance with laws, regulations, codes, competencies focused on on-the-job development, coaching, standards and Rio Tinto policies.
mentoring and competency based recruitment.
Rio Tinto requires safe and effective working relationships in all its Assurance and verification operations.
Whilst respecting different cultures, traditions and To be accountable and transparent, assurance is provided to the Group employment practices, common goals are shared, in particular the and others that Rio Tinto policies are being implemented fully and elimination of workplace injuries, and commitment to good corporate consistently across the Groups businesses and operations.
The overall objective of the external assurance and data verification In 2004 and 2005, Group companies, mainly concentrated in programme is to provide assurance that the material in the Sustainable Australia and North America, employed approximately 28,000 people development review is relevant, complete, accurate and responsive, and, together with Rio Tintos proportionate share of consolidated and, in particular, that Rio Tintos policies and programmes are reflected companies and equity accounted units, the total was approximately in implementation activities at operations.
Wages and salaries paid in 2005 excluding Resources Management ERM undertook the external assurance and Rio Tintos proportionate share of consolidated companies and equity data verification programme and the results are available in Rio Tintos accounted units, totalled US$2.1 billion 2004: US$1.8 billion.
Sustainable development review previously the Social and environment Retirement payments and benefits to dependants are provided in review.
accordance with local conditions and good practice.
Rio Tinto encourages the involvement of its employees in the Competition Groups performance through their participation in an employee share Rio Tinto has adopted a specific antitrust policy requiring all employees scheme.
As stated in The way we work, the Group recognises the right to compete fairly and to comply with relevant laws and regulations.
of employees to choose whether or not they wish to be represented Under the policy, guidance is provided on contacts with competitors collectively.
and benchmarking as well as implementation of the policy in individual businesses.
As integral parts of the policy, all relevant employees receive Sustainable development regular training and are required to certify annually that they are not Rio Tinto has made a strategic commitment to sustainable aware of any antitrust violations.
No violations were reported in 2005. development, in the belief that acting responsibly will result in long term business benefits such as lowering risks, reducing costs, creating options, and leveraging reputation.
It is corporate policy that Group businesses, projects, operations and products should contribute constructively to the global transition to sustainable development.
Details of our policy, programmes and results are provided in our Sustainable development review, available on the website.
All Rio Tinto managed businesses have developed, or are in the process of developing, locally relevant sustainable development metrics.
The intent is that these are derived in accordance with specific circumstances and sustainable development related priorities, through consultation with local stakeholders.
Progress against these metrics is beginning to be integrated into existing internal business reporting systems and communicated to external audiences annually through local Social and environment reports.
This approach has the advantage of giving local meaning to the Groups global sustainable development efforts and accordingly is more likely to lead to locally relevant and successful outcomes at the business unit level.
A Sustainable Development Leadership Panel SDLP was formed in 2004 to provide Group leadership and encourage businesses to make sustainable development considerations an integral part of business plans and decision making processes.
After wide internal and external consultation, in 2005 the panel developed a set of decision making criteria to help Rio Tinto businesses and departments incorporate sustainable development considerations into their formal and informal management systems.
At the corporate level the criteria were included in project evaluation guidelines.
As a founding member of the International Council on Mining and Metals, Rio Tinto is participating in dialogue and programmes to advance industry wide progress on key sustainable development priorities.
Openness and accountability Rio Tinto conducts the Groups affairs in an accountable and transparent manner, reflecting the interests of Rio Tinto shareholders, employees, host communities and customers as well as others affected by the Groups activities.
Policies on transparency, business integrity, corporate governance and internal controls and reporting procedures are outlined in The way we work.
In 2003, a Compliance guidance was issued to provide a framework to enable each Group business to implement and maintain a best practice compliance programme which should identify and manage 58 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual report and financial statements OPERATIONAL REVIEW 200 5
