24 Rotork Corporate Social Responsibility Annual Report 2005 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The Company has considered the guidelines industries, including water purification, Within the 2005 Environmental Report at on Social Responsibility published by the sewage, food processing, marine, irrigation, www.
com information and data can Association of British Insurers and takes full power generation and oil and gas.
be accessed about how Rotork managed its account of the significance of environmental key environmental impacts.
The data includes and ethical matters in the conduct of its Rotork products help reduce human error and information on energy, water, waste business and in its risk assessment processes.
thus potential environmental disasters, whilst generation, hydrocarbons, volatile organic Rotork remains fully committed to the saving energy and resource.
compounds, ozone depletion and landscape principles laid down for its inclusion in the and biodiversity.
Data is also included from FTSE4Good Index and the 10 Principles of the Rotork is continuing to develop and produce the other manufacturing sites as well as Bath.
UN Global Compact of which it is a signatory.
energy efficient products with improved performance.
Ethics and Values Environment Rotork is a signatory to the United Nations The Group Environmental policy includes Environmental Management System Global Compact and its 10 Universal commitments to the prevention of pollution, Rotork will, through its Environmental Principles around human rights, labour, compliance with all relevant legal and other Management System: environment, bribery and corruption.
These regulatory requirements and to the Principles are derived from the Universal continuous improvement of environmental Allocate formal environmental Declaration of Human Rights, which the performance.
The Environmental policy responsibilities to ensure compliance with Company also therefore supports and the applies to all manufacturing sites in the Group legislation.
The complete policy may be found Support a culture of consultation with Declaration of Fundamental Principles and at www.
employees, key stakeholders and other Rights at Work.
In particular, Rotork supports interested parties.
all United Nations efforts to ensure the In its 2005 Environmental Report the Group Provide environmental information, effective abolition of child forced compulsory reported that it had maintained its guidance and, where necessary provide labour and will never use any such labour in commitment to managing and improving its training that meets best practice.
any of its operations worldwide.
At Rotork environmental performance and to Monitor, measure, audit and seek the rights of every employee are respected.
communicating this performance to its continuous improvement in its The Company acts in ways that ensure all stakeholders through the publication of its environmental performance.
employees are treated with openness, mutual Environmental Report for 2005 which can be Work with external agencies and bodies to trust, dignity and respect.
Everyone working accessed in full at www.
com under ensure continued adoption of best practice at Rotork will be treated fairly and without Environment.
The 2006 Environmental solutions in environmental management.
discrimination on the basis of race, gender, Report will be available on the Companys Communicate best practice and publish language or religion.
website in late Spring 2006. internal and external information detailing is aims and achievements.
Rotorks Ethics and Values Statement can be The Group has identified its key negative Foster open communication with accessed at Rotorks website www.
com environmental impacts to include the use of employees, customers, suppliers and other under the Investors section, sub-section energy, water, packaging and disposal of stakeholders via both electronic publishing Responsibilities and Ethics.
The Group is continually developing and face-to-face discussion.
that part of the website can be accessed the policies and procedures on these issues to Rotork Doing the Right Thing document minimise its impact on the environment.
Independent verification of compliance of the which describes some of the benefits Rotork Companys Environmental Management provides for employees and the wider Rotork considers its positive environmental System at the Bath site with ISO 14001 was community.
impacts include its contribution to sustainable achieved during the year.
The audit development and environmental established that a system was in place and improvement through the products and working.
In the 2004 Environmental Report services it sells.
The Companys products are waste to landfill was identified as the biggest used around the world to operate industrial operational environmental impact.
Recycling valves in all environments, including those facilities introduced during 2004 had by midwhich are hazardous and in many types of 2005 reduced waste to landfill by two-thirds.
Corporate Social Responsibility Rotork 25 continued Annual Report 2005 Suppliers Community involvement Other charitable organisations to benefit Business integrity and fair dealing is key to For many years Rotork has pursued a policy from Rotorks Charity Committee during the the Groups relationships with suppliers and of community involvement through financial year included: contractors.
Many of the Groups suppliers support and fostering partnership with local have long-term relationships with the Group.
charitable and voluntary organisations, trusts Tsunami Appeal Most key suppliers are registered to ISO and local support groups.
Supplier development is ongoing and Committee made up of employees at all The Egg involves elements developed in the motor levels considers local community charitable Summerfield School industry of the QS 9000 system.
and similar requests at the Bath site.
Projects Leukaemia Research are then followed through with visits and RNID Employees reports by employees and feedback to the Beating Bowel Cancer Employees in the UK and many overseas Charity Committee.
Sponsorship is also given Bath Opportunity Pre School subsidiary companies enjoy participation in to local youth and sporting clubs and to Heartline long-standing Rotork profit sharing and share cultural and social events.
There is also direct Tearfund schemes.
For Northern Youth Venture Fund example in Bath a representative of the Rosewell League of Friends At the Bath plant, an Employee Committee Company sits on a local group supporting The Rainbow Centre sits regularly to discuss staff issues and local initiatives for cultural, social and St. Martins Gardens Primary School suggests improvements in working conditions economic development.
Race for Life and practices.
All issues are reviewed by BIME directors and acted on as appropriate.
The Charity Committee normally matches Vision Bath monies raised by employees who undertake St. Marys C of E Primary School An Equal Opportunities policy is applied appropriate charitable events personally.
2 Bridges Drugs and Alcohol Trust throughout the Group and in almost all Weston Day Club cases, it is nationals from those countries in From 2004, the Charity Committee awarded Bridge Care which the Company operates who manage a grant of 30,000 over three years to the The Harbour those companies locally.
Research Institute for the Care of the Elderly Music Alive to provide a Rotork room in a new research Samaritans Financial support for training and learning facility to be built at the Royal United Churches Together in Bath programmes directly related to employees Hospital in Bath.
The room will be one of CLIC working roles are provided.
There are two four examination rooms that will be used on The Grand Appeal full time training officers at the Bath site a daily basis for the Institutes research Guide Dogs for Blind who co-ordinate product training initiatives projects and memory clinics.
The memory Little Sisters of the Poor for employees and customers.
Four year clinics provide a much valued service to Invalids at Home apprenticeship programmes underline the people in the Bath area.
Like Rotork, the Hop Skip and Jump commitment to staff development for the Institute is committed to research as a means Childrens Heart Foundation long-term.
of progress in finding solutions to practical Julian House problems.
With the ageing of the population, 1 to 1 Health and Safety research to improve the care of older people MS Society The Group has Health and Safety policies in is of growing importance and Rotork is Blackwell Challenge place.
The Group is working towards a global pleased to be involved with this initiative.
Winsley Acorns Health and Safety policy compliant with RUH Forever Friends Occupational Health and Safety Management RUH Charitable Friends System OHSAS for the benefit of employees Dressability and those they interact with worldwide.
Phoenix Activity Club Bath Cats and Dogs Home Jeans for Genes Charter Trustees of the City of Bath Genises Trust Charity Search Roadpeace Bath Junior Gateway
