Corporate Social Sage is committed to ensuring that we carry out our business Responsibility activities in a socially responsible manner.
Our operating companies have adopted the Communications, continues to have principles of: particular responsibility for matters relating to corporate social responsibility.
Treating employees fairly and equitably Our operating companies are encouraged Operating ethically and with integrity and supported to undertake positive Respecting basic human rights corporate social responsibility activities within a common policy framework provided Seeking to limit our impact on by the Group regarding employment, the environment community and environmental matters.
Being a caring member of our communities We currently do not set specific targets for our operating companies in this regard but it is a It is the role and responsibility of the Board matter that the Board continues to consider.
to take into account all aspects of social, At present the Board does not consider it environmental and ethical issues in its appropriate to link the management of discussions and decision making and it social, environmental and ethical issues to receives reports at each Board meeting from remuneration incentives, given the difficulties Group executives on relevant developments in objectively measuring risk management in these areas.
In order to verify that, as a and performance in this area.
Group of companies, we are working to these standards, we require each of our Employment operating companies to report on key We strive to ensure our people are proud indicators on a quarterly basis.
We encourage and foster a culture of innovation, Whilst the Board considers that material risks entrepreneurship and team spirit within a from social, environmental and ethical issues supportive environment.
Sage now employs are limited, it nevertheless takes a proactive almost 10,000 people and we continue to approach to risk management in these recruit and retain only the best talent.
The Risk Committee, consisting of our goal to bring out the best in our people executive management, identifies and and therefore it is our policy to pursue considers any risks to the business of the practices that are sensitive to the needs of Group from social, ethical and environmental our people.
Our priorities are: issues and reports on any such risks to the Audit Committee of the Board.
Should any Ensuring equality of opportunity, fostering risks be identified, the Risk Committee diversity and providing a safe workplace monitors the steps being taken by operating companies to reduce such risks.
The Encouraging our people to reach their full potential through training, career induction programme for new Board development and promotion from within, directors explains the procedures for identification, assessment and management where possible of risk, including those arising from social, Communicating openly and transparently environmental and ethical issues.
Through with our people and taking into account both the quarterly reporting cycle and the their feedback reviews undertaken by the Risk Committee, the Board has in place an effective system to Recognising and rewarding our people for manage risks in this area.
their contribution and encouraging share ownership at all levels As part of our on-going commitment to improving and maintaining good practices We have an equal opportunities policy that across the Group, the Board has continued applies across the Group and this prohibits to ensure that an executive has specific discrimination on grounds such as race, responsibility for this area.
Karen Geary, gender, religion, sexual orientation or Director of Human Resources and Corporate disability.
We operate in a number of 1 Financial Highlights and Overview 2 Chairmans Statement 3 Chief Executives Review 6 Corporate Social Responsibility 8 Directors and Advisers 10 Financial Review 13 Directors Report 18 Corporate Governance Statement 23 Remuneration Report 32 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 33 Consolidated Balance Sheet 34 Company Balance Sheet 35 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 36 Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses 36 Reconciliation of Movements in Equity Shareholders Funds 37 Notes to the Accounts 61 Independent Auditors Report 62 Notice of Meeting 64 Financial Calendar geographic regions, adhering to all relevant environmental care, to increase our Achievements in the year laws that apply and also supporting understanding of environmental issues Employment internationally accepted standards including and to spread environmental best practice Some of our largest businesses those on human rights.
Our policy includes, throughout our businesses.
have developed and implemented new performance management where practical, the continued employment Waste materials are recycled where possible frameworks to recognise and of those who may become disabled during reward contribution and and waste paper is minimised through their employment.
Our policies ensure that all performance.
Over 50% of our promotion of paperless processes and employees are involved.
decisions about the appointment, treatment downloadable software products.
and promotion of employees are based Our Marketplace Educational road shows in the UK, entirely on merit.
We make maximum use of internet and Europe and North America were telephone based tools to manage hosted to help customers get the Our marketplace most out of their products.
international meetings in order to minimise It is our aim to be a trusted advisor to air travel where possible and our businesses Environment our customers, a respected and admired 30% reduction in shipped software have introduced policies and incentives company in our industry and a leader in packaging and related materials to reduce car use.
since 2003. encouraging the growth and development of SMEs through the effective use of It is our intention to strengthen our Community A special Hurricane Katrina relief information technology.
All of our operating environmental activity during the next year task force was set up in North companies focus on customer satisfaction with continued focus on waste reduction, America to help businesses in the following ways: energy minimisation and reduced packaging affected by the tragedy.
Assistance provided, both direct and through as we continue to work to minimise any Monitoring customer advocacy and our business partner network, negative impact on the environment.
included free replacement recommendation software, free technical support Community and on-site assistance.
Undertaking loyalty surveys It is our policy to be an integral part of the Responding to customer support phone communities in which we are based.
We are calls handling an average of 33,000 calls committed to developing relationships with per day in total those communities, where appropriate, through voluntary activities and donations.
Holding customer awareness events and Close relationships have been fostered with discussion groups to enable customers many communities through local initiatives and Sage employees to meet face to face and numerous donations have been made to local, national and international charities Surveying SMEs to understand their and community foundations.
business issues The total cash donation made to charities Releasing publications on business issues around the globe was 321,000 during the We actively promote the use of the internet financial year, including 50,000 to the in business, particularly in the area of Tsunami appeal.
In addition, a number of government submissions.
Our awareness our businesses offer community support in of the importance of prompt payment to other ways through employee volunteering, small business is demonstrated by our employee-led fundraising, equipment and commitment to pay customers and suppliers furniture donations, employee family days on fair terms.
Environment More detail on specific activities and It is our policy to ensure, by encouraging achievements can be found on environmental best practice in the www.
business, that our operations have as little environmental impact as is consistent with our business needs.
The effect on the environment of the Groups activities is monitored, where appropriate, with regard to the low overall environmental impact of our primary activities as a software publisher and service provider.
