NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS particular, our controls are focussed on participation COMPLIANCE REMUNERATION POLICY CORPORATE DIRECTORS REPORT BY IAN MCALLISTER, SENIOR This report has been prepared to comply with the in the Board of BBH and in overseeing its finance and The Companys policy in setting remuneration for GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR treasury functions, together with regular reports on Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued executive directors and other senior executives for The non-executive directors met twice, as a formal by the Financial Reporting Council and with Schedule the performance of the business.
2006 and subsequent years is designed to ensure REPORT REPORT group, during the year, once with the Chairman and 7A of the Companies Act 1985.
It has been approved that the total package: CONTINUED once under my Chairmanship.
We do, however, by the Remuneration Committee and the Board and GOING CONCERN have a regular dialogue with the Chairman outside After making enquiries, the directors have a shareholders will be invited to approve it at the Is competitive with companies in the same sector formal meetings.
reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate which are of similar size and complexity so that As required by the Combined Code, I led a formal resources to continue operating for the foreseeable Certain parts of this report are required to be it will attract, retain and motivate executives evaluation of the performance of the Chairman, audited.
Where disclosures are subject to audit, future.
For this reason, the going concern basis was with the skills required to maximise return including separate interviews with each member of adopted in preparing the accounts.
they have been marked as such.
for shareholders: the Board, after which a formal report was produced Facilitates the movement of executives between for discussion at the meeting of the non-executive STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE different divisions and countries within the Group: directors at which the Chairman was not present.
The members of the Remuneration Committee are Ian RESPONSIBILITIES IN RELATION TO THE Supports the achievement of the Groups As in previous years, I have been able to have FINANCIAL STATEMENTS McAllister Chairman, Dr Neville Bain, and Sir Angus operational and strategic objectives: and discussions with a number of our major shareholders.
They are all independent non-executive These are the Groups first consolidated financial Is balanced and does not lead to excessive awards.
If any shareholders would like to raise any concerns statements prepared in accordance with IFRS.
Iain Anderson was also a member of the with me, or with any other non-executive director, committee until his resignation from the board on The Directors are responsible for preparing the Against this background remuneration is set could they please contact the Company Secretary.
Annual Report and the Group and Company Financial 31 August 2005.
The role of the Committee includes: for executive directors and other senior executives determining, and agreeing with the Board, the Statements, in accordance with applicable law and to achieve the Companys objectives and therefore ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT regulations.
Groups remuneration policy for the Chairman, no link is made with the remuneration levels of The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups executive directors and members of the Executive UK company law requires the Directors to other employees.
systems of internal control and for reviewing their prepare Group and Company Financial Statements Management Group: approving the design of, targets As part of this policy, the Committee believes effectiveness.
These systems are intended to manage for, and payments made under, performance related pay for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors that it is important that a significant part of the rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve are required to prepare the Group Financial schemes: reviewing the design for share incentive remuneration package should be clearly linked to business objectives and we recognise that such plans for approval by the Board and shareholders: Statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted performance measured at Group, divisional and systems can only provide reasonable, not absolute, by the EU and have elected to prepare the Company determining the policy for pension arrangements for personal level in the form of both short and long assurance against material misstatement or loss.
executive directors and members of the Executive Financial Statements in accordance with UK term incentives.
As prescribed in the revised guidance of the Accounting Standards.
Management Group: within the agreed policy, The chart below shows the broad projected Turnbull Committee on Internal Control, we have determining the total individual remuneration package The Group Financial Statements are required by relative values of base salary, benefits, short term established an ongoing process for identifying, law and IFRS as adopted by the EU to present fairly for executive directors and members of the Executive incentives STIs and long term incentives LTIs.
The evaluating and managing significant risks faced Management Group.
the financial position and performance of the Group.
first case shows the expected targeted performance by the Group.
This process has been in place The Company Financial Statements are required values and the second shows the case if the throughout the financial year and up to the date of Sir Angus Grossart became a member of the by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs maximum incentive rewards are earned.
the approval of the financial statements.
The process of the Company.
The Committee also encourages executive is regularly reviewed and discussed at the Board and The Committees full terms of reference are The Companies Act 1985 provides in relation directors to build an appropriate shareholding in the amended where required.
to such financial statements that references in the available on the Groups website.
Company through the operation of the Companys As part of the ongoing process each division The Committee appointed Towers Perrin to advise relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving share schemes.
and function reviews and evaluates the risks to the a true and fair view are references to their achieving on remuneration issues, and in particular on market achievement of its strategic objectives.
Towers Perrin also provided advice to the fair presentation.
INCENTIVES AND PERFORMANCE CRITERIA also identifies those significant risks which might In preparing each of the Group and Company Company on general reward and retirement issues.
The Committee uses three measures of Company preclude achievement of corporate objectives.
Sir Brian Stewart Group Chairman, Tony Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: or business performance, which are as follows: Mitigating controls are then identified together with Froggatt Chief Executive, and Tony Graham Group economic profit: operating profit excluding exceptional any action necessary to enhance the effectiveness HR Director attended meetings of the Committee Select suitable accounting policies and then items, net of tax, less a charge for the use of capital of those controls.
The profiles of significant risk at apply them consistently.
by invitation but were not present during discussions divisional and corporate level are subject to regular or decisions about their own remuneration.
Ray Martin Make judgements and estimates that are total shareholder return TSR : growth in value of a review and update as an integral part of the Groups reasonable and prudent.
HR Director-Reward also assisted the Committee share over the relevant period, taking into account integrated performance management process.
and Peter Kennerley Company Secretary is secretary For the Group Financial Statements, state reinvested dividends The Board obtains its assurance on the whether they have been prepared in accordance to the Committee.
The Committee also consults the earnings per share EPS : earnings attributable to effectiveness of the control system from regular Companys principal shareholders and investor with IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
ordinary shareholders excluding exceptional items reports from the Chairman of the Audit Committee, For the Company Financial Statements, state representative groups on remuneration and benefit divided by the weighted average number of ordinary management reports, reports by the internal and matters as appropriate.
The Committee met whether applicable UK Accounting Standards shares in issue on a diluted basis external auditors and receives a formal report on have been followed, subject to any material seven times during the year.
departures disclosed and explained in the An explanation of why particular performance The Group has an internal audit function Group Company Financial Statements.
measures were adopted for particular incentives Review and Audit or GRA which reports to the Audit Prepare the financial statements on the going is described below.
The annual audit plan, which is riskconcern basis unless it is inappropriate to based, is approved by the Audit Committee and presume that the Group and the Company BASE SALARY covers business processes and internal controls will continue in business.
Individual base salaries of Executive Directors and in all divisions and functions.
Reports are produced PROJECTED RELATIVE Members of the EMG are reviewed annually by the for each audit undertaken and there is an effective The Directors are responsible for keeping proper VALUES OF BASE SALARY, Committee, taking into account a number of factors, follow-up system for ensuring the implementation accounting records that disclose with reasonable BENEFITS, SHORT TERM including individual performance, responsibility changes, of agreed action.
accuracy at any time the financial position of the INCENTIVES AND LONG company performance, reviews elsewhere within the A comprehensive control self-assessment Company and enable them to ensure that its financial TERM INCENTIVES Group and the competitive position of other elements exercise conducted on an annual basis complements statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. of the package.
Base salary is also compared to midExpected value the work of GRA.
This exercise is subject to regular They have general responsibility for taking such steps market salaries for comparable roles, using the FTSE enhancement and requires management to assess as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the Benefits LTIs 100 as a comparator group, adjusted to remove financial the effectiveness of their fundamental operating assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud services businesses, as compiled by the Committees 40% 15% 20% 25% control over all aspects of their operations, not just and other irregularities.
Group Review and Audit will test the validity of the latest responses on their next visit Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors to the location.
At the end of the financial year heads are also responsible for preparing a Directors of business functions sign a letter of representation Report, Directors Remuneration Report and confirming that controls have been applied Corporate Governance Statement that comply throughout the year.
with that law and those regulations.
Maximum value The foregoing procedures can be varied Benefits LTIs depending upon the specific agreements with each 22.5% 10% 22.5% 45% of our joint venture partners.
Where this is the case, Base STIs however, we would seek to ensure so far as is practicable that we are satisfied with the effectiveness of the prevailing control environment.
In the case of our investment in Baltic Beverages Holding, in 20 Scottish & Newcastle plc 2005 Scottish & Newcastle plc 2005 21
