Corporate Associated British Foods plc citizenship Corporate citizenship 26 Corporate Annual Report and Accounts 2005 citizenship Reduction of printing inks Primark redesigned the printing on their plastic Reduction in water consumption carrier bags and reduced the use of solvents by Water used by British Sugar UK to transport 80 tonnes per year.
sugar beet into the factory is reused approximately 20 times before treatment and release.
The purpose and values of the business Employees We remunerate fairly with respect to skills, Associated British Foods is an international Our employees are our most crucial performance, our peers and local conditions.
food, ingredients and retail group resource, and therefore we abide by the with annual sales of 5.6bn and over following principles: Communication we will brief employees 42,000 employees.
and their representatives on all relevant Equal opportunities we are committed matters on a regular basis.
The group is one of Europes largest food to offering equal opportunities to all companies with a wide range of successful people in their recruitment, training and ABF encourages an open culture in all its brands and products in the food sector, and career development, having regard for dealings between employees and people with an increasingly strong presence in advanced their particular aptitudes and abilities.
Effective and honest research and technology, where we are Full and fair consideration is given to communication is essential if malpractice and turning natural products into innovative applicants with disabilities and every wrongdoing are to be effectively dealt with.
27 ingredients for the food, personal care and effort is made to give employees who The ABF Whistleblowing Procedure sets out pharmaceutical industries.
A significant become disabled whilst employed by the guidelines for individuals who feel they need supplier of branded and non-branded grocery company an opportunity for retraining.
to raise certain issues with Associated British products and a leading textile retailer, we Foods plc or their own operating company, in have major businesses in Europe, Asia, the Health and safety we consider health confidence.
We will make all efforts to protect Americas and Australia.
and safety as equal in importance to that the confidentiality of those who raise concerns, of any other function of the company and and employees may come forward without fear Our aim is to concentrate our energies and our its business objectives.
The policy and full for their position.
A full copy of the procedure expertise on segments of the market where we global report is available on the company is available on our website www.
Ethical business practices we are also constantly searching for better, Competition we are committed to free more efficient and more profitable ways to Harassment we will not tolerate sexual, and fair competition and we will compete manufacture food and ways to employ our mental or physical harassment in the strongly but honestly complying with all technology in other related sectors.
We expect incidents of local competition laws.
harassment to be reported to the As a responsible corporate citizen, we aim appropriate human resources director.
Bribery we will not condone the offering to act in a socially responsible manner at all or receiving of bribes or other such times.
The groups organisational structure Human rights managers must take facilitating payments to any person is highly decentralised and as such our account of the core International Labour or entity for the purpose of obtaining companies devise procedures appropriate Organisation labour conventions and strive or retaining business or influencing to and compliant with local laws, culture to observe the UN Declaration on Human political decisions.
and operating conditions but within the Rights, by respecting the dignity and overall context of the following minimum human rights of our employees and in Political donations financial donations are overriding principles: particular as stated below: not permitted to political parties within the European Union.
The consent of the Chief Universal respect for an observance of Executive is required for any other donation human rights and fundamental freedoms to a political party.
for all without discrimination as to race, sex, language or religion.
Corporate Associated British Foods plc citizenship Corporate citizenship continued Modification of road tankers AB Mauri is pursuing a programme of modifications to its road tankers to reduce the risk of driver accidents when they are inspecting and maintaining their vehicles.
Confidentiality and accuracy of information the confidentiality of information received in the course of business will be respected and never be used for personal gain.
False information will not be given in the course of commercial negotiations.
Conflict of interest any personal interest, which may prejudice or might reasonably be deemed by others to prejudice, the impartiality of employees, must be formally declared to a senior manager.
Examples of 28 this include owning shares in business partners and personal or family involvement in trading contracts.
Business gifts and hospitality gifts, other than items of very small intrinsic value, are not accepted.
Employees who receive hospitality must not allow themselves to reach a position whereby they might be deemed by others to have been influenced in making a business decision as a consequence.
However, giving and receiving reasonable business related products, marketing materials and entertainment are permitted.
Food safety We recognise and acknowledge that consumer confidence in the quality and safety of our food products is essential.
To this end a high priority is placed on all aspects of food safety.
Corporate Annual Report and Accounts 2005 citizenship Renewable energy Our businesses rarely rely on a single fuel but use a variety of different fuels.
Across the group, natural gas, one of the cleanest fossil fuels, provides half our energy needs, while 15% is generated from bagasse, the fibre produced during sugar cane processing, and therefore a renewable energy source.
Healthy Schools Scheme Wolverhampton City Councils Healthy Schools Scheme, in conjunction with Allied Bakeries, introduced pupils at Ettingshall Primary School in Bilston to a workshop to make healthy sandwiches.
To manage food safety risks, our sites Shareholders The wider community operate food safety systems which are ABF is committed to increasing shareholder We recognise our responsibilities as a regularly reviewed to ensure they remain value, and we will communicate our member of the communities in which effective, including compliance with all achievements and prospects to our we operate and encourage our operating regulatory requirements for hygiene and shareholders in an accurate and timely companies to engage with the local community food safety.
Our food products are made manner.
Apart from the annual general in their areas of operation.
Examples of this to high standards regardless of where they meeting the company communicates include cultural and community sponsorship are manufactured.
We will always put food with its shareholders by way of the annual in Australia through George Weston Foods safety before economic considerations.
report and accounts, the half yearly interim and the community activities of British Sugar report and at www.
co. uk the companys through the British Sugar Foundation whose Environment website.
Significant matters relating to the Policy and Guidelines are reproduced in full ABF recognises the impact that its trading or development of the business are on the British Sugar website.
29 businesses have on the environment.
disseminated to the market by way of Stock Therefore, as a minimum, we will comply with Exchange announcements.
The company also The Garfield Weston Foundation was set current applicable legislation of the countries holds meetings with its major institutional up by the late W. Garfield Weston in 1958. in which we operate.
shareholders to discuss the companys It is one of the UKs foremost philanthropic operations.
Stockbrokers, Hoare Govett, organisations and derives a substantial The environmental performance of our offer a low cost share dealing service in proportion of its funds from its interests in businesses will be regularly reported to and our shares.
The company offers a Dividend ABFs ultimate holding company, Wittington reviewed by the board.
The policy and full Reinvestment Plan, operated by our Registrars.
global report is available on the company website www.
Suppliers Applying our principles We will carry out our business honestly, These business principles apply to all our Stakeholder relationships ethically and with respect for the rights employees and are a minimum standard for Customers and interests of our suppliers.
We will settle their behaviour: operating companies may have We seek to be honest and fair in our our bills promptly being a signatory to additional standards.
Failure to comply with our relationships with our customers and above the Better Payment Practice Code and we principles may result in disciplinary action.
all to provide the standards of product and will co-operate with suppliers to improve service that have been agreed whilst at the quality and efficiency.
We seek to develop same time offering value for money.
At all relationships with supplier companies times we take all reasonable steps to ensure consistent with these basic principles, and the safety and quality of the goods or services specifically with respect to human rights that we produce.
Where supplier audits show shortcomings in any of these areas, we will strive to encourage a programme of improvement leading to compliance.
Responsibility for specific supply codes and agreements rests with individual companies.
