qxd 30 03 2006 12:07 Page 32 Corporate Social Responsibility SIG has made significant progress in the year in developing and implementing its Corporate Social Responsibility CSR policies and is pleased to be able to inform its stakeholders of the measures which it is taking to continue to SIG recognises monitor and improve its CSR performance.
In accordance with the ABI reporting guidelines SIG is able to confirm that its corporate the Board takes regular account of the significance of social, environmental and ethical matters to the business of the Group and that it has in place a comprehensive risk management and internal control process which identifies and social and assesses the significant risks to the Companys short and long term value arising from such matters.
responsibilities to SIG recognises its Corporate Social Responsibilities to its Shareholders, customers and suppliers and is committed to good practice in all its activities.
its Shareholders, Environment As a leading international supplier of insulation and related materials our core business is focused on the reduction of energy consumption and the customers, subsequent reduction in harmful environmental impacts.
The Chief Executive, Mr. D. Williams, is the Board Director responsible suppliers and for the environmental performance of the Group.
SIG is committed to minimising the environmental impact of its activities through good environmental management practices.
The Groups Environmental Policy was reviewed in 2005.
The Policy is displayed in all trading sites and offices employees and throughout the Group and on the SIG website.
Environmental objectives and targets have been established at relevant functions and levels within the organisation.
is committed to SIG is committed to conducting its activities and operations in line with best environmental practice, seeking continual improvement and innovation within good practice in all Group businesses and activities.
All SIG plc UK companies actively seek to: all activities.
minimise the use of all materials, supplies and energy and wherever possible use renewable or recyclable materials: minimise the quantity of waste produced in all aspects of our business: adopt an environmentally sound transport policy: communicate our environmental policy to all staff and encourage them to participate in the achievement of our goals: 32 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate governance 5SIG 2005arm.
qxd 30 03 2006 12:07 Page 33 supply and promote, wherever possible, those products which contribute SIG is fitting vehicles with logistics tracking systems and navigation to energy conservation and do not damage the environment: and planning equipment.
This is aimed at using the most fuel efficient route for each journey: and ensure that the Company continues to meet present and future environmental standards and legislation.
the Company has a policy, which was introduced in 2005, of seeking to reduce the amount of motor fuel used relative to the amount of goods To this end the Company has established an environmental management delivered, by a minimum of 1% per annum.
system in accordance with BS EN ISO 14001: 2004.
Packaging and waste reduction Environmental management SIG works with its suppliers to minimise primary and secondary packaging, During the year the focus has been on putting in place the procedures while maintaining necessary levels of packaging to ensure that the product and systems for the Group to introduce an Integrated Management System arrives with the customer in perfect condition.
As a break bulk supplier, combining BS EN ISO 14001 Environment, and OHSAS 18001 Health SIG has recognised that the major impact of the organisation on and Safety in the UK.
Moody International have been appointed Assessors environmental waste is through packaging and has taken a pro-active and the assessment process, leading to certification under these approach to minimise the amount of new packaging entering the market accreditation schemes, which is currently being undertaken is expected and the amount of waste generated at trading site level.
to result in all the Groups UK sites receiving certification to the standards forming BSI.
This is achieved by: The Group has identified the significant environmental impact of its environmental awareness training at all sites including the distribution of operations, which are summarised below.
energy reduction awareness information and reminder aids to all employees: Energy and transport purchasing recycled and recyclable packaging where practicable, As a founder member of the Association for the Conservation of Energy, including pallets and cartons: SIG is active in promoting and encouraging the raising of mandatory standards for thermal insulation.
returning reusable pallets to suppliers and similarly recovering used pallets from customers: Reducing energy consumption is a priority for its operations.
This is targeted both through reducing the amount of fuel used in delivery, by increasing the reusing packaging for internal transfers and deliveries: efficiency of heating and lighting and maximising the use of natural light in the Groups properties and by environmental awareness training at UK sites.
actively taking part in recycling and reclamation schemes through the Companys membership of Valpak and working closely with suppliers SIG has a policy of introducing the most energy efficient vehicles to improve the accuracy of data.
SIG meets its responsibilities under the commercially available currently considered to be Euro IV category packaging waste regulations in the UK through Valpaks compliance scheme.
engines, as soon as it is practically possible to do so, as vehicles are As part of the Companys ongoing development in this area, it has entered due for renewal: into a national agreement with Veolia for waste removal.
Veolia operates its own waste recycling and reclamation compliance scheme: and SIG employs staff to train its drivers in driving techniques aimed at reducing accidents and damage safe driving and to drive vehicles using methods SIG embraces electronic communication within its businesses, which and practices which will reduce fuel consumption.
All vehicles are regularly has resulted in a significant reduction in internal paperwork throughout serviced to ensure that vehicle emissions are kept to a minimum: the Group.
the transport co-ordinators in each location throughout the Group are required to make the most efficient use of vehicles, consistent with meeting customer requirements.
Techniques used include maximising vehicle loading within legal limits so reducing vehicle numbers, and route planning, to minimise distances travelled and thereby fuel usage: Focus, Specialisation and Service SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 33 5SIG 2005arm.
qxd 30 03 2006 12:07 Page 34 Corporate Social Responsibility continued The continuing improvement of health and safety performance is a key Packaging and waste reduction continued priority.
A programme is ongoing to ensure that all UK subsidiary company SIG actively seeks to reduce the number of printed copies of its Annual Report Directors will have received appropriate training in health and safety in order and Accounts and will be actively encouraging Shareholders to elect to receive to meet their responsibilities.
Additional Health and Safety Advisors who are their communications from the Company in electronic form.
The 2005 Annual either Company or regionally based have been recruited to support the Report and Accounts has been produced on Zanders Mega Matt which uses increased focus on health and safety education and awareness at workplace up to 50% recovered fibre from pre and post consumer waste.
Forklift and commercial driver training form an important part of pulp source is totally chlorine free and is sourced from fully sustainable sources.
SIGs Workplace Safety Policy, which impacts on reduced insurance costs, The paper manufacturing mill has also been accredited with the internationally enhanced pedestrian and site safety and improved working environment.
Daily inspections complement periodic training to keep the vehicle and driver at peak performance.
Acquisitions Considerable importance is placed on environmental matters as part Community of the due diligence process for acquisitions.
External advisors review The Group endeavours to contribute to the communities in which it and assess any environmental risks to which the Group could potentially operates particularly those neighbouring its sites.
SIG is a member become exposed and these are considered as part of the acquisition of Business in the Community in the UK and has worked with that process.
Health and safety compliance and processes are also considered organisation to help to develop its approach and practices.
This is mainly as part of the acquisition process.
achieved through charitable donations and other initiatives that help the community.
The Group also provides financial support for employees Suppliers undertaking overseas charity work.
During the year SIG put in place a formal supplier audit programme.
The programme is conducted by way of questionnaire and includes a The Personnel Director has responsibility for community issues within the request for details of the environmental aspects of the Suppliers operations.
Group and reports to the Chief Executive who is responsible for community Environmental management is one of the criteria considered when issues at Board level.
examining a suppliers qualifications for Group orders.
The Group has a policy that all timber purchased for use in its manufacturing activities must Donations be from renewable resources.
This is a relatively small part of the UK During the year the Group made charitable donations of 98,000 operations, but where accreditation and forest stewardship schemes 2004: 53,000.
It is the Groups policy not to make political donations are applicable and available, SIG uses these in its sourcing procedures.
and no political donations were made in the year 2004: nil.
Health and safety The Group has a Charitable Donations Policy.
The Policy, in addition to The Group is committed to high standards of health and safety for all supporting local causes where SIG employees are involved, is to provide of its employees.
The Groups Health and Safety Policy was reviewed support for three main charities for a period of three years commencing in 2005.
The policy is displayed throughout the Groups workplaces in 2004.
The three charities selected are: and is available on the Companys website.
Whilst Mr. D. Williams, the Chief Executive, is the Board Director responsible for the health Henshaws College, which is a unique and pioneering education facility and safety performance of the Group, the SIG systems ensure that offering high quality independent living skills training to around 65 young responsibility exists throughout all of the SIG businesses.
Health and safety people aged between 16 and 23, all of whom are visually impaired with objectives and targets have been established at relevant functions and levels additional disabilities.
SIG supports five students from different parts of within the organisation.
the UK: As part of the Boards ongoing commitment to its health and safety Yorkshire Wildlife Trust where SIG sponsors a number of Wildlife improvement policy a programme to achieve OHSAS accreditation projects: and commenced in 2004 with Moody International as Assessors.
The preliminary audits were completed in November 2005 and it is expected that all the Hope and Homes for Children, which is an international charity, Groups UK sites will receive OHSAS certification following the final audits engaged in providing homes and support for children on a long term in March 2006. basis in third world and war torn countries.
34 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate governance 5SIG 2005arm.
qxd 30 03 2006 12:07 Page 35 Staff are kept informed of charitable activities, and are encouraged to attend There is an active and extensive programme of training in place.
events as appropriate, as a means of encouraging them to be personally Full time dedicated professional trainers are employed and their work associated with charitable work and in particular with the causes supported is supplemented as required by external courses and external agencies.
In order to meet ever increasing customer demand particular emphasis is placed on customer service and interpersonal skills.
The Group has an During the year the Group introduced a Payroll Giving Scheme, which is objective of increasing the number of man-hours of staff and management available to all UK employees.
Code of ethics SIG recognises the importance of good communications with employees The Group is currently in the process of establishing a Group wide Code and acknowledges that there should be clear channels of communication of Ethics, which will set out a number of fundamental principles, which all and opportunities for consultation and dialogue on issues, which affect both Group companies will be required to follow.
It is intended that the Code business performance, and employees work lives.
This is achieved through when published will be available on the SIG website.
The Code will include a variety of media including the Groups intranet, noticeboards, newsletters the Companys policy on how it addresses bribery and corruption.
existing policy on employee conduct and behaviour is set out in its Staff Handbooks which all employees receive a copy of on joining the company.
All employees are regularly offered the opportunity to address any questions, particularly relating to the financial performance of SIG, directly to the Chief Employees Executive either by email, by telephone, or in writing.
The Groups policy is to provide equal opportunities to all existing and prospective employees.
SIG recognises that its reputation is dependent In the UK, employees are offered the opportunity to become Shareholders on the quality, effectiveness and skill base of its employees and is committed in the Company.
The Group introduced a new Share Investment Plan to the fair and equitable treatment of all its employees and specifically SIP in November 2005 in place of a Save As You Earn Scheme.
to prohibit discrimination on the grounds of race, religion, sex, nationality The Company gives one matching share for each share purchased by or ethnic origin.
the employee up to a maximum of four matching shares per month.
At 31 December 2005 there were 1,278 employees saving under Employment opportunities are available to disabled persons in accordance the Companys SIP.
with their abilities and aptitudes on equal terms with other employees.
If an employee becomes disabled during employment the Group makes The Group operates a number of employee pension schemes across its every effort to enable them to continue employment, with re-training businesses.
In the UK it operates a Defined Contribution Scheme, which for alternative work where necessary.
The Groups UK Defined Benefit Schemes have been closed to new members since 1997.
SIG has a commitment to ensure that all employees and management are properly inducted into the Company and given the necessary training to fulfil The Personnel Director has responsibility for human resource issues within their roles.
the Group and reports to the Chief Executive who is responsible for human resource issues at Board level.
Focus, Specialisation and Service SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 35
