8155 LR Front 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:47 Page 20 Corporate Social Responsibility As a pharmaceutical company, our mission is to conditions not relevant to the performance of the job.
develop better medicines to improve the treatment Our formal Equal Opportunities Policy is posted on of human disease.
We believe that this in itself the Companys website.
We also recognise that a is a worthwhile enterprise.
Furthermore, the safe, secure and healthy working environment pharmaceutical industry as a whole is intensively contributes to productivity and improved performance.
regulated to ensure that all medicinal products are All employees are encouraged to participate in the both safe and effective and manufactured to the Companys share purchase scheme, and we highest standards.
We also recognise that our promote internal communication of the Companys business will prosper for the long term only if we progress by means of an intranet and our act in a responsible manner and we are conscious periodic SkyePharma publications, Skye News of growing interest among investors and other and Frank Talk.
stakeholders in the compliance of companies with ethical, social and environmental issues.
The Environment As a Company we are committed to protecting Ethical issues the environment in which we conduct our activities.
We aim to demonstrate and promote the highest Our formal Environmental Policy aims to foster a standards of honest and ethical conduct throughout positive attitude towards the environment and to our Company.
We have established formal policies raise the awareness of employees to responsible and procedures, including a Code of Ethics for environmental practices at all sites operated by the Senior Financial Officers and a Complaints and Company.
We ensure compliance with all relevant Whistleblowing Procedure.
A Code of Business legislation and regulatory requirements and where Conduct and Ethics has been introduced throughout practical and economically viable we develop the Company that complies with or exceeds the standards in excess of such requirements.
requirements of the published US SEC Nasdaq Although we are only a small-scale manufacturer, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics.
we aim to set a high standard through continuous improvement in our environmental performance.
Employment issues We now undertake routine monitoring of various SkyePharma is committed to a policy of equal measures of our environmental performance at our opportunities in its employment practices.
We believe main R&D and manufacturing sites in Switzerland, that the contribution an employee can make should France and the USA, the results of which are not be affected by factors such as gender, age, submitted to external review bodies.
marital status, disability, sexuality, race, colour, religion, ethnic or national origin or any other 20 SkyePharma Annual Report 2005 tonnes 8155 LR Front 22 05. qxp 28 5 06 22:47 Page 21 Key Environmental Metrics 2005 Waste recycled levant to the performance of the job.
l Opportunities Policy is posted on -14% Production Volume 60 website.
We also recognise that a Production Value 276% healthy working environment 50 -2% Energy Used oductivity and improved performance.
Water Used 12% 40 re encouraged to participate in the Waste to Landfill 27% 30 re purchase scheme, and we Waste Incinerated 142% communication of the Companys 20 -3% Waste Recycled ans of an intranet and our -100 -50 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 10 arma publications, Skye News % change 2005 vs 2004.
0 2002 2003 2004 2005 t we are committed to protecting The left-hand chart shows that achieving further The Community in which we conduct our activities.
environmental improvements was more challenging We aim to be a good neighbour wherever we have ronmental Policy aims to foster a in 2005 than in the prior year, largely because of business units and to be active participants in the towards the environment and to product and process mix effects.
While we do not believe that we have ess of employees to responsible unfortunate consequence of not only increasing the a mandate from shareholders for the Company to ractices at all sites operated by the amount of material that had to be incinerated but make charitable donations, we do encourage our sure compliance with all relevant also reducing the amount that could legally be employees to support various charitable causes.
egulatory requirements and where recycled.
Our choice of production processes for onomically viable we develop pharmaceuticals is dictated by regulatory bodies ess of such requirements.
and often there is little that we can do to modify only a small-scale manufacturer, our processes.
The value of our production nearly igh standard through continuous quadrupled in 2005 even though there was a 14% our environmental performance.
decline in production unit volume.
Our use of energy ke routine monitoring of various declined by 2% although our consumption of water environmental performance at our rose by 12%.
The amount of waste incinerated manufacturing sites in Switzerland, increased by 142% and waste disposed by landfill USA, the results of which are by 27% and there was a 3% decline in the amount of ernal review bodies.
While this is disappointing, the righthand chart shows that we have made progress in the amount of waste recycled since 2002.
