Associated British Ports Holdings PLC How we behave Corporate social responsibility Introduction Highlights from 2005 The group recognises that its operations have Launch of the groups dedicated CSR website, csr.
co. uk the potential to affect a range of stakeholders Completion of wide-ranging employee perception survey and is committed to ensuring that it has in Improved ranking in Business in the Communitys Corporate Responsibility Index place mechanisms to understand, monitor to joint 74th 2004: 98th and meet its obligations to stakeholders.
In UK ports and transport business recorded lowest-ever rate of reportable injuries addition to regular dialogue with and per thousand employees at 9.3 reporting to our capital providers see ERM appointed to review and evaluate 2005 CSR data independently relations with shareholders section of our System for measuring and reporting the amount of waste generated by UK operations statement on corporate governance on page developed and implemented 114, our key tools in communicating with our Quality of investor communications recognised: joint winner of the 2005 stakeholders are the groups CSR website ifsProShare Award for Best Annual Report for Private Investors non-FTSE 100. csr.
co. uk, the groups annual CSR Report which is published each spring and stakeholder feedback, which is facilitated Priorities for 2006 through our website, the CSR report and by speci c surveys.
Publish 2005 CSR Report with all data independently veri ed for the first time Achieve reduced reportable injuries per thousand employees target of 9 for We also engage constructively with socially UK business responsible investors and benchmark our Focus on further improving the health and safety performance of USA operations performance through participation in Communicate results of the 2005 employee perception survey to employees and external indices.
This summary provides commence appropriate initiatives to address feedback received a round-up of our CSR activities in 2005 in Complete development of 148 acres of inter-tidal habitat on the Humber advance of our full 2005 CSR Report, which Complete review of existing customer-management practices and establish is due to be published in May 2006.
In appropriate key performance indicators compiling our CSR information, we con rm Launch new investor website our compliance with the guidelines on social Review current procurement policy to incorporate current environmental best practice responsibility developed by the Association Provide speci c CSR training to key employees of British Insurers and adoption of the Review absence-management practices.
appropriate recommendations published in the Department of Trade and Industrys DTI Company Law Review and its Accounting for People Task Force.
Our CSR data for 2005 has been independently reviewed and evaluated by ERM, a leading rm of consultants in the eld of assessing environmental, health and safety and social risks.
Copies of our previous CSR reports can be obtained from our website csr.
To request a copy of our forthcoming 2005 CSR report, please use the enclosed form of proxy.
Governance Associated British Ports Holdings PLC How we behave The importance we attach to CSR is We had signi cant success in improving our Employees evident in the ethical standards of reportable injury rate for our UK operations Our key performance indicators relating to behaviour we promote.
Within our code of in 2005 it fell to 9.3 per thousand our employees are set out in table 13 of the ethics, we commit to: employees 2004: 14.0 per thousand OFR on page 49.
The group monitors and employees.
As such, we achieved our longbenchmarks this data to ensure that it Encourage the active participation of term target of 12 or fewer reportable injuries remains in line with industry norms.
The employees through the promotion of per thousand employees for the first time.
group also sets and works towards a range equal opportunities, access to We realise however, that there is no room of speci c targets to further develop its information and clear and fair terms of for complacency and that the focus of our human capital management practices.
employment efforts now needs to be on sustaining this Ensure that our activities do not put at improvement.
Consequently, we have Our staff turnover and sickness and risk the health and safety of our reduced our long-term target from absenteeism rate improved during 2005 employees and third parties, such as 12 to 9 or fewer reportable injuries per and we met all of our 2005 targets on visitors to our ports thousand employees.
Initiatives Operate our business with due regard for undertaken in 2005 included the its potential impact on the environment Fatalities are the worst thing that can benchmarking of our data, employee Engage with our communities through happen in our business.
Tragically, in 2005, forums, training, feedback from employee partnership initiatives aimed at delivering a fatality did occur on our premises at and advertising our vacancies to a wider real bene ts Immingham.
The incident, which involved a audience.
The benchmarking of our Operate our business in line with the crew member from a visiting vessel, is diversity against publicly available data has expectations of our capital providers currently being investigated by the continued into 2006 as we experienced Work in partnership with our customers appropriate authority.
Also in 2005, we greater dif culty in obtaining suitable and suppliers under clear and received a ne from the Health and Safety benchmarking data than expected.
Executive of 60,000 plus 35,000 costs Following our benchmarking of the in relation to a fatality at Hull that occurred sickness and absenteeism rate of our UK Management in 2003. operations, we have concluded The CSR management committee is discussions with our employee forums on chaired by Richard Adam, Group Finance It remains our goal to ensure that 95 per this subject.
Our objective in 2006 is to Director.
Other senior management cent of our UK employees have received review our absence-management practices representatives from the groups personnel, accredited health and safety training.
By with the aim of reducing the rate of communities, environmental, health and the end of 2005, 89 per cent had received sickness and absenteeism.
safety, internal audit and risk management this training 2004: 80 per cent.
During the function also sit on the committee.
The course of 2005, we provided health and Our commitment to provide training to committee meets on a regular basis and is safety training to 912 employees 2004: support our fair employment policies by responsible for developing the groups 385.
Our cargo handling training course, providing five courses was exceeded, and CSR strategy and implementing policies which was launched in 2002, has now we delivered on our target of providing initial and practices.
been provided to all relevant employees.
training on our alcohol, drugs, medication and substance use and abuse policy.
Health and safety We also met our target on health and safety Our key performance indicators relating to performance in the USA, as the total We continued to seek feedback from our health and safety performance are set number of recordable injuries decreased to employees and built on the survey of out in table 10 of the operating and 49 compared with 64 in 2004.
We remain employee forums that took place in 2004 financial review OFR on page 46. committed to maintaining this number at by conducting a wide-ranging employee 50 or less during 2006. perception survey in conjunction with 131 0 06-1014 ABP Accounts FINAL.
indd 131 2 23 2 06 10:48:30 pm 3 2 06 10:48:30 pm Associated British Ports Holdings PLC How we behave Corporate social responsibility Best Companies.
This survey was sent to a implementation of environmental best accordance with the agreed terms: details random sample of 500 UK employees and practice into our daily operations.
More of our creditor days for 2005 are set out in achieved a 56 per cent response rate.
The details on the work of our REGs will be the directors report on page 107.
In 2006, results which have been independently reported in the groups 2005 CSR report.
we shall be reviewing our UK procurement analysed and reported by Best Companies policy with a view to updating the will be discussed in our 2005 CSR report.
During 2005, we also met our target on environmental requirements that we place We intend to act on the feedback received.
waste management by developing a on suppliers.
system that will allow us, for the first time, Environment to report the amount of waste generated Communities Operating our business with due regard by our operations.
This system became During 2005, our community relations for its potential impacts on the environment operational on a trial basis towards the end programme continued to focus on areas remains one of our key operational of 2005 and will provide us with data to such as education, charitable giving, arts objectives.
Our key performance indicators facilitate performance monitoring and the sponsorship, civic organisations, local in relation to environment management are establishment of future targets.
We are also partnerships and free access to our summarised in table 11 on page 47 of the pleased with the progress achieved against facilities for community events, where OFR.
In 2005, our target was to maintain a wide range of initiatives detailed in our practical.
Including a one-off contribution the groups CO emissions, electricity 2004 CSR report.
Full details of these to Welsh National Opera, our total 2 consumption and water consumption at initiatives and our progress in 2005 will be contributions amounted to 421,000 0.32 2004 levels on a like-for-like basis by taking provided in the groups 2005 CSR report.
per cent of underlying pre-tax pro t during into account the growth in our revenue.
We are pleased that after excluding We are pleased to report that the group Customers and suppliers this one-off contribution, our total exceeded its targets on CO emissions and The group aims to work in partnership with contributions once again exceeded our 2 electricity consumption as the 1.0 per cent its customers under long-term agreements.
minimum target of 0.20 per cent of reduction in the groups revenue was During 2005, we signed six signi cant new underlying pre-tax pro t. The groups 2005 exceeded by the 7.3 per cent reduction agreements, under which we will invest performance, in relation to social and in our CO emissions and the 4.5 per cent 20m, to provide new facilities for our community matters, is summarised in table 2 reduction in our electricity consumption.
customers over the next two years.
Projects and However, our water consumption increased maintain a dialogue with all of our initiatives in which the group participated due to an undetected leak at one of our customers and are committed to resolving during 2005 will be detailed in our 2005 ports, which was recti ed during the year.
any service delivery-related issues CSR report.
promptly and maintaining high Our performance on resource consumption performance standards throughout the Benchmarking has been assisted by the implementation term of every agreement.
In 2006, we shall In addition to facilitating meetings and of resource ef ciency groups REGs be reviewing the ways in which we manage information requests from socially across all of our business units.
These our customer relations across our business responsible investors, we continued to groups each identi ed and implemented units and intend to establish appropriate participate in a number of well regarded five initiatives aimed at reducing resource additional key performance indicators for external indices in order to benchmark our consumption to improve the ef ciency of future monitoring and reporting purposes.
performance and gain independent our business and to reduce its impacts on feedback on our progress.
By continuing to work on Our dealings with suppliers are based on five initiatives at any one point in time, the the agreement of fair and open terms of REGs will remain core to the further trade.
We aim to ensure that we deliver in 132 0 06-1014 ABP Accounts FINAL.
Governance Associated British Ports Holdings PLC How we behave Table 1 provides a summary of our 2005 Table 1 performance in external indices.
Index Background Performance FTSE4Good Operated by FTSE and No rankings published.
The group In 2005, we maintained our membership of used by investors to assess quali ed for membership in 2005 the FTSE4Good Index and the Kempen UK company performance on and expects to qualify for 2006 SNS Smaller Europe SRI Index and CSR issues signi cantly improved our position in the Dow Jones Sustainability Operated by Dow Jones.
In the CRI, our position in Index DJSI Looks at companies on a 2005, the group quali ed for the top 100 companies improved to joint European and worldwide basis the more prestigious Dow Jones World Index 74th from 98th: in the DJSI, we quali ed for membership of the prestigious Dow Jones Kempen SNS Smaller Europe SRI Focused on small European The group met the selection companies criteria in 2004 5 and will respond Sustainability World Index DJSWI.
to future requests for information Membership of the DJSWI is restricted to when required the top 10 per cent of  Corporate Responsibility Index Open to all UK businesses The group improved its position in companies in each global industry group.
CRI operated by Business in the the CRI to joint 74th from 98th Community BitC and supported We are also pleased with the external by The Sunday Times recognition given to our stakeholder Business in the Environment BiE Open to all UK businesses and Placed 103rd in the UK out of 168 communications.
Feedback received on supported by The Sunday Times companies that participated in the our CSR report indicated an increased level 2004 survey, compared with 94th of satisfaction with our reporting and our out of 140 in 2003 investor relations activities also received a number of prestigious awards in 2005.
Our 2004 annual report was selected as the joint best report by a non-FTSE 100 company at the 2005 ifsProShare awards, shortlisted as one of four candidates for the best annual report award at the 2005 Accountancy Age Awards and shortlisted as one of three candidates for the 2005 Building Public Trust Award sponsored by .
We are honoured by and delighted with the endorsements given by our stakeholders and hope to build on these achievements in 2006.
Richard Adam Group Finance Director and Chairman of the CSR Management Committee 22 February 2006 133 0 06-1014 ABP Accounts FINAL.
