THE BUSINESS AND THE COMMUNITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Smith & Nephews aim is to help people live longer, healthier and more active lives by repairing and healing the human body with advanced technology products.
The Group contributes to the treatment and the recovery of patients throughout the cycle of medical care.
This is achieved by the design of products and instruments, the training of medical professionals and the procedures used to provide treatment and recovery.
Cost effective solutionsfor healthcare systems are achieved throughthe use of advanced technology.
In developing a sustainable business, Smith & Nephew considers that it has a low impact on the environment and is committed to improvingthe management of its environment, socialand economicimpact.
Smith & Nephew is dedicated to helping improve peoples lives.
The Group prides itself on the strength of its relationship with its clinicians and other healthcare professional customers with whom it has a reputation for product innovation and high standards of customer service.
Healthcare economic considerations are integrated into the product development process to ensure that the benefits from the Groups new products and line extensions not only improve patient outcomes but provide better treatment and procedures for both clinician and patient and contributeto morecost effective solutionsfor healthcare services.
The Group has published a Sustainability Report since 2001.
The Group aims to improve the report each year by providing more information and relevant measurements.
The Group monitors progress and views sustainable development as an integral part of the way it does business.
The sixth Sustainability Report will be published on the Groups website inMay 2006 at www.
Smith & Nephews progress is measured by two leading organisations that assess sustainable development.
In 2005, the Group was included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index DJSI with improved scores for the second year runningand was named as a leader inits sector.
In the UK, Smith & Nephew is a member of FTSE4Good.
BusinessIntegrity Smith & Nephew aims to be honest and fair in all aspects of its business and expects the same from those with whom it does business.
The code of standards for suppliers, and the compliance processes for these standards, was further developed in 2005.
Smith & Nephew does not give or receive improper financial inducements, either directly or indirectly, for business or financial gain.
The Group complies with the industry standards set by Eucomed in Europe and Advamed in the US in its relationships with customers.
Accounting records and supporting documents are designed to accurately describe and reflect the business transactions and conform to IFRS and US GAAP.
The Groups Code of Business Principles available at www.
html governs the way it operates so that it respects the rights of all its stakeholders and seeks to build open, honest and constructive relationships.
The Group takes account of ethical, social, environmental, legal and financial considerationsas part of its operating methods.
Duringthe year a formal whistleblower policywas introduced.
Innovation Smith & Nephew uses innovation to create cost-effective products and techniques which deliver benefits for clinicians and patients.
The Groups scientific and technical leadership combined with an understanding of the needs of clinicians, enables Smith & Nephew to produce unique new products with distinct advantages in clinical performanceand cost-effectiveness.
The Groups research and development strategy is based on assessment of market needs and a longer range view of future requirements and opportunities.
Fundamental scientific work and the development of new technologiesare used to create new products and  delivery inthe future.
It is the Groups practice to develop platform technologies on which to build product ranges.
This provides an efficient and cost effective means for productdevelopment.
17 Health, Safety and Environmental Management The Group has a health, safety and environmental HSE policy which was reviewed in 2005.
Smith & Nephew has committed to: Give due regard to the effects of its operations on the environment and community to create a sustainable business.
Provide and maintaina safe and healthy workenvironmentfor employees, contractorsand visitors.
Operate each Smith & Nephew business at the level required by the HSE policystandards.
Aim to improve HSE performance through continuous evaluation and development of measures to control risk, conserve resources and minimisewaste.
Recognise, promote and reinforce the responsibility of employees, contractors and visitors to work safely and followprocedures.
In 2005 the advanced wound management factory at Hull, England joined the orthopaedics sites at Memphis, Tennessee and Tuttlingen, Germany in having its environmental management system accredited under ISO14001.
All Group manufacturing and research sites have designed environmental management systems to deliver cost savings and benefits to the environment.
Particular emphasis is placed on the close control of energy, water consumption and waste in manufacturing and research and development.
Improvement targets are set and performance is measured against these targets.
ii Number ofaccidents resulting in a person being unable toworkthe followingday per 200,000 hours worked.
iii Number ofcases ofoccupational illhealth resulting in a day ormore awayfromwork per 1,000 people employed.
The 2004 hazardous waste figure excludes a spillage of chrome plating materials which occurred at the orthopaedics manufacturing site in Memphis.
Working closely with the state authorities, prompt action was taken resulting in a total of 920 tonnes of affected soil being removed from the site to eliminate any possible contamination.
Carbon dioxide emissions are calculated from the energy consumption and are dependent on the mix of energy used.
However the figure quoted includes carbon dioxide emissions arising from the energy used at La Jolla, Florida, which was not included in 2004.
Like for like, carbon dioxide emissions fell slightly.
Non hazardous waste rose sharply.
This is a result of improved accounting of the waste disposed at Memphis, Tennessee, disposal of out of date material at Gilberdyke, England and waste from new process validation at both Largo, Florida and Gilberdyke, England.
Hazardous waste increased in 2005 despite significant reductions at most sites.
This was largely the result of FLAMAZINE waste at Hull, England being reclassified as hazardous and an increase at Memphis, Tennessee, arisingfrom morefrequent maintenanceroutines.
Having focused on opportunities for recycling, all sites were able to show a significant increase in recycled waste.
Despite the fact that many sites were able to show significant energy savings, total energy consumption rose in 2005.
This is a result of the energy consumedby La Jolla, Florida, being includedfor the first time and an increase inconsumptionat Memphis, Tennessee and Gilberdyke, England due to increased production.
18 Lost time accident frequency rate is measured as the number of accidents those which results in a person being unable to report for work on the following day per 200,000 hours worked.
Various initiatives across the Group lead to a .
Lost time ill health performance is measured as the number of cases of occupational ill health that result in a day ormoreaway from workper 1,000 people employed.
A full analysis of these measurements and key health and safety performance measures will be included in the 2006 Sustainability Report onthe Groups website whenit is published inMay 2006.
Social responsibility The Smith & Nephew Code of Business Principles governs the Groups interactions with its stakeholders.
This sets out the behaviours and conduct stakeholders can expect from the Group.
The Code of Business Principles describes the Groups values and provides a frameworkfor employees.
Employees Smith & Nephew has a policy of non-discrimination and aims to provide an open environment based on constructive relationships.
Smith & Nephew welcomes people with disabilities and makes every effort to retain any employee who has a disability.
The Group is committed to engaging with employees through the regular and timely dissemination of Group information and soliciting their feedback and ideas.
An employee global opinion survey is used every two years as a catalyst for improvements.
The 2004 Global Opinion Survey indicated continued high levels of employee engagement with the values and direction of the Group.
The next survey will be conducted in 2006 using improved methodology including the introduction of regular sample surveys to measure progress and obtain employee feedback on issues that arise between the main surveys.
Details of these planned changes will be covered in the next Sustainability Report in May 2006.
Recruitment and retention of skilled employees emerged as a key issue to ensure continued high performance.
A recruitment excellence programme launched in 2005 resulted in the implementation of clear and consistent standards and practices for key recruitment processes.
Managers are trained in the application of these as part of a series of management development modules being delivered across the Group.
New employees will now experience a consistent and high quality recruitment selection process that carries through to the first year of induction.
In 2005 a number of measures of employee engagement were monitored.
These measurements are a useful monitoring tool and alert mechanism for action as well as giving trend indicators of improved performance.
Two years data is nowavailable and is given below.
Internal Appointments In 2005 an average of 23.1% 2004 21.3% of vacancies across all parts of the business were filled by internal applicants with an average of 35% 2004 30% of vacancies filled in the Groups orthopaedics, endoscopy and advanced wound management business units.
The Group has a policy of open advertising and providing opportunities for existing employees wherever possible, while recognising the need to bring in new ideas and approaches that external recruitmentbrings.
Labour Turnover For the last two years the Group measured both general voluntary labour turnover and turnover relating specifically to employees who have been with the business less than two years.
The latter measure is an indication of how well the Group recruits and then retains its employees so that they can make a contribution to the business.
The average voluntary labour turnover for 2005 was 3.0% 2004 2.5% ranging from 2.2% to 3.8% across the Group.
The average turnover of employees leaving the Group within two years of joining was 4.3% 2004 5.8% rangingfrom 2.4% to 9.2% for the year.
The average labour turnover figures are well within the expected level for businesses in the Groups sector and there is a reduction in the number of employees leaving within two years of joining which the Group believe reflects the improvements in its recruitment, induction and training introduced in the last two years.
The highest incidence of leavers within two years is seen in the indirect markets.
This has been reduced to 9.2% in 2005 2004 14.8% 19 Training and  The Group is committed to providing training and information so that all employees can make the best contribution possible.
Learning and development programmes are used to attract, retain and develop employees.
These programmes are linked to formal performance appraisal and development planning.
2005 has seen the development and implementation of a range of training programmes under the banner of Management Excellence.
These provide the key management skills required to be successful managers and leaders, covering the requirements of both new and experienced individuals.
These are available throughout the Group and additional modules are planned for 2006.
Leadership The Group aims to develop its current and future leaders to improve the performance of the business.
The senior management has developed a set of group-wide leadership competencies and management development is a regular item on their meeting agenda.
Performance evaluation, coaching and attendance at leadership programmes are utilised.
In late 2004, the Group introduced a leadership excellence programme.
This is a three-day purpose designed residential course facilitated by a business school coach.
The programme focuses on leadership style and interactionand to date, 36 seniormanagers attended the  to be rolled out in2006.
Workplace Smith & Nephew aims to provide healthy and safe working conditions for all its employees.
Health and safety is managed as an integral part of the business and employee involvement is recognised as a key part of the process.
The Group does not use any form of forced, compulsory or child labour.
The Group supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of the United Nations and respects human rights, the dignity and privacy of the individual, the rightof employees to freedom of association, freedom of expression and the rightto be heard.
Societyand Community The Group works with national and local governments and other organisations to meet its legal and civic obligations, manage its impact on the environment, and contribute to the development of laws and regulations that affect its business.
Smith & Nephew values community involvement and is an active member of its local communitiesand supports employees whoundertake communitywork.
The Groups principles for charitable giving are based on the criteria relevant to its business areas, with priority given to medical education.
Individual company sites support their local communities in a range of charitable causes givingdonationsof money, gifts inkindand employee time.
The Group realises that its technologies and products do not reach everyone.
Project Apollo is a charitable and humanitarian service programme of the orthopaedics business.
This links up with physicians and non-profit groups engaged in medical philanthropy who receive donations of Smith & Nephew products, sponsorship and help from the Groups employees.
Teamed with these individuals and organisations, Smith & Nephew believes it has founda way of increasingthe impact of charitable givingand the workit undertakes.
The Smith & Nephew Foundation is an independent charitable trust funded by Smith & Nephew advanced wound management.
It makes awards to individuals in the nursing professions for postgraduate research to improve clinical practice in nursing and midwifery.
The Foundation is the largest single charitable awarding body to the nursingprofessions inthe UK.
More examples of the programmes supported by Smith & Nephew are given inthe Sustainability Report.
In 2005, direct donations to charitable and community activities totalled 1,379,000 of which 300,000 went to the Smith & Nephew Foundation.
Customers The Group is committed to providing innovative, cost-effective healthcare solutions benefiting healthcare professionals and their patients through improved treatment, ease and speed of product use and reduced healthcare costs.
It will continue to provide education and training support for healthcare professionals and maintaininvestment inresearch and development.
20 In 2005 Smith & Nephew orthopaedics introduced MOBILAB, a state of the art mobile training centre in the US.
MOBILAB takes the Groups advanced training facilities direct to hospitals enabling surgeons to train with their operating team ontheir ownhospital site.
The Groups products are designed to be safe and reliable for their intended use and comply with or exceed all legal and regulatory requirements, including those concerning packaging, labeling and user instructions.
The aim is to anticipate future standards and requirements promotinghealth and safety of its customers and patients.
BusinessPartners Smith & Nephew is committed to establishing mutually beneficial relationships with its suppliers, customers and business partners.
The Group works only with partners who it believes adhere to business principles and health, safety, social and environmental standards consistent with its own.
Additional work has been done in 2005 to improve the monitoring of the supplier standards for service quality and activities relevant to their corporate responsibility.
Economic Contribution The Group business policies are designed to achieve long-term growth and profits which in turn bring continued economic benefits to shareholders, employees, suppliers and local communities.
Smith & Nephews sustainable development depends ultimately on its ability to provide a satisfactory economic return.
In 2005, the Group generated an operating return on capital employed ratio of trading profit to average equity plus net debt less investment injoint venture, as set out inSelected FinancialData of 36%.
The Group prides itself on the strength of its relationship with its clinicians and other healthcare professionals with whom it has a reputation for product innovation and high standards of customer service.
Healthcare economic considerations are integrated into the product development process to ensure that the benefits from the Groups products improve patient outcomes, treatments and procedures for both clinician and patient and create cost effective solutionsfor healthcare services.
The Group has built expertise in the area of measuring healthcare economics within its advanced wound management business and has made good progress in introducing a similar system across its other businesses.
A description of the principles of healthcare economics and its integration into the business is given in the Sustainability Report.
LookingAhead The Group is fulfilling an important role in its areas of expertise.
Increased demands are being made on healthcare systems as the baby boomer generation ages and obesity, more active lifestyles and the increased incidenceof diseases increase the demand for Smith & Nephews products.
Smith & Nephews strategy is to build upon its leading technologies, expand its markets and provide advanced technology to the medical profession.
The Group believes that it can achieve this by setting and meeting ambitious performance targets, by constant innovation in products and services and by earning the trust of its stakeholders.
In all its business activities, the drive towards sustainability is an ongoing process and Smith & Nephew is committed to maintaining a consistent effort to improve.
The Groups aim is to innovate to improve treatments and reduce healthcare costs thus contributing to sustainable and improving healthcare systems.
In reporting sustainability, Smith & Nephew is committed to improved monitoring of its performance in its development as a sustainable business.
It is intended to introduce reporting of Key Performance Indicator targets for environmental, health and safety and  to expand economicimpact reporting.
21 EMPLOYEES The average number of full-time equivalent employees in 2005 was 8,618, of whom 1,750 were located in the UK, 3,977 were located in the US and 2,891 were located in other countries.
The Group does not employ a significantnumberof temporary employees.
Smith & Nephew operates share option schemes that are available to the majority of employees for further informationsee Note 27 of the Notes to the Group Accounts.
Further informationabout Smith & Nephew employees, management principlesand Visionand Values is set out inthe Sustainability Report onthe Smith & Nephew corporatewebsite.
