32 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Operating and financial review continued 01 Smiths Detection, Watford, UK.
01 02 Environmental Inability to supply and business continuity The environmental laws of various jurisdictions impose Inability to supply against contractual commitments is a actual and potential obligations on the Company to remediate risk, and could be material in relation to larger contracts.
contaminated sites, including some sites no longer owned by the The risk is mitigated, where practicable, by the implementation Company.
Provision is made for the expected cost of remediation, throughout the Company of effective business continuity plans, based on independent professional advice see note 23.
There and by business interruption insurance.
is a risk that remediation could prove more costly than expected Investments and that further contamination could be discovered.
The value of investments made by the Company could reduce Litigation due to weakening markets or other factors.
Smiths is subject from time to time to litigation in the ordinary course of business and makes provision for the expected Corporate responsibility cost based on appropriate professional advice see note 23.
Corporate responsibility is an important part of doing business Examples of the types of litigation faced are set out in the the right way.
What follows is a review of Smiths commitment Legal Issues section above.
The outcome of legal action is to integrity and compliance to a code of ethics.
In addition, this always uncertain and there is always the risk that it may section contains a summary of employee-related initiatives: an prove more costly and time consuming than expected.
There update of environment, health and safety performance: news is a risk that litigation could be instigated in the future, which of community relations issues: and a report of supplier-related could materially impact the Company.
In some liability cases, communications.
legal expenses are covered by insurance.
Business ethics New product, project and technology risk Late in 2004, Smiths launched its Code of Corporate The Company develops new technologies and introduces new Responsibility and Business Ethics.
The Code is endorsed products, in some cases contracting to supply the products and fully supported by the Smiths Group Board.
Translated to the customer before the design is established or proven.
into 13 languages, the Code applies to all Smiths businesses All new technologies and products involve business risk both and employees worldwide and provides the framework for in terms of possible abortive expenditure, reputational risk, policies, programmes and procedures for a range of corporate and potentially customer claims or onerous contracts.
A Group-wide training programme risks may materially impact the Company.
including video, face-to-face briefings and other presentation All appropriate measures are taken to protect the Companys materials communicated the Codes requirements and practical intellectual property rights and to minimise the risk of implications to all employees.
The Codes underpinning infringement of third parties rights.
principles are honesty, integrity, fairness and transparency, which have been the basis of how Smiths has conducted its Acquisition risk business for many years.
The Code has 12 sections covering: Smiths is an active acquirer, and acquisitions may involve risks that might materially impact the Company.
compliance with laws and regulations wherever Smiths operates: This risk is mitigated by extensive due diligence, and, where practicable, by warranties and indemnities from the vendors.
competition, addressing fair competition practices: Controls failure risk proper business behaviour, including integrity, dealing The Company operates controls as described in the Corporate with conflicts of interest, and bribery and corruption: Governance Report.
Failures in these controls might have a dealings with suppliers and customers, incorporating material impact.
payment practices and meeting the requirements of Smiths customers through the supply chain: 33 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Operating and financial review continued employees, including commitment to non-discrimination, repression or abuse of human rights, with internal controls no bullying or harassment, trade union membership and to ensure compliance with these guidelines.
Compliance non-membership, consultation and team work: support to Smiths businesses worldwide is provided through a Business Ethics and Compliance team, which provides advice, employee health and safety: export control policies, education, training, guidance materials environment, by minimising the impacts of Smiths and risk assessment tools.
operations, products and services: Employees community participation and charitable initiatives: Developing talent throughout the organisation With more than 100 manufacturing facilities, Smiths has over public activities through engagement with governments, 30,000 employees worldwide, of whom 57% are located in agencies and related organisations: North America and 24% in the United Kingdom.
The remaining human rights, within the framework of the United Nations 19% are predominantly located in the remainder of Europe, Charter on Human Rights: Japan and China.
reporting and internal controls: Smiths continues to invest in identifying and developing the talent of all its employees.
Talent management activities are application and compliance, including employee reporting focused on developing and deploying Smiths people so that of non-compliance without fear of retribution.
they are provided with work to stretch their capabilities and The Code is supplemented by procedures and controls on to help them reach their full potential.
its application to each divisions specific activities such as At senior levels, Smiths has merged its succession planning controls on defence sales and Group policies such as those activities with leadership development and created a new for environment, health and safety, public interest disclosures, succession management process that now provides greater bullying, and harassment updated to bring into line with clarity of the Groups capabilities.
This has helped to refocus the Code.
The full text of the Code can be found in the our training activities to meet specific development needs Responsibility section at www.
Code compliance council Smiths continues to recruit graduates and to provide them with Arrangements for monitoring the implementation of the Code, a two-year development programme that will assist in their including reviews of all calls to the confidential ethics helplines transition from full-time education to the work environment.
available to employees, are undertaken by a newly created The Horizons programme comprises a series of activities that Code Compliance Council.
The Council meets regularly, is will effectively take them from facilitated development to self chaired by the General Counsel and includes senior level development while gaining knowledge and experience of the representatives from internal audit, human resources and entire business, and learning how to operate on a personal legal functions.
The Council reports progress at least twice level within the work environment.
a year to the Audit Committee of the Smiths Group Board.
The performance of each employee is appraised annually.
This Controls on defence sales provides feedback on their performance and sets jointly agreed All sales of defence equipment are undertaken in accordance goals for the year ahead.
Training opportunities are provided with government export and approval procedures and regulations, to evolve and grow skill sets and to enable employees to meet such as the International Traffic in Arms Regulation and the their goals and maximise their potential.
Smiths encourages Export Administration Regulation in the USA.
These laws employees to participate actively in their own development.
prohibit export of certain items to specific countries.
Smiths adheres to all relevant government guidelines designed to Smiths aims to develop fully the capabilities of its employees ensure that products are not incorporated into weapons or and to deploy those skills across the divisions, providing other equipment used for the purposes of terrorism, internal opportunities for employees to advance their careers within 34 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Operating and financial review continued the Group.
Consequently, most of the job vacancies are further develop environmental life cycle thinking in the advertised on an internal website.
Selection processes are design of new, more environmentally sustainable, products based on an individuals area of competence and record of for our customers: performance in previous roles.
continue to reduce the environmental impacts of our Employee engagement operations by meeting new reduction targets for site energy The provision of information to, and communication with, and water use, waste disposal and solvent emissions: employees is an important part of how Smiths conducts implement ISO 14001 and our health and safety audit tool its business.
At business unit level, communication takes in newly acquired businesses.
place through a variety of channels including team briefings, presentations, intranets and newsletters.
Many businesses Reporting progress have established forums for the exchange of information and Smiths continues to report publicly on EHS performance best practice, as well as discussion of current issues, including through the third EHS report, which was published business efficiency initiatives, training and development, early in 2005 for financial year ending July 2004 environment and health and safety.
In line with best practice, external assurance providers also independently In the UK, Smiths continues to develop arrangements for check the data and statements made in the report.
workplace information and consultation, so that all sites are covered by such arrangements.
This facilitates the effective The report covers: functioning of the Smiths European Forum SEF.
Employee energy and water use: representatives meet annually through the SEF to discuss issues of a transnational nature in the European Union.
Smiths waste management: Detection in Wiesbaden, Germany, hosted this years meeting.
climate change greenhouse gas emissions : Topics included the financial performance of the Group, an overview of Smiths Medical and the Medex acquisition, and emissions to air ozone depleting substances and solvents : the Groups approach to environment, health and safety.
product design for reduced environmental impact: Environment, Health and Safety lost time incidents and health and safety: EHS policies and priorities Smiths gives Environment, Health and Safety EHS a high fines and prosecutions: priority in the way it conducts responsible business.
Improved environmental investment: EHS performance reduces costs, creates business opportunities and minimises risk.
Group policy statements have been in place remediation of contaminated land and environmental for both environment, and health and safety for a number spillages: of years.
They apply to our operations worldwide and can be supply chain management.
Performance improvement Some notable successes have been achieved through the Significant progress has been made over the four years to implementation of these policies in terms of minimising risks, 2004.
Highlights include: reducing environmental impacts and accidents, and developing products with improved environmental performance.
Looking 50% reduction in waste disposal to landfill per m sales: forward, Smiths priorities are to: 29% reduction in the number of accidents resulting in lost time: continue to reduce the number of work-related accidents 11% reduction in site energy use per m sales: and to achieve a 20% reduction over three years: 7% reduction in carbon dioxide emissions per m sales.
35 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Operating and financial review continued Chief Executives Chief Executive Smiths Group Board Committee Director, Human Resources Group EHS Committee Director, Environment, Health and Safety Regional EHS Co-ordinators Business Level Environmental, Health and Safety Advisors Site Level Progress has been recognised externally through the annual were developed for work-related accidents ill-health, energy Environment Index survey in the UK formerly known as the and water use, waste disposal and solvent emissions by BiE Index.
In the 2004 survey published in April 2005, Smiths benchmarking relevant peer company performance and was ranked 48th out of 168 participants 2003: 118th.
The determining the scope for further improvement, based on past combined score for management, performance and assurance achievements.
We have chosen these areas for improvement was 89%, an increase of 13 points on the previous years score as they are common across our operations, and to our of 76%.
activities as a manufacturing and technology group.
Renewable energy reduces CO emissions Smiths is not an intensive user of energy across its 2 In the UK, Smiths manufacturing operations have transitioned manufacturing sites, but collectively its global operations from electrical power which was dependent on fossil fuel consumed over 500 Giga Watts of energy in 2004.
Worldwide sources for its generation to electrical power generated energy costs continue to increase and work will continue to entirely from clean and green renewable sources wind, hydro reduce these cost increases through energy conservation at and biomass fuels.
This transition should save an estimated site level.
30,000 tonnes of CO per annum that would otherwise be 2 Performance area Description 2004 Baseline emitted to atmosphere in supplying our electricity needs.
Site energy To reduce site energy consumption 191 MWh m EHS organisation use by 5% per m sales by 2007 sales Smiths has a clear line of responsibility for EHS management to ensure Group policies and standards are adopted by 3 Water To reduce site water consumption 471 m m its businesses worldwide.
Day-to-day responsibility and consumption by 12% per m sales by 2007 sales accountability for EHS management rests with the operating Waste to To reduce waste disposal to landfill 3.7 tonnes m companies.
The Director, EHS reports to the Director, Human landfill by 6% per m sales by 2007 sales Resources on EHS strategy, performance and progress against plan.
The Director, Human Resources chairs the Solvent To reduce VOC emissions by 6% 122 kg m Group EHS Committee and reports to the Chief Executive, who emissions per m sales by 2007 sales has Board-level responsibility for EHS performance.
At a local Accident To reduce the number of accidents 1.25 accidents level, each major facility has a safety and or environmental reduction resulting in days away from work resulting in days adviser, with further support provided by a network of 20 lost time by 20% by 2007 per away per 200,000 regional EHS co-ordinators.
200,000 man hours man hours Annual reports and briefings on EHS risks, opportunities and Data for all key performance indicators are provided on the progress against plan are provided to the Board.
An update reports are also provided to the executive directors through will be provided in the 2005 EHS Report, which will be published the Group EHS Committee.
With senior representation from early in 2006. each division, and corporate EHS expertise, this committee develops Group policies and reviews performance, including Developing sustainable products through eco-design progress against Group targets.
Work continues to limit the impact Smiths products have on the environment, such as the use of hazardous materials like New EHS targets hexavalent chromium, cadmium, lead and beryllium.
During The Group EHS Committee completed a comprehensive 2004, Smiths developed in-house eco-design guidelines, review of Smiths five-year environmental goals during the year.
disseminated case studies to raise awareness and evaluated This was necessary following the achievement of the waste the use of simple Life Cycle Assessment LCA tools.
Two reduction target ahead of schedule, more accurate data and eco-design demonstration projects were completed whereby significant changes to the composition of the Group through designers completed a structured programme of eco-design acquisition and divestment.
New three-year reduction targets 36 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Operating and financial review continued 01 Smiths has significantly reduced the environmental impact of its new VR1 portable resuscitator, launched in early 2005.
02 New, rechargeable casing for the non-military version of the Lightweight Chemical Agent Detector will save an estimated 100,000.
01 02 training, group exercises, product disassembly sessions and sponsoring the annual Team Rocketry Challenge to develop shared their experiences and knowledge.
The life cycle impacts of interest in science in the US reaching an audience of over a number of products were examined in terms of the materials 10 million: used, manufacturing techniques employed to assemble the providing placements for manufacturing engineering, product, packaging, environmental impacts during the use phase industrial engineering, materials planning and quality and at end of life disposal.
Two examples are pictured above.
engineering degree students in Mexico: ISO 14001 and safety management system providing senior projects programmes in the US to allow Systems are in place for the management of EHS risks and students to work alongside our aerospace engineers to opportunities across all Smiths major operations worldwide.
solve real life engineering challenges: 83 major manufacturing sites in 17 countries are certified to the international environmental management systems supporting the annual Gloucestershire Schools Technology standard, ISO 14001.
These systems are now being deployed Awards, the Year in Industry programme run by the in new acquisitions, which are required to achieve certification Royal Academy of Engineering for industrial engineering within two years of joining the Group.
placements, and the national Young Engineers competition in the UK: Comprehensive arrangements for health and safety management are defined in a best practice safety manual funding paediatric research conducted by the Portex that focuses on the management and control of 60 common Anaesthesia Intensive Care and Respiratory Unit at Great hazards across Smiths operations.
Compliance with these Ormond Street Hospital for Child Health in London to minimise guidelines is assessed annually at major operations using pain and suffering in children requiring surgery or intensive an internal self-assessment audit tool called AuditMaster.
therapy, and the management of asthma, cystic fibrosis and Smiths will continue to implement this audit system across rare lung diseases.
Charitable donations and public activities Community involvement Smiths Group supports national and international charitable Smiths continues to support good community relations practices, organisations from a central budget administered by the both corporately and through its businesses worldwide.
With Charity and Donations Committee.
We support charities, long-established roots in their local communities, where they communities, healthcare and arts organisations worldwide.
are often a major employer, Smiths businesses take an active Smiths does not make donations of any kind to political role in the community in schools, universities, hospitals and parties.
It does support the Political Action Committee PAC through charitable projects.
concept established by the US government under the control of the Federal Election Commission.
Under these arrangements, Smiths Group contributed funds to support the worldwide members of staff may make their own contributions to the aid effort following the Indian Ocean tsunami of 26 December campaigns of those seeking election to federal or state offices.
Much needed medical equipment was donated and a The Smiths US PAC is totally separate from the influence of number of employees contributed their time directly to the Smiths Group plc or any of its subsidiaries.
relief effort by helping to raise additional funds and assisting in the logistical effort to organise and load relief supplies for As and when appropriate, Smiths engages with governments, dispatch to South Asia.
government departments, agencies and other organisations in relation to issues which affect its legitimate business interests, At a local level, Smiths supports a variety of community either directly or through trade associations or similar bodies initiatives and opportunities to encourage students to follow such as the Confederation of British Industry, Engineering engineering, science and technology careers, including: Employers Federation, Society of British Aerospace Companies donations to the Hospital Infantil fide las Californias in Tijuana, and the Association of British Healthcare Industries.
Mexico, to provide short-stay surgeries and outreach programmes to children from low income households: 37 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Operating and financial review continued Suppliers Cautionary statement Smiths seeks to provide its customers with products and Pursuant to The Companies Act 1985 Operating and Financial Review services, which meet or exceed their requirements, through and Directors Report etc Regulations 2005 the Regulations Smiths the application of quality management systems such as ISO Group will be required to produce an operating and financial review which 9000 and continuous improvement programmes.
These are complies with the Regulations and the Accounting Standards Boards Reporting Standard 1: Operating and Financial Review RS1 for inclusion designed to develop and apply innovative ideas, to respond in the Companys next annual report and accounts for the year ending quickly to changing customer demand and to improve product 31 July 2006.
An operating and financial review is a narrative explanation quality, value and delivery times.
Smiths believes in working in of the main trends and factors underlying the development, performance partnership with its suppliers, so as to meet the expectations of and position of the Company during a financial year and those which Smiths customers, and to ensure quality, value and timeliness are likely to affect its future development, performance and position.
In throughout the supply chain.
Over the coming year, Smiths will anticipation of that forthcoming requirement, the directors have sought to prepare this operating and financial review in light of the requirements be working with its major suppliers to ensure they understand of the Regulations and RS1 in order to prepare for the introduction of the the Code of Corporate Responsibility and Business Ethics.
However, this operating and financial review has not been audited or otherwise independently verified and has not necessarily been Smiths businesses are also encouraged to introduce supplier prepared in strict compliance with the Regulations or RS1.
This operating assessment as part of their environmental management and financial review has been prepared for, and only for the members of programmes.
These are typically undertaken through supplier the Company, as a body, and no other persons and its purpose is to assist environmental audits, surveys and supplier ranking exercises.
shareholders to assess the Companys strategies and the potential for Smiths businesses have undertaken various supply chain those strategies to succeed and for no other purpose.
The Company, initiatives as part of their preparations for forthcoming hazardous its directors, employees, agents or advisers do not accept or assume substance bans on certain electrical and electronic equipment responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such in Europe, and in response to customer requirements.
responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
This operating and Approaches have ranged from obtaining supplier declarations financial review contains forward looking statements that are subject of conformity for components supplied to Smiths, to working to risk factors associated with amongst other things, the economic and with suppliers to ensure the elimination or substitution of business circumstances occurring from time to time in the countries, hazardous substances with less hazardous alternative materials.
sectors and markets in which the Group operates.
These and other factors could adversely affect the outcome and financial effects of the plans and events described.
By their nature, forward looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and assumptions because they relate to events and or depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future and could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the forward looking statements.
It is believed that the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable but they may be affected by a wide range of such variables.
No assurances can be given that the forward looking statements in this operating and financial review will be realised.
The forward looking statements reflect the knowledge and information available at the date of preparation, and will not be updated during the year but will be considered in the operating and financial review for next year.
