R310 SOCO 16-19 3 27 06 6:01 PM Page 16 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 22.08.05 In Vietnam, the additional prospectivity of the Miocene play on Block 16-1 is confirmed with the initial wildcat exploration well on the TGT structure on the previously undrilled H prospect on Block 16-1 testing water-free at a combined maximum rate of 9,432 BOEPD.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SOCOs commitment to high standards of corporate responsibility CR is a core business priority.
The Company supports the principle that whilst a Board has a primary responsibility to its shareholders, it should also take full account of other stakeholders interests.
SOCO believes that integrating CR and sustainable development good practice into its management culture will lower the Companys risk profile and promote new opportunities.
This report focuses on our CR management and explains how this supports SOCOs overall business performance.
SOCO does not have an expansive set of policy documents and procedures, which is reflective of the relatively small scale and nature of the Companys activities and size of organisation.
Currently, the Company only directly participates in the operation of exploration and appraisal activities, which are offshore in Vietnam and the Republic of Congo Brazzaville.
In both cases, environmental and social impacts are relatively minor.
Environmental impact assessments are nevertheless carried out and independent performance monitoring is standard practice.
Where SOCO operates or participates as a major interest holder or co-venturer in a project, we can directly Thien Nghiep Medical Station, Binh Thuan influence operations and decision-making.
However, province, Vietnam, where SOCO holds a minority interest, as an investor or which opened in participant in a project, our influence is less direct.
In both early 2006 cases, our expectations for CR are clearly established, communicated and monitored.
The Company has had a health, safety and environment HSE policy conforming to best practice since the first year of its existence, and has tailored HSE management systems for its Vietnam operations.
New operations in West Africa will be undertaken using bespoke management systems specific to the types of environment and operations.
The Company also deploys external advisors to ensure that good practice is achieved.
SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 16 16 R310 SOCO 16-19 3 27 06 6:02 PM Page 17 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 25.08.05 The Group adds a 75% interest in the Marine XI Block, offshore the Republic of Congo Brazzaville in West Africa, refreshing its exploration portfolio with a project that offers the potential for exponential exploration reserve growth that SOCO has demonstrated in Vietnam and Yemen.
SOCOs approach to CR begins with the recruitment of key managers and operations personnel.
It is a priority consideration that every relevant employee understands the importance of CR management and has knowledge of what constitutes best practice, which can foster informed decision-making and an instinctive appreciation of the relevant business implications associated with each operation.
There is no restriction on the use of external advisors to ensure that corporate objectives are met.
This approach of utilising external, rather than dedicated internal resources, can be highly effective in a company of SOCOs size because corporate objectives are not compromised by management numbers and layers.
Another core element of SOCOs business culture, which is a source of potential benefit, is the practice of maximising local employment and contract outsourcing.
Local involvement is our policy in all operations that we control.
Such an approach has significantly benefited operations and has been a major factor in SOCO winning access to opportunities on the strength of the relationships it has forged for example, in Vietnam.
A highly localised approach does, however, introduce additional risks.
An ever-present risk is that contractors may not, in practice, The Companys Code of Business Conduct and Ethics the share an operating companys commitment to high CR Code was drawn up in response to rising expectations in standards.
This can be critical where contractors have a the wider community, including among many institutional large degree of control over day-to-day activities, and act shareholders, regarding social, environmental and ethical as the main interface with members of government and management and is available to view on the Companys local communities.
This applies particularly to locally based website.
Approved by the Board in June 2004, the Code contractors and subcontractors whose histories and documents and encapsulates the Companys culture and cultures may have demanded different social and objectives and addresses the three pillars of sustainable environmental standards.
development: economic, environmental and social performance.
It is designed to be a dynamic policy that will evolve as the Company expands its activities.
SOCO will continue to communicate its CR activities using its annual report and corporate website to complementary effect.
SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 17 17 R310 SOCO 16-19 3 27 06 6:02 PM Page 18 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Our operations in Mongolia, of which we have now disposed, were always underpinned by the Companys strong commitment to building skills among local communities, which has the effect of generating positive economic benefits, both locally and nationally.
Virtually all of the people who worked for us in the country, whether employees or contractors, were Mongolian nationals and their association with SOCO gave them access to training of a high international standard.
The benefits of our 31.08.05 commitment to local communities in Mongolia worked both The KHA 3-07 spuds as the ways.
As well as reducing SOCOs costs and risk exposure, first well designed to evaluate it attracted ongoing support from the Mongolian authorities.
Basement on the Kharir North prospect in Yemen.
During the sale of its Mongolia assets, the Company worked with the Mongolian government to preserve and enhance local involvement, an approach which SOCO believes the new Chinese owners are committed to progress.
12.10.05 Bridgewell Securities Limited is SOCOs activities in Yemen have greatly increased with the appointed as Financial Advisor discovery of additional reserves.
Increased oil production and Corporate Broker.
has led to an increase in associated gas production which has resulted in increased gas flaring, rising to 12 million cubic feet per day MMCFD.
SOCO has encouraged and supported the operator in addressing this issue in three ways: SOCO manages this area of risk carefully, both in its Installation by mid-2006 of temporary gas injection selection of contractors and the subsequent monitoring of facilities having a capacity of 10 MMCFD.
This will become more of an issue for any development activities, where social and environmental Installation by early 2007 of gas injection facilities having impact would normally be much greater than that arising 60 MMCFD capacity.
from SOCOs current exploration focus.
Installation of gas fired power generation as soon as Recent activity and outlook possible which will utilise up to 3 MMCFD and displace SOCOs interest in Vietnam has given the Company the existing diesel generators.
The latter produce more harmful opportunity to demonstrate its commitment.
In September emissions than gas and the fuel requires transportation to 2005, the construction work on the Hoa Hong Kindergarten site by road tankers.
in Binh Chanh was completed.
The school opened in time for the new school term for some 400 schoolchildren.
In Binh Thuan province, the Tien Loi Primary School renovation project for some 550 children was also fully completed with our additional support for further expansion of classrooms.
The official opening ceremony was held on SOCOs interest in Vietnam 10 September 2005.
Other activities during 2005 involved contributions towards the building of a medical station at has given the Company the Thien Nghiep, Binh Thuan province, and towards the opportunity to demonstrate construction of the Dang Thuy Tram hospital at Duc Pho, Quang Ngai province.
Support for the latter project will its commitment.
Also in 2006, we have agreed to participate in financing the construction of a rehabilitation centre for Agent Orange victims in Vinh Phuc Province.
The construction work should commence shortly.
SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 18 R310 SOCO 16-19 3 27 06 6:02 PM Page 19 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Successful exploration and appraisal offshore Vietnam has SOCO is committed to transparency in its activities and resulted in the formation of plans for development.
Full would expect to set up project-dedicated websites for any impact assessments will be undertaken, although impacts major operated activities.
These would be designed to are likely to be minor.
Oil production will pass to existing manage communication with stakeholders, particularly onshore facilities, so the principal impact will be an extension local communities, and to highlight employment and of the useful life of these assets, thus having a beneficial contractor opportunities arising from direct operations as sustainability influence.
The most material environmental well as any indirect socio-economic activities.
issue will be the production of significant quantities of associated gas.
This represents an important economic While World Bank guidelines will be the operating asset for the Company and the Vietnamese people.
Current benchmark, SOCO would expect to provide information to plans are based on the successful sale of this gas for the wider public, either in public reports or on the Company national use, passing through existing facilities.
In the event website, in line with the guidance provided by the Global that satisfactory arrangements cannot be achieved in the Reporting Initiative and other widely respected guidelines.
development timescale, the gas will be temporarily injected until commercial contracts can be agreed.
The Chief Executive is responsible to the Board for HSE and other CR performance.
He delegates day-to-day SOCO is committed to applying widely accepted good responsibility for managing such issues to the Group practice in CR management.
The detailed guidance set Operations and Production Manager, who is invited to all out by the World Bank Group and incorporated into the Board Meetings.
These issues are reported to all Board Equator Principles agreed by many international lending Members in a monthly operations report and there is a banks is the basic benchmark SOCO has adopted.
As Board agenda item which addresses all significant HSE well as representing good international practice, this and CR issues.
approach has two key advantages: The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing all areas SOCO is involved in developing countries and, in of corporate risk assessment on an annual basis and conjunction with joint venture partners, would expect to HSE CR is identified as a specific issue for assessment.
raise loan finance from international aid donor agencies The Senior Independent Director, who has experience in and Equator Principles banks.
the relevant area, reviews HSE CR performance in detail with senior managers annually and is kept routinely It should be more straightforward for SOCO to agree, informed of any material performance issues as they arise.
with governments and other critical stakeholders, a set of standards with wide international recognition rather than standards with a proprietary component.
In this context, SOCO has, during the last year, raised a credit facility from the International Finance Corporation IFC, which is the private sector arm of the World Bank Group.
As part of the due diligence process, IFC personnel visited all of SOCOs sites to assess our environmental and social management practice.
We intend to build on this new relationship with the IFC, whose guidelines are in line with international best practice, to ensure that operations in all of our projects meet high standards of environmental and social management.
This will demonstrate a commitment to sustainable development through the allocation of benefits to local communities in its area of operations in the form of the creation of jobs, the creation and expansion of local infrastructure, support for local primary education and 22.10.05 support for training and capacity building for local personnel.
The JAT-01 exploration well spuds on a new Basement prospect in the northern area of Block 10 in Yemen.
