Business Review 7 BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT As a global research-based Europe accounts for 29% of the world market is a common GI disease that is inadequately and maintained a steady growth of 6% in 2005. treated and inflammatory bowel disease is pharmaceutical company, Growth in individual countries within Europe an area of significant unmet medical need.
we operate in an ever-changing ranged from 0.2% in the UK to 16% in Greece, environment that presents both with large countries such as Germany, France Infection opportunities and challenges and Spain showing growth of 7%, 7% and The world market value is $57 billion.
diseases cause more than 11 million deaths for our business.
World demand for antibiotics GROWING DEMAND FOR HEALTHCARE Asia Pacific and Latin America account for remains high due to escalating resistance and There remains a strong fundamental demand 7% and 4%, respectively, of worldwide sales.
the increased risk of serious infections.
for healthcare that underpins the industrys Notable growth from countries in these regions future growth prospects.
Specific elements has come in 2005 from China sales of $9 billion, Neuroscience that contribute to this include: growth of 24%, Mexico sales of $7 billion, The world market value in this therapy area is growth of 11%, Korea sales of $7 billion, $103 billion.
It comprises psychiatry market The growing number of people who growth of 16% and Brazil sales of $6 billion, value $45 billion, neurology market value expect high standards of healthcare, growth of 32%, which ranked 9th, 10th, 11th $28 billion, analgesia market value $26 billion especially among the elderly, who and 12th respectively in world markets.
and anaesthesia market value $4 billion.
represent a rising proportion of Approximately 1% of the population develops developed nations populations.
THERAPY AREAS schizophrenia during their lifetime more According to the World Health Organization than 2 million people in the US suffer from Many diseases are under-diagnosed, WHO, the greatest burden of disease is in the illness in a given year.
17 million people sub-optimally treated or do not have non-communicable disease.
Conditions such suffer from bipolar disorder in the major effective therapies.
as malignant tumours, ischaemic heart markets.
Depression and anxiety disorders disease, cerebrovascular disease, chronic remain under diagnosed and under treated.
The growing demand for healthcare will obstructive pulmonary disease COPD, Several classes of antidepressants and be met not only by existing therapies but also schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and asthma anxiolytics are available, but there remains by new ones originating from advances in the are significant contributors.
However, a considerable unmet medical need with understanding of the biology of disease and communicable diseases are also increasing depression being the most common the application of new technologies.
Innovative due primarily to HIV AIDS and tuberculosis.
psychiatric disorder, affecting up to 30% new products have been launched in recent of the population at some time in their life.
years, which are changing therapeutic AstraZenecas skills, experience and resources Migraine is one of the leading causes of approaches and are improving quality of life are focused on the following therapy areas, disability in the world.
Stroke is the second for patients.
which together represent the majority of the leading cause of death worldwide and the worldwide burden of disease: leading cause of adult, long term disability In addition, fast developing economies in industrialised countries.
Alzheimers such as China are expanding the number Cancer disease, the most common cause of of patients who can benefit from medicines.
The world market value for cancer therapies is dementia, affects more than 4.5 million people This represents a significant opportunity $26 billion and growing strongly.
Over 46% of adults in the western for the industry.
million people are diagnosed with cancer every world suffer from chronic pain.
Pain year worldwide: by 2020 this is forecast to management is the most common reason WORLD MARKETS reach 16 million.
Seven million people die from for seeking medical care.
Each year, more The world pharmaceutical market in 2005, cancer every year representing 12.5% of than 26 million people in the US undergo in terms of the 47 countries whose sales deaths worldwide.
Breast cancer is the most medical treatment requiring anaesthesia.
are audited by IMS Health, was valued at prevalent cancer in the world and lung cancer $536 billion.
This represents an increase is the most common cause of cancer death.
Respiratory & Inflammation in constant US dollar terms of 7% over the The respiratory world market value is $41 billion.
previous year and a slowdown in growth over Cardiovascular CV The WHO estimates that 100 million people the 2004 levels of 8%.
The US is by far the The single largest therapy area in the global worldwide suffer from asthma and more than largest market in the world, accounting for healthcare market with a world market value of twice that from COPD, which is estimated to $249 billion of sales 47% of the worldwide $128 billion.
CV disease accounts for 17 million be the fourth greatest cause of death globally.
US growth slowed to 6% in 2005, deaths globally each year, making it the The inflammatory market is estimated to continuing a trend from 2004 when it fell greatest risk to life for most adults.
The statin be $12 billion with over 40% being for the to 8%, largely due to the number of products market has a world market value of $28 billion.
The value that have lost patent protection and pressures of the inflammatory market is dominated in the pricing environment.
Japan is the Gastrointestinal GI by biological therapies, increased usage of second largest country for pharmaceutical The world GI market is valued at $30 billion, which has more than compensated for the sales at $61 billion 11% of worldwide sales of which the proton pump inhibitor market recent withdrawal of Cox-2 inhibitor products.
and its growth, in contrast to the US, has represents $23 billion.
In the western world, risen from 1% in 2004 to 5% in 2005.
10-20% of adults have been diagnosed with Information about the medicines we have gastro-oesophageal reflux disease GERD.
or are developing for treating these diseases The prevalence rate of GERD in Asia is lower and our 2005 product performance is set out but increasing.
Irritable bowel syndrome on pages 14 to 30.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and 8 Form 20-F Information 2005 BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT CONTINUED GROWING CHALLENGES FOR INDUSTRY INDUSTRY REGULATION Productivity Whilst the fundamentals of the world The pharmaceutical industry is one of the most Successful companies will be those who pharmaceuticals market remain robust, strictly regulated of all industries.
Prescription enhance their productivity in the discovery the industry is facing real challenges.
pharmaceutical products are subject to and development of new and differentiated significant and still increasing legislation and medicines designed to meet the growing Pressure on costs regulation concerning the requirements demand.
As the industry is working to improve Expenditure on healthcare typically represents for establishing safety, efficacy and quality.
research productivity through application between 6% and 15% of a countrys gross The degree and scope of these regulations of new technologies, our regulators are domestic product GDP, with developed nations vary according to national and regional also setting increasingly high hurdles for towards the top end of that range and developing demands concerning the development the approval of medicines.
As a proportion of and commercialisation of drug products.
this, pharmaceutical expenditure is usually The processes for regulatory approval for Drug safety between 10% and 20% and is therefore still products are complex, time-consuming and Decisions on acceptable benefit risk profiles less than 2% of GDP in most countries.
In addition to for medicines have the potential to be safety and efficacy, regulation covers every positively or negatively affected by a number Nevertheless, healthcare systems, whether aspect of the product including the chemical of factors.
These include preand postbased on public or private funding, have composition, manufacturing, quality controls, marketing clinical data and regulatory a finite ability to pay for treatments.
Cost handling, packaging, labelling, distribution, judgements reflecting societys concerns containment remains an ever-present constraint promotion and marketing.
Even after launch and aspirations.
For more information, on industry growth.
During 2005, further of new medicines, regulatory agencies require see page 41. pricing pressures have been placed on the numerous conditions to be met in the safety industry through legislation not only in major surveillance, risk management, clinical, Competition established markets, but also in China and manufacturing and marketing areas.
For more AstraZenecas principal competitors are other India.
This is felt most acutely within large information, see pages 43 and 44. international, research-based pharmaceutical primary care categories.
and biotechnology companies that also sell branded, patent-protected, prescription Doctors remain the principal decision makers medicines.
In common with these other regarding which of the available treatments companies, following patent expiry, our should be prescribed for their patients, but products also compete with generic as the economic burden of funding therapies pharmaceuticals mainly on price, since increases, payers, including governments, generic manufacturers do not bear the high health insurers, managed care organisations, costs of research that companies such employers and patients are increasing their as AstraZeneca do.
The industrys intellectual efforts to influence the choices doctors make.
property base is increasingly being challenged by generic manufacturers looking to make Demonstrating economic benefit an early entry into large markets, which puts Research-based pharmaceutical companies pressure on product lifecycles.
increasingly have to demonstrate the economic as well as the therapeutic value of their Reputation medicines to those who pay for healthcare.
The reputation of the pharmaceutical industry This requires investment, throughout the has been in decline.
Contributory factors development of a medicine, in studies to include heightened public concern about demonstrate cost-effectiveness, cost-benefit issues such as drug safety exacerbated by and outcomes such as survival and quality some high profile drug withdrawals in recent of life improvements in addition to traditional years, transparency of information, sales and trials designed to establish safety and efficacy.
marketing practices and the cost of medicines.
