Business Review 41 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY It is also policy to apply for intellectual property COUNTERFEITING The trust and confidence of all our stakeholders protection for all inventions and innovations The World Health Organization WHO defines in how we do business as well as what we created as a result of the investments in R&D a counterfeit medicine as one that is deliberately do, is critical to our reputation which is one throughout the AstraZeneca organisation.
and fraudulently mislabelled with respect to of our most valuable assets.
Along with our We vigorously defend our intellectual property identity and or source.
Whilst the full extent commitment to competitiveness and rights, including taking appropriate infringement of the problem is not known because performance, we will continue to be led by our action in various courts throughout the world.
counterfeiting is difficult to detect, investigate core values to achieve sustainable success.
and quantify, it is known that it occurs Product safety and efficacy worldwide and is more prevalent in developing MANAGEMENT Although we carry out extensive clinical trials countries.
The WHO and the US Food and Drug The AstraZeneca Board approves the before a new product is launched, these trials Administration FDA estimate that 5-10% strategic direction for Corporate Responsibility cannot replicate the complete range of patient of medicines worldwide are counterfeit with CR and we have a Non-Executive Director circumstances that exist among much larger recent reports indicating that up to 30% who has responsibility for overseeing CR patient populations.
It takes time in broader of drugs in South East Asia and China may within the Company.
A Global CR Committee clinical use following launch of a new medicine be counterfeit.
AstraZeneca has a range of leads development of the CR framework and to be able to establish a more meaningful and activities focused on protecting patients from our Senior Executive Team and other senior reliable assessment of its eventual efficacy counterfeit drugs.
These include developing managers are accountable for CR management and or safety and likely future commercial technologies that make copying our products within their areas, based on the global CR performance.
We have comprehensive and more difficult for counterfeiters, and surveillance framework but taking account of national, rigorous systems in place for detecting and of market and supply chain activities to identify functional and site issues and priorities.
rapidly evaluating adverse events, and for potential counterfeiting operations.
We also Individually, everyone at AstraZeneca has taking any action that may be required, work proactively with government authorities a responsibility to integrate CR considerations including communicating with the relevant when we identify suspect activities.
into their day-to-day decision-making, regulatory authorities.
We also strive to identify actions and behaviours.
whether particular types of patients may be ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITIES more susceptible to the risks associated with Our internal programmes and management The common platform that supports this effort a particular drug, and what the early indicators systems help to ensure that we operate our worldwide includes our Group CR Policy, of this might be, so that side effects can business in compliance with applicable Group CR Standards and Global CR Priority be avoided or minimised in these patients.
environmental laws, regulations, licences Action Plan, which together provide the and permits.
A significant environmental, framework for understanding and managing Product liability claims health or safety event for which we were the opportunities and challenges associated Given the widespread impact that medicines responsible could have an adverse effect on with our corporate responsibility.
may have on the health of large patient our financial performance and we strive to populations, pharmaceutical companies continuously operate our business in a manner To further support integration, relevant CR-related have historically been subject to large product that mitigates this risk.
AstraZeneca has objectives are being included in personal liability damages claims, settlements and environmental  liabilities targets as part of the new performance awards for injuries allegedly caused by at some currently or formerly owned sites management regime that is being rolled out the use of their products.
Adverse publicity relating to historic operations in the US and across the Company with completion planned relating to the safety of a product or of other elsewhere see pages 118 and 119, but we for 2006 7.
For our Senior Executive Team competing products may increase the risk believe these are unlikely to have a material and senior managers, these objectives of product liability claims.
adverse effect on our financial position and reflect their responsibility for ensuring that results of operations.
management systems and action plans are SUPPLY in place to manage CR in an integrated way As part of our overall risk management, CURRENCY FLUCTUATIONS across their areas.
Our standard performance we carefully consider the timing of investment As a global business, currency fluctuations can planning template requires all employees to ensure that secure supply chains are in place significantly affect our results.
Our functional to have, as a minimum, a performance for our products see page 39. and reporting currency is US dollars as this objective that reflects the need to ensure is our single largest currency, but we have compliance with relevant AstraZeneca SUPPLIERS substantial exposures to other currencies, CR-related policies as part of their core role.
In common with most, if not all, pharmaceutical in particular, significant euro and Japanese yen companies, in some of our areas of activity denominated income and sterling and Swedish In line with our commitment to leadership by we increasingly rely on third parties, such krona denominated costs see page 50 for example, we continue to integrate CR into our as for the supply of raw materials, equipment, more information.
leadership development programmes and, manufacturing, formulation or packaging in 2005, some 245 of our leaders were services and maintenance services.
We actively involved in such programmes.
manage our relationships with our suppliers to ensure they deliver on time and to our required We have national CR committees and specifications.
However, some events beyond management frameworks in place in the US, our control could result in an interruption to the UK and Sweden, where more than 60% supply that could affect business continuity of our employees are located.
Elsewhere in and impact our financial performance.
the world, CR continues to be integrated into leadership team agendas and interpreted at a local level.
We have more work to do to improve how we gather information about our CR-related activities across the organisation, and during the year, we began the process of developing a common platform for formally capturing local information at a global level.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and 42 Form 20-F Information 2005 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED PRIORITY ACTION PLANNING during the year we introduced new KPIs for relevant external codes.
We are committed to We use formal internal risk assessment animal use and welfare, and for sales and driving high standards in these activities, and processes, together with external benchmarking marketing practices.
We continue to explore have introduced a new key performance and dialogue with stakeholders, to help us the ways in which we can meaningfully indicator by which to measure our progress identify the opportunities and challenges benchmark our performance in the area namely, the number of confirmed cases where associated with our corporate responsibility.
AstraZeneca has been found to have breached Our CR Priority Action Plan provides a external codes of sales and marketing practice.
framework for managing these in line with our We also participate in leading external surveys, Any breach is treated seriously and appropriate core values, including defined objectives and, such as the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes, actions are taken by management to prevent where possible, appropriate key performance which are important means of evaluating our repetition.
By publishing the number of indicators.
The Plan is reviewed annually to performance and understanding better the confirmed breaches, we have made public ensure that it continues to address the issues demands of sustainable development.
a global benchmark against which we expect relating to our business that most affect or to be judged over time on our commitment to concern society today.
In 2005, we added AUDITING COMPLIANCE responsible sales and marketing practices.
Patient Safety to the Plan to ensure it remains An essential part of our corporate responsibility a fundamental priority running through all of is to continue to operate to high standards Sales and marketing practice is one of the our activities.
Auditing compliance areas in which the pharmaceutical industry is a fundamental part of this.
All our managers is increasingly under public scrutiny.
Other We also moved some aspects of Safety, have individual responsibility for ensuring that aspects of our business that affect or concern Health and Environment SHE out of the Plan their teams comply with the Code of Conduct society today include the safety of medicines, in favour of a focus on two significant SHE and with all other AstraZeneca policies, codes access to healthcare and research practices.
challenges that we are facing: driver safety and and standards that are relevant to their roles.
In the separate Corporate Responsibility climate change.
Approval for Symbicort pMDI We also have a range of functions and roles Summary Report 2005, we have set out to in the US, the worlds largest pharmaceutical dedicated to ensuring appropriate compliance communicate more information about our market, would inevitably lead to an increase processes are in place throughout the business.
approach in these areas, in line with our in emissions of the associated propellant gas Our Group Internal Audit function GIA works commitment to transparency and openness, as more and more patients benefit from to review, among other things, the effectiveness and with a view to building a better the new medicine.
We are therefore working and independence of the other audit functions understanding of what is required to get lifehard to reduce our contributions in other in the Company, as well as conducting direct changing medicines to patients that also add areas of our business and ensure continuing reviews looking at compliance with laws, value for shareholders and wider society.
improvement in this area as our Company grows.
More information about our commitment PRODUCT DONATIONS AND PATIENT Alongside the work of GIA, we continue our to CR, our priority action areas and our 2005 ASSISTANCE PROGRAMMES rolling programme of Internal Facility Audits performance in these areas is available in the Our product donations and patient assistance previously known as Integrated SHE CR separate CR Summary Report 2005 and on programmes make products available free audits, but which now also cover Site our website: astrazeneca.
of charge or at reduced prices.
Specific protocols have been expanded patient access programmes in the developed to guide auditors in this work and For the second year running, we have sought US contributed to a total spend in this area of 20 such audits were conducted in 2005, independent assurance of the information $835 million, valued at average wholesale price.
Of the two sites contained in the CR Summary Report.
This year, that did not include CR, one was a standthe process was extended to include visits COMMUNITY SUPPORT alone computer centre and one had already to our operations in the US and India, to enable We aim to make a positive contribution been covered in a broader audit during the external assurance team to assess the to our local communities through charitable the year.
The audits highlighted that whilst validity of our corporate statements about donations and sponsorships that help to make there is increasing recognition of CR and a global commitment to CR.
In particular, we make contributions its importance, we have more work to that are consistent with our business of do in some areas to promote a common improving health and quality of life and which understanding of what is expected of promote the value of science among young people in delivering our CR commitments.
In 2005, our spend on community INTEGRITY AND HIGH ETHICAL STANDARDS support totalled $34 million.
Approximately one third of AstraZenecas employees worldwide are engaged in the RESPECT FOR THE INDIVIDUAL EVALUATING PERFORMANCE promotion and detailing of information on our AND DIVERSITY We have for some time had processes in place medicines to doctors and other healthcare OPENNESS, HONESTY, TRUST AND for monitoring our economic, environmental, professionals.
In early 2005, we completed SUPPORT FOR EACH OTHER safety and health performance.
More recently, a project conducted to ensure that all our we have been focusing on developing key marketing companies have national codes LEADERSHIP BY EXAMPLE AT ALL LEVELS performance indicators KPIs in other areas of practice in place that are in line with our of social responsibility.
To promote a consistent own global Code of Sales and Marketing approach to monitoring performance globally, Practice and are at least as restrictive as all
