SPECTRIS 30-31 3 4 06 9:51 pm Page 30 Corporate responsibility Spectris is committed to creating business growth whilst Environment, health and safety EHS ensuring that impact on the environment is minimised and The Chief Executive has overall responsibility for that all activities are conducted safely by well-trained and environment, health and safety matters.
Senior executives in qualified employees.
each of the business units are responsible for implementing the policy at local level.
Spectris comprises a number of subsidiary companies which operate around the world.
The companies products are used Environment to monitor and control processes in many industries, helping Spectris addresses environmental concerns by providing customers to improve efficiency and minimise their impact customers with products which enable them to minimise on the environment by reducing raw material consumption, their impact on the environment by reducing raw material waste or energy use.
In turn, Spectris companies themselves and energy consumption, eliminating waste and minimising actively seek to minimise their impact on the environment by harmful emissions.
Products are also designed to help designing products which are more energy-efficient and avoid customers to meet new legislation, for example instrumentation the use of harmful substances.
providing the ability to measure low levels of materials such as lead and cadmium to meet the new European directive Policy setting and monitoring on the restriction of hazardous substances.
Other examples Overall responsibility for developing corporate policies on of the use of Spectris products having a direct beneficial social, ethical and environmental matters and for reviewing contribution to reducing environmental impact are shown on their effectiveness lies with the Spectris Board.
The individual the companys website.
operating units are then responsible for ensuring the policy is Spectris products do not require capital-intensive communicated and applied within their particular business, manufacturing processes and hence their manufacture taking account of local legislation and regulation.
All policies generally has a low overall environmental impact.
and procedures are reviewed periodically and any updates Nevertheless, Spectris is committed to adopting are communicated to the operating companies.
environmentally responsible policies in its internal Spectris policies and procedures are communicated to all operations wherever its companies operate.
Each business units via the Spectris Group Manual.
As an integral operating company is required to comply with all part of the companys risk management and corporate relevant environmental laws and minimise raw material governance processes, the presidents and finance directors of usage, energy and waste disposal.
the operating companies are required to certify, on an annual The design processes for Spectris products take into account basis, compliance with the companys policies and procedures the operational lifetime of every product and end-of-life and report on, where appropriate, all non-compliance events.
Consideration is given to the recyclability The process for identifying, evaluating and managing any of materials, energy consumption and environment-friendly significant risks, including those arising from social, ethical production, packaging and shipping.
During 2005, Spectris and environmental matters, forms part of the groups system companies, and their suppliers, worked to ensure the provision of internal controls and is regularly reviewed by the group of products which comply with the new European regulations internal control and risk manager.
Additionally, the executive on the Restriction of Hazardous Substances RoHS and Waste directors report to the Board on any changes in the business Electrical and Electronic Equipment WEEE, where and external environment which present significant risk, appropriate.
These directives apply particularly in the whilst regular reports on legal exposure and insurance manufacture of printed circuit boards an activity largely matters are received from the company secretary.
carried out by third-party suppliers to Spectris, where lead-free solder is now being used.
FTSE4Good index Internal initiatives are in place at many Spectris sites to Spectris has been a member of the FTSE4Good UK index reduce energy usage and minimise wastage.
These include since its establishment in July 2001.
The FTSE4Good UK recycling of waste paper, cardboard, plastic cups, aluminium index measures and benchmarks the performance of cans and mobile phones, reducing energy consumption companies that meet globally recognised corporate through the use of timers and sensors to control hot water, air responsibility standards, with particular emphasis on the conditioning and lighting, reducing water consumption and environment and human rights.
re-use of packaging and filling materials.
Spectris complies The following report explains the companys commitment with the UK Producer Responsibility Obligations Packaging to social, ethical and environmental issues.
The policies are Waste Regulations which set targets for the recovery and described fully on the companys website at recycling of packaging waste.
30 Spectris plc report and accounts 2005 SPECTRIS 30-31 3 4 06 9:51 pm Page 31 Environmental management systems Ethics Operating companies representing over one-third of Spectris All employees are expected to behave with integrity and business by turnover are certified to ISO14001.
honesty and demonstrate appropriate business behaviour.
During the year no significant environmental incidents The ethics policy prohibits bribery and similar facilitation were recorded.
Investigative studies into contaminated land payments.
Donations to political parties or similar at Almelo in the Netherlands, resulting from activities prior organisations are also prohibited.
to ownership by PANalytical, have now been completed and Spectris operates a confidential whistleblowing policy via a final report has been submitted to the Dutch authorities which employees may report to the businesss management for review and approval prior to any remediation activities.
team or any Board member any concerns they may have over unethical business practices or conduct, dangers to health and Health and safety safety, or breach of company policies.
Any such disclosures are Spectris is committed to providing a working environment appropriately investigated.
In addition, Spectris is committed at all of its sites which is safe and without risk to health.
Each to protecting the career and reputation of employees who operating company is responsible for ensuring the health report wrongdoing in accordance with established procedures, and safety of its employees and also that of sub-contractors as long as their disclosures are delivered in good faith and seek and suppliers.
to safeguard the best interests of the group.
Audits of health and safety policies and procedures are undertaken at all major locations by external assessors acting Training and development on behalf of the groups insurers on a periodic basis.
Spectris recognises the value that its employees create for During the year no significant health and safety incidents the business and its commitment to training and personal were recorded.
development, together with remuneration policies which are designed to reward achievement, emphasises the Human rights, employment and ethics importance of retaining staff throughout the group.
Local Spectris operates mainly in Europe and the US, but with policies, based on overall group guidelines, are set by a growing presence in Asia.
Although different social and individual managements according to the needs of their employment conditions exist in different locations, Spectris business and local conditions.
places high priority on compliance with legislative and ethical requirements within all jurisdictions in which business is Employee communications conducted, particularly with respect to employment practices, The company has a policy of encouraging its operating labour rights and equal opportunities.
The Head of companies to provide information to their employees on a Commercial has overall responsibility for human rights, regular basis.
This information includes matters relating to employment and ethics policies, but responsibility for their companys performance, its prospects in the markets it implementation is delegated to individual business units, serves and the future outlook for its business.
In addition, the with operational policies tailored to suit local needs.
group distributes a periodic electronic newsletter, Perspectives, which keeps employees abreast of group progress and is also Human rights available to shareholders at www.
Financial Spectris believes in the fundamental rights of people in participation in the group is encouraged through the Savings all parts of the world and is committed to adopting Related Share Option Scheme available to all UK employees, internationally recognised human rights standards wherever the groups executive share option schemes and the proposed it operates.
The companys human rights policy is consistent performance share plan.
with the Principles of Human Rights, as set out in the International Labour Organizations core conventions, and Community involvement includes policies on non-discrimination, harassment, pay Spectris operating companies worldwide support local and forced labour.
charities and participate in a range of community activities The group monitors compliance with the policy through and educational initiatives.
Charitable donations in 2005 various processes, including confirmation in writing by each totalled 73,300 of which 5,500 were in the UK 2004: business unit annually, and consolidated Equal Employment 35,000, of which 8,000 in UK.
Examples of community Opportunities Commission returns which are produced in activities are described on our website.
Spectris plc report and accounts 2005 31
