Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 13 Corporate social responsibility statement We recognise that our social, environmental and ethical conduct has an impact An environment that fosters innovation and supports a culture of on our reputation.
We therefore take our corporate social responsibilities entrepreneurship and partnership are critical to Spirents success.
CSR seriously and are committed to advancing our policies and systems Appropriate career paths and internal recognition programmes are across the Group to ensure we address and monitor all aspects of CSR that developed for both technical and management staff.
are relevant to our business.
These include good ethical behaviour, concern Employees are provided with numerous learning and development for employee health and safety, care for the environment and community opportunities to full their potential.
A wide variety of both technical and involvement.
managerial courses and training materials are available to employees, as We strive to maintain a productive and open dialogue with all parties who are local undergraduate and postgraduate educational opportunities to may have an interest in our activities including shareholders, customers, help them to enhance their careers.
These employment development suppliers and employees.
We have an established investor relations programme, opportunities are structured to align with both the Group and Business conduct regular customer satisfaction surveys, monitor supplier performance Units goals and objectives.
and actively encourage feedback from our employees using a variety of methods Spirent demonstrates that it values its employees through several reward including employee surveys.
We maintain our website as one of the main and recognition programmes.
The Engineering Fellowship Programme routes for providing information to interested parties and for contacting us.
honours the top technical talent within the organisation, connecting The Board takes ultimate responsibility for CSR and is committed to developing the best and the brightest of Spirents technical expertise.
The Spirit of and implementing appropriate policies while adhering to a fundamental Spirent programme tracks outstanding service using Spirents core values commitment to create and sustain long term value for shareholders.
As a customer focus, innovation, collaboration, contribution, continuous learning Group driven largely by technological innovation, our main assets are the and ethics.
This programme is implemented across the Communications talents and skills of the people we employ.
The Board does not believe that, group to encourage and reward significant contributions to Spirent to date, the activities of the Group present any significant environmental by employees.
Furthermore, the annual Innovation Awards programme risks.
We have established a committee to coordinate Group-wide CSR efforts.
recognises all facets of contributions to Spirent, including outstanding sales, technical innovations and general business innovations.
Ethics Similarly, the importance of two-way communication is recognised Spirent expects that all of its business is conducted in compliance with high particularly as it relates to the business and its performance.
Business Unit ethical standards of business practice.
We apply these standards to all management is responsible for developing and implementing arrangements dealings with employees, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
for employee information, consultation, communication and involvement The Groups Ethics Policy, which has been approved by the Board, is available which best meet their own particular needs within the context of a on our website at www.
Our Ethics Policy has been developed Group cascade process.
A variety of tools are utilised to foster two-way to ensure that the Groups business is conducted in adherence with high communications, including senior management meetings, all-hands ethical and legal principles and sets standards of professionalism and employee meetings, the regular distribution of an employee newsletter, and integrity for all employees and operations worldwide.
The following is a the intranet.
In addition, in 2005 Spirent undertook its first all-employee summary of the Ethics Policy: survey in its Communications group in an effort to better understand the needs of its employee base.
Actions from the survey will be implemented all employees have the right and responsibility to ensure that Spirents throughout 2006 and beyond.
business is conducted with high ethical and legal principles: Leadership development and succession planning are processes which are our policy is to operate within applicable laws: also critical to the success of the business.
These plans are regularly discrimination or harassment of any kind will not be tolerated: discussed and updated as the competition for talented employees increases and the leadership needs of our business grow.
Formal performance reviews as a matter of policy, we do not make political donations: are conducted and are linked to the values of the organisation.
no bribes shall be given or received: The Group is committed to providing equality of opportunity to all existing conicts of interest must be avoided: and prospective employees without unlawful or unfair discrimination.
Full support is given to the employment and advancement of disabled persons we aim to be a responsible partner within our local communities: and and this is reinforced through the Groups Ethics Policy.
employees are encouraged and supported to report, in confidence, any suspected wrongdoings whistleblowing.
Health and safety The Chief Executive is the director appointed by the Board to have Appropriate ethical behaviour is reviewed as part of the Groups internal responsibility for the health and safety and environmental performance of control process.
Employees The Group Health and Safety Policy places responsibility for the management The Group aims to attract, retain and motivate the highest calibre of of health and safety on the local Business Unit management, who are employees within the context of an operating structure that encourages supported by the Group internal control team and local external advisers, their contribution and development.
14 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 Corporate social responsibility statement continued Each Business Unit has a senior individual designated as being responsible A large proportion of our products are designed and manufactured to take for ensuring the Business Unit conforms to local statutory health and safety account of the recycling and disposal of the product at the end of its life regulations as well as Group policy.
All Business Units provide employees cycle.
Our businesses comply with The Waste Electrical and Electronic with a written health and safety policy.
Equipment Regulations the WEEE Regulations and are working towards full compliance with The Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Spirents Operational Excellence Programme which is further described in Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Regulations 2004 the the Directors statement on corporate governance on pages 17 to 19, RoHS Regulations.
continues to further the corporate objective of continuous improvement in the area of health and safety.
An annual internal report on our health and The environmental performance of the Group continues to improve with safety performance is collated from a questionnaire completed by all our Business Units meeting goals for reducing energy consumption, reducing Business Units.
The highlights of this report in respect of 2005 are: waste and greater recycling.
There are also programmes in place aimed at reducing the amount of waste sent to landll by increasing the volume of we had 422 incidents that required on-site First Aid, a small increase from recycling and also training and education initiatives to promote and improve 2004 but eight down compared with 2003: environmental performance.
we saw a decrease in ill health long term sickness levels with three cases The vacant site where historic activity had led to minor land contamination reported compared with five in 2004 and three in 2003: is continuing to be remedied with full cooperation of the local statutory body.
we saw a reduction in accident frequency and severity: and Group performance and risk exposure reviews are undertaken in parallel we had three accidents that required short term hospitalisation compared with those for health and safety as described above.
Community Independent external reviews of the Companys health and safety Spirent recognises the signicance of local communities and through our performance are conducted annually.
Regular designated health and safety Charitable Donations Policy we strive to be a responsible partner in the awareness training programmes, particularly at our manufacturing sites, are communities in which we operate.
We encourage all our businesses to also carried out.
support the particular needs of their communities by contributing to local The Groups health and safety performance and significant risk exposures charities and community initiatives.
Support takes the form of employee are reviewed regularly by management, twice a year by the Audit Committee time and skills, gifts in kind and cash donations.
In 2005, Spirent made and annually by the Board.
In support of relief efforts following Hurricane Katrina in the United States, Environmental the Company matched employee donations.
Spirent also took actions to Good environmental practice and the impact that our operations have on help customers that were affected by the hurricane by offering equipment the environment are of great importance to Spirent.
The main aim of and personnel to assist them in restoring their networks.
Spirents Environmental Policy is to comply with local, state and national environmental legislation in all jurisdictions in which we operate and to In 2005, we continued to support education in our local communities by adopt responsible environmental practices.
The full text of our Environmental offering internships and work experience programmes.
In the US we Policy is available on our website at www.
participated in a programme which introduces local high school students to jobs related to engineering.
Through Junior Achievement, an organisation Business Units are required to comply with Group policy and local statutory which educates young people about business, economics and free enterprise, regulations and are encouraged to set their own environmental targets.
An we are involved in an annual job shadow day which pairs a student to an annual environmental questionnaire is completed by each Business Unit employee in many aspects of the business.
which highlights their environmental performance.
Our employees help the communities in which we operate by volunteering Our Network Products groups manufacturing sites worldwide operate their time to various programmes including Habitat for Humanity, an ISO 14001 accredited environmental management systems.
In addition, organisation working to eliminate poverty housing.
We continue to donate various sales and distribution locations worldwide have achieved ISO materials and equipment to local causes throughout the world.
During 2005, 14001 accreditation and a number are working towards achieving this donations included computers to those affected by the Asian tsunami, accreditation.
The Communications groups businesses are also introducing computer screens and furniture to local schools and mobile phones to a formal environmental management systems, with a number having already womens shelter.
We encourage our employees to become involved in fund achieved ISO 14001 accreditation.
raising activities for local concerns and community initiatives.
Through The majority of Spirent Group manufacturing sites have ISO 9001 accreditation activities such as food drives, collections and sponsored events our and, in the case of the Service Assurance division, also TL-9000 accreditation.
businesses help organisations which provide food and clothing to people around the world.
Business units closely monitor energy consumption and where possible have introduced energy efficient measures, such as replacing existing Spirent continues to support and encourage all our employees and businesses equipment with more energy efficient machinery, installing light sensors to nd new ways of helping their communities.
and tting temperature control devices.
