Corporate and Social Responsibility We continue to develop and improve our Corporate policies and procedures for the management and Social of safety and the environment and the Responsibility protection of the welfare of our employees.
This year has seen progress in developing policies and guidance for the broader range of social responsibility issues faced by the Group.
In 2005, we have implemented the Health and Safety recommendations of the independent Our 2005 safety performance was an CSR review undertaken in 2004.
A key improvement on 2004 and we just fell short of recommendation that has been completed our target Total Recordable Incident Frequency is the development of guidance to increase TRIF of 1.0 achieved 1.06.
We successfully awareness of the UN Global Compact and achieved the other three main objectives set provide direction on the implications for out in our 2004 CSR Report.
We will be business activities within the Group.
In looking to further reduce risks to employees addition we have developed further policies, in our 2006 HSE Plan.
such as a Conflict of Interest Policy, to set standards for all of our employees.
01 Claire Porter 03 KCA DEUTAGs and Steven van first Angolan Duivenbode, administrative two KCA DEUTAG employee Cristina scholarship Maria Alvarez.
students at The 04 Children at Robert Gordon an Azerbaijan University in orphanage meeting Aberdeen pictured Ian Lane and George giving drilling Grant after their a try at the DART fundraising bike Simulator in ride along the route Aberdeen.
of the Baku-Tbilisi- 02 T45 heavily Ceyhan pipeline.
disguised and sound-proofed, drilling in the middle of an urban environment in Holland.
01 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate and Social Responsibility We achieved a number of notable We continue to look for improvements in We continue to support a number of performances in 2005 including long-term environmental performance with the key community based projects that are improving injury free operations in Russia, Kazakhstan, focus on more fuel efficient engines with opportunities for social and economic Oman and the North Sea.
The focus of this support remains in the areas of education, training Generally, there has been a plateau in safety We also recognise our role in promoting and skills development.
performance which is recognised throughout environmental responsibility within our the industry.
In response, 2005 has seen the operations and with all those involved Business Ethics start of the implementation of our Safe2Lead in our operations.
The Group continues to recognise that safety and leadership training programme.
a well run business balances the expectations Valuing all People This is an important part of achieving of all key stakeholders: our customers, Our philosophy is to incorporate local people communication throughout the organisation shareholders, employees and the into our operations and help develop the skills on the importance of safety performance communities in which we live and work.
available in all countries where we operate.
and improving safety culture and awareness.
This is reflected in our commitment to Our commitment to the principles of the UN responsible corporate behaviour and the Environmental Stewardship Global Compact provides the basis for our principles of the Global Compact.
Our environmental policy sets out our policies and procedures to ensure consistent environmental standards and expectations.
labour standards throughout the Group.
In 2005, we developed guidance for all Our environmental performance is managed of our employees on the application of the Development of local personnel has been through local Environmental Management UN Global Compact to some of the real a key initiative in 2005 and we have had Systems developed to be consistent with issues faced during our day-to-day activities.
a number of notable successes in Angola, the Group policies, expectations and Russia and Azerbaijan.
The guidance covered all issues addressed requirements.
In some of our locations, within the Global Compact: human these systems are accredited to ISO14001, rights, labour standards, environment the international standard for Environmental and anti-corruption.
02 03 04 Abbot Group plc 25 Corporate and Social Responsibility Generally, there has been a plateau in Safety Performance which is recognised throughout the Industry.
We also provided further definition of Our clients are right to demand a high level our principles in a Conflict of Interest Policy of performance, with safety as a key element.
which provides guidance to our employees Leadership is the key to delivery, from the on the application of our business principles.
boardroom to the rig floor, and we intend to make a significant investment in Leadership These policies and guidance documents are Training in 2006, with the clear objective supported through a defined network for of moving the Group off the plateau with gaining further advice and our formalised a further improvement in performance.
whistle blowing procedure which gives access to the Group Company Secretary.
The Group produced its first Corporate Social Responsibility Report in 2003.
Safety is a primary concern for the Group as it At that time we spent considerable effort has human as well as commercial implications.
in determining in describable form exactly Our strongly held belief that we can perform how we run our business, and how closely our operations anywhere in the world we were adhering to the principles enshrined without harm to anyone is real, and in the United Nations Global Compact on we are dedicated to its delivery.
Total IADC KCA DEUTAG Drilling Group Comparisons 3.66 2.34 2.33 2.23 2.21 1.34 1.28 1.12 1.07 0.99 IADC Total TRIR 0.77 0.65 0.63 0.61 0.61 KCAD Drilling Group TRIR IADC Total LTIR 0.28 0.26 0.25 0.22 0.17 KCAD Drilling Group LTIR 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate and Social Responsibility We were gratified to note that, as it applied to It will provide guidance for our staff on the our business, there were no serious deviations 10 principles and how the Group meets its We continue to develop from the principles.
It will give guidance as to how to manage certain situations as well as and improve our policies The Global Compact has been recently answering questions as examples.
reinforced by a 10th principle dealing and procedures for the with Bribery and Corruption.
The Group CSR has become an integral part of our is developing specific policies and procedures business behaviour.
Safety and the control of management of safety to formally address the requirements of this the working environment for the protection and the environment and 10th principle.
of our staff and contractors has become embedded in our work ethic.
We are working the protection of the Again we are confident that this is merely towards making our impacts on the physical a formality as we are sure that we are welfare of our employees.
environment and the business environment conducting our business in all areas along in the areas where we work to be considered ethical lines.
in exactly the same manner.
CSR Progress Review The gradual implementation of the Extractive The international oil companies, which The Corporate Social Responsibility Industries Transparency Initiative in a number comprise the majority of our client base, are Report is developing as part of a of countries, notably Azerbaijan, is of in general aligned along the same objectives, continuous process which recognises assistance in regularising certain elements of and our initiative in this regard to a large changes in the business environment the business environment in these countries.
generally, and our requirement The formalisation of the CSR process has to create an ever more safe We believe that our overt adherence to the highlighted the fact that management in the working environment.
objectives of the Global Compact enhances diverse areas in which we work are required to our competitive position with our clients and manage dilemmas at almost all levels of their reinforces our desire to be the Contractor operations.
KCA DEUTAG is producing a short of Choice wherever we work.
CSR guidelines for Employees guide to the Global Compact for the benefit of all employees and we anticipate this being Safety Leadership Training published in 2006.
Michael J. L. Salter Development of Training Chief Operating Officer, 17 March 2006 Programmes CSR Benchmarking Study First CSR Report Adopted the principles of the UN Global Compact Protection of our environment is one of the key cornerstones of our operating philosophy.
Our environmental performance is managed Safety and Environmental Management Systems through local Environmental Management HR Policies Systems developed to be consistent with Community Involvement the Group policies and expectations.
