Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2005 Corporate Responsibility 22 Scottish and Southern Energy believes that SSE believes that the successful application Of the 17 injuries, 13 were the result of slips, corporate responsibility is essential to the of these principles of corporate responsibility trips and falls, including falls from height.
maintenance of financial strength and to will improve its operational performance, There were no fatalities, and 51 business the achievement of its core objective, which safeguard its reputation, contribute to units out of a total of 59 had no lost-time is to deliver sustained real growth in the financial performance and support injuries.
that it seeks to ensure that responsible During the year, a continuing emphasis was business practice is fully integrated into the BitC CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY INDEX placed on safe driving, both in and out of management of its operations and into the work.
The number of serious, or potentially culture of all parts of its business.
To benchmark its approach to corporate serious, road traffic accidents involving responsibility, SSE was one of 144 companies employees driving company vehicles during CORE VALUES which participated in Business in the 2004 05 was 0.42 per 100 vehicles, an Communitys Corporate Responsibility improvement on the 0.52 recorded in the SSEs core values focus explicitly on achieving Index and Environment Index 2004, the previous year.
sustainable growth by: results of which were published in April 2005.
SSE recognises that effective accident According to BitC, participation in the Index and injury prevention requires not only a k putting CUSTOMERS first: demonstrates a commitment to responsible documented management system but also business practice and to openness and the development and maintenance of a safe k being OPEN and HONEST: transparency in reporting.
The Health and Safety Executive has endorsed a Health and k being SAFE, strong and resourceful: and SSEs score in the Index was 93%, and its Safety Climate Survey research tool to help position in the Index was joint 14th.
This was assess the health and safety culture within k caring for the ENVIRONMENT.
the second highest position achieved by an organisation.
Having been piloted within a company taking part in the Index for the Southern Electric Contracting during 2003 04, PRINCIPLES OF RESPONSIBILITY first time.
the survey was completed by almost 500 staff in SSEs Domestic Energy Sales Teams during In support of these values, SSE has eight WORKPLACE 2004 05.
The areas for improvement identified principles of corporate responsibility, adopted as a result of the survey will be implemented by the Board to focus on issues of particular Employees during 2005 06. significance to SSE and the sectors in which SSE as a whole directly employed 11,034 it operates.
The principles reflect four impact staff at the end of March 2005, all in the SSE is seeking to secure a further significant areas defined by Business in the Community UK, compared with 9,785 the year before.
reduction in the number of lost-time and BitC : workplace: environment: marketplace: There was a 10.6% turnover of employees, reportable injuries and in the number of road and community.
They have also been selected compared with 10.8% in the previous year.
To support on the basis that there are clear and this, there is in place a Make It Zero safety measurable performance indicators in Safety competition.
Its aims are to support SSEs respect of each of them.
One of SSEs principles of corporate ultimate target of injury-free working by responsibility is achieving the highest recognising and rewarding excellent safety SSEs principles of corporate responsibility standards of health and safety performance.
are: In line with this, SSE believes that all work can be done in such a way that no-one, Health k achieving the highest standards of health whether an employee, contractor, customer SSEs policy is to deal with genuine and and safety performance: or member of the community, suffers from acceptable sickness absence confidentially its operations.
It believes that all accidents and sympathetically and it aims to help k providing opportunities for employees and injuries are preventable and it aims to employees make a speedy return to health to be shareholders in the company: provide staff with the training, work methods and to work by seeking and taking into and equipment to achieve that goal.
During 2004 05, k being actively responsible by complying the average number of days of absence from with and exceeding, where appropriate, SSEs general policy with regard to Health and work per employee was 5.43, compared with all statutory and regulatory environmental Safety at Work was reviewed in March 2005 5.47 the year before and 5.90 in 2002 03. requirements: and endorsed by the Safety and Environmental Advisory Committee of the Board.
The maintenance of a healthy workforce is k prioritising, and continually improving, a key element of SSEs health and safety environmental performance across Being safe is a core value in the business.
policy and in line with this the decision was all activities: In line with this, SSEs Health, Safety and taken to issue a confidential general health Environment Manual, which has the status audit questionnaire to employees.
The k working to ensure that the quality of a work instruction, emphasises that safety questionnaire covers areas such as diet, of service delivered to customers is will not be compromised for business interest smoking, stress and mental health.
It allows sector-leading: or operational pressures and that all injuries, health improvement guidance to be directed plant damage and near misses will be to individuals, as well as to employees as k responding effectively to any customer reported and investigated.
concerns about products and services: lead responsibility for Health and Safety, and with Board-level responsibility for all Human SSEs Employee Assistance Programme k ensuring that the communities which Resources issues, is Colin Hood.
includes the provision of professional SSE serves have a safe and reliable counselling services for those employees supply of electricity: and In the year to 31 March 2005, there was a total who have personal problems, including of 17 lost-time and reportable injuries across relationship or financial matters.
k encouraging employees to be good citizens the entire SSE group, which was 10 fewer than in the communities in which in the previous year and equivalent to 154 per they live and work.
This is the best-ever performance achieved by employees of SSE.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2005 23 issue-specific surveys such as those carried Equal Opportunities they would be encouraged to disclose it.
The out on employees attitude to the environment SSEs equal opportunities policy aims to individual would be protected from suffering and on their knowledge of the companys core ensure that all members of staff and job any form of disadvantage or action as a result values.
During the year, employees were applicants are no less fairly treated due to of raising a concern in accordance with SSEs given the opportunity to attend and participate sex, marital status, race, disability or other policy on public interest disclosure.
There is in roadshow sessions with directors and reasons not justified in law or relevant to also a confidential grievance procedure for senior managers.
There were no occasions employees, which was formally invoked by during 2004 05 on which SSE was found to five employees during 2004 05.
A Health, Safety and Environmental Advisory have failed to comply with equal opportunities Committee is convened in each quarter of legislation.
It is SSEs policy, where possible, JNCC the year to consult employees on these three to provide employment opportunities for There is a well-established Joint Negotiating subjects.
The outputs from the Committee disabled people.
Staff who become disabled and Consultative Committee, which has a are implemented through site-specific health, are supported in continuing employment consultative and negotiating role and which safety and environment groups.
through identification of suitable jobs and includes lay and full-time representatives the provision of any necessary re-training.
from the five recognised trade unions.
A summary of SSEs policies for employees is published on its website Training and Development In March 2005, the five trade unions ballot produced an emphatic vote in favour of scottish-southern.
SSEs training policy is to ensure that SSEs pay offer for the three years to 31 employees have the necessary skills, March 2008.
As part of the package agreed ENVIRONMENT knowledge and attitudes to perform their with the trade unions, SSE intends, subject role effectively.
In line with this, a diverse and to Inland Revenue approval, to introduce a Policy comprehensive training programme is in scheme to assist working parents with the Caring for the environment is one of SSEs place, supervised by a group-wide training cost of childcare.
In addition, two of SSEs eight department that was established during principles of corporate responsibility relate 2004 05.
Pensions directly to the environment: complying with To encourage new employees to make and exceeding, where appropriate, all SSE continues to support employees seeking provision for their retirement, a series of statutory and regulatory environmental Scottish or National Vocational Qualifications pensions roadshows was held during 2004 05. requirements: and prioritising, and in Call Handling, Customer Service and In addition, to encourage new employees to continually improving, environmental Business Administration.
In addition, there think about their pension provision, a decision performance across all activities.
are now over 300 craft apprentices within was taken to require them to decide not to SSEs contracting businesses, a number that participate in SSEs Group Personal Pension SSEs Environment Policy, which was reviewed is set to grow in future with the addition of if they wished, rather than to decide to opt in in January 2005, is set out in full in its Eastern Contracting and with expansion into to it.
This was implemented on 1 April 2005 Sustainability Report 2005, along with SSEs mechanical apprenticeships.
and is designed to lead to an increase in the performance in respect of the environmental number of employees joining the pension plan.
The Director with lead Over 60 staff are also supported by SSE responsibility for the environment is Colin through the Educational Qualifications Participation Hood.
In addition, during 2004 05, a new role Scheme, with a particular focus on Providing opportunities for employees to of Head of Sustainable Development was supporting staff in electricity distribution become shareholders in SSE is one of the created to support the achievement of SSEs depots who are seeking to gain City and principles of corporate responsibility which environmental objectives.
Guilds and HNC qualifications in electrical the Board has adopted.
is encouraged by a Share Incentive Plan SIP BitC Environment Index and by a separate Save-As-You-Earn SAYE To benchmark its environment-related SSE is also a partner in the Institute of scheme.
activities, SSE participated in the 2004 BitC Electrical Engineers Power Academy, which Environment Index, the UKs leading provides sponsorships for final year MEng or A number of important changes to both environmental benchmarking tool, in which BEng undergraduates and offers summer schemes were introduced in 2004 05 in order 178 companies participated.
work placements, with the aim of encouraging to increase further the number of employees more people to choose electrical engineering participating in them.
The number of The Index results were announced in April as a degree choice.
This complements SSEs employees participating in the SIP increased 2005.
SSEs score was 98.80%, compared with existing informal bursary schemes through from 30% at the end of 2003 04 to 36% at the 98.13% in the previous year.
This was a good which support is given to students at end of 2004 05.
This compares with an result, not least because BitC said that some Southampton and Strathclyde Universities.
average of 31% for FT-SE100 companies, of the questions for the 2004 Index had according to a Proshare survey carried out changed since the previous year, becoming In addition, there is in place in SSE a process in the summer of 2004. more detailed and challenging.
This score for providing to employees periodic formal made SSE the joint top performing company and structured feedback on their Partly to encourage near-universal ownership in its sector and put it in BitCs Premier performance and development.
This process of shares among employees, the Board League of participating companies.
takes place in the context of regular, informal decided to make a special award of 50 free monitoring.
To support this process, an shares in the company to everyone employed Environmental Management interviewees guide is available to help by SSE on 31March 2005 and still in During 2004 05 there were no environmental employees understand what they should do to employment on the award date.
In addition, incidents which resulted in SSE being served gain maximum benefit from this review the eligibility rules for both the SIP and with a formal procedural notice by the process.
Sharesave have been changed to encourage environmental regulator.
This compares with further participation in the future.
There was, however, Disclosure a breach of Integrated Pollution Control IPC Were an employee or agency worker to Participation in SSEs affairs is encouraged at Peterhead Power Station, when a loss of become aware of information indicating that through team meetings, briefings, an internal distillate oil fuel to the sea occurred.
The SSE or an employee of SSE is failing to magazine, an employee intranet and through direct cause of the release was a failure to recognise the obligation to act responsibly, Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2005 Corporate Responsibility Continued 24 comply absolutely with Station Operating corporate responsibility.
It recognises that COMMUNITY Instructions.
A full review has been conducted customers will continue to acquire products and recommendations implemented.
SSEs and services from companies they respect, Being open and honest is a core value in SSE target for any given year is zero and that inappropriate marketing and sales and central to this is an active programme of environmental incidents.
techniques and inadequate customer service engagement with stakeholders, including will directly damage the business.
community representatives, such as MPs and SSEs ISO 14001 certified Environmental MSPs, and organisations with an interest in Management Systems cover its major power The quality management system for energy SSEs activities.
SSE is an active participant in stations, which have the highest sales has been approved by Lloyds Register a large number of industry forums, ranging environmental impact.
SSEs portfolio of gasQuality Assurance to BS EN ISO 9001:2000. from the UK Business Council for Sustainable fired power stations is the most thermallyThe system is applicable to marketing, sales Energy to the Energy Networks Association.
efficient in the UK and it is the largest and customer service relating to the supply generator of electricity from renewable of electricity and gas.
In addition, two of SSEs principles of sources in the country.
corporate responsibility are: ensuring that Performance the communities which SSE serves have a In support of these systems, SSE has SSE, excluding Atlantic, is the only energy safe and reliable supply of electricity: and introduced a Make A Difference competition supply company in the UK to have a five star encouraging employees to be good citizens in for employees.
The specific aims of the Service Rating from uSwitch, which bases its the communities in which they live and work.
analysis on how energy suppliers deal with competition are to: recognise and reward Its approach to community matters is guided customer complaints and on how wide a excellent environmental performance within by these two principles.
range of services they offer.
SSE: promote innovative approaches to caring for the environment: and benefit charities of The Director with lead responsibility for The leading independent study, by JD Power, the successful employees choice.
community matters is Ian Marchant and SSEs published in November 2004, found that SSE policy on community matters is available on has the highest level of customer satisfaction Carbon Dioxide Emissions its website scottish-southern.
among UK gas suppliers and the third highest In 2004 05, carbon dioxide emissions from among electricity suppliers.
SSEs own electricity generation portfolio Stakeholders were 10.0 million tonnes, compared with 8.5 In line with SSEs commitment to engage Throughout 2004 05, SSE focused on million tonnes in the previous year.
A major with stakeholders, SSEs approach to major improving its operations further to keep part of the increase is attributable to the fact projects is to ensure that the relevant complaints about its products and services to that SSE owned 100% of Medway throughout statutory and non-statutory groups, a minimum.
Despite having 850,000 more 2004 05, compared with just five months of the organisations, communities and individuals customers at the end of the financial year previous year.
The total for 2004 05 excludes have the opportunity to be involved in than it did at the start, it secured a reduction emissions from the coal-fired Ferrybridge and consultations.
For example, voluntary public in the number of complaints referred to Fiddlers Ferry Power Stations which were consultations were held by SSE on the energywatch for resolution, from just over acquired in July 2004.
These were 10.1 million proposal to replace the existing electricity 2,600 to fewer than 1,400 excluding Atlantic.
transmission line connecting Beauly and Denny with a new line and on the possible Throughout 2004 05, SSE consistently had the Energy Efficiency development of an electricity transmission lowest rate of complaints to energywatch Encouraging energy efficiency is also part connection between the Western Isles and about customer transfers and billing.
In the of SSEs environmental responsibility and the Scottish mainland.
statistics published by energywatch in March the Sustainability Report 2005 includes the 2005, SSE also had the lowest rate of Energy Efficiency Annual Report.
SSEs target Safe and Reliable Electricity Supply complaints about direct selling, with 0.07 under the Energy Efficiency Commitment SSE continues to believe that a key corporate complaints per 1,000 transfers.
This EEC 2002-05 was to secure 6,033GWh of responsibility is to ensure that the compared with an industry average of 0.12 fuel-standardised energy savings.
Savings communities which it serves have a safe complaints per 1,000 transfers.
from measures installed are expected to and reliable supply of electricity.
For this exceed the target by some 65%.
In total, this reason, the operational performance of Suppliers is equivalent to the carbon dioxide emissions Power Systems, set out on page 8, is a key As a major purchaser of goods and services, of a typical 210MW gas-fired power station.
SSE recognises that it has the opportunity to encourage suppliers of those goods and MARKETPLACE Performance against Ofgems Guaranteed services to deliver good environmental and Standards of Performance, which deal with safety performance and to maintain Market issues such as notice of planned supply responsible business practices towards their Putting customers first is one of SSEs core interruption, is vital.
During 2004 05, SSE employees and the communities in which values.
Two of SSEs principles of corporate failed to meet the standards on only two they operate.
In line with this, it has produced responsibility are: working to ensure that occasions, compared with three occasions guidance for suppliers on its approach to, the quality of service delivered to customers in the previous year.
and policy on, these issues within its overall is sector-leading: and responding effectively procurement strategy, and this is available to any customer concerns about products and During the major storm in the north of on its website scottish-southern.
The Director with lead responsibility Scotland in January 2005, it was clear that for energy marketing is Alistair Phillipsthe local community radio station in the In addition, SSE has subscribed to the Verify Davies.
Western Isles, Isles FM, played a critical system, operated by an independent part in maintaining communications and company, Achilles, which assesses the SSE supplies electricity and gas to over in disseminating vital public information environmental, health and safety and quality six million customers, in a market which has in the islands.
In view of this, and of SSEs commitment of all potential suppliers and been fully competitive since Ofgem removed commitment to communicating with affected contractors.
Through a consultative process, all remaining supply price controls in 2002. customers during major incidents, SSE gave culminating in on-site visits, suppliers and a one-off donation of 50,000 to the appeal contractors provide a comprehensive insight To be successful in this market, SSE believes which is seeking to extend Isles FMs into their business in these vital areas.
it is essential to adhere to its principles of coverage throughout the Western Isles.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2005 25 to deliver real benefits to customers by Promoting Electrical Safety During 2004 05, SSE established partnerships identifying innovative ideas to improve To promote the importance of electrical safety with five childrens hospices Rachel House efficiency and customer service.
to schoolchildren, SSE produces an and Robin House in Scotland, Naomi House educational website and comic, of which and Helen House in central southern England Eligible projects have to deliver benefits more than 250,000 copies have been and Ty Hafan in Wales in order to raise funds to customers in terms of quality of supply, requested by local education authorities and to support their activities.
As part of this, a safety, the environment or cost savings.
emergency services in the north of Scotland, total of over 1,200 SSE staff participated in a For example, SSE is working on a joint central southern England and south Wales in payroll-giving scheme during the year, and project, with Strathclyde University, looking the past two years.
funds raised from this scheme were also at a device for locating low voltage cable matched by SSE.
It is hoped that this device will Help For Vulnerable Customers accurately pinpoint the location of faults and As at 31 March 2005, customers considered In addition, SSE sponsored and supported a thus reduce the amount of time engineers vulnerable in 173,000 households were major fund-raising bike and hike event of have to spend identifying them.
registered with SSEs priority services up to 70 miles for the Maggies Cancer Caring register, Careline, compared with 151,000 Centres, at Loch Ness in May 2004.
Around Following its investment in the company, SSE in the previous year.
During 2004 05, SSE 500 employees from all parts of SSE took is involved in work being done by solarcentury did not disconnect the electricity supply part, helping to raise over 600,000 for the charity.
SSE also supported the second such and by FKI Ltd, which supplies pole-mounted from any households known to be occupied bike and hike event in May 2005. reclosers PMRs.
This work concerns the by pensioners, the disabled or chronically possible use of solar panels to power the sick people.
Charitable Donations PMRs, instead of using voltage transformers.
Overall, in 2004 05, SSE directly supported SSE has agreed to install 10 such units on its In March 2005, SSE announced details of charitable and community activities with electricity networks in order to trial the energyplus care, a new tariff and package of donations totalling 400,000, This includes technology.
services for its most vulnerable customers.
donations totalling 75,000 to the Tsunami Qualifying customers are those with acute Appeal and to Isles FM.
SUMMARY multiple problems: a low income that needs to be supported by particular benefits: special Major Projects The Board is satisfied that corporate needs such as a disability: and a home that In addition to its day-to-day support for responsibility matters do not represent a has particularly poor energy efficiency.
The charitable and community initiatives, SSE material threat to SSE.
Overall, it is confident package should enable a family living in a recognises that its major projects in that there are effective systems in place three bedroom semi-detached house to cut electricity generation and gas storage benefit within SSE to assess and manage corporate their total energy bill by around 30%, or from the co-operation of local communities  issues and risks.
In recognition of this, These systems are regularly monitored its policy is to establish long-term funds to and reviewed.
SSEs principles of corporate Between 2005 and 2008, SSE expects to help support community projects.
responsibility will remain central to its around 250,000 priority households to lower activities in 2005 06. their energy bills through the provision of free For example, SSE and its partner Statoil UK energy efficiency measures such as loft and Ltd have placed 240,000 in a fund for cavity wall insulation.
Its customers can learning and skills development projects to obtain free energy efficiency advice by calling benefit people living in the Holderness area the companys energyline on 0845 777 6633. near Aldbrough, where the land is being developed for the storage of gas.
Grants will SSE also offers tailor made payment be awarded to projects that aim to develop arrangements to help customers in need, the skills and knowledge of local people, for with around 200,000 households taking example to gain employment in the changing advantage of these arrangements during workplace, remove barriers to accessing 2004 05. work or assist activities that advance the education of children.
To ensure that its activities for vulnerable customers are effectively managed and RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT co-ordinated, SSE created a new role of Head of Priority Services during 2004 05.
A balanced approach to research and development is one of SSEs corporate Active Citizens responsibilities.
SSE pursues a range of In line with its principles of corporate research and development initiatives, responsibility, SSE believes that employees which are generally .
should be encouraged and enabled to be active citizens in the communities in which The partnerships with The Weir Group, they live and work.
For this reason, it has in Talisman Energy, Renewable Devices Swift place a scheme by which funds raised by Turbines Ltd and solarcentury are examples employees for charitable and community of this, given their focus on the development causes are matched by SSE up to a limit of of new technologies for electricity generation 500 per employee.
In 2004 05, over 250 from renewable sources.
Other examples of employees took part in the scheme, which SSEs work include its participation in a helped them raise a total of around 150,000 feasibility study into underground coal for good causes.
gasification in the Firth of Forth.
Employees of SSE raised 25,000 in Ofgem has introduced the Innovation Funding workplace collections to assist the victims of Incentive IFI the main point of which is to the Asian Tsunami.
This sum was matched by encourage electricity distribution businesses SSE, making the total donation 50,000.
