SSL International plc Annual Report 2005 16 Corporate Social Responsibility SSL CSR framework Community we recognise Corporate Social Corporate Social Responsibility CSR our responsibility to our local is increasingly important in the eyes of communities and how we work Responsibility all stakeholders including employees, with government, regulatory bodies investors, business partners and social and our business partners.
We recognise that our corporate behaviour must not only contribute to Environment the avoidance value creation, but should also respond of pollution, and other forms of to societal and environmental concerns.
environmental care in our operations is an integral part of our commitment To reflect our commitment to CSR, to health in the community.
We are we have developed a framework for highly focused on ensuring the health, developing and reporting on our safety and welfare of all our employees activities.
SSLs CSR framework in their working environment.
encompasses four core areas: Our People Our People We are creating a performance-driven Social Marketing culture that supports motivated, Community successful people who are passionate Environment about our future.
We believe that to achieve our business objectives we Our People our aim is to ensure that should encourage our people to we employ highly motivated, well embrace our operating principles remunerated, success-orientated people Attitude Behaviour Culture and and to provide our employees with reflect these in the way they work.
Our strategy to support this has four key themes: Social Marketing we are committed to supporting government-led public Reward health campaigns supplying high quality Development condoms to help ensure that health and Communication population programmes around the Resourcing world are successful in reducing unplanned pregnancies and sexually transmitted infections STIs.
We are also using the power of the Durex brand to help in the worldwide fight against the spread of HIV AIDS.
Our People Environment Corporate Social Social Responsibility Marketing Community CSR framework SSL International plc Annual Report 2005 17 Corporate Social Responsibility Reward themes underpin all our communication We believe that our approach to reward initiatives.
The overall programme is should be directly aligned to overfocused on improving communication in performance against our financial targets.
three core areas our brands, our people and our financial results.
By making our As part of this, we are reviewing our employees aware of what is happening approach to senior management in all parts of our business, we help them remuneration.
We are designing an to feel part of a cohesive organisation.
incentive plan that drives a performancedriven culture across our global business.
In 2004, we launched a new employee This new approach looks to reward overmagazine Be Inspired which is achievement of business performance, published in English, French, German, balanced over both the short and Italian, Spanish and Thai.
provides a communication forum for all our employees that will focus on our Development business objectives and how all areas of Employee development has always been our organisation, from the commercial a key priority for SSL, but 2005 signals a operations to the supply chain are renewed focus to providing a wide range working towards achieving these.
of development opportunities that support continuous professional and personal We will be developing other channels development that is easily accessible of communication as we go forward: the to all people in our organisation.
next initiative being the re-launch of SSLs intranet Insight.
The initial launch will We will continue to support a wide be in the UK, and will then be rolled-out range of training approaches across to our overseas operations.
our business including on-the-job skills training, internally and externally held Resourcing training courses and professional study The recruitment, retention and support.
To complement these existing motivation of high calibre employees is development channels we will be one of our primary objectives.
We believe launching a pilot scheme within our UK that employing high quality individuals business that delivers a business focused will contribute towards achievement of programme aimed at reinforcing SSLs our overall goals.
operating principles to successfully achieve our business objectives, to inspire Diversity in the workplace is valued and motivate our employees and to build and we strongly believe in equality of upon the current skill base in supporting opportunity for all employees regardless our future growth.
We ensure that people with a disability or who become Communication disabled whilst in our employment are Our internal communication strategy is offered the same opportunities for directly aligned with our key objectives employment, training and career and our operating principles and these progression as other employees.
Our operating New employee principles magazine: Be Inspired SSL International plc Annual Report 2005 18 Corporate Social Responsibility Social Marketing To communicate these messages, the Corporate Social The aim of our social marketing programme enlisted the help of two of programme is to communicate that the countrys rap artists and designed its Responsibility prevention as much as treatment own condom brand Hora H. Its success should be the ethos behind combating has been phenomenal.
Program H is continued HIV AIDS, other sexually transmitted now an accepted part of youth culture in infections and unplanned pregnancies.
centres such as So Paulo, Rio fide Janeiro and Brasilia, with research showing In 2004 we proactively distributed a 25 per cent increase in condom usage, nearly 4 million free condoms as part and a significant reduction in sexually of worldwide initiatives organised to transmitted infections.
Dance4Life: VSO and Sidaction were amongst the Durex has joined with Instituto Promundo organisations we supported.
and the Population Council to introduce the scheme to India where around ten We continue to fulfil orders from million people may be infected with international agencies to provide high HIV AIDS.
Under a four-month pilot quality condoms at low cost to countries project called Yaari-dosti a term which including Bangladesh, Nigeria, Uganda means friendship or bonding between and Kazakhstan.
male friends, young men were able to express their attitudes towards sex.
This In addition to supplying condoms, Durex has now led to a larger research study also makes a significant contribution to being carried out with support from a a social marketing programme that is number of influential organisations.
Much more is planned for this financial Program H was first launched in Brazil year when we will be taking our in 2002 to challenge existing attitudes commitment to social marketing further.
to gender and equality and to raise awareness of the need to use condoms.
Hora H community Raising awareness of programme in Brazil HIV AIDS and STIs SSL International plc Annual Report 2005 19 Corporate Social Responsibility Community CSR indices SSL has operations in over 35 countries SSL has been a member of the Dow Jones and employs around 5,000 people Sustainability Indices DJSI for the last worldwide.
We look to support the local three years.
DJSI benchmarks the financial communities in which we operate and performance of companies that lead their in which our employees live and work.
sector in terms of corporate sustainability, looking at a number of factors including Support to charities corporate governance, labour practices In addition to charitable support provided and environmental performance.
through our social marketing activities, SSL has provided both practical assistance In addition, SSL is a member of the and donations to significant global fundFTSE4Good Index, which has been raising initiatives.
In response to the designed to measure the performance of Tsunami Appeal, we provided supplies companies that meet globally recognised of clothing and antiseptics, assisted in corporate responsibility standards.
the recovery operations in India and, organised by our operations based in Environment the affected countries, gave donations The avoidance of pollution and other through local fund raising events.
forms of environmental care throughout operations is an integral part of SSLs In the UK, SSL is a Patron of The Outward commitment to health in the community.
This is an organisation which It is our policy to comply with all provides the opportunity to young people environmental legislation that affects to develop their self-confidence, team our activities and products and to building and leadership skills through measure and record data relating to participation in challenging outdoor significant environmental impacts.
By providing funds, we enable key achievements this year include young people, who otherwise would reductions in solid waste, energy and not be able to afford it, to benefit from water use per production unit.
A further an Outward Bounds course.
two manufacturing sites gained the ISO 14001 accreditation in the year Our business in Thailand donated 2,500 making 14 sites in all.
pairs of Scholl shoes in support of a community project aimed at helping Further information on our environmental underprivileged children in rural areas performance can be found in the who lack basic footwear and where Environment Report 2004 05 on SSLs parasitic infections in feet are common.
A similar contribution was made in France where Scholl footwear was donated to Les Compagnons dEmmas, an organisation helping the poor.
FTSE4Good: the index of choice The Outward Bound DJSI: Reliable and Trust: teambuilding objective benchmarks
