A people business Corporate social responsibility Stagecoach is a people business and it is the quality of our employees, As well as providing a range of economic and environmental benefits, our from drivers and engineers to customer service and support staff that bus and rail services help cement social inclusion and bring people ensure we can deliver a first-class quality of service day in, day out.
We are committed to encouraging more people to use public are crucial to our objective of attracting more people to public transport.
It is central to our growth strategy, to the future success of our None of this happens by chance.
We invest significant time and resources Group, and also important to the future of the communities in which we to ensure we have the right people on board to deliver the best possible operate around the world.
In short, we have the same long-term goal of service to customers.
sustainable development as our numerous stakeholders and it is in our collective interest to have an ongoing dialogue on how that can be We respect and value our staff, and we have a strong commitment to achieved.
equal opportunities and partnership working with trade unions.
It is easy to have a vision, but how that is delivered in practice is equally Stagecoach also offers its UK employees the opportunity to join a important.
For the past 25 years since it was founded, Stagecoach has pension scheme as well as providing attractive pay and conditions taken its wider corporate responsibilities seriously.
The responsible way we packages.
do business has always been firmly embedded in our Groups culture, from our approach to safety and the environment, to how we treat our people, As a major employer, we also recognise the need for ongoing training and our customers and our local communities.
development, not just so our people can do their job, but so they can develop individually.
In our UK Bus division, we have one of the best Like any business in any sector, we can get better.
We are continually vocational training programmes of any operator, designed to raise striving to improve our processes and service delivery to make an standards among and recognise the key contribution of our people.
To increasingly positive impact on society and the environment.
Building trust date, some 50.7% of our current UK Bus drivers and 72.6% of our UK Bus with our stakeholders in the wider community is vital and providing clear engineers have either achieved or are working towards the S NVQ information on our performance is part of that process.
During the year, we have focused closely on recruitment and retention of drivers and have made significant progress as a result of a number of measures, including improved pay, better training and Stakeholders mentoring schemes.
We have also established links overseas, as part of the Stagecoach Group works in partnership with a range of bodies in each of expansion of the EU, to recruit drivers to complement our employment the markets where we provide public transport services.
Our stakeholders campaigns in the UK.
We have worked with Aberdeen City Council as part include: of an initiative focused on recruitment from Malta and have set up a recruitment project in Poland, with the first of the drivers from these Investors and the Financial Community - our shareholders are critical schemes having started work in the UK.
We have a regular programme of meetings with investors and provide frequent updates to the markets and financial At South West Trains, our centralised Recruitment Centre and the state of community on our performance.
We are a constituent of the FTSE4Good the art Operations Training Centre are continuing to deliver benefits to UK Index, which is designed to measure the performance of companies our employees and better service to our customers.
We also have in place that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
vocational training, support for managers, employee recognition programmes and round-the-clock open learning access for our staff.
Our Customers millions of people use our services every day, including people-centred approach has again been recognised externally with our commuters, schoolchildren, concessionary fares passengers and leisure work at South West Trains shortlisted at both the Personnel Today and travellers.
We conduct extensive customer research to monitor our Rail Innovation Awards.
performance and determine how we can improve the delivery and accessibility of our services.
In North America, we have set up a new centralised driver training school in our North East division, which has improved the quality and consistency Customer Interest Groups our businesses have a regular and ongoing of provision.
Our Canada division has focused closely on harnessing the dialogue with bus and rail user groups.
This includes presentations from power of the Internet to attract new employees and has been working in senior managers on detailed aspects of our service as well as consultation partnership with Workopolis, Canadas leading internet recruitment service.
and information sharing on particular issues.
Stagecoach has been working with the Department of Labour in New Government senior executives have an ongoing dialogue with national Zealand on a project to source employees outwith the country under and local government in all our countries of operation to ensure the established quota arrangements.
A recruitment team from Stagecoach and effective delivery of government transport policy and to assist in meeting the New Zealand Immigration Department visited Samoa to interview wider objectives.
In the UK, we work closely with the Department for prospective employees and nearly 30 drivers have taken up positions with Transport, the Strategic Rail Authority, the Scottish Executive, the Welsh the company in Auckland.
Assembly and Transport for London.
We are also looking to develop the managers of the future through our Transport Authorities we work closely with local authorities, including graduate recruitment initiative.
Our engineering apprenticeship programme Passenger Transport Executives, Regional Transport Committees and in the UK promotes careers through local schools and career development Transit Authorities, in the delivery and planning of bus and rail services.
We have also worked closely with government-funded enterprise agencies to get the long-term unemployed back into work, because many Government Advisory Bodies and Lobbying Groups we have have vital skills that are being overlooked.
constructive dialogue with organisations such as the Commission for Integrated Transport, which provides advice to the UK Government, and Stagecoach wants to support its people when they need it most.
For lobbying groups such as Transport 2000. example, at South West Trains we have a partnership with Care First, which offers an employee assistance programme that includes a 24-hour Transport and Industry Representation Groups we are active members of industry groups, such as the Confederation of Passenger confidential counselling service and legal helpline.
Transport UK which covers buses and light rail and the Association of We are one of six employers across the UK involved in a pilot scheme that Train Operating Companies.
aims to research and test various ways to improve financial capability in the workplace.
The multi-agency project co-ordinated by the Financial Our People we have established strong working relationships with trade Services Authority FSA, the independent financial watchdog involves unions and work in partnership with them on a range of issues, including offering our staff one to one surgeries and hard copy material.
The training and development, occupational health matters, pensions and other workplace is seen as an ideal way to get information and education on employee benefits.
We also communicate with our people face to face finance to adults and active participation by employers is vital.
The pilot is and through a number of internal publications.
part of a national strategy to improve access to information, advice and Suppliers we rely on a range of suppliers to provide services linked to personal finance education, so that consumers are better equipped to make sound choices when looking after their money and their future our bus and rail operations.
These include vehicle and rolling stock manufacturers, fuel suppliers, IT companies and clothing manufacturers.
Stagecoach Group plc page 11 Operating and Financial Review technology, driver safety screens and other measures to protect our Improving accessibility passengers and our people.
We have a number of joint programmes in Every customer we serve is unique, each with their own specific place with schools and the police to deter anti-social behaviour and individual needs.
We recognise that accessibility is crucial in providing educate the next generation of public transport users.
Stagecoach is also attractive public transport services and, as far as possible within the working with a number of local authorities in areas such as Oxford, resources we have available, we are making it easier to use our bus and Mansfield, Cheltenham and Gloucester to develop late night bus networks rail services.
to help reduce town centre crime.
At an operational level, we have in place a process of route risk assessments to identify potential safety issues.
We have made further progress during the year on our programme that As well as our own investment in on-going driver training, we are will ultimately result in all our buses in the UK being fully low-floor.
Each supporting the work of the Road Operators Safety Council to drive up year, hundreds of new, more easily accessible vehicles are added to our standards in the industry.
Stagecoach has also helped fund safety fleet and already all buses operated in London are entirely low floor with campaigns focused on other road users, including cyclists and drivers of wheelchair access.
We are also helping provide new demand responsive agricultural vehicles.
transport services, which are meeting the needs of those with mobility problems who require a service from their front door.
In Hastings, for Rail travellers on the South West Trains network are benefiting from a example, we are working with East Sussex County Council to transport the safer environment on our new, state-of-the-art Desiro trains and on our less mobile direct from their homes to main line bus services.
refurbished Class 455 trains, which are being fitted with CCTV technology.
All South West Trains rolling stock is fitted with the Train Protection Significant investment is also taking place in our North American Warning System, which stops a train automatically at red signals.
Our business in partnership with federal agencies.
This year, our New York award-winning TravelSafe Officers partnership with British Transport Police, Sightseeing business introduced a fleet of 20 new open-top doublewhich helps ensure passenger safety, has been extended further in the decker vehicles with improved wheelchair access ramps for disabled past year to cover more routes and stations on the South West Trains customers.
Investment in both TravelSafe Officers and CCTV has helped cut crime on the network by 8.6% in the first half of 2004 and 20% in the On the South West Trains network, we provide station-based ramps to second half of the year.
Work is continuing with Network Rail and British enable wheelchair users to board and alight our new accessible Desiro Transport Police to identify hot-spots and ensure effective measures are trains with maximum convenience.
To support the access of wheelchair taken on both trains and at stations to reduce incidents of assault, users to our network, we are now committed to providing wheelchair trespass and vandalism.
users with accessible taxis to and from stations with step-free access at no extra charge.
In North America, we carry out regular safety audits of our facilities to Access for all is also about staff training and we continue to maintain links ensure high standards of health and safety are maintained.
Along with other major operators, we have assisted national bodies to put in place with disability groups to ensure both the needs of our passengers and employees are considered.
At Sheffield Supertram, for example, we are processes to address the impact of potential terrorist attacks on public transportation.
In the United States, for example, we are working with currently refreshing the interiors of our vehicles, which will feature textured grab rails and improved seating layouts to help passengers with visual the Federal Government to take part in anti-terrorism workshops for our employees and are beginning to put in place anti-theft and GPS impairment.
We are also currently undertaking trials of new higher visibility destination blinds and investigating the potential for automated public tracking, monitoring and communication systems.
In Canada, we have a dedicated Occupational Health and Safety Policy Committee whose address announcements.
members are drawn equally from management and workforce Stagecoach is also working with key stakeholders to improve accessibility representatives.
In New Zealand, we have assisted the Human Rights Commission inquiry into the provision of accessible Our business in New Zealand has a programme in place to reduce the transport.
We are introducing new LED screens on our new buses, which incidence of workplace injury and sickness and we conduct regular provide improved visibility for people with visual impairment.
An annual review of health and safety issues is carried out jointly by management and union representatives.
We also Many people now access transport information online and our recently have a special project team in place to address the issue of driver relaunched Stagecoach Group website, www.
been developed in line with accessibility guidelines drawn up by the Royal National Institute for the Blind.
Stagecoach Group itself has a good safety record, but there is no room for complacency.
We constantly keep our safety arrangements under review and are committed to putting in place any improvements required to our safety governance arrangements.
Health and safety Stagecoach has a proactive culture across the Group that puts health and safety at the very top of our agenda.
Bus, coach and rail travel is significantly safer than similar journeys by car, and the safety and security Part of the community of both our customers and our people are at the core of how we operate For nearly 25 years, Stagecoach has been a key part of communities.
As well as providing lifeline transport services and significant job opportunities, we take an active role in the communities where we Health and safety is monitored and reported on in every company across operate.
Stagecoach Group and immediate action is taken to address issues in our business processes.
Safety is part of a well-defined risk management We want local people to share in our success and that is why every year process across our business.
A main Board executive director, Graham we help fund the vital work of local, national and international charities.
Eccles, has specific responsibility for safety issues across the Group and the During the year ended 30 April 2005, 0.3m 2004: 0.3m was donated Board is updated on safety matters at each of its meetings.
Safety matters by the Group to help many worthwhile causes, including many health are also considered at the Board and management meetings of each of charities and local community projects in areas where Stagecoach provides our businesses.
Our Group Health, Safety and Environmental Committee, chaired by our Like many companies, Stagecoach and its employees were touched by the non-executive director Janet Morgan and also comprising Graham Eccles and Iain Duffin, reports to the Board on these matters.
They have access Asian tsunami disaster and its impact on people living in the area.
The Group pledged 100,000 to help the relief effort and building work, and to internal safety executives and external consultants.
also matched pound for pound the 40,000 raised by our employees in In our UK Bus division, we are working in partnership with the the UK, North America and New Zealand.
The 180,000 raised was channelled through four charities Save the Children, British Red Cross, Government and other agencies to improve bus safety and security.
While crime and vandalism are relatively low, we are aware they can discourage Tearfund and World Vision which are part of the Disasters Emergency Committee.
people from travelling on buses.
We continue to invest in CCTV page 12 Stagecoach Group plc Stagecoachs support for the community is not just about money.
the processes designed to track environmental data, which has produced Hundreds of our employees devote their own time every day to local more accurate information from which to analyse performance.
Details of projects that make a real difference in their area.
Our businesses provide our performance, compiled by Arthur D. Little, can be found on the much-needed in-kind support, while our people also give charities the Stagecoach Website at http: www.
com benefit of their expertise during secondments.
Earlier this year, for We have achieved a significant improvement in the direct emissions example, we provided transport for a group of children from Beslan in per passenger journey from our bus and train fleets.
There has been a Russia who were on a month-long stay in Scotland following the reduction across all measures, with some decreasing by more than terrorist siege at a school in their homeland.
This has been achieved through the introduction of newer assistance to groups of children affected by the Chernobyl disaster and vehicles and rolling stock, which meet the latest stringent its aftermath.
We are also looking at new fuels and cleaner Much of the backing we provide is focused on education and young technologies to improve our performance, as well as providing further people.
We work closely with schools and police on local crime prevention training for our drivers.
initiatives and education of youngsters about the dangers and Following a 12-month trial, we are now rolling out the use of the Envirox consequences of anti-social behaviour.
Our support also assists many local fuel additive across our UK Bus division.
In tests on 1,000 vehicles, the initiatives that help provide opportunities for young people.
Our bus product has delivered a 5% fuel efficiency saving and associated reductions company in Warwickshire, for example, is a partner in an innovative in emissions.
In Sunderland, we have fitted exhaust gas recirculation text2talk anti-bullying initiative with the police and other agencies.
systems to a number of our vehicles with Euro II engines to bring them We are also a key partner in Kent Peoples Trust, a police and business up to Euro IV standard as part of a Local Transport Plan Energy Savings initiative in the county targeted at reducing youth crime.
We have also launched a biodiesel trial in a number of our we have two information and training vehicles, which are used by the buses in New Zealand.
police to work with youngsters in housing estates in Glasgow and Ayrshire to cut crime and vandalism.
At South West Trains, there is a Stagecoach has showcased a futuristic hybrid electric bus across the UK to focus on projects designed to give young people alternatives to antiencourage local authorities to introduce the  social behaviour, particularly highlighting the dangers of trespassing on vehicle in their areas.
The state-of-the-art vehicle, which has been railway lines.
successfully operated by Stagecoach in Auckland, New Zealand, has the advantage of being able to run emission-free in densely populated areas Stagecoach is also helping promote social inclusion with our communities and help those who are the most vulnerable.
We have a national and the battery-powered technology means it is extremely quiet on the road.
Special regenerative braking technology means the batteries on the agreement with Guide Dogs for the Blind that allows the dog trainers free travel on our buses.
bus are charged when the brakes are applied, while a diesel turbine can also charge the batteries.
Stagecoach has already won a local authority We have continued to support the UK educational charity contract to run the vehicles on a new route on the Quayside in Newcastle businessdynamics, which provides courses designed to build the skills and and the service is now in operation.
confidence of young people as they prepare to enter the worlds of work and further education.
We have also supported a number of arts initiatives Water consumption in our bus and train operations has reduced per and this year marked the 10th anniversary of our sponsorship of the Mari passenger journey by over 10%, assisted by the introduction of upgraded Markus Gomori childrens concerts, which have been attended by more wash facilities, better bus wash management and initiatives to identify and than 40,000 schoolchildren.
In North America, for example, we have introduced new water recycling units at two of our main facilities in Overseas, our businesses support the work of chambers of commerce, New York and New Jersey, which have the potential to reduce water arts foundations, tourism associations, educational groups and other key usage by 70%.
We have again provided transport facilities to assist the annual Tartan Day celebrations in New York, while similar support has been The Group has continued to make progress in controlling the production provided to a group of British police officers that make an annual visit of vehicle maintenance and other waste in its UK and overseas operations, to the city to honour the Britons killed in the September 11 terrorist while there has been a significant increase in recycling of waste from our attacks.
bus operations in particular, rising from 20.4% in the 12 months to 30 April 2004 to 31.9% the following year.
In New Zealand, Stagecoach is a long-standing supporter of the Starship Foundation, which helps the countrys leading specialist paediatric hospital.
While we have achieved a further improvement in some measures of All fares collected on a specially-liveried Stagecoach bus in Auckland go to indirect emissions from our bus and train operations, we note that there the Starship Foundation and the money is used to provide a range of has been an increase in CO2 produced by our bus and train depots and additional equipment and staff training for the medical facility.
Money offices, as well as our train operations.
The main reason for the increase raised has purchased a ventilator for the paediatric intensive care unit, a has been the step-change we have delivered in the working environment new incubator and has also helped fund the training of senior transport for our people and the rail travelling environment for our customers.
In Wellington, Stagecoach has been a supporter of the New While we have installed new energy efficient heating systems and low Zealand Festival, converting a bus into a mobile performing stage and energy lighting at several bus depots in the UK, many depot providing transport for participants.
refurbishments have included extra internal and external lighting for a better and more secure working environment.
There has also been an Supporting the community.
Part of the increase in the use of electronic communication.
That is the cornerstone of our business philosophy and the depots have been included in the collection of data in New Zealand.
key to building positive relationships with our stakeholders.
Moving forward, a number of our UK Bus sites are to be fitted with a smart energy metering system to help identify savings opportunities and benchmark performance as part of a major Carbon Trust pilot project.
Building a sustainable environment Stagecoach has made good progress this year in improving the At South West Trains, the new Desiro trains have provided a major uplift environmental management and sustainability of its operations.
Public in travel comfort with improved air-conditioning, on-board information transport has a key role to play in reducing pollution levels, alleviating systems and better safety features.
These improvements are helping to road congestion and improving the quality of life in our towns and cities.
generate modal shift from car to public transport, which has a positive However, we are also working hard to ensure our own day-to-day impact on the environment.
However, the rolling stock is heavier and, transport operations are carried out in a responsible manner.
combined with the improved acceleration, this means there is a greater draw on the electricity supply.
Controlled Emission Toilet-emptying Stagecoach worked with consultants, Arthur D. Little, to update and facilities and upgraded tanking facilities at a number of locations have improve our Group Environmental Policy two years ago.
That policy sets resulted in increased water and electricity usage.
Station improvement out our commitment to good environmental stewardship and we have projects have involved additional air conditioning systems, better exterior put in place stretching targets to reduce emissions, cut water and energy and platform lighting and new customer information systems.
While these consumption, minimise waste and identify opportunities for recycling.
have been designed using energy efficient systems and have significantly The Group has put in place a number of internal measures to minimise improved passenger satisfaction, there has been an impact on electricity, the impact of our operations on the environment.
We have also improved gas and water consumption.
Stagecoach Group plc page 13 Operating and Financial Review In line with the targets set out in our Environmental Policy document, we division.
We have appointed specialist company Inenco to manage our gas have taken further steps to improve our environmental management and electricity purchasing in the UK Bus division.
Inenco will be making across our global operations.
We have improved the quality and accuracy recommendations on a utility purchasing policy, expected to include of the data, as well as the calculation methodology.
Emissions in our alternative energy sources, and measures to reduce energy consumption.
UK Bus division have been calculated based on the proportions of South West Trains has undertaken a review of its environmental different types of bus in service pre-Euro, Euro I, Euro II and Euro III management system to ensure it continues to comply with legislation.
All providing significantly more accurate calculations.
In New Zealand, we have train services are no smoking, improving the travelling environment for our developed and implemented a new method of monitoring water use, passengers and the working environment for our people.
South West Trains which has identified bus washes for future water usage reduction is also working hard to accommodate cyclists and its Surbiton Station was programmes.
Waste monitoring has improved at our Supertram named best cycle facility at the London Cycling Campaign awards.
operations, which is also now tracking general waste data.
There has also Major employers are working with us to develop travel plans that reduce been improved waste calculations at South West Trains and Island Line as dependence on the car to get to work.
Stagecoachs work to promote bus a result of using more specific factors from the Department for the use among businesses in Exeter including the Met Office and the Royal Environment, Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA and SITA to estimate Devon & Exeter Hospital has been identified as an example of best weight to volume ratios of general waste.
TransportEnergy, a non-profit organisation We have continued to provide support and training for our employees to which encourages businesses to help reduce greenhouse gas emissions ensure compliance with legislation, effective waste management, improved and improve air quality in cities and towns, has highlighted Stagecoachs energy consumption and better environmental performance.
Our UK Bus use of staff travel surveys with city businesses, the offer of discounts and division, for example, has run a comprehensive environmental training vouchers, and the provision of information about bus services.
programme for around 200 managers over the past two years.
The division is also working with the road safety charity BRAKE and other Despite the improvements and investment we have made in the area of companies to benchmark and share good practice in safe driving and environmental sustainability over the past year, we recognise more work driving methods which increase fuel efficiency.
During 2005-06, following has still to be done.
But we remain committed to building on the the evaluation of measures undertaken in our Manchester depots, we are progress we have made and exceeding the stretching targets we have set running an electrical energy reduction campaign across the UK Bus our business.
