Corporate Social Responsibility Review The Company believes that it is good business practice to operate Marketing strategies comply with advertising standards relating to the responsibly.
Modernisation of the gambling industry will provide promotion of gaming.
us with opportunities to grow our business but will also place social responsibilities upon us to be pro-active in creating a safe workplace Health and Safety for our employees and an enjoyable gaming experience for our Policy customers.
Ultimate responsibility for this area lies with the Managing We have adopted the following policy statement: Director of the Gaming Division.
The Board receives regular reports on Corporate Social Responsibility issues.
Stanley Leisures management are committed to ensuring the health and safety of its employees, so far as is reasonably practicable, by Communication providing safe and healthy conditions and systems of work for all We have adopted Group Policies that underpin our Corporate Social personnel and all others affected by its activities.
These cover areas such as personal conduct, human resources, health and safety, the environment and business It will comply with the requirements of all relevant legislation and ethics.
Details of these policies are published on the Companys approved codes of practice and will accept responsibility for the website, www.
provision and maintenance of plant, equipment and systems of work that are safe and with minimal risk to health.
Our inclusion in the external index, FTSE4Good, is public recognition of our social and environmental performance.
We have engaged with It will provide safe arrangement for the use, handling, storage the Ethical Investment Research Service who support some of our and transport of articles and substances and provide sufficient major shareholders.
information, instruction, training and supervision to assist all personnel to avoid hazards and contribute positively to their own Employees safety and health at work.
We recognise that the success of our business is fundamentally linked to the skills, energy and commitment of our employees.
Employee It will provide a safe place of work and safe access to it and egress development initiatives have had a positive impact on the retention from it.
of our longer serving employees.
It will apply appropriate health, safety and welfare standards to its The benets offered to our employees are constantly reviewed to activities which will be based on the active participation of all persons, ensure they are competitive so we can attract and retain quality the systematic identication of hazards and the assessment and people.
Employee share ownership is actively encouraged through control of risks.
the Companys Savings-Related Share Option Scheme.
Development and training programmes are in operation and we continually update Adequate arrangements will be maintained to allow employees to employees and management knowledge through focused training raise issues of health and safety.
encompassing licensing, health and safety and employment legislation.
We adopt best practice in the areas of Equal Opportunities and Health Whilst managers and supervisors will be expected to maintain a high and Safety legislation.
standard of health and safety at work, all personnel will be asked to carry out their duties and responsibilities with these aims in mind.
The Group has adopted a new and more comprehensive whistleblowing policy to provide guidance for employees on how to raise concerns in The policy is reviewed on a regular and ongoing basis by the order that issues can be addressed and risks controlled.
Group Health and Safety Manager, who consults with operational management prior to submitting new or revised policies or procedures Union Recognition to the Board.
Effective Health and Safety policies and manuals have We are committed to involving union representatives in consultation been developed so as to clearly define responsibilities and procedures.
on matters affecting our employees.
The Gaming Division entered into These include appropriate management structures to ensure that we a union recognition agreement with the GMB in May 2004. effectively manage our operations and full our statutory obligations.
Community Through the Company Secretary, divisional management is kept We have been involved in developing the industrys approach to informed of: responsible gambling.
Trends in workplace accidents: Measures are in place to minimise the occurrence of problem gambling, Reportable accidents and incidents: under-age gambling and money laundering.
Important developments in health and safety.
24 25 Stanley Leisure plc 2005 Annual Report Corporate Social Responsibility Review continued Measurement and Review Waste Management The Managing Director of the Gaming Division, senior and line In line with the Environmental Protection Act 1990, all sites utilise managers are responsible for effective management of health and licensed waste removers who provide appropriate documentation safety within the Gaming Division, including taking steps to rectify for the transfer of waste.
Due to the nature of our business we do problems identied through inspections and audits so as to ensure not produce any special waste and in line with anticipated changes ongoing compliance with statutory requirements.
in the landll legislation in 2006, will be able to make provision for pre-treating sorting of waste, in order to maximise the percentage The Group Health and Safety Manager also monitors and reviews of recycled items.
health and safety performance across the Group, providing advice and support where it is required.
An ongoing programme of inspection Ethics across our estate ensures that all sites are visited at least annually.
The Company has a policy on Standards of Business Conduct which we regularly review.
The introduction to the current policy states: Training During the course of the past year, training for management and The Group has adopted this Business Ethics policy to promote the employees has been undertaken, through the Institute of Occupational principles of integrity, honesty and respect for people when dealing Health and the Chartered Institute of Environmental Health.
with shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers, competitors and the wider community.
The Board recognises that the trust and Enforcement Activity confidence of the Groups stakeholders is essential to the continued During the course of 2005 some of our sites were visited by Local growth and success of the Group.
All instructions and advice were followed and no enforcement action was taken.
The policy is intended to have practical value in all day-to-day business dealings, and each Director and employee of the Group must behave Future Health and Safety Initiatives in accordance with the spirit of this policy.
The policy is available to The Company remains committed to improving its health and safety all employees and is included in appropriate induction and training performance and intends to continue with inspections and audits to programmes.
maintain standards across the estate.
Our aim is to continue to improve communication on health and safety issues and provide further training Charities for managers in health, safety and environmental issues.
The Company has a Donations Committee, comprising the Chairman, Chief Executive and Non-Executive Directors, to establish policy on Environment charitable donations and coordinate charitable activities.
Employees Due to the nature of our business, we are considered to have low are encouraged to participate in charitable events.
We have a long impact environmental risks.
We are committed to the disposal tradition of supporting a variety of national and local charities.
and management of waste in line with quality and environmental standards.
Energy and water conservation continue to be a central focus where economically practical.
We employ both suppliers and contractors who comply with relevant environmental legislation and regulations.
Professional environmental consultancy advice is taken where appropriate.
A policy has been adopted by the Board outlining the Companys approach and commitment to environmental issues.
We have identied key management with designated responsibility for environmental matters.
