We firmly believe that sustainable Corporate development is crucial to our Social long term prosperity.
Responsibility Report Chief Executives Statement The effective management of health and safety, and meeting our environmental and social responsibilities remains a business priority.
We firmly believe that sustainable development is crucial to our long term prosperity.
It is therefore very pleasing to note that, for the sixth consecutive year, we are able to report an overall improvement in our SHE performance.
In addition, good progress has been made towards achieving our long term targets for sustainable development.
There remain many challenges, most immediately from the EU chemicals policy.
Although we have established a good understanding of how these regulations will affect our business, it is an area that will require continuing close management attention as it passes through the various stages of implementation.
Therefore, whilst we can take satisfaction from our progress during 2005, our commitment remains to pursue continuous improvement in all aspects of safety, health and the environment, led by senior executives with the full support of the Board and Group Executive Committee.
Alex Walker Group Chief Executive 16 March 2006 Lost time accident frequency rates 1.4 Six Actual 1.2 Target years of 1.0 0.8 improving 0.6 performance 0.4 0.2 0 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 12 3 day lost time accident frequency rate per 100,000 hours Policy commitments The Board has committed the company to the following policies in order to meet our health and safety, environmental and social responsibilities: Legal requirements will be complied with as a minimum, and these will be improved upon where technically and economically practicable: Annual plans will be prepared aimed at continually improving safety performance, environmental protection and all relevant aspects of sustainable development for each business and the group as a whole: Plans to reduce waste and minimise energy and resource usage will be developed and implemented: Product safety will be improved and environmental impacts minimised through those parts of the supply chain over which we have control or significant influence: Performance will be measured against targets and standards, and reports will be prepared for senior management on the extent to which improvements have been achieved: We will strive to create a working environment free from discrimination, which encourages employees to participate in the development of the business and in the acquisition of skills: and Clear standards of business conduct and ethical behaviour will be established Reportable safety incidents Number of incidents and communicated across the group.
Policies on specific areas of the overarching sustainable development policy have been approved by the Board, comprising safety, health and the environment, corporate reputation, business ethics and animal testing.
66 Yule Catto is pleased to report that it remains a constituent member of the FTSE4Good index.
Strategy 26 26 Leadership The Board has delegated to the Group Chief Executive overall responsibility for 4 3 2 implementing the groups sustainable development policy, assisted by the Group 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 SHE Manager and the Group Personnel Manager.
However, primary responsibility for policy implementation lies with Divisional Chief Executives and the executives within each business.
Management systems Yule Catto is a signatory to Responsible Care, the global chemical industrys safety, health and environmental management programme.
This is an important part of our overall process for sustainable development as it focuses management attention on identifying risks, developing appropriate control measures and monitoring performance.
Planning Each business has arrangements in place to review and prioritise the key SHE related issues according to the risk posed to safety, the environment and the business, using corporate standards, regulatory and insurance requirements and internal business drivers.
Site specific improvement plans are then initiated to control the risks to acceptable levels.
Monitoring Health and safety issues and environmental performance are regularly monitored by the Group SHE Department, which also monitors the progress of improvement plans.
Auditing Performance is monitored through a corporate audit process on a two yearly cycle.
Audits are conducted by a team that is independent of the business under scrutiny.
The audit reviews the extent to which each site has implemented corporate SHE management standards, and the SHE performance of the site.
Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 13 Reporting and review Quarterly reports are prepared for the Board and Executive Committee, setting out Corporate SHE performance and other relevant information.
Social On an annual basis, all managing directors confirm the extent to which their annual improvement plan has been completed.
Responsibility An annual review is conducted to identify key material issues arising from the Report corporate audit process, plus any significant lessons learned from incidents and accidents.
This review is used to improve the audit process and share best practice within the group.
continued Sustainable development performance management Over the last three years, Yule Catto has operated a performance management system whereby appropriate remuneration incentives are in place to motivate senior management to strive for continuously improving SHE performance.
This has been recently reviewed and updated to take into account the groups commitment to sustainable development by incorporating performance against what we consider to be the two most significant environmental risks global warming and water consumption.
Stakeholder engagement Discussions with investors about corporate governance issues, which include sustainable development, issues are led by the Chief Executive and Finance Director at appropriate times of the year, usually coinciding with annual and half year results.
Feedback is discussed at the subsequent Board meeting.
Subsidiary companies regularly meet with investors, customers, suppliers, community representatives and unions to discuss a range of social, economic and environmental issues.
Material issues are escalated to the Group Executive Committee via management reports and, as appropriate, used to review policies and procedures.
Social responsibility Managing human resources As an international chemical manufacturing company that relies on the skills and talents of its employees the group and its subsidiaries are fully committed to operating in a socially responsible manner throughout all their operations.
We have established clear standards of business conduct and ethical behaviour as an integral part of our business processes on issues such as corruption and anti-competitive activities, which all our companies are required to comply with in conjunction with local legislative requirements.
Managing health and safety Protecting human life and ensuring the welfare of employees and other people affected by our business is a critical business priority.
Various management processes are deployed, including: A group wide accident and near miss incident management system AIMS to assist in the identification of root causes to enable us to learn lessons and improve: Water consumption A corporate requirement for all businesses to implement formal safety Target: 20% reduction by 2010 management systems, which are subject to audit: and Monthly measurement of key performance indicators which are used to prepare 10 management information reports.
9 8 In common with much of the global chemical industry, we use lost time accident 7 frequency rate as a broad measure of health and safety performance.
It is very 6 pleasing that the incident rate of lost time accidents has decreased for the sixth Actual 5 successive year.
Target 4 3 We are also very pleased that the number of serious safety incidents remains at a very 2 low level.
1 0 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 14 Cubic metres per production tonne Protecting our assets Hazardous waste disposed to land Process safety and operational risk management Target: 25% reduction by 2010 Through close management attention to process safety and loss control standards, a reducing trend of significant direct losses from fire and explosion and indirect losses 14 from business interruption has been achieved.
Actual 12 Target Risk financing 10 Price stability within our global insurance programme has been achieved during a period of insurance volatility by paying close attention to improving operational risk 8 control, in close collaboration with our insurance partners.
6 4 Managing our products safely Product stewardship 2 Our policy regarding product stewardship is to improve product safety and reduce 0 environmental impacts through those parts of the supply chain over which we have 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 control or significant influence.
Energy consumption Working with customers Target: 11% reduction by 2010 Ensuring that we deliver products to our customers which are of the right quality, on time, and that can be used safely is a primary business goal.
Management arrangements are in place to ensure compliance with relevant product legislation.
6 Actual Where appropriate, expert advice on safe product use is provided to customers, 5 Target distributors and agents.
4 Managing the supply chain 3 For hazardous raw materials, on-site supplier audits are conducted in order to provide technical advice on how best to store and handle the materials.
2 For strategically important raw materials, an assurance programme linked to the 1 corporate internal control process has been established to confirm that suitable 0 arrangements are in place to minimise the risk of interruption in the supply chain.
00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 EU chemicals policy REACH The EU chemicals policy is in its final stages and it is expected to become law in 2007.
Global warming burden A detailed analysis has been conducted within the group to assess its economic Target: 25% reduction by 2010 implications.
During 2006, appropriate mitigation strategies will be developed to limit this exposure as far as possible.
Based on the work completed to date, it has been 0.50 concluded that any financial exposure will be contained within the existing cost Actual Target structure.
0.40 0.30 0.20 0.10 0.00 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 15 Tonnes CO equivalent released per production tonne 2 GigaJoules used per production tonne Kgs waste per production tonne Managing our environmental responsibilities Our approach Corporate A group wide process of target setting against core environmental criteria has been established, whereby each manufacturing site establishes specific reduction targets Social based on the overall corporate environmental objectives.
Performance against these targets is measured quarterly.
Responsibility These objectives were themselves developed in consultation with the businesses Report during 2005, based on the UK Chemical Industry Associations sustainable development principles which the Board of Yule Catto has endorsed.
continued Environmental performance Energy and global warming It is disappointing to report a small increase in energy use and global warming burden.
This is primarily due to a change in product mix, plus some product downturn, which has resulted in an increase per tonne.
However, the long term target has not been breached and specific management attention will be given to this crucial environmental and commercial issue during 2006.
Water use It is very pleasing to observe the continuing excellent performance by group businesses in reducing water use compared to the long term target.
The modest increase is primarily due to changes in product mix and production volume during 2005.
Hazardous waste disposal Hazardous waste disposal has shown an decrease, and remains well below our long term target, despite the reclassification of previously inert waste to hazardous waste.
This is an excellent reflection of the waste minimisation projects which group businesses have conducted, as referred to in last years reports.
These projects have resulted in improved yields, more recycling and less waste.
Atmospheric acidification burden It is pleasing to note the substantial reductions in atmospheric acidification.
The full Atmospheric acidification burden benefits of the major investment in state of the art acid gas emission control systems Target: 50% reduction by 2010 at our ultramarine factories have now been realised.
These businesses now operate at global best practice standards.
6 Actual Target 5 Environmental incidents Pleasingly, the general downward trend of reportable environmental incidents has 4 continued during 2005, when four such incidents were reported.
3 2 1 0 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 Reportable environmental incidents Number of incidents 49 44 22 7 4 4 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 16 Kgs waste per production tonne
