Operating and financial review continued Corporate social responsibility Overview Safety: The Group Safety Index continues Safety For Tate & Lyle, corporate social to improve, this year by 19.9%, compared We have no higher priority than safety at responsibility equates to applying our four with an improvement of 14% in 2003.
As one of our four core values, core values safety, integrity, knowledge However, although injuries are fewer and we believe safety is fundamental to running and innovation to the way we run our less severe, we can never be satisfied a successful business.
This means continuous progress while incidents still occur.
strengthen our commitment to ensure safe in achieving the highest standards of safety: Environment: Energy usage is our most and healthy working conditions for our considering the environmental impact of significant impact, both environmentally employees, contractors and visitors.
By every aspect of what we do: and treating our and economically, and we continued to reporting, recognising and rewarding safety employees, suppliers and the communities in improve our performance, despite the performance, we ensure that all our which we work as long-term partners.
proportionate increase in production of operations focus on continuous Putting these concerns at the centre of value added products, which generally improvement.
our business requires active management at require more energy.
For the second consecutive year, our the highest level within the Company.
The Employees: Having united under the employees efforts have been rewarded with Board reviews our policies and performance Tate & Lyle name, we have also begun improvements in safety performance across in these areas, and the Chief Executive is the to create one business culture for all all categories, demonstrating that excellence Board member accountable for all aspects employees, with our highly participative in safety is achievable everywhere, of corporate social responsibility.
Vision into Action programme, involving regardless of geographic location, local This report explains how we manage our around 6,000 employees, at some 40 customs or differing regulations.
Reflecting activities and performance to the benefit of locations using 12 languages.
Employees our commitment to provide a safe workplace both Tate & Lyle and our partners, reports identified key aspirations for their for all, we have compiled appropriate on progress over the year, and sets out our workplace to help achieve our Vision, contractor safety statistics for the first time plans for the future.
and we have begun to make this a reality this year, which will provide a benchmark 2004 was a year of considerable progress, around the Group.
as we united our operations around the world under the Tate & Lyle name.
This As one of our four core values, we believe safety is global approach helps us to continue to apply consistently high standards to how fundamental to running a successful business we manage corporate social responsibility and improve our performance.
Particular achievements of the year include: Suppliers: We have a global purchasing Managing safety team managing our relationship with most Maintaining a consistently safe and healthy of our suppliers.
Our Code of Conduct has workplace for our people requires effective, now been issued to all major suppliers to proactive management.
Our constantly communicate our global approach and improving safety results are based on: requirements.
Communities: We have set up a global Changing behaviour by encouraging a Corporate Donations Committee to ensure safety culture at all of our locations: we target local community needs wherever Auditing safety performance: we are, and deliver the most positive Rewarding improved safety performance impact.
We also recruited our first Director, with local safety awards, divisional Most Community and Government Relations in Improved Plant and Group-wide Safety the USA.
First awards: Benchmarking: Tate & Lyle continues to be Sharing information and best practice Safety included in the FTSE4Good Index, which between all our locations: Our plants at Razgrad, Bulgaria and recognises companies that meet globally Improving communication on safety issues Houlton, USA won the Tate & Lyle accepted corporate social responsibility throughout the Group: and World Class Safety Performance criteria.
The active involvement of senior executives award for calendar year 2004.
In fact, in auditing and promoting safety.
the Bulgarian Minister of Labour and Social Policy used the occasion of This year, our Network Safety Committees our Razgrad safety fair to announce at every location have continued to develop the creation of an annual National safety training programmes and awareness Safety award.
initiatives that have contributed to our improving performance.
Examples include: Renewed emphasis on behavioural safety, with all locations conducting behavioural auditing to sharpen employees observational skills and identifying areas for improvement.
We are also aiming to increase the frequency with which we conduct behavioural auditing, and the number of employees who take part: 28 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2005 Safety Safety is about workplace culture, employees and contractors.
These Group safety index for five calendar years management and employee attitude popular events involve a mixture of 5.92 it reflects the underlying performance safety demonstrations relevant to of a company.
There is never a reason both the workplace and home, often to work unsafely and at Tate & Lyle including basic first aid or broader 4.07 we work hard to improve our safety issues such as road safety and fire 3.75 3.51 performance.
Family safety days are 2.84 Our approach is broad and inclusive: held across the Group from Brazil one successful technique is to involve to Bulgaria and make a real difference.
all the family by holding plant tours They ensure that safety messages and safety fairs for the families of our get home.
00 01 02 03 04 The smaller the index, the better the performance consistently first Operating and financial review continued Developing consistent minimum safety Severity rate number of work days lost Employees at Houlton, USA took their and safety engineering standards for the due to injuries per 200,000 employee record to 12 years and over 1.2 million Group, now posted on our intranet, TaLnet: hours improved by 19.4%.
employee hours without a lost-time Continuing to encourage family accident.
participation in our safety efforts, through We collected contractor statistics for the first Razgrad, Bulgaria and Houlton, USA won promotional family safety training days, time this year, so cannot compare them with our World Class Safety Performance safety slogan and drawing competitions performance in previous years.
for employees children and family plant our contractor performance compares well in Zaragoza, Spain and Sagamore Lafayette, tours: and many locations against the US Bureau of USA shared Most Improved Safety Sponsoring and facilitating a child safety Labor Statistics 2003 the most recent data Performance honours.
Zaragoza also awareness programme at one location for available.
The Bureau reports the overall won the Chairmans Safety Award.
over 2,000 local primary school children.
recordable injury rate per 200,000 employee Mercocitrico, Brazil won Citric Acids hours for US contractors to be 6.80 against Safety First Award for the third year Calendar year 2004 results 3.54 at Tate & Lyle, and the overall lost-time running, achieving more than four years The Group Safety Index compares safety accident rate to be 2.60 against our 1.63. and 2 million employee hours without a performance across Tate & Lyle.
weighted average of injuries sustained in Benchmarking the workplace, with more severe incidents Comparing national statistics between the Outlook having greater impact.
A decrease in the US and Europe is difficult because they While we are pleased with our progress, our index reflects improved performance.
However, we can statistics reflect that injuries, though fewer target is zero for every Tate & Lyle operation.
compare the performance of each of and less severe, still occur.
By continuing to Compared with the 2003 calendar year our divisions against results from the focus on safety as highlighted in this report, results: US Bureau of Labor Statistics.
Again this we intend to improve our record still further year, Tate & Lyles business divisions are in future years.
One area in particular is Group safety index improved by 19.9%: outperforming the average reported standard contractor safety.
While our contractor Recordable injury rate injury requiring for their peers in their respective sectors and statistics compare favourably with industry treatment beyond first aid improved by in the US private sector as a whole.
norms, they are not up to the level of our 14.8%: own employees, and one target for the Lost-time accident rate recordable injury Key achievements coming year will be to narrow that gap.
sufficiently severe to result in lost work Most Tate & Lyle locations equalled or days or to restrict the employees ability to improved their 2003 performance, perform his her job, counted from the first including 25 that reported no lost-time day of incapacitation improved by 19.7%: accidents and nine that reported no and recordable injuries for the year.
Contractor safety index Recordable injury rate Lost-time accident rate d e e 42.21 12.10 2.30 a b 1.90 a 1.80 8.60 b c b US Industry 8.57 7.30 8.20 1.5 US Industry e 6.8 US Industry 5.29 d 5.0 g f 0.71 0.55 2.81 g h c f d c g a 1.65 1.65 1.46 0.23 1.12 0.21 0.96 1.03 f 0.00 a Tate & Lyle Food & Industrial Ingredients, Americas a US Food Manufacturing a US Food Manufacturing b Tate & Lyle Sugars, Americas b US Grain Milling b US Grain Milling c Tate & Lyle Food & Industrial Ingredients, Europe c Tate & Lyle Food & Industrial Ingredients, Americas c Tate & Lyle Food & Industrial Ingredients, Americas d Tate & Lyle Sugars, Europe d Tate & Lyle Food & Industrial Ingredients, Europe d Tate & Lyle Food & Industrial Ingredients, Europe e Citric Acid e US Sugar Industry e US Sugar Industry f Sucralose f Tate & Lyle Sugars, Americas f Tate & Lyle Sugars, Americas g Support Services g Tate & Lyle Sugars, Europe g Tate & Lyle Sugars, Europe h Vietnam The smaller the index, the better the performance.
We Number of injuries per 2,000 employee hours requiring Rate of recordable injuries sufficiently serious to result in collected contractor statistics for the first time this year, more than first aid.
lost workdays or restricted work activities.
hence there is no comparison with previous years.
The high US industry statistics as reported by US Bureau of US industry statistics as reported by US Bureau of score for Sugars, Europe reflects the fatal accident in the UK Labor Statistics.
in March 2004 as reported in last years Annual Report.
The smaller the index, the better the performance.
Being in full Good environmental management is integral to good command of the data means we can understand how impacts occur, and overall management of the business therefore manage our environmental footprint to the benefit of the environment and the Company.
Environment units have environmental management Tate & Lyle collects environmental data Good environmental management is committees that meet regularly to discuss from each operating unit quarterly, using integral to good overall management of the progress.
a comprehensive system that has been business.
Tate & Lyles environmental policy Every operating unit has an environmental validated by our Internal Audit department.
is for all our operations to be conducted in management system.
Each unit is required We then normalise the data to reflect the light of our responsibilities towards the to assess its environmental impact, and amount of product manufactured.
This natural environment in which we live and develop an improvement plan based on protects the commercial sensitivities of the work, and to comply with relevant laws, identified areas of priority, focus and data while allowing us to report publicly regulations and consents, which may vary opportunity, in line with the Groups overall on our progress, and make comparisons from location to location.
The Board reviews environmental management strategy.
The data is then aggregated environmental performance and the policy projects are assessed for their environmental to create a single set of indices for the annually.
impact, and we investigate whether there Group, adjusted to take account of Environmental impacts are many and varied.
are more environmentally friendly ways of acquisitions and disposals.
When reviewing our environmental footprint, it achieving our aims.
We also look at whether has always been our policy to focus future regulation may require more control, 2004 results particularly on those impacts over which we and if so, how this might be incorporated have direct control and which have most effect economically into the project.
Summary of results on the environment.
Our three most significant We work closely with our customers to Energy reduced by 2.4%.
environmental impacts are, in order of ensure our systems meet their requirements.
magnitude, energy use, water use and We also brief all contractors on key Non-hazardous waste increased by 7.5%.
Energy environmental issues, to make sure that use is by far our most significant impact, and we are managing our environmental We focus our measurement and our we therefore give it the highest priority.
improvement efforts on the areas that have Managing these impacts for a positive most environmental and financial impact.
result is good for the environment and also Incident, emergency and For example, every 1% improvement in our brings economic benefits to our business.
contingency plans energy index offers a cost saving estimated Each operating unit has incident, emergency at 1.3 million.
An equivalent improvement in Managing our impact and contingency plans.
These are frequently the water index offers a saving of some Tate & Lyle continues to subscribe to the updated to meet new conditions and 105,000, while a 1% improvement in the principles of the International Chamber of requirements.
We have crisis management non-hazardous waste index saves around Commerces Business Charter for procedures to provide an effective response 17,500.
In accordance in case of incident or emergency, including Energy consumption, our most significant with Group policy, all locations fully integrate escalation to the Group Crisis Management impact both environmentally and environmental management into their Team when required.
economically, again showed a good operational systems and procedures.
Despite a Employees receive regular training on Measuring data Group target of 3% per annum, this is managing environmental impacts and To manage our environmental impacts nonetheless a creditable result, since this changes in legislation, so that they are efficiently and ensure we continue to year it includes the increase in production always on top of the issues.
Many operating improve, we must collect detailed data of value added products, which tend to Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2005 31 Operating and financial review continued consume more energy.
If such value added Employees reporting back on a quarterly training plan products are excluded from the results, our Tate & Lyle employs 6,700 people around for all employees.
This initiative ensures reduction was 3.6%, well above the 3% the world, with a further 4,500 in joint that training is treated as a priority and target.
We have operations in the UK, the helps us plan training in line with business Non-hazardous waste increased this year USA, Europe, Asia, Latin America, Africa, needs.
by 7.5%, despite our aim to reduce it: and the Caribbean, and speak 11 main however this was due to large, one-off languages at our major locations.
Employees across the Group are showing clean-up operations at various locations that Our ability to attract and retain highly increasing interest in healthy lifestyles.
in themselves have a positive impact on the skilled and committed people is fundamental Various locations have formed Companyenvironment.
Once our clean-up operations to our success.
We are committed to sponsored teams to involve employees in are complete, we expect to return to offering equal opportunities for all, planning activities to promote health and reducing this figure progressively.
irrespective of gender, race, disability, age, fitness, such as the Healthy Lifestyles Task Water consumption showed a good sexual orientation, marital status, religion Force in Decatur, USA.
reduction of 2.5% in line with the Groups or other beliefs, or ethnic or national origin.
aim to reduce consumption year on year.
Our recruitment and training procedures One Vision for all reflect our commitment, and we promote 2004 has been a year of change and Violation, abatement and our people on performance.
progress for Tate & Lyle employees.
compliance orders In line with our Vision, we have united our The vast majority of our operations Calendar year 2004 activity businesses under the Tate & Lyle name to completed 2004 without incident.
Where In 2004 we recruited a Group Human present a consistent face to customers.
Tate & Lyle inadvertently contravened Resources Director.
Work already under A key part of this is to create one culture regulations, incidents were minor and we way includes the development and for all our employees around the world.
reacted immediately to correct the problems.
implementation of the Tate & Lyle Leadership Work began with a highly participative Model across the Group.
We have set up a programme to define what it means to Benchmarking Group-wide Talent Management System to be a Tate & Lyle employee.
More than In the Business in the Environment Index of identify, develop and sustain the flow of 300 workshops involving around 6,000 Corporate Environmental Engagement, we talent, and ensure we have the right people employees were held in some 40 locations scored 68.8%, down from 78.5%.
While we in the right job at the right time, with suitable using 12 languages.
Building on our Code improved our score in some areas we career development plans and opportunities of Conduct that sets out the Groups scored less well in others, in particular in our in place.
Looking forward, this strategic and policies on ethics and corporate social relationships with suppliers.
We will look at global approach is designed to ensure that responsibility, employees identified key ways of improving this in future.
all employees have the opportunity to reach aspirations for their working environment their full potential within Tate & Lyle.
to help achieve the Group Vision.
Outlook Producing the value added products our customers demand requires considerable Our ability to attract and retain highly skilled and energy.
As we continue to grow the business committed people is fundamental to our success and develop value added products, the challenge of reducing our environmental impacts, energy in particular, will increase.
Our aim is to continue to manage our We continue to make progress with Identifying a common culture was the first environmental footprint as efficiently as Leadership Development and other specific step.
Making this a reality requires practical possible, ensuring that as we develop new training programmes which are being initiatives to help us become one team.
products, environmental concerns are built implemented consistently across the Group So far, these include setting up global into the development process.
and are supported by standardised functional teams, the introduction of global processes.
Highlights include: intranet team sites that enable teams to work together on one system, and a broad Senior Strategy Seminar for employees in programme of secondments, where key strategic roles across the Group.
The employees spend time at other locations both objective of this seminar is to build an to learn and to share their own experience in-depth understanding of the Group and expertise.
Strategy and developments: Developing Management Skills programme Measuring results for employees recently appointed to In February 2005 we conducted a Grouptheir first management role as well as wide online employee survey, to find out how experienced managers looking to improve far we had progressed towards a consistent upon existing skills: culture and understanding of the Vision.
IT skills training programme for Americas Around 3,000 employees responded from employees: around the Group, with results showing that Intranet induction programme for new overall, our Vision was well understood.
starters: Highlights include: Training calendar posted on the intranet to publicise all training organised by the Group: 90% described their workplace in and language from the Vision, demonstrating a Functional Training Plan for Sugars, clear and widespread understanding of its Europe, with each function submitting and essence: and 32 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2005 82% felt that customers had already Commercial partners suppliers Tate & Lyle receives from the Rural Payments benefited from Tate & Lyle delivering on Long-term, good relationships with our Authority is a part of this extra income our the Vision see chart below.
partners and suppliers are very important suppliers receive.
We have a consistent, Group Last year this meant that over 300,000 Nonetheless, although almost everyonewide approach, based on our Code of farmers and employees as well as many understood the Vision, around half reported Conduct, to manage these relationships for thousands of indirect employees in some of no change as yet in their daily working the benefit of all parties.
We pride ourselves the worlds poorest economies benefited practices.
on our supply chain ethics, and are from receiving this additional 250 million to Creating one Tate & Lyle culture will not committed to sharing best practice and 300 million for their raw sugar than they happen overnight, but requires long-term improving standards amongst suppliers.
would have received by selling their product commitment.
We have therefore launched We refined our global purchasing policy in on the world market, where they have to our Vision into Action initiative, a continuous 2004, helping us work increasingly effectively compete head-on with major producers programme of activity to be implemented by with suppliers by pooling our purchasing such as Brazil, Australia and Thailand.
Our global purchasing team has returns we are able to pass to our suppliers Approach to Customers in October 2004, developed global contracts for many of our are vital in sustaining their economies and the programme covers key strategies that main areas of purchasing, and aims to apply employment.
we need to implement to achieve the Vision.
the Code of Conduct consistently with Each includes a series of workshops in all suppliers.
which employees, led by their line managers, work out how to make that strategy a reality Working with growers for their area of the business, as well as their Purchasing raw materials is an exception individual roles.
to our global purchasing policy, with most sourced at divisional level or in some cases EU protocol price versus world price Outlook by our global sugar trading function.
Across of raw sugar 2004 has seen us define what it means to the Group we have longstanding and be a Tate & Lyle employee, and put in place mutually beneficial relationships with our a People Strategy to develop our employees growers, whether they produce sugar cane, 35 careers more efficiently.
Our programme of sugar beet, maize or wheat.
We apply ACP price activities for continuing to build a consistent rigorous standards to our raw materials 30 culture will help us work together as one suppliers, and survey many of them regularly team around the world, while our strategy for on their ethical commitment.
We work 25 developing our people to meet the needs of closely with them to ensure compliance with 20 the business and provide a consistent our needs, implementing traceability and stream of talent at every level will show ensuring that our customers requirements 15 results in the coming year.
over issues such as genetic modification are Tate & Lyle enjoys a rich diversity of cultures fully met: in this case using testing to uphold World price 10 among our employees in 28 countries.
working to develop a common business A particularly good example of our long- 5 culture, we value the differences the many term relationship with growers is that with 0 cultures bring to the Company.
Our new suppliers of raw sugar for our European 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 plant in Singapore is already adding a new Union EU refining business.
Tate & Lyle dimension to our diverse workforce.
plays a key role as the conduit for the EUs Vision survey results We pride ourselves on our supply chain ethics, and are Customer benefits committed to sharing best practice and improving standards amongst suppliers policy of providing advantageous prices to Managing suppliers the sugar industries in African, Caribbean Tate & Lyles Code of Conduct applies and Pacific ACP countries as well as from unconditionally to all parts of the whollysuppliers in Least Developed and other owned Group, and we also aim to apply the Developing countries.
Code in those operations in which we have ACP countries have long had the a 50% stake or more.
Where we have a Each of the 3,000 respondents rated how their entitlement to sell around 1.5 million minority stake, we encourage our partners customers benefited from the Vision project.
tonnes of sugar every year into the EU to adopt the Code.
In contracting rounds with Our cost efficiency market.
This access is independent of suppliers and when issuing purchase orders, Outstanding customer services EU market demand but commands an EU we attach the Code of Conduct, and require price.
Tate & Lyle acts as the most important them to notify us immediately of any issues Our distinctive products services bridge into Europe for these countries, they have with it.
Every division within Our consistency with other parts taking some 1.25 million tonnes of this Tate & Lyle must confirm twice a year that the of Tate & Lyle sugar.
As a result of this access to the EU Code is being communicated to suppliers, Our innovative new products market, our suppliers receive 250 million to and report any contraventions.
Suppliers There has been no change 300 million more for their sugar than would who persistently contravene the Code may otherwise be the case.
The 127 million be faced with termination of their contracts.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2005 33 cents lb FOB Caribbean Community Effective community involvement is We believe that through partnering Community spend by allocation about more than financial contribution, with organisations that have insight for financial year 2005 its about partnership and building a into local issues we can make a real strong volunteer network.
Education commands the brings great benefits to the Company.
majority of our total community spend 10% Arts Vibrant, healthy and well-educated with programmes involving working in communities motivate employees and partnership with specialist organisations, 21% Health enhance recruitment: volunteering universities, colleges, schools and builds and broadens employees skills.
Whether mentoring, providing 44% Education Of the organisations we support, job experience placements, conducting several have been our partners for over mock interviews or participating in a 25% Environment a decade: our employees often join range of activities, we know that our their committees, advocate their employee volunteers benefit at least as Excludes donations made to the Guyanese Flood and causes in the wider community and much as the students they work with.
Asian Tsunami disaster reflief organisations.
provide mentoring and business skills.
consistently first Operating and financial review continued Calendar year 2004 highlights opportunities and making Tate & Lyle a India: Red Cross, the AMM Foundation, and Managing supplier relationships to the benefit company for which they are proud to work.
the Prime Ministers National Relief Fund of both parties requires regular, consistent Sri Lanka: Red Cross and the Community auditing.
In 2004, we extended our supplier Managing our impact of the Risen Lord of the Catholic audit system in Sugars, Europe to include As we become one Tate & Lyle around the Charismatic Renewal regular audits of all major or high-risk world, our aim is to ensure that our Indonesia: Red Cross suppliers, co-packers and producers of Community Involvement Policy, ratified by Thailand: Red Cross co-branded products and any associated the Board, is followed wherever we operate.
So far we have audited two There are currently different levels of We also contributed 10,000 to Guyana in co-packers, a co-producer and a new flavour community activity in our various response to their severe flooding.
In addition, all suppliers were sent geographical locations, reflecting the history a self-audit questionnaire to assess the of Tate & Lyles involvement in the area, and requirement for further audits, and are now it is our aim to ensure that in future, all parts required to disclose information about of the Group develop long-term, community genetically modified organisms, so that we partnerships for mutual benefit.
can be certain of the nature and quality of our We have set up a global Corporate products at every level of the supply chain.
Donations Committee to oversee community policy, to share best practice and improve Outlook internal standards and reporting.
We also At Tate & Lyle, we are very aware of the aim to make sure that we select projects number of pressures on sugar growers that genuinely target local needs and deliver and producers.
One of these is cost, while the most positive impact.
Reflecting our another is the environmental and social commitment, we recruited our first Director, reputation of the crop.
We believe that Community and Government Relations in in very many cases, better management the USA to support our locations in the practices can contribute towards alleviating Americas in their work with key community both pressures, while countering some of and government officials.
the more negative accusations made about the industry.
Calendar year 2004 results For this reason, we are consulting with a Charitable donations consortium led by the International Finance In the financial year to 31 March 2005, Corporation and the WWF World Wide Tate & Lyles total worldwide charitable Fund for Nature, the global conservation donations were 778,000.
Our total global organisation, to discuss and agree better pro bono contribution in goods and services management practices across the sugar is estimated to have been 188,000, up industry.
In 2005, we are hosting a first from 146,000 in the previous year.
meeting of the consortium to look at how The largest single donation was the sugar cane businesses can improve their Tsunami Disaster Donation of 200,000. social and environmental performance.
Tate & Lyle made an initial corporate In 2005, we will continue auditing new donation of 75,000, and pledged to match suppliers, co-packers and co-producers employee contributions, which totalled a Community before signing a contract, and continue superb 62,500 from all our locations In Vietnam, Nghe An Tate & Lyles monitoring current partners.
We are also around the world.
The fund has been For the Future campaign ensured developing our raw materials supplier disbursed equally across the four affected that over 2,000 children in 27 primary survey, which next year will require a countries of India, Sri Lanka, Indonesia and schools were provided with school more detailed response.
On advice from our contacts in bags and stationery at the beginning these areas, the money was distributed to of the school year.
In Colombia we Communities the following organisations, with the bulk support a joint initiative set up by Tate & Lyle aims to play a positive role in all in each case going to the local Red Cross.
Tate & Lyle and employees which the communities in which we operate.
Over gives 1,000 scholarships a year to the years we have developed a Group-wide children who would not otherwise community involvement policy that forms receive an education.
one of the core components underpinning our ethical behaviour.
Our programme involves building long-term relationships with local partners to deliver a shared objective: establishing strong, safe and healthy communities by investing time and resources into projects that directly address local needs.
Our community partnerships are very well supported by employees, many of whom take part in programmes.
Tate & Lyles community involvement benefits our employees by enhancing their own local community, offering significant personal development Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2005 35 Operating and financial review continued Community support by region Blue Skies Event: Tate & Lyle sponsored UK community performance % Tate & Lyle supports many local organisations this event, attended by 733 students, to involved in important community work all encourage young entrepreneurs to set round the world.
Listed here are the top up their own businesses.
Americas a a b b c c 100 a 97 Decatur: capital campaign for new 95 95 95 95 95 95 92 UK: Tate Britain: Community Links: YMCA centre building: Richard House Childrens Hospice: Project Success: school-based agency Americas: YMCA: United Way: Milliken working with parents, students and University, Illinois: teachers to improve academic success: Europe not UK : Oratorio Don Boscoand Saluzzo community organisation, Italy : Lafayette Parks Foundation: Razgrad Special Needs Centre Bulgaria : Revitalisation of neighbourhood parks.
Levensvreugde meaning joy for life Europe not UK Belgium : and Italy: Tate & Lyle sponsored a local Vietnam: For the future support for institution that organises sport and schools programme.
cultural activities for young people to 02 03 04 02 03 04 02 03 04 help their education: a Efficiency of response Key achievements Bulgaria: Donations were made towards Tate & Lyle employees around the world the construction of a rehabilitation centre b Willingness to support make huge efforts to support their local in Razgrad for social integration of c Contribution to the community communities.
Here we highlight just some children needing special care, and to of the great stories from each region.
the youth festival, Life without drugs, Results of 2004 UK Community Involvement Report survey.
organised by local police: and UK Belgium: The Lions club organised a golf Educational visits: 660 students and event to raise money for local charities, 138 teachers visited our locations during Joy for Life, People for People.
How our UK support created 30 curriculum-based visits: Vietnam additional value % Citizenship Week: 17 schools English teaching programmes in local participated in a range of citizenship community schools: and a activities during this Tate & LyleOrganisation of, and participation in, 67 a b sponsored event: and local community festivals.
59 59 d b 54 50 c d 45 41 e c 32 Awards Specific locations 29 While we never embark on any activity McIntosh, USA: State of Alabama with the specific aim of winning an award, Manufacturing Trade Association award for e we are gratified when we receive external 13 2003 safety performance: validation of our employees efforts.
Transcend Foundation, Colombia: finalist Moreover, awards can help to support the at the British & Colombian Chamber of reputation of the business and offer an Commerce Business and Social Awards: 03 04 03 04 03 04 03 04 03 04 opportunity to highlight and celebrate Grain Elevator, Cowden, USA: Siemer a Improved capability to help target cause success.
Over the past year we have Milling Supplier of the Year award for the b Raised profile received a range of awards.
fourth time in seven years: and c Wider network of contacts volunteers Razgrad, Bulgaria: second place in d Improved facilities environment Tate & Lyle Investor in Community category, Bulgarian e Improved staff motivation TAPPI Technical Association of the Business Leaders Forums Annual Awards Pulp and Paper Industry special for Responsible Business Practices.
recognition for 75 years of continuous Results of 2004 UK Community Involvement Report survey.
membership: Employee awards Gold standard award for customer Community Links Trustee Award, UK for service from beverage manufacturer community support, won by our Corporate Four Square: Social Responsibility Manager: and Food and Drink Federation Community East London Business Alliance Volunteer Partnership Awards 2005: winner of Award, UK for supporting the Community Education Category large company, Food Enterprise programme, won by our and Highly Commended in Local Finance Director, Sugars, Europe.
Community Category large company : and Finalists at the Institute of Grocery and Distributions Nestl Social Commitment Award 2004.
36 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2005 Our policy guides us to select projects that genuinely target local needs and delivers the most positive impact Benchmarking The operating and financial review was Again this year we sent out a questionnaire approved on behalf of the Board by: with our UK Community Involvement Report, and responses showed that our performance improved still further from its traditionally high level, with an excellent 100% for willingness to support.
Some 60% of respondents reported an Iain Ferguson CBE improved capability to help their target cause, Chief Executive with the same number reporting an increase in profile.
See charts on page 36 for more details.
Outlook Our aim for the coming year is to continue to integrate our community efforts around the world into one global programme.
Locations Simon Gifford where we have long-running, successful Group Finance Director partnerships with local organisations will increasingly share the benefits of their expertise in community involvement programmes with our newer operations.
This way, we will ensure that wherever we operate, Tate & Lyle makes a positive contribution and is a valued part of the local community.
Stanley Musesengwa Chief Operating Officer 1 June 2005 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2005 37
