TNS corporate social responsibility At the beginning of 2006, Chief Executive David Lowden committed the group to a renewed focus on people development, one of the core principles supporting the groups new strategic goal.
People development The third area is strengthening face-toand individuals, who contribute to the Look Inside face communication, to facilitate better sixth sense of business through service The group conducted its first global collaboration and sharing across the excellence and innovation.
employee commitment study in 2005, group.
Finally, the group is committed Careers at TNS using our highly acclaimed TRI M to measuring the effectiveness of TNS operates as a global network, stakeholder management system.
internal communication within the offering employees the opportunity to This study covered 13,000 TNS business and its impact on employee work across all sectors of industry and employees across the group and had a attitudes and behaviour.
in both custom and syndicated research.
comparatively high, 79 per cent Talent and development Career forums are being used in many response rate.
Sixth sense of business competencies of our business areas, to develop career The study aimed to improve knowledge The TNS competency framework was pathways and employees are and understanding of employees reviewed in 2005 and updated to reflect encouraged to advance their careers interests in, and attitudes to TNS, and the sixth sense of business brand values.
to use this information to identify This will form the basis for Community strengths and weaknesses in the groups performance assessment, recruitment The TNS group operates locally and relationship with employees.
globally and so too with its communityresults have been communicated to all Maximising Growth through People related activities.
We have offices in employees via local presentations.
In 2005, the group launched a new over 70 countries around the world and Workshops at group and local level have global programme, with the objective of each community has its own taken place to develop action plans, reviewing the performance and challenges, needs and opportunities.
which aim to improve employee potential of the top 200 leaders within We encourage local management, commitment.
The group will conduct the business.
It uses new leadership therefore, to support their own a further survey in 2006 to ensure competencies that clearly define the employees in playing an active part in progress is being made on key issues, behaviours required to continue to lead their community, in ways they think with Look Inside 2 planned for the TNS into a successful future.
This leads to a huge variety following year.
in the type of endeavour from straight There will be increased focus on talent Internal communications donations to innovative fund raising, development from 2006 at all levels in Following Look Inside, additional from mentoring to employee the organisation and, to lead this emphasis is being placed on internal volunteering in support of many activity, the group has appointed a communications around the group.
different types of organisation, ranging Group Talent Director.
In early 2006, Our strategy in this area focuses on from major charities to local schools.
we launched the Tony Cowling four different areas of activity.
The Academy of Excellence, a new central There is not space in this report to first is providing all employees with learning and development resource.
However, information about business initiatives The main purpose of the academy will responses from local TNS offices to and helping them gain a better be to create increased learning and some of the devastating natural disasters understanding of our business.
This is development opportunities for TNS of 2005 provide a good illustration.
achieved through electronic, print and employees in a consistent and readily audio-visual media.
Secondly, we are Our colleagues in the US and Canada accessible format, closely aligned to the providing our leaders and managers banded together to raise desperately sixth sense of business.
with the expertise and confidence to needed funds for displaced hurricane communicate effectively with their Recognition victims following the devastating teams, including listening skills and TNS operates an annual global hurricanes that hit the US Gulf Coast in managing feedback.
recognition scheme that aims to August 2005.
Through region-wide highlight and reward successful teams employee Jeans Day and a Mardi Gras 28 TNS annual report 2005 TNS supports pre-school education projects in Cambodia bead sale, along with a TNS company immediately and has been used for published under Corporate Governance matching programme, employees raised education and child protection projects in the Investors section of the group's nearly $100,000.
in Sri Lanka and Indonesia.
The group is included in the we also indicated our interest in FTSE4Good Index and has been Many members of the US access panel sponsoring a long-term project with assigned a low impact weighting for took the option of donating their survey UNICEF and $50,000 was set aside to environmental impact.
incentive rewards points to charitable start this up.
organisations benefiting hurricane The group considers the minimisation relief efforts and thus contributed a The chosen project, branded of environmental impact from its further $130,000.
These efforts were Imagine, is the first global business operations to be a prime in addition to many other local fundraising campaign for TNS, which is objective of its CSR activities.
During fundraising programmes, benefiting a raising money to support pre-school 2005, we completed a study into the variety of causes, initiated and managed education projects in Cambodia.
consumption of energy, water, paper by North American employees Throughout the second half of 2005, a and IT resources in the UK, with the throughout 2005. variety of fund raising activities were assistance of the Carbon Trust, an held around the group, helping to bring organisation focused on reducing Colleagues from the TNS Dubai office us together as one global team working carbon emissions.
As part of that responded immediately to the powerful for others.
process, TNS UK established an energy earthquake that struck South Asia in and waste programme that has led to a October.
Working with the Pakistani In addition, TNS is well positioned to 15 per cent reduction in kilowatts of embassy, within 72 hours of the provide international and multielectricity used at its main site and has earthquake they sent food, clothing, country research for charities and notdisposed of approximately 70 per cent blankets, sleeping bags and tents to the for-profit organisations, by conducting of its redundant electronic equipment in affected area, as well as raising cash to much-needed research on an economic an environmentally friendly manner.
and, in some cases, at cost basis.
In November 2005, the UK launched an Across TNS Middle East & Africa, We are increasingly committed to energy and waste policy to apply best which in 2005 celebrated its 25th contributing our knowledge and practice throughout the UK by anniversary, money was raised to help expertise to the collection of consumer establishing benchmarks and targets.
the earthquake victims in Kashmir.
opinions and information on social TNS does not yet centrally monitor A 2006 desk calendar was produced and issues of global concern.
One of the environmental practices across the circulated to clients and colleagues, most significant initiatives of this group but is aware that good depicting children from the region who nature, in which TNS participates, is the environmental practices are encouraged had been affected by earthquakes and twice yearly Voice of the People survey, in many countries.
For example, in the other disasters, both natural and a study covering more than 60 US, rigorous policies and practices are man-made.
It provides insights on global in place for recycling paper, aluminium, views and opinions for international From a global perspective, TNS is plastics, fluorescent light tubes, printer organisations including the World working to support UNICEF.
It is toner cartridges and outdated electronic Economic Forum, the World Bank, appropriate for an international group equipment.
Transparency International and the of TNS scale to work with a global International Committee of the Red Best practice in environmental charity, whose focus on children is one Cross.
This is managed through our management is to be shared around the with which we can all identify.
group and further steps will be taken to relationship began in January 2005 strengthen the TNS environmental when, in response to the tsunami The environment policy.
disaster, TNS made an initial donation TNS formalised its environmental of $250,000.
$200,000 was sent policy in December 2004 and it is the sixth sense of business 29 aspirational Core principle People development Listening to our employees and taking action Improved training Tony Cowling Academy of Excellence More effective talent management and career development Spotlight on internal communications the sixth sense of business 31
