Corporate Social Responsibility A number of CSR issues are of material signicance to Taylor Woodrows business and our approach is to manage these issues in a proactive and balanced way.
This section of the Annual Report is an In the UK we improve safety through sustainable community schemes in abridged version of the companys full Telford and Swindon.
During the year promoting a positive safety culture, 2005 CSR Report, which can be viewed incentivisation, supporting the we completed the Green Building in on the Companys website.
Manchester which incorporates development of skills and knowledge, providing a framework for the renewable energy technologies and Objectives and Targets achieved an Excellent rating from the management of safety, and monitoring At the beginning of 2005 we set a performance.
We not only review EcoHomes benchmarking scheme.
number of high level business objectives The number of affordable homes that we accidents but we have an extensive for CSR in the areas of Sustainability, programme of active monitoring that built increased to 1,048 2004: 782.
Safety, Health People, Environment and measures how our working environments Community.
Further details are available We believe that construction of new, are being managed.
We manage in our full CSR Report.
high quality, homes is an important occupational health by identifying key factor in improving quality of life for our risk activities, undertaking health As a leading company, the way we customers.
Through planning assessments and, where appropriate, manage social, environmental and ethical agreements we also provide substantial implement health surveillance issues is coming under increasing investment for the benefit of local programmes.
Grouped together, these come communities, for example by improving under the heading of CSR.
A number of roads, construction of community In North America, Taylor Woodrow CSR issues are of material signicance to centres, playgrounds and nature areas, operates a comprehensive and Taylor Woodrows business and our and contributions to the Arts.
independent health and safety audit approach is to manage these issues in process.
Sites are scored against criteria a proactive and balanced way.
In North America, sustainability issues which are made continually more vary between states and are therefore demanding each year.
Government policy and regulation aimed at encouraging more sustainable Health and Safety development is a growing and important Our approach to the management of feature of the UK market.
During 2005 health and safety is recognised as being we saw increased utilisation of one of the best within the development browneld land in our housing schemes, sector.
We strive to make our project with 68 per cent of unit sales coming sites and our ofces safe working from this source 2004: 64 per cent.
In the UK we have been progressing 26 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2005 Above: Building community relations at Mortimer Hill, Berkshire This image: Licheld Corporate Social Responsibility continued Waste management continues to be a particular focus in the UK.
Waste volumes per housing unit have been reduced by 3.6% compared with 2004, maintaining a continuous improvement trend.
The UK, North America and Spanish plasterboard for recycling have been provide an excellent range of benets.
operations all achieved the management implemented.
In 2005 we segregated We facilitate training through an employee performance standards that had been and returned for recycling 4,677 tonnes review process for each team member set at the beginning of the year.
In the of plasterboard waste, representing and we provide a range of development UK, accident rates also were lower in approximately 80 per cent of options that help our people to improve 2005 compared with 2004 and reect plasterboard waste generated.
We have a long-term trend of reducing accident were no prosecutions for environmental dened a core training matrix on health, incident rates.
In North America the offences in 2005 2004:1. safety and environmental issues which business exceeded its target audit score provides clarity on our minimum of 90 per cent demonstrating a year on Customers competency requirements for different year improvement in performance.
We remain committed to giving all of our roles.
Taylor Woodrow is a long-standing customers a great purchasing experience.
supporter of apprentice, student and There were no fatalities on our A key management objective is to graduate development programmes.
development sites in 2005 2004:1 and achieve continual improvement in no prosecutions for health and safety customer satisfaction ratings, which Ethics issues 2004:1. forms part of the bonus reward of The Groups whistleblowing policy, directors and senior managers.
During is supported in the UK by an  issues the year, the following achievements facilitated procedure Safecall Waste management continues to be a were recorded: through which team members may, particular focus in the UK.
Waste volumes in confidence, raise concerns about per housing unit have been reduced by UK housing 75% 2004: 70% possible improprieties in financial 3.6 per cent compared with 2004, Construction 91% 2004: 88% reporting, ethical conduct or other maintaining a continuous improvement North American housing 86% 2004: 86% matters.
Safecall is widely publicised trend.
The cost of waste disposal Spanish Housing 73% 2004: 76% within the company.
Calls received are continued to decline, falling from 513 investigated by the head of Risk per unit in 2003 to 351 per unit in 2005 People issues Management and Audit and action as changes in waste management Job satisfaction for our team members taken where appropriate.
The Audit practice such as segregation of waste is a priority.
As a leading employer we Committee receives, reports on all 28 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2005 Extreme Makeover in Phoenix, Arizona occasions when such concerns are Phoenix, Arizona had a 5,300 square for implementation and monitoring, are raised.
foot home constructed for them in six reected in positive outcomes following days with the help of over 1,600 team external scrutiny.
Taylor Woodrow is a Stakeholders Community members and suppliers.
In Los Angeles, member of FTSE4good and the Dow We have a range of stakeholders that we assisted the local communitys Jones Sustainability and Stoxx Indices.
have an interest in our CSR activities.
efforts to remodel the 1,300 sq ft Lewis In January 2005 we were listed in the These include shareholders, customers, family home.
In addition, in North Corporate Knights Global 100 most team members, neighbours, local America the Taylor Woodrow team sustainable corporations.
In the second authorities, government and nondonated over 267, 000 to other sustainability survey of UK housebuilders government organisations.
Consultation worthwhile charities during the year.
carried out by Insight Investment and is important for new developments.
the Worldwide Fund for Nature, Taylor We are involved in some leading edge In the UK we have been actively Woodrow was placed fourth of 12 with consultation programmes, for example supporting the childrens charity a score of 74 per cent.
the Swindon Southern Development Barnardos through our building futures Area, which has been cited as an partnership which helps fund skills and Our 2004 CSR report was recognised as exemplar by Government.
training programmes for disadvantaged the best in sector by Building magazine young people.
at the annual Sustainability Awards 2005.
We have continued to expand our participation in the Considerate We continue to match team members Constructors Scheme and were awarded charitable fund-raising efforts in the one Gold, one Silver and one Bronze community through the Support the Award in 2005.
As part of the ABC nationwide television Recognition Extreme Makeover show Taylor External benchmarking exercises are a Woodrow donated time, resource and useful means by which we can review money to create new homes for two our progress in CSR.
The Okvath family in suite of policies, coupled with processes Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2005 29
