Corporate social responsibility Corporate social responsibility Our certification of major sites to the International Standard for The Board remains committed to achieving high standards of corporate Environmental Management Systems ISO 14001 has been maintained.
social responsibility, commensurate with the Groups other objectives.
Our UK Transportation business gained our most recent accreditation We regard social, ethical and environmental issues as important to our under ISO 14001 in July 2004.
During the audit process the auditors business and recognise that it is essential we manage the risks and were complimentary with regard to the businesss approach and opportunities associated with them effectively and we review delivery of the standards requirements.
our policies and procedures around them actively and on an The Group strives to improve occupational health and safety ongoing basis.
Stress management remains high on our agenda.
Details of our involvement in the community can be found in our report In the UK accident incidence rates remain below the sector average.
on Marconi people on pages 18 and 19.
Specialist working groups are actively addressing specific EHS issues, which impact our day-to-day activities including the Waste Electrical Business integrity and Electronic Equipment directive, the Restrictions on Hazardous Financial ethics remains a key focus.
Our Chief Executive Officer stated, Substances directive, working at heights, corporate security and travel in a Group-wide e-mail communication in May 2004, the importance of risks.
Additional working groups have been formed during the year compliance with our Financial Code of Ethics, and our Speak up to review and revise our stress policy and address the requirements of policy, both of which are published on our website.
the Eco-design for Energy Using Products directive.
Environment, health and safety EHS During 2005-06, security and travel health programmes will be Elisa Nardi, Group Human Resources Director, who reports to the relaunched to raise awareness and safeguard employees travelling Chief Executive Officer and is a member of the Executive Committee, or working overseas on Company business.
is responsible for the management of EHS in Marconi.
Energy consumption The EHS framework model, implemented in 2003-04 across Marconi, Our real estate and facilities function continuously monitors site established regional EHS review bodies and action groups in the utilisation and energy consumption as part of its routine activity.
Americas, Asia Pacific, Germany, Italy, the Middle East and the UK Investment was made in 2004-05 to upgrade metering at major UK to ensure consistency of approach.
This year, our focus has been sites to improve our monitoring and targeting capability.
targeted at validating the level of compliance across the regions.
An online compliance tool, developed by the Central EHS team, has UK energy consumption figures 2004-05 been rolled out across the regions to establish compliance with Group Electricity 29,715,369 kWh policy.
Under the programme, each region is required to set objectives Gas 9,167,365 kWh to address any gaps identified in their local EHS organisation and 3 Water 23,042 m arrangements.
This enables each region to adopt a continuous improvement approach.
Transportation The Central EHS Review Body is now well established.
It continues Our motor fleet policy encourages company car drivers to select to meet quarterly to review performance and escalate issues to the models with low CO2 emissions.
This, coupled with a steady Executive Committee and Board as appropriate.
This approach reduction in the number of fleet vehicles and the increased use of enables senior management to monitor the effectiveness of the videoconferencing and teleconferencing, has seen a continued Groups EHS programme.
downward trend in fuel consumption and CO2 emissions.
New European Union environmental directives Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment directive This directive comes into effect in the UK in June 2006 and has been progressively introduced in other Member States since August 2005.
It provides that producers of electronic equipment must ensure that such equipment is recycled at the end of its life.
Marconi has, for some time, been achieving the recycling targets required under the directive in respect of waste equipment for which it is responsible.
We are in the process of establishing Europe-wide arrangements with recycling companies capable of satisfying the new requirements.
At this early stage in the life of the directive, very little equipment has so far reached its end of life and been returned to Marconi.
We are confident, however, that we will be able to meet the requirements of the directive as they come into effect.
42 Restrictions on Hazardous Substances directive This directive comes into effect in July 2006 and prohibits the use of six substances, including lead.
Lead is a key constituent of the solder we use today and the move to lead-free solders is a significant technical challenge.
Although such lead-free solders have been available for several years, the challenge comes from the fact that lead-free solder melts at a significantly higher temperature, which in turn can have an impact on the components near to it in an electronic assembly.
For the mission critical and high reliability applications in which our equipment is used, it is essential that we and our customers have confidence in the new technology.
Our engineers are currently carrying out extensive trials and tests of lead-free assemblies to ensure that we can meet this challenge without compromising the integrity of our equipment.
Eco-design for Energy Using Products directive This directive is also expected to take effect in July 2006.
Although it does not create immediate obligations for manufacturers, the directive allows the European Commission to do so through the introduction of implementing measures which are intended to reduce the environmental impact of new products through every phase of their life.
For example, not only is the actual energy use of a product to be optimised, energy use during its design and manufacture must also be considered.
The in-use energy needs of our products have always been an important design consideration, as they can be significant factors for the owners and operators of our equipment.
We have established a team to understand and address the anticipated requirements resulting from the directive.
EHS objectives We achieved our key EHS objectives for 2004-05.
Successes included: establishing a business project team and formulating an action plan to address the requirements of the European Eco-design for Energy Using Products directive: revision of Group-wide practices and procedures for working at heights: introduction of programmes and processes aimed at improving the quality and consistency of internal and external EHS communications: and improvements to the quality, quantity and accessibility of EHS training, by the introduction of online induction programs and an increase in the availability of multilingual training courses.
Further supporting information can be found on our website at www.
com Summary Marconi is committed to high standards of social, ethical and environmental conduct and to communicating this to employees, customers and suppliers.
The Group will continue to develop and implement this work throughout 2005-06.
