Marconi people Marconi and its people are totally committed to meeting customer expectations, while operating in a challenging market that demands both cost-efficiency and reliability.
The high expectations of our customers are The cascade of information throughout Marconi In August 2004 we disposed of our Outside met by the high standards of our employees.
is enabled by regular Mikes View messages Plant and Power business to focus on our Our future business plans require us to from our CEO to all employees providing remaining core businesses.
This was a continually shape our workforce to provide corporate information, monthly team briefings challenging time for those within the business maximum flexibility while producing the and functional updates from our IT, Human being divested and for those managing the high standards of output that continue Resources and Facilities organisations.
process but remaining with Marconi.
to drive our reputation and exceed our We also provide online methods of In May 2005 we announced a new customers expectations.
communication on careers, development, organisation structure that will ensure the Marconis Human Resources organisation reward, work-life balance and health and safety Group remains focused on delivering its is led by Elisa Nardi, Group Human matters via our MyHR, MyLearning and customer commitments, whilst improving Resources Director, who reports to our MyTravel intranet portals.
This new structure Chief Executive Officer and is a member will see our product units combined with our of the Executive Committee.
Evolving our organisation regional business organisation, in order to Throughout 2004-05 work continued to shape create geographic centres of excellence.
Communicating the vision the organisation into regional hubs, focusing This latest change will include the reshaping During the last year we have emphasised on creating a well-structured, delayered of our UK workforce and will see a reduction communication with all our employees.
organisation to meet customer requirements.
This has been particularly important for To achieve this, we focused on the creation At all times we have undertaken these shaping our organisation to achieve our of regional business operations, strategic challenges focusing on clear, timely vision through divestiture, right-shaping of business disposals and increased efficiency communication and managing people our regional businesses, and changing our in the back office functions, while investing in a sensitive and appropriate way.
product mix, as technology and market in our customer facing organisations.
Geographically, by the end of 2004-05 we Central to delivery of the regional model was a employed people in 35 countries with 86% We have deployed a number of successful focus on improving our business operations of the employees based in the four largest communication tools to ensure that our strategy: particularly our planning processes regions, Central Europe, Northern Europe, employees are well informed and have an to ensure supply management was optimised.
Southern Europe and North America.
opportunity to voice their views.
These tools This meant a degree of refocus for employees are focused to: towards working together in regional teams Developing our people and identifying interfaces between regions and encourage everyone to exceed expectations The focus on the education, development and with the corporate functions.
Through this by empowerment, support and feedback: training of our employees to help improve organisational change, employees were and performance, exceed customer demands able to communicate with management at and maintain employee morale is core to provide quick and easy access to all levels a number of levels and, through different supporting our business strategy and driving of management within the organisation forums, to address specific issues and to operational efficiency and effectiveness.
through face-to-face, written and interactive seek clarification.
Careful consultation was Although we remain cost conscious we communication media.
undertaken with employee representatives and have leveraged both our technical, e-learning increased opportunities for employees to meet and face-to-face learning provisions, while with senior management enabled fast and driving our performance management cycle.
effective change in the business model.
Our blended learning approach continues to be successful in delivering development requirements across Marconi.
18 This year particular emphasis has been placed Listening to our employees Employment policies on our e-learning capabilities and mapping Your Opinion We have continued to review both our those provisions to the Marconi leadership, The Your Opinion survey was launched in corporate and regional employment policies to management and functional competency sets.
May 2004 and surveyed Marconis entire reflect updated legislation and our Human This has proved very successful in delivering workforce to gain the views of all employees Resource strategy.
Particular focus has been key training requirements quickly and at low on the Group, their jobs and many other placed on corporate ethics and human rights.
cost, while supporting business requirements.
aspects of their working environment.
This work will continue during the next year.
The results were used to drive action Our Personal and Organisational Development planning with managers and their teams in Marconi people providing support to programme has been rolled out over the last order to address the key issues and concerns their communities 12 months focusing on the development that arose.
Marconi supported a number of charities and needs of our senior management and high education programmes during 2004-05, potential employees.
The survey generated demographic data by including: business, location and function that was used Our Young People programmes have to carry out focused action planning in areas charity support for the NSPCC Full Stop developed over the last year and there are that received a low rating.
All managers who campaign, Youth at Risk and United Way: now schemes in both Germany and the UK.
had a response group of more than eight Both have been successful in growing talent Business in the Community: and employees received a report that related within our business and improving our links specifically to their team.
High-level reports charity fundraisers, including the Cystic with local communities.
The Marconi graduate were also produced for Marconi overall and for Fibrosis Foundations Great Strides, programme was run in the UK, this year, key areas of the business or specific regions.
Share the Warmth Coat Drive and the for the finance and engineering functions for Tsunami appeal.
the first time in three years.
This has been The action plans were held on a central successful in meeting the business planning tool accessible to all managers.
Marconi provides assistance, time and requirement of bringing fresh talent into key The tool was actively reviewed to ensure resources to employees who work on functions and has raised our profile with the actions were being updated and closed charitable or community activities.
This has universities, particularly those with engineering where appropriate.
been enhanced by the introduction of more orientated courses.
flexible working practices and increased An interim Your Opinion survey was communication at regional and site levels.
Our principal UK subsidiary also successfully conducted in February 2005.
This survey was gained re-accreditation of Investors in People.
sent to a sample population of around 4,000 Our UK organisation is continuing to work on employees and was intended to act as a the standard to ensure compliance and to temperature check on the progress made build on the improvements made in the last since the earlier survey.
12 months on processes and tools available In October this year, we plan to conduct to managers and employees.
another all-employee survey, which will again provide reports for all levels.
The results will enable us to generate further action plans which should help improve motivation and productivity.
In addition to the Your Opinion survey, our CEO and members of the Executive Committee regularly visit Marconi sites around the world, holding employee communication sessions.
The purpose of these sessions is to provide face-to-face updates on our situation as a business and give employees the opportunity to ask questions directly of the senior management team.
