20 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Corporate Social Responsibility 2005 has seen continuing improvement in the and in compliance with the laws of the countries in social, environmental and ethical standards which they operate.
The Code covers a number of prevalent throughout the Groups operations.
important areas including competing fairly and complying with anti-trust and competition laws, Tomkins believes in the importance of social employee health and safety laws and environmental responsibility in its business practices.
It also reafrms Tomkins commitment to fair with a growing regulatory environment that requires treatment of all employees, ethical and lawful greater emphasis on social responsibility in the conduct behaviour, and sets out some general principles, which of the affairs of a public company.
To this end, the are important in dealing with suppliers and customers Company and its businesses seek to achieve the and with governments and government agencies.
highest standards consistent with its obligations to The Code emphasises the importance of employees its shareholders, employees and customers to provide protecting the Companys intellectual property.
Any products and services that customers are prepared to waivers to the Code require the approval of the Board buy, whilst continuing employment opportunities and will be published on the Companys website.
and providing an acceptable return to shareholders.
During the year, no waivers have been either sought Tomkins continues to take a number of initiatives or granted.
that advance these principles including lean Tomkins Human Rights Policy the Policy has manufacturing which has seen, amongst other things, established a number of principles that are applied cost-savings through a reduction in the use of raw across the Group to all companies, no matter where materials, levels of waste and use of energy, together they operate.
These principles cover anti-discrimination, with a substantial improvement in health, safety and employee rights in the areas of health and safety, environmental performance in many of the Groups wages and working hours, prohibition of child labour facilities.
In the design, engineering and production and social responsibility covering environmental of the Groups products, consideration is given to impact and community relations.
Employees are the environmental impact of the manufacture of such expected to maintain the highest standards in products and use to which they are put.
Emphasis is conformity with the principles.
placed on reducing waste and the use of energy in A copy of the full text of the Code and the Policy production processes.
The Board of Tomkins in several languages can be found in the corporate encourages such policies within its businesses.
governance area on Tomkins website or a printed copy This report sets out initially the Tomkins Code of is available by application to the Company Secretary at Conduct and Ethics and Human Rights Policy.
It then the Companys registered ofce.
From time-to-time, the provides a summary in three parts of the work the Board reviews the Code and the Policy to ensure that Group has undertaken during the year in the area of they reect best practice.
During the year, a paragraph Corporate Social Responsibility CSR consistent with was added to the Code and to the Policy which allowed the principle of continuous improvement, and highlights those Tomkins businesses that have their own existing the main achievements.
The first part of the CSR Report code of conduct and ethics and human rights policy or deals with health, safety and the environment: the similar documents to retain them, provided such second part covers Socially Responsible Investment SRI documents incorporate the principles of the Tomkins and nally Community Involvement.
Code and the Policy and they have received the prior approval of the Chief Executive officer of Tomkins.
CODE OF CONDUCT AND ETHICS & HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY Senior management throughout the Group are Tomkins Code of Conduct and Ethics the Code required to confirm annually that they and their and Human Rights Policy form the basis on which businesses have complied with the principles set out uniform standards are applied across the Group in all in both the Code and the Policy and to report any countries where the Group operates.
For 2005, no breaches were reported by any out a series of ethical policies and principles of conduct of the operating businesses.
Adherence to the Code to be followed by all Tomkins companies and applies and the Policy forms part of the business risk assurance to all Directors, ofcers and employees, who are monitoring process, which has assisted in ensuring the expected to conduct Company business with integrity dissemination of the Code and Policy throughout the TOMKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 21 The Code of Conduct and Ethics Tomkins plc and its subsidiaries are describes long-standing principles of committed to conducting their conduct that Tomkins follows to businesses with care for the health ensure its business is conducted with and safety of all employees and with integrity and in compliance with the respect for the environment.
The HSE law in the countries in which it policies are available in several operates.
The Code of Conduct is languages on the Tomkins website.
available in several languages on the Tomkins website.
The Board does not believe that an independent operational site.
All business groups are encouraged external process of verication is required at this time, to set realistic HSE targets and objectives within their but will keep this under review.
annual business plans in order to pursue a strategy based on continuous performance improvement.
HEALTH, SAFETY AND THE HSE activities of individual businesses in the Group are ENVIRONMENT HSE monitored by the HSE team which carries out regular The priority and importance placed by the Board and performance audits.
The audit reports produced are management of Tomkins on HSE matters is driven by a given to local management who are responsible for belief and experience that Tomkins commercial success correcting any deficiencies that come to light.
A and high HSE performance are mutually reinforcing summary is provided to the HSE Committee.
It was because of the importance placed on quarterly business review with senior management, HSE matters that the Health, Safety and Environment an analysis of incidents of industrial accident and Committee was formed by the Board in January 2003. environmental exposure is considered and discussed.
In recognising its responsibilities to its employees The Tomkins Annual Bonus Incentive Plan for and the communities in which Tomkins operates, the management is focused on a sharing of a proportion Groups approach to HSE is one of continuous of Group after-tax profits after deduction of a charge improvement.
Key to the maintenance of the standards for the cost of capital.
An intrinsic feature of the the Group sets for itself is the work of the Health, Groups ability to generate sustained value is the Safety and Environment Committee of the Board and need to maintain high standards of HSE controls a supporting team of specialist professionals the in all operating businesses worldwide.
There is much HSE team operating throughout the Group.
They evidence that actions to improve standards of HSE are have been active in guiding operating businesses nancially beneficial to the Group.
Furthermore, high to achieve the highest internationally recognised standards of HSE are often paralleled by high standards standards including Occupational Health and Safety of product quality control and customer service.
For Assessment Series OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 these reasons, the Board does not believe it is or equivalent.
The OHSAS standard has been created necessary to identify separately the performance on to allow companies to develop systematic controls HSE matters as a specic criterion in determining relating to their health and safety risks and bonus payments.
to seek external accreditation of the HSE HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE management system.
The Committee plays a key role in the Groups HSE POLICY, OBJECTIVES AND COMPLIANCE activities and is comprised of two non-executive The intention of Tomkins HSE policy is to provide a Directors and the Chief Executive and normally meets safe and healthy workplace for all employees and to at least three times a year.
In 2005, there were minimise the impact of the Groups operations on the meetings and inspections at the Gates plant at Legnica, environment.
Tomkins is committed to the highest Poland: the Stackpole plants at Ancaster, Canada: and HSE standards consistent with regulatory requirements the Schrader plants at Belfast and Carrickfergus, and best management practices.
Meetings always take place at one businesses are required to operate their facilities of the Groups facilities and normally form part of a consistent with this commitment.
All employees have programme during which the Committee will, where a part to play in that commitment and they are possible, visit more than one site.
Site visits enable the encouraged and expected to do so.
Amongst the HSE Committee to gain an understanding at first hand of Committees responsibilities is the determination on HSE activities of business units and the issues facing behalf of the Board of the framework or broad policy them.
This process allows the Committee to maintain a and objectives in the areas of HSE and to propose any strong and continuing overview of the way the Groups amendments to existing policies and objectives for HSE policies and objectives are being implemented.
Site visits by top management also enable facility approval by the Board.
personnel to recognise the importance the Committee The Groups policies and objectives are translated and Tomkins Board places upon such matters.
by management into specic action plans for each TOMKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 22 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED The Committee has formal terms of reference which applicable laws and regulations.
Environmental due can be found in the Corporate Governance section diligence was performed at all acquired facilities during of the Companys website.
The Committee reports the year to ensure that no outstanding remedial regularly to the Board on its activities, which assists obligations were assumed unless properly dened and the Board in making informed decisions about the reserved and that any compliance issues were properly businesses of the Group, particularly relating to any identied prior to acquisition and addressed promptly.
proposed new investment in manufacturing facilities A review is made of a potential acquisitions and the related HSE implications.
The reports received environmental management system, relationships by the Committee also highlight current areas of HSE with regulatory ofcials and general level of respect focus and improvement and any event or potential and care shown for the environment.
Where necessary, breach of regulatory requirements.
Any potentially an indemnity is sought from the vendor to cover any serious breach is communicated immediately to the potential liabilities, but it is possible that a potential Chief Executive of Tomkins and the Committee.
This acquisition would be rejected if the HSE risks were enables the Committee to monitor fully the considered to be too high.
Tomkins may require a compliance record of each business unit and ensure vendor to undertake HSE improvements before a corrective action is taken in a timely manner.
Of the transaction is concluded.
environmental deficiencies found by regulators or During the year, the Tomkins Excellence Award discovered during audits in 2005, the substantial was instituted which provides incentives for each majority related to reporting deficiencies.
On health location to meet specified standards in 12 areas and safety, the majority of the Occupational Safety and including: safety indices incident and severity rates : Health Administration OSHA citations and informal waste indices landll & total wastes : environmental inquiries were resolved promptly.
management systems: regulatory compliance: HSE self-assessment: loss prevention report review and HSE ASSURANCE follow-up: citizenship: HSE professional development: The HSE Committee receives detailed quarterly reports third-party HSE audit response: and corporate HSE from the HSE team on the current status of all matters audit response.
which require attention, including a description of what action has been taken to address those matters HSE COMMUNICATION AND INFORMATION and the timetable to completion.
The adoption of In support of the Groups HSE activities, a secure international or comparable internal standards, tailored internet-accessible HSE database became fully to the individual requirements of a growing number operational in 2005.
A streamlined data collection, of operating businesses, increases the Committees storage and reporting system to track HSE confidence in the effectiveness and accuracy of the performance as well as the ongoing HSE audit process reporting systems and procedures.
Data is currently provided for Business risk assurance audits are conducted by approximately 185 of Tomkins operating locations.
Tomkins own professionals together with the site Verication of the completeness and quality of collected management teams, to ensure that processes and data will be accomplished through annual data reviews controls are in place to maintain compliance with completed by Tomkins facilities and through periodic Group policy and the applicable local and national internal and third party HSE assessments conducted by HSE legislation.
Data is derived from information Tomkins places a great deal of importance on HSE maintained for each location, including the number of matters in its acquisition processes.
The Tomkins HSE employees, a description of the operations, site team forms part of the due diligence team and where information including the size and geographic location appropriate, external environmental advisers are of the site, age and size of buildings on-site, and employed to review and assess any environmental risks information on environmental, safety and quality to which the Group could become exposed if an management systems employed by the location.
An HSE acquisition were to proceed.
In addition, health risk assessment has been completed for each location as and safety is also a key area for which a full review is well as HSE information relating to: permits, consents, undertaken including the level of compliance with all and approvals held by the operation: above ground and TOMKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 23 Tomkins has a secure internetGroup photo of our local HSE accessible HSE database that tracks professionals at Tomkins first Asian HSE performance for each plant in HSE conference in February 2005. every country.
underground tanks on-site: and data indicating the provided to employees, from basic plant-based presence and management of any asbestos or PCB programmes to the more advanced training for containing equipment or materials that may be on-site.
The data collected on a separate intranet-based system There were many notable health and safety now allows accurate reporting of incident and severity achievements throughout the Group during the rates across the Group see graph on page 25.
Following year, and some representative examples are the gathering of basic data, it will be possible to report summarised below: on a number of other areas including waste rates, Four Stant plants have achieved substantial periods emissions and other HSE data which will allow more without a lost-time accident: Connersville 381 days, detailed reports in future.
Data is collected relating to Tijuana 750 days, Pontypool over 1200 days and emissions from the facility and reduction efforts are Karvina 300 days.
Similar results have been monitored against company-established targets for achieved by other companies including Ideal, Gates Gates: in the future, other companies may choose to use Iola, Gates Salt Lake City, Gates Siloam Springs, Lasco this tool for waste Key Performance Indicators KPIs.
Fittings, Lasco Bathware Lancaster and Dearborn Work has continued during the year to complete an Mid-West: integrated approach to the Groups HSE activities A substantial number of facilities have improved which has been supported by the development of the level of lighting with a change to more efficient Tomkins HSE intranet website which is available to lighting installations with longer bulb life which leads the Groups HSE community.
It offers a wide range to the creation of a safer working environment, a of information and assistance in many important reduction in the use of electricity and reduced costs.
These lighting units are  and can also be disposed of as general refuse, unlike the HSE HIGHLIGHTS metal halide xtures which contain mercury and Two major HSE conferences were held during the require a licensed waste hauler for disposal: year for Tomkins Group HSE professionals: one in Asia Singapore and the other in North America Five of Lasco Bathwares facilities installed in 2005 Columbus, Ohio.
In February 2005, the first Asian control technology which reduces employee exposure HSE Conference was held to educate and expand the to styrene by an estimated 85 per cent while controlling culture of compliance and best practice to facilities in air emissions by more than 90 per cent: and the region.
The Conference agenda included a Behaviour Based Safety training has been introduced presentation by each business represented of one throughout the Group during the year, and several or more of their best practices.
The benets for plants have begun implementation of the programme.
participants included team building, understanding A large number of awards were received by Tomkins the HSE organisational structure and practices, operating businesses from local, regional and national knowledge sharing, improvement in HSE organisations, reecting the attainment and performance, networking with colleagues and the maintenance of high standards in health and safety development of strong motivation.
In November throughout the Groups facilities.
2005, the North American HSE conference attracted There were a number of notable environmental more than 150 attendees, and an intensive three days achievements during the year where targets were of HSE training was provided, with an emphasis on either met or exceeded, and, by way of example, integrating HSE into lean practices and included the some are summarised below: introduction of the Tomkins HSE Excellence Model.
Recycling and waste reduction efforts have been Tomkins commitment to HSE was evidenced by the made in a large number of Tomkins facilities with presence of Tomkins Chief Executive, Jim Nicol, who notable results achieved under their HSE Excellence provided the opening address, explaining that Model by Gates facilities in North America, Europe excellence in HSE is a requirement and a priority for and Asia.
Recycling activities are extensive and all Tomkins businesses.
The emphasis on training continues to remain include metal scrap, vinyl, glass, cardboard, water, an HSE priority with a whole range of programmes plastic wrap and inkjet cartridges: TOMKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 24 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED At Gates, Aachen, Germany, zero waste to landll projects run by operating businesses that continue has been achieved since 1998 although such to yield year-on-year gains in environmental and financial performance, reductions in hazardous waste German regulatory requirements came into effect being a good example.
The key elements to There are numerous examples throughout the achieving zero landll waste include a thorough Group where changes to processes can yield knowledge and careful analysis of all waste streams, environmental, HSE safety and financial benets strict policies covering incoming material, packaging in one operation.
and resulting waste and whole life product and process design: MANUFACTURE OF ENVIRONMENTALLY Lasco Bathware is upgrading its transport eet to ADVANTAGEOUS PRODUCTS reduce nitrous oxide emissions by requiring improved Many of Tomkins businesses have adopted a Green pollution control for diesel engines: Purchasing routine by which sustainable materials A great deal of success has been achieved in are given preference in the purchasing process.
reducing the use of electricity throughout Tomkins, Additionally, Tomkins supplies a number of products not just in lighting, but also production processes that have a positive impact on the environment.
By and a range of other areas.
Gates Unitta Asia way of illustration, two examples are drawn from achieved a substantial reduction in the use of Dearborn Mid-West Conveyor Company DMW electricity in the Belt Testing facility in their Technical and Ruskin.
Department by developing the regenerative The US Environmental Protection Agencys Clean Air dynamometer brake by re-engineering the existing Interstate Rule furthers the objectives of the US Clean dynamometer brake.
This generates electricity while Air Act, which requires coal burning power plants to giving resistance torque to the belt.
The electricity reduce sulphur dioxide emissions by 70 per cent and generated is fed back into the system.
Accordingly, nitrogen oxides by 60 per cent by 2015, compared to the test rig now consumes only half as much 2003 levels, across a region including 28 eastern electricity as the traditional test rig: states.
DMW is furnishing bulk material handling systems to some of the leading United States energy By siting two satellite factories close to their major companies in this unprecedented effort to improve air customers, Ruskin has reduced freight costs and quality.
Flue-Gas Desulphurisation requires lime or resultant vehicle emissions and packaging materials: limestone in the chemical process to remove sulphur Out of adversity sometimes comes opportunity and dioxide from ue gases.
A by-product of the process Stackpole discovered that Hurricane Katrina had is gypsum or sludge.
All of these materials are reduced substantially the supply of hydrogen transported, stored, and retrieved by DMW equipment.
available, since it was sourced in the areas badly In some cases the gypsum will be conveyed or loaded affected.
A thorough re-assessment of its production out for shipment to nearby plants as the primary processes was undertaken, which has led to a ingredient for the manufacture of plasterboard.
DMW reduction in its hydrogen usage of 30 per cent: is assisting other plants who will achieve emission The Philips facility at Stayton, Oregon has reduced reductions by converting to lower sulphur coal, or waste by more than 40 per cent, primarily due blending a fuel mix that results in lower emissions.
to glass recycling efforts: Different physical and combustion properties require The Ideal plant in St Augustine, Florida, has that the existing material handling systems be modied eliminated all industrial wastewater discharged or expanded.
and reduced its hazardous waste by 51 per cent Ruskin, in common with its sister companies in the in 2005: and Air Handling group, has signed up to the objectives of Aquatics and Lasco Bathware have engaged in the US Green Building Council whose mission is to research and development effort to reduce air promote buildings that are environmentally responsible, emissions by as much as 22 per cent through profitable and healthy places to live and work.
Just one the use of modied resins in their products.
of a number of products developed to support this initiative is the Electronic Air Measurement Station.
There are a number of continuous improvement TOMKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 25 Air Systems Components plant Lean manufacturing has led to a safer in the United States before lean working environment, increased manufacturing initiatives.
This innovative product enables the building operator businesses for which Tomkins HSE policies have not to keep leakage of conditioned air to below three cubic yet been fully implemented.
Without those businesses, feet per minute per square foot while maintaining a the improvement year-on-year would have continued.
healthy supply of fresh outside air to the building The target severity rate average number of lost occupants.
Ruskins success in this eld was recognised workdays per incident has been set at zero and for when its President was a featured speaker at the 2005 the five-year period a reduction of over 50 per cent was Engineering Green Buildings Conference.
The results were affected by the performance of businesses acquired in recent years, but work HSE PERFORMANCE continues to improve performance year-on-year.
At the end of 2005, 115 of the Groups 152 facilities Waste generation has been measured in Gates had adopted an Environmental Management System facilities as part of the HSE Excellence Model, although EMS, of which 73 facilities were ISO 14001 a number of other companies have also tracked waste.
A further 24 facilities are Expansion of the new intranet database now provides currently ISO compliant but not registered.
A further an opportunity for central measurement of results and 18 facilities have alternative EMSs in place these data worldwide.
Actual amounts of total waste and facilities have implemented fully functional EMSs that waste to landll may be tracked.
Waste is dened as were not based on the ISO 14001 outline but achieve any goods being shipped off-site for either disposal similar results and are not intended for ISO or for other beneficial use besides the intended original certication : the remainder of the facilities except end-product function, that is, any non-saleable good those facilities opening in 2005 or scheduled to close or product.
In the Gates facilities, waste volume is then have been tasked to achieve ISO compliance with fully compared to net production volume tonnes of good functional EMSs in 2006. product manufactured and shipped to warehouse or All of the businesses have established a range of to customers or, for distribution centres, tonnes of HSE KPIs within their current business plans to monitor product shipped.
Due to the significant amount of and assess HSE performance on an ongoing basis.
The waste inherent in some production processes e. g. HSE Committee monitors the KPIs on a regular basis to grinding dust of belts, or swarf in hose coupling ensure that HSE focus and continuous improvement in production, for the purpose of evaluation, waste performance are being delivered by all business groups.
indices are calculated as a percentage of net Examples of the KPIs used include incident accident and production.
This enables performance to be severity rates, raw material wastage and energy benchmarked.
The Total Waste Index is rated as consumption per applicable production unit, and tonnes of total waste per tonne of net production.
compliance with Tomkins HSE policy and local The Landll Waste Index is rated as tonnes of waste environmental legislation.
to landll per tonne of net production.
Indices Trends on accidents within Tomkins manufacturing calculated from the aggregated data for 2003 and plants and distribution facilities are measured using OSHA standards, since the majority of the Groups TOMKINS SAFETY PERFORMANCE operations are based in North America.
The Tomkins database provides Group-wide performance data on 40 8 the incident rate and the resulting lost days, and the severity rate, which are tracked in all individual 6 30 facilities.
A target incident rate of 2.0 meaning 2 4 20 reportable incidents per 100 workers over a period of one year has been set for certain of Tomkins 2 10 operations and for the remainder, reductions in the incident rate and severity rate from year to year, have 0 0 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 been set.
The graph opposite shows the trend over 6.43 6.65 5.07 3.59 3.66 the past five years a reduction of over 40 per cent 38.45 39.06 27.58 19.09 18.74 in the incident rate.
The very slight increase in the Incident rate Severity rate incident rate in 2005 is entirely due to newly acquired TOMKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Incident rate Severity rate 26 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED 2004 for Gates show a total waste reduction of where there is any potential impact.
The Business Risk 11.14 per cent with a reduction in landll waste of Assurance group has included in its overall business risk 9.33 per cent.
Since land-lling is considered by many assurance process, specic requirements to examine and countries to be the worst method of waste disposal, assess SEE matters in its list of responsibilities.
The results the focus has been on reducing this, while at the same of the work of the Business Risk Assurance group are time not losing sight of total waste reduction.
The reported quarterly to the Audit Committee, which, target is to show continuous year-on-year reduction in turn, reports to the Board.
Once the Group has waste as a KPI measurement worldwide, specic percentage 3.
COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT improvement targets may be set.
Other companies CHARITABLE GIVING may choose to use a different measurement than The Boards policy on charitable giving was reviewed waste compared to net production volume: the during the year and whilst no changes were made to intention is to incorporate this new performance the underlying policies, donations of an exceptional indicator into the continuing effort for manufacturing nature were included in the policy framework.
Tomkins excellence by having the facility select a customised has well-established guidelines that determine the KPI measurement most appropriate to its operations.
nature of organisations to which support is given.
Energy consumption data has also been aggregated Tomkins recognises its responsibilities to the wider for many Tomkins afliates, however no detailed community in which its businesses operate to provide analysis is yet available.
balanced and targeted charitable assistance.
The charities given assistance cover a wide range of 2.
SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT activities including health and welfare, education, civic The Board regularly takes account of the signicance and community projects, culture and the arts.
Tomkins of social, environmental and ethical SEE matters prefers to spread its charitable giving over many and how these impact the Groups businesses and smaller local charities that usually do not have the value.
The Board ensures that appropriate and effective organisation, structure or resources to compete with systems are in place to manage significant risks.
This the marketing skills of the larger, high-prole charitable manifests itself in a number of ways.
Each year donations are made to hundreds of business reviews conducted by senior management, charities.
Tomkins makes further donations through the significant risks facing each business are considered advertising, sponsorship, products for prizes and and strategies to mitigate these risks are discussed and volunteers or other in-kind support.
Periodically, the Board receives a summary of In the UK, applications are normally made to the Group Risk Prole that sets out the most important Tomkins corporate ofce in London.
Requests for risks facing the Group and its businesses, which may donations are made from a variety of charities and have an impact on the short, medium and long-term Tomkins tries to respond positively to as many requests value of the Group.
These risks cover a whole range of as possible, provided they come from small local issues including pricing pressures, growth, investment, charities and are registered with the Charity timing of acquisitions and disposals, currency exposures, Commission.
The Company and its employees products, strategies for developing countries and any continued with their support during the year for failure adequately to identify and manage significant The Aplastic Anaemia Trust through donations and HSE issues.
Each of the risks is assessed for its impact participation in a London to Paris Triathlon.
The Trust on profit and cash ow, the likelihood of its occurrence, in turn supports a specialist unit at St Georges and the scope for mitigation or reduction of the risk.
The Hospital, near to Tomkins corporate headquarters risks are kept under review until they are either wholly mitigated or no longer represent a significant risk to the in south west London.
Aplastic Anaemia is a rare but Company and its short, medium and long-term value.
devastating disease that causes the bone marrow Other important areas where SEE issues are taken to cease producing red blood cells.
into account include major capital expenditure proposals In the US most requests for support are made locally considered by the Board, where operating businesses are and donations can be made in a number of ways.
The required to take account of, and report on, SEE matters Tomkins Foundation makes matching gifts, foundation TOMKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 27 Ken Minton, Non-Executive Director, Gates Korea contributed to a and Stephen McClelland, Managing charity programme for The House Director of Schrader Electronics Ltd. of Hee-Lak orphanage.
at an HSE meeting at Schrader Electronics, Ireland.
gifts and contributions to United Way, an external covering a wide range of activities, giving their time charitable organisation that distributes funds to charities.
and expertise free to the local community something Tomkins US subsidiary companies also make donations Tomkins encourages and supports.
In the UK, the to United Way.
In addition to their charitable giving Companys employees have an annual vote to select activities, the businesses also run a range of initiatives for a community project and in 2005 the choice was the benefit of local communities.
These include allowing property maintenance at a local school.
There is employees time off to participate in community activities widespread Company and employee support in many and other charitable support.
Examples of the many countries for giving blood and in the US this was done organisations to which help was provided during the in co-operation with local Red Cross organisations.
year include the American Heart Association, the Many of the Groups facilities hold Open Days American Cancer Society and March of Dimes where members of an employees family and the local an organisation that helps prevent birth defects and community are invited to visit the facility and gain a infant mortality.
Support was given to Drug Awareness greater understanding of what the plant produces Resistance Education DARE, a programme which and how it is produced.
aims to keep children off drugs, and Relay for Life Walk EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELFARE for cancer.
Some US businesses use their industrial and Many of Tomkins businesses operate a range of commercial expertise to support charities, and Habitat voluntary preventative healthcare programmes with for Humanity receives support from a number of the purpose of maintaining and supporting employee Tomkins companies.
In response to Hurricane Katrina health and welfare.
The programmes are wide-ranging in August 2005, which had such a devastating effect and include health screening, weight loss, free on the southern United States and in particular New inuenza immunisation, breast screening and other Orleans, the Company made a donation of over forms of preventive healthcare.
One company which US$290,000 including matched donations made by has facilities some distance from primary medical care employees of US$40,000.
The Groups contribution and consequently long emergency response times, has was donated to the American Red Cross who were purchased debrillators for those facilities.
closely associated with the relief efforts.
At Schrader Electronics, Northern Ireland, focus No donations were made to any organisation in is put on the total lifestyle of employees through which any of the independent non-executive Directors comprehensive health and lifestyle assessments serves in an executive capacity.
During the year, the covering the measurement of cholesterol HDL Board approved a donation of 100,000 to Seeability and LDL, glucose, height, weight, body fat, blood formerly known as the Royal School for the Blind, pressure, carbon monoxide, suppleness and strength.
a charity whose purpose is to enable individuals who The assessments also cover exercise, smoking, diet, are blind or partially sighted with additional disabilities alcohol, stress levels and other aspects of everyday to achieve their full potential, to realise opportunities, life.
Lifestyle training was provided to shift workers make choices and enhance their quality of life.
and was designed to address shift workers issues in Seeability launched its eye 2 eye campaign during the areas of shift scheduling, sleep hygiene, circadian the year which aims to raise 2 million to fund ten physiology, substance abuse, nutrition, stress community development ofcers nationally to provide management, family counselling and organisational support to individuals with sight loss and a learning management.
It also provided practical solutions disability.
David Newlands is non-executive Chairman of the Trustees of Seeability and took no part in the for easing day-to-day difficulties associated with Boards decision to make the one-off donation.
charitable donations during the year are shown in the POLITICAL DONATIONS Directors Report.
It is Tomkins practice not to use shareholders funds COMMUNITY ASSISTANCE for the purpose of making political donations either In the US and many other countries in which Tomkins in the form of cash donations or other in-kind benets operates, many employees serve their local community and consequently we have not sought shareholder through work on boards, committees and other bodies approval to make such donations.
