CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CSR Many responsibilities - Making a positive contribution to the one response communities where we do business and to the environment as a whole.
Introduction Topps has established a social and environmental responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility is not new to Topps Tiles.
We know that working group to further our consideration of corporate responsibility a reputation for acting responsibly helps build our business through issues generally, but with a specific focus on environmental customer recommendation.
The members of the working group are the Group Finance Director, the Head of Human Resources, the Buying Director This is why we pride ourselves on our commitment to product quality, and the Internal Audit Manager.
We are supported in these initial customer service excellence, good environmental management and to stages of establishing our environmental management systems by the making a positive contribution to the communities where we do use of a specialist environmental consultancy.
Together, the members of the working group are accountable for In 2004, we set up a social and environmental responsibility working developing and improving our environmental management practice.
group chaired by a Board director.
The purpose of this group was to Each member of the working group is responsible for implementing review how we were doing and to look for opportunities for those elements of the environmental policy relevant to their functions.
For example, we have set up a Topps Tiles believe that environmental responsibility should be an new way of including corporate social responsibility as part of our risk integral part of how we manage our business.
This is why we have assessment.
established such a senior working group to oversee our progress in Our Website demonstrates progress we have made on Corporate Social this area.
Responsibility an extension of the way we have done and will continue to do our business.
In it we describe our approach towards: Community relations Community relations Topps is one of the biggest supporters of youth football in the UK, providing new kits and equipment to junior teams local to our stores.
Environment We have a policy of building local brand awareness of Topps Tiles and Workplace Tile Clearing House through involvement with young people.
Supply Chain Probably our most well-known community project is our youth sports Our Approach sponsorship, providing new kits and equipment to juniors in each Andrew Liggett, the Finance Director for Topps Tiles Plc is the Chairman town where we have an outlet.
This has made Topps one of the biggest and the Board director responsible for the Social and Environmental supporters of youth football in Britain and we now have over 225 policy.
teams playing regularly in our colours.
TOPPS TILES PLC 17 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Average number of employees The Team during the financial periods 2,000 1,500 1,513 1,327 1,176 1,000 1,070 941 500 0 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 Source : see page 13 20 schools have benefited from our computers for schools Strong culture of internal scheme promotion Case Study Len Denton right from Topps Tiles Southend has painted many valued murals at the local hospital and plans are underway in 2005 for a giant mosaic using 12,000 individual pieces of broken tiles.
TOPPS TILES PLC 18 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CSR continued We also take great pride in our fund raising achievements for our Workplace adopted charity Asthma UK.
This is our fifth year of support for the Topps businesses comply with current employment legislation and charity which aims to conquer this respiratory disorder which affects work with employees and local management of each branch to create over one million children in the UK.
Asthma UK was the natural choice a positive and equitable working environment.
of charity for Topps to adopt, as our products help to reduce the levels There is a strong culture of internal promotion and regular dialogue on of house dust mites which are one of the triggers of asthma attacks.
Our staff contributed greatly to the fundraising by holding sponsored events and in total with our Company donation of 10,000 we raised Topps is committed to promoting equal opportunities for all, and we over 75,000 for this worthy cause.
believe that we have the right policies in place to meet this objective.
As well as sport there is also education, where via our product The Group also operates an employee suggestion scheme which is catalogue schools can win valuable computer equipment.
Since the overseen by the Chairman, Barry Bester, which allows all employees to scheme started, over 20 schools have benefited nationwide.
give suggestions which can help improve the business whether it be operational, environmental or social.
Environment An in-house magazine is produced six times a year and sent to all Respect for the environment is an accepted part of modern day employees as a further way of keeping everybody informed of the business management.
At Topps, we recognise that our day-to-day activities impact on the environment and aim to minimise the harmful effects whenever we Health and safety can.
This year, we began a company-wide programme to improve our The Group has a well documented and clear policy that is environmental performance, to review our policies, to put in place implemented rigorously throughout the business.
We operate a management systems to monitor and measure our performance and Health and Safety Committee which meets on a regular basis and its to set targets for improvement.
members are representative of all areas of the business and is chaired by our Chief Executive.
Much has been achieved but there is more to do.
We have: assigned board responsibility for environmental management Supply Chain Topps Tiles purchases around 70m of goods each year.
The majority of established our approach to environmental management our purchases are ceramic tiles and we also purchase stone, wood and updated our environmental policy laminate and adhesives.
We source our products from around the identified our most important environmental impacts World.
put in place systems to collect data to measure our performance Labour Standards and Environmental Responsibility are issues of and set targets for improvement.
Topps Tiles has reviewed how it considers these issues with regard to its supplier relationships and has adopted: Market place A policy on Labour Standards and Human Rights The Group works closely with key suppliers to source and distribute products that contribute positively to environmental performance.
A standard clause on environmental protection which will be introduced into all new contracts and existing contacts on renewal.
The Group has developed an environmental policy on timber products and has adopted the principles and criteria of the Forest Stewardship Our buyers also have a regular programme to visit our suppliers, to Council as its benchmark.
Our full policy and established targets can be viewed on our website at www.
co. uk and can be found in the Investors section under Corporate Responsibility.
TOPPS TILES PLC 19 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005
