31 Chairmans statement Chief Executives statement Business review Corporate responsibility Board of Directors and Executive Committee Corporate governance Remuneration report Directors report Group independent auditors report Accounts and notes Unaudited other information Holding company accounts and notes Investor Relations Environmental management Corporate responsibility review Summary of progress during 2005 Chief Executives statement During 2005, Trinity Mirror further improved and consolidated Trinity Mirror is now able to demonstrate a much improved and its environmental management system arrangements.
Building more systematic approach to environmental management, as a on what has been achieved in recent years to review and result of the initiatives we have put in place over the last three characterise the Companys environmental impacts and set years.
During 2005 we adopted a new Environmental Policy that targets for improvement, the Executive Committee agreed during sets out our commitments in relation to the main areas where the 2005 to the establishment of: Company has significant potential to affect the environment and that provides a better framework for managing these issues.
A new Environmental Policy At Group level we have established clearer management and A clearer framework of management responsibilities reporting lines for environmental affairs.
At the sharp end of the New procedures and action plans for delivering against business we have made good progress in establishing formal Policy objectives and targets environmental management systems at our print sites, and I look forward to the Oldham print operation successfully achieving The new policy see pages 38-39 provides a better foundation for certification to the ISO 14001 standard during 2006. environmental management within Trinity Mirror.
The policy is now aligned with the important issues and defines the basic principles At the end of last year we set, for the first time, a number of governing the Companys approach.
I am pleased that we have met our targets in relation to sustainable paper sourcing and energy The Executive Committee have joint ownership of environmental consumption.
Although our new arrangements for waste issues within Trinity Mirrors Risk Management framework, with management have taken somewhat longer to put in place than the Secretary and Group Legal Director and Group Manufacturing we anticipated, the initiatives to increase waste recycling are Director as main points of contact.
A management framework starting to bear fruit and I am confident that we will be able to has now been clearly defined showing specific responsibilities confirm that we have met our recycling target during the first half allocated to Executive Committee members, Senior Managers of 2006. and supporting Managers respectively.
We believe that our environmental performance now compares Action plans have now been documented, setting out how the very favourably with others in the newspaper sector, but Company intends to achieve its environmental improvement recognise that we need to continue to work hard to meet the targets.
Progress and performance will be monitored using a new tougher environmental standards increasingly required of large audit and review procedure that covers compliance with legal public companies.
requirements, progress against targets and periodic review by senior management against the Companys Policy commitments.
I am particularly pleased that during the year the Company was awarded the ROSPA Occupational Health and Safety Gold Award Performance in key areas for its performance in the three years to December 2004.
This not only reflects our continued drive to reduce accidents but is a credit Trinity Mirror has met some, but not all, of the environmental to all our managers and staff.
Health and safety is everybodys targets set for 2005.
Performance is reported below in the areas responsibility and the improvements that we have seen could only where Trinity Mirror continues to focus its environmental efforts: have been achieved by the whole team playing a part.
Paper sourcing, sustainable forestry and recycling 2005 was the Year of the Volunteer Chancellor Gordon Browns Energy consumption and greenhouse gases project to raise one billion minutes of volunteered time for good Volatile organic compound VOC emissions causes.
Trinity Mirror lent its support throughout the year by giving Waste management and recycling management time to advise on the media strategy, donating Environmental management systems advertising space in our national and regional titles for the Give A Billion Minutes campaign, and encouraging staff to get involved.
a Paper sourcing and sustainable forestry To complement the existing voluntary and community work The bulk of Trinity Mirrors supply comes from a spread of the already taking place across the Group, we have now begun work established paper suppliers, who source wood fibre mainly from on a Group-wide programme to make it easier for our staff to the traditional areas of Scandinavia, the Baltic States and North make a difference in their local communities through volunteering.
A proportion of the wood used also comes from other European countries Germany, France, Spain, UK, Russia.
Sly Bailey Chief Executive 32 Chairmans statement Chief Executives statement Business review Corporate responsibility Board of Directors and Executive Committee Corporate governance Remuneration report Directors report Group independent auditors report Accounts and notes Unaudited other information Holding company accounts and notes Investor Relations All of Trinity Mirrors paper suppliers were sent a questionnaire The numbers presented for contracted activities are based on unat the end of 2004, containing a range of questions about audited information provided by our suppliers.
Due to the closure their environmental and social responsibility performance.
of a major plant, one supplier has been unable to provide actual This information was analysed during 2005 to help Trinity Mirror data and this has been estimated.
We are not yet in a position understand more about the sources of paper that it buys and therefore to make reliable year-on-year comparisons for these in particular to support the new target on newsprint sourcing.
elements of our energy balance.
Trinity Mirror energy consumption 2005 Target: and associated CO2 emissions Trinity Mirror will source 75% of its newsprint from either CO2 recycled materials or virgin fibre that has been independently conversion Consumption factor CO2emissions tonnes certified as coming from well-managed and sustainable 2005 2004 forests, by the end of 2005.
1 Internal activities Electricity consumption 128,051,427 Performance: -3 print works and all offices kWh 0.403 x10 51,605 53,196 During 2005, Trinity Mirror sourced almost 83% of total supply Gas consumption 30,858,989 of newsprint from recycled fibre or fibre from certified forests, -3 print works and all offices kWh 0.19 x10 5,882 6,641 against our target of 75%.
Fuel oil emergency 91,913 Percent -3 generators, all sites litre 2.69 X 10 247 608 90 Commercial vehicles 11,228,200 80 -3 km 0.267x10 2,998 2,935 70 Business travel car 17,071,834 -3 km 0.19x10 3,244 3,988 69 Business travel air 6,584,005 50 -3 km 0.15x10 988 1,101 40 Total internal 64,964 68,469 30 Total internal per million 20 pages of printed output 0.39 0.41 10 2 Contracted activities 0 Electricity for printing Target Actual -3 mostly magazine inserts 0.43x10 7,410 Gas for printing The survey of suppliers completed during 2005 has raised -3 mostly magazine inserts 0.19x10 6,154 further questions about the provenance of timber-sourcing data, Electricity for distribution 3,967,662 the adoption of forestry certification schemes, the traceability -3 warehousing kWh 0.43x10 1,706 of un-certified timber, and suppliers own policies on sustainable Gas for distribution 7,551,600 forestry.
We will continue to pursue these issues in collaboration -3 warehousing kWh 0.19x10 1,435 with our suppliers during 2006.
Fuel for road transport 4,500,555 -3 distribution litre 2.63x10 11,836 b Energy consumption, greenhouse gases and water Total contracted estimate 28,541 Total Group 93,505 During 2005, the programme of energy reduction initiatives agreed during 2004 has continued.
Consolidated energy Total Group per million pages of printed output 0.56 consumption for the Group, and associated carbon dioxide emissions, are reported below, distinguishing between internal 1.
Internal activities are those undertaken on Company premises and or by Company staff, operational activities where we have direct management control over which Trinity Mirror has direct management control.
and those that we contract out, notably the printing of magazine 2.
Contracted activities refer to those aspects of the Companys operations which are undertaken by external contractors and over which Trinity Mirror does not have direct control.
The activities supplements and product distribution.
concerned are the printing of magazine supplements and the distribution of printed products.
The numbers given above are estimates only based on information provided by suppliers.
All numbers in italics are or include estimates.
Our overall energy consumption from internal activities fell by 3,000 tonnes 5.1% compared with 2004 and this reflects the benefits of our energy reduction programme see also performance against our electricity target below.
33 Chairmans statement Chief Executives statement Business review Corporate responsibility Board of Directors and Executive Committee Corporate governance Remuneration report Directors report Group independent auditors report Accounts and notes Unaudited other information Holding company accounts and notes Investor Relations Target: Estimated annual consumption of Volatile Organic Trinity Mirror will reduce its internal electricity consumption Compounds VOCs by Trinity Mirror print sites by 3% by the end of 2005 against a 2003 baseline.
operational at the end of 2005 Estimated annual consumption of VOCs kg Print site 2005 2004 Performance: As a result of the energy-saving initiatives that we have pursued, Watford 3,221 14,620 we are able to report a steady reduction in the electricity Oldham 400 2,147 consumption of our print works and offices over the past three Cardonald 298 19,890 years.
By the end of 2005 our internal electricity consumption Cardiff 10,939 12,150 had fallen by 21,900,000 kWh compared with 2003, representing a reduction of 14.6% versus the target of 3% reduction.
Teesside 0 3,000 Fort Dunlop 0 230 Trinity Mirror Internal Electricity Consumption 2005 Newcastle 19,000 19,000 Liverpool 0 6,000 Internal electricity consumption kWh Blantyre 2,500 2,820 160,000,000 Group total 36,358 79,857 140,000,000 120,000,000 d Waste management & recycling 100,000,000 During 2005, the new contractual arrangements for handling 80,000,000 general wastes agreed at the end of 2004 have been 60,000,000 progressively rolled out across the Group, focusing on the 40,000,000 28 largest sites that collectively account for around 90% of 20,000,000 Company total waste generation.
A number of site audits 0 were carried out in the first half of 2005 to determine recycling 2003 2004 2005 potential at print sites and these, together with a pilot project at our major print site at Oldham, have been used to develop Our main print sites have participated for a number of years in improved systems for segregating recyclable materials from the governments printing sector Climate Change Levy Scheme, the general waste stream.
Significant opportunities have been that rewards companies achieving specified energy saving identified for recycling wooden pallets, that have previously targets.
In the light of the further improvements that we have made up a significant proportion of general waste removed achieved, we have now also decided to apply for accreditation to landfill, as well as other items, notably polythene wrapping under the Carbon Trust Energy Efficiency Scheme.
The Carbon and plastic bandings, aluminium cans, plastic cups and bottles Trust are currently assessing our energy policies, performance and printer cartridges.
data, arrangements for staff training and involvement and we hope successfully to achieve accreditation early in 2006.
Target: The water consumption of the Groups core sites during Trinity Mirror will recycle 12% by weight of all general waste 2005 was 217,500 cubic metres.
arising by the end of 2005. c Volatile Organic Compound emissions VOCs Performance: Last year, we were able to report a significant reduction in Implementation of our new segregation and recycling emissions to the atmosphere of solvent fumes VOCs from our arrangements for general wastes got off to a slower start and print sites.
These reductions have been achieved through a has taken longer than we anticipated.
As a result we do not yet combination of plant improvements and initiatives to introduce have comprehensive data on recycling rates across the Company.
water-based inks and other printing chemicals.
During 2005 we Nevertheless preliminary information from our largest seven print have addressed some of the few remaining areas of high VOC sites indicates that by the end of 2005 we were achieving at least consumption and our total VOC consumption has fallen by a 15% recycling rate.
We are confident that we are now close to industry best-practice levels of VOC emissions in relation to the volume During the first half of 2006 we will re-audit our general waste of production.
minimisation and segregation arrangements and this process will generate better data against our recycling target.
We will continue to work with our contractors during 2006 towards an objective of zero materials to landfill for all Trinity Mirror sites.
34 Chairmans statement Chief Executives statement Business review Corporate responsibility Board of Directors and Executive Committee Corporate governance Remuneration report Directors report Group independent auditors report Accounts and notes Unaudited other information Holding company accounts and notes Investor Relations The improvements we are beginning to make in recycling of Health and safety general waste complement the high levels of recovery of Special i. e. hazardous wastes and manufacturing paper wastes that The year started positively with the news that Trinity Mirror we have achieved over the past three years.
had been awarded the ROSPA Occupational Health and Safety Gold Award for its performance in the three years leading up Trinity Mirror Special hazardous waste generation to December 2004.
In this period the number of reportable and recycling 2005 accidents was substantially reduced as a result of local and group health and safety initiatives see table below.
Total waste Total recovered % recovered generated recycled recycled 2004 2003 2002 Liquid wastes litre 1,152,340 1,064,067 92.6 Fatalities Solid wastes kg 263,417 232,338 88.2 RIDDOR major injuries 91011 RIDDOR over three-day injuries 41 52 75 RIDDOR occupational ill health e Environmental management systems diseases conditions 312 RIDDOR dangerous occurrences012 During 2005 a programme was commenced, in conjunction Total All accidents 754 870 931 with the Groundwork Trust, to develop formal environmental RIDDOR events frequency rate 0.27 0.28 0.39 management systems for each of the Companys nine print sites.
The strategy is to seek full certification to ISO 14001 at the All accidents frequency rate 3.8 3.85 4.1 Oldham site on a pilot basis, whilst simultaneously developing Total days lost accidents and environmental management systems in line with the BS8555 occupational ill health 1,498 1,378 2,137 standard at the other eight sites.
The ultimate goal will be to achieve full certification to ISO 14001 at all sites.
a 2005 health and safety initiatives The Board continues to be kept informed of important Target: developments in health and safety through the Secretary and Group Trinity Mirror will achieve certification to the ISO 14001 Legal Director.
The following activities took place during the year: environmental management system standard at the Trinity Mirror Printing Oldham site by the end of 2005, A Group Health and Safety Forum was established to allow with a view subsequently to achieving certification at all Health and Safety Managers to work together, sharing of the Companys print sites.
knowledge, experience and good practice.
Members are also involved in promoting a common approach to health and safety through new and updated policies and procedures.
Performance: New policies and procedures relating to the selection and Construction activities at Oldham have resulted in some delays control of contractors and the management of engineering and to the implementation of the environmental management system.
This has meant that the site did not meet the target of achieving In addition to the ongoing programme of workplace safety certification to ISO 14001 by the end of 2005.
Nevertheless, inspections, health and safety audits were carried out at each of considerable progress has been made in developing the the print sites.
These audits are helping to improve and maintain management system and we expect the site to be ready for the standards and ensure compliance with statutory regulations.
first assessment by independent external certifiers during the A specialist consultant completed a programme of building first half of 2006. surveys to identify the location and condition of asbestoscontaining materials.
This has resulted in asbestos registers for The other print sites have all made progress in working buildings containing asbestos.
Training has also been provided through Phase 1 of their environmental management system for local Building Service Managers so that they are competent implementation plans, including: to manage in this area.
Arrangements for safety during all work at height were reviewed Establishing EMS teams to ensure conformity with the Working at Height Regulations Completing baseline assessments 2005.
Where appropriate risk assessments and systems of work Identifying improvement initiatives were improved and staff were given safety briefings.
Developing site awareness training plans The installation of new presses and ancillary equipment commenced at the Oldham printing plant.
Progress to date has been good, though the project is not scheduled for completion until the summer of 2006.
Old printing presses were safely removed from the plants that were located in Cardiff, Chester and Huddersfield.
35 Chairmans statement Chief Executives statement Business review Corporate responsibility Board of Directors and Executive Committee Corporate governance Remuneration report Directors report Group independent auditors report Accounts and notes Unaudited other information Holding company accounts and notes Investor Relations Health and safety performance indicator 2005 2004 b Group health and safety statistics The table below briefly illustrates accident statistics for the Group Fatalities in 2005.
Analysis of the data reveals that the overall number of RIDDOR major injuries 12 9 accidents, including those reportable under RIDDOR, was down RIDDOR over three-day injuries 35 41 on the previous year, though in the case of reportable accidents by RIDDOR occupational ill health a much smaller margin than previously.
There was also a welcome diseases conditions 1 3 reduction in the number of working days lost.
However, these RIDDOR dangerous occurrences 3 0 positive gains are tempered by the fact that there has been an Total number of accidents 484 754 increase in RIDDOR major injuries, contributed to substantially RIDDOR events frequency rate 0.26 0.27 by accidents involving slips, trips and falls.
The total number of All accidents frequency rate 2.7 3.8 accidents involving slips, trips and falls has in fact fallen compared Total days lost accidents and to 2004, but unfortunately they have more often resulted in reportable injury.
There is clearly scope for further improvement occupational ill health 1,109 1,498 in this area during 2006.
0.04% 0.05% RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 1995.
Frequency Rate number of accidents per 100,000 hours worked.
Figure in brackets represents the percentage of total days worked by all employees in the Group.
Breakdown of accidents by type of event All percentages rounded to the nearest half decimal point RIDDOR All RIDDOR All accidents accidents accidents accidents 2005 % 2005 % 2004 % 2004 % Slips and falls same level 62 23 27 19.5 Lifting and handling of materials 15 12 21 16.5 Contact with machinery 6 6.5 11 4 Falls from a height 6 1.5 9.5 1.5 Stepping on or striking fixed object 14.5 7.5 19 Struck by moving vehicle 41 Contact with sharp abrasive material 4.5 21 211 Struck by flying or falling object 2.5 5.5 26 Contact with hazardous substance 2.5 25 Contact with hot material substance 1 23 Object collapsing or overturning 2 0.5 Use of hand tools 1.5 4 Contact with electricity 1 Others 411 10 8 Total 100 100 100 100 36 Chairmans statement Chief Executives statement Business review Corporate responsibility Board of Directors and Executive Committee Corporate governance Remuneration report Directors report Group independent auditors report Accounts and notes Unaudited other information Holding company accounts and notes Investor Relations The three most common types of reportable accidents within Charities Trinity Mirror consistently remain: The Companys policy with regard to charitable donations Slips, trips and falls same level and other such payments is as follows: Lifting and handling of materials Contact with machinery Trinity Mirror believes that it can best support charities through the pages of its newspapers.
This support will either be through c Health and safety enforcement activity appeals to readers for donations or through editorial content, describing the aims and activities of various charities.
In every Health and safety enforcing officers visited our businesses case the decision as to whether or not to support a charity in pursuance of their duties on 26 separate occasions during appeal or whether to run editorial comment will be one for the course of 2005, compared to eleven such visits in 2004. the editor of each newspaper.
The majority of these visits involved routine inspections.
No enforcement notices were issued against the Company or its Trinity Mirror plc will make direct cash donations to charities subsidiaries and there were no prosecutions brought against us.
The Company will, at a Group level, support various charities connected with or associated d Future initiatives with the newspaper, printing or advertising industries.
The Company remains committed to achieving further A second category of direct cash support will be to charities improvements in health and safety performance.
operating in the communities immediately surrounding Trinity Mirrors offices and print sites.
The charities that are likely to Ethics receive support are smaller community-based charities where a modest donation will make a big impact.
It is unlikely that For many years the Company has had a policy on Standards a major national charity that just happens to be based very of Business Conduct which we regularly review.
The introduction close to one of our offices would receive a donation.
to the current policy states: There will be a further limited general pool of funds out of which Trinity Mirror plc is the largest newspaper publisher in the UK donations will be made to legitimate and supportable causes and a major UK plc.
The continuing development and well-being that fall outside the above two criteria.
There will, however, need of our business depends on all of us maintaining the highest in each case to be a demonstrable business commercial reason standards of integrity and personal conduct in all matters which why such support should be given.
Each of our regional newspaper companies will have a small The Company recognises its obligations to those with whom budget out of which they will make direct cash donations it has dealings, namely its employees, shareholders, readers and to charities working in the community in which the newspaper advertisers, suppliers and the communities in which its businesses is based.
Scottish Daily Record and Sunday Mail Limited will operate.
Its reputation is one of the most vital resources of the similarly make a number of donations to appropriate charities Company, and depends for its protection upon the honesty based in Scotland.
and integrity of each and every one of us.
This document gives guidance on how the essential standards of integrity and The National titles of the Daily Mirror, Sunday Mirror and conduct are to be maintained.
It is not intended as a statement The People are most unlikely to make direct cash donations.
of new beliefs or the creation of new rules of conduct.
Rather, They will do so only where they are asked to make a payment it is a reaffirmation of our continuing values and practices.
to charity in lieu of a fee for an interview or some form of support.
Finally, this document should be read in conjunction with any Any corporate donations requested from the National titles specific code issued to individual groups of employees e. g. are likely to be redirected to the Group, as the Companys Financial Dealings by Journalists or any provisions of individual headquarters share the same office location as that of the contracts of employment.
The policy itself is available on the Companys website and All Group donations need the prior agreement of the Secretary gives guidance on conflicts of interest, the acceptance of gifts and Group Legal Director.
Any local business donations require and entertainment, confidential information, insider information, the prior agreement of the relevant Managing Director.
and political and civic activities.
In addition to cash donations, the Company is active in making donations in kind in the form of used computer equipment, furniture, books, etc.
Through its community involvement programmes, the Company makes available members of its staff for volunteering and mentoring programmes.
37 Chairmans statement Chief Executives statement Business review Corporate responsibility Board of Directors and Executive Committee Corporate governance Remuneration report Directors report Group independent auditors report Accounts and notes Unaudited other information Holding company accounts and notes Investor Relations Community engagement Now in its eighth year, the Daily Mirrors Pride of Britain Awards gives the countrys unsung heroes the recognition they deserve.
Community engagement is at the heart of our local businesses, In addition, most of our local titles continue to host their own forming part of the everyday activities of our titles.
The best way community awards.
to describe the sort of work undertaken is through examples of key projects across the Group.
Through the Prince of Wales Seeing Is Believing project, the Group was able to ensure the survival of the Kids Company In the North East, our specially built media centres helped another a South London charity for troubled children which was on the 17,000 school children improve their literacy.
The two Newspapers verge of closing due to lack of funding.
Our involvement in the in Education Newsrooms worked closely to produce the first of project was singled out for a special mention by Prince Charles.
12 regional youth publications as part of the ASPIRE campaign, which is designed to raise the aspirations of young people.
NERD Having played a key role in their home city winning the title North East Really Delivers World is written and designed by of European Capital of Culture 2008, the Liverpool Echo and young people for young people and 100,000 copies are delivered Liverpool Daily Post became official partners to the initiative.
to all secondary schools across the region three times a year.
The deal is worth around 2 million in cash, marketing support and publishing agreements, and underlines our commitment Trinity Mirror is a long-standing supporter of Business in the to supporting the cultural and economic life of Liverpool.
Community a charitable organisation that works with businesses to improve their positive impact on society.
In 2005, our North Risks and opportunities West and Coventry businesses extended their volunteering commitment by joining Liverpool Cares and Coventry Cares.
These Trinity Mirror is not a multinational nor is it engaged in heavy initiatives are now integrated into their training and development industry.
It is not, therefore, exposed to some of the risks faced programmes, and have been extended across all departments.
by those who operate in developing countries or at the sharp end of environmental exposure.
The greatest exposure for the The Sunday Mails appeal with the Scottish Society for Autism Group would, therefore, be a systems failure that led to a helped raise 1.8 million to open New Struan, Scotlands first domestic failure of its environmental, health and safety or ethical purpose-built school for children with autism.
It is unlikely that a failure in any of these three areas would be catastrophic.
The Chester Chronicles Miles of Smiles charity has notched up 500,000 over the past 15 years to provide holidays to Disneyland The Board believes that the Companys main exposure would Paris for sick, disabled and underprivileged children.
be one of reputational damage.
The procedure that the Company employs to control and manage these risks is through a regular The Coventry Evening Telegraphs Snowball Appeal has been review of its standards and systems and through training of running for 20 years and has raised more than 20 million for local relevant employees and managers.
The Companys Standards of Business Conduct are embedded It was another year of achievement for The Evening Gazettes within the culture of the Group.
More recently the Companys Tees Pride campaign, which launched two new major initiatives health and safety policies and systems have been put under the Year of Enterprise to encourage entrepreneurial spirit in the review and have been consolidated and codified.
More attention community and the Wake Up to Your Health campaign.
The is now being paid than in the past to environmental matters.
Gazettes first Making A Difference Fund ball also raised thousands of pounds for local charities.
The Company believes that opportunities in these areas are, similarly, reputational.
We believe that there are advantages The Newcastle Evening Chronicles Sunshine Fund raised to being seen as the employer of choice for those entering our 150,000 for vital special equipment for disabled children living in industry, that decision having been made on an assessment, the North East.
Fundraising highlights included the Sunflower Ball, amongst many other things, of our corporate social responsibility a Celebrity Question of Sport night and the Quayside charity run.
Those programmes will also be key in the retention of staff.
We also believe that there are obvious commercial The Birmingham Mail teamed up with ChildLine to launch its advantages from being seen as a socially responsible company.
Speak Out Stop Bullying campaign, sending out anti-bullying packs to every junior and senior school in the area.
Comments to: Throughout the year, the Daily Mirror consistently championed the Paul Vickers Make Poverty History campaign.
The title also donated advertising Secretary and Group Legal Director space to the charity in the run-up to Live 8, and the G8 and World Trinity Mirror plc Trade Organisation summits.
One Canada Square Canary Wharf London E14 5AP 38 Chairmans statement Chief Executives statement Business review Corporate responsibility Board of Directors and Executive Committee Corporate governance Remuneration report Directors report Group independent auditors report Accounts and notes Unaudited other information Holding company accounts and notes Investor Relations It is Trinity Mirrors policy to: Trinity Mirror plc Environmental Policy 1.
Maximise the proportion of recycled fibre in the paper Trinity Mirror is the UKs largest newspaper publisher, we use, within the technical constraints of obtaining paper with a portfolio of more than 500 media brands.
This includes some 240 local and regional newspapers and 2.
Work with our paper suppliers to trace the forests of origin four sports titles, as well as over 60 websites and a variety of the virgin wood fibre that goes into the paper we use.
of magazines, directories and exhibitions.
Work with our suppliers to identify any forest sources of wood The Group employs 11,000 people in centres across the UK, fibre that are unacceptable, either on environmental or social including nine major printing sites.
grounds, and seek to eliminate these from our supply chain.
We recognise that all our business activities have the potential 4.
Wherever possible, purchase paper where the virgin fibre to affect the environment and we endeavour to manage these content has been independently certified as coming from in a responsible manner.
This Policy sets out our commitments well-managed forests.
in relation to the main areas where the Company has significant environmental impacts: Energy consumption and greenhouse gases Paper sourcing, sustainable forestry and recycling Trinity Mirror recognises that climate change, triggered by Energy consumption and greenhouse gases greenhouse gases from burning fossil fuels, poses a significant Volatile organic compound VOC emissions from print works threat to the worlds environment.
We contribute to the emission Waste management and recycling of greenhouse gases through the energy we use for printing, The purchase of contracted printing and product for running our offices, distributing our publications and in distribution services business travel.
This Policy has been adopted by the Board of Trinity Mirror, We are committed to measuring and wherever possible reducing which will ensure that it is progressively implemented through the energy consumption associated with all of the operational a programme of annual targets and action plans.
Progress activities where we have direct management control.
against policy commitments will be regularly audited and reported publicly using appropriate performance indicators.
It is Trinity Mirrors policy to: Paper sourcing, sustainable forestry and recycling 1.
Measure and report the energy consumption of our printing works and offices.
Trinity Mirror is a major purchaser of paper for newspapers and magazines, and we recognise the potential impact that timber 2.
Measure and report the energy consumption of our in-house extraction for paper-making may have on forest conservation.
We are committed to ensuring that the wood fibre used to 3.
Identify opportunities for energy saving and set defined action produce our paper comes from reputable sources.
This means plans for achieving these savings.
that we will seek to use either recycled fibre, or virgin wood fibre that comes from well-managed forests.
Trinity Mirror supports the concept of independent third-party certification as a means of promoting good forest management practice and we will use our buying power to support certification schemes wherever possible.
39 Chairmans statement Chief Executives statement Business review Corporate responsibility Board of Directors and Executive Committee Corporate governance Remuneration report Directors report Group independent auditors report Accounts and notes Unaudited other information Holding company accounts and notes Investor Relations Volatile organic compound VOC emissions It is Trinity Mirrors policy to: The emission to the atmosphere of solvent vapours known 1.
Identify all of the waste streams from our premises.
as Volatile Organic Compounds VOCs has traditionally been a major concern for the printing industry.
Identify opportunities for recycling or re-using wastes and realise associated with the solvent content of important raw materials these through defined action plans.
such as inks and cleaning materials used in printing processes.
Measure and report the quantities of all of our major waste We have made considerable progress in recent years in reducing streams and the proportion of each waste stream that the consumption of raw materials that contain VOCs.
In particular, is recycled or re-used.
most of our print sites have now moved to low-VOC inks and blanket washes.
This means that all of our own print works fall Contracted printing and product distribution services below the threshold limits for VOC emissions that would require authorisation under European environmental legislation.
We are Trinity Mirror recognises that certain operations which are committed however to finding alternatives to our remaining uses contracted out notably the printing of magazine supplements of VOC-containing materials.
and the distribution by road of printed products may have significant environmental impacts.
Potential impacts include energy It is Trinity Mirrors policy to: consumption from printing and road transport and VOC emissions and wastes arising from printing processes.
Measure and report the consumption of VOCs at our printing works.
We expect our major print and distribution contractors to have environmental policies and programmes which are equivalent 2.
Wherever possible substitute raw materials that contain VOCs to our own.
with alternatives that contain either reduced or no VOCs.
It is Trinity Mirrors policy to: Waste management and recycling 1.
Do business only with print and distribution suppliers who have Trinity Mirror generates significant amounts of waste that requires effective environmental policies and programmes and, wherever treatment or disposal.
Major sources of waste from our operations possible, are certified to either the ISO 14001 or EMAS include: paper from printing, packaging materials, office waste, environmental management system standards.
end-of-life equipment and hazardous materials such as waste oils and chemicals.
Work with our suppliers to measure and report the energy associated with contracted printing, contracted product We are committed to maximising the amount of waste we recycle distribution and business travel.
Where disposal is the only option, we will do this in a legal and responsible manner.
Work with our suppliers to measure and report the consumption of VOCs attributable to Trinity Mirror publications that are printed externally.
Work with our suppliers to measure and report the generation of wastes attributable to Trinity Mirror publications that are printed externally.
