Corporate Social Responsibility Social and environmental issues are integrated into all our activities and we aim to conduct our business in a way that is safe, sustainable and responsible.
The Group had a very positive Environment, Health and Safety Tullows EHS team was expanded in 2005 and now includes EHS performance in 2005.
It was a particularly busy year for EHS advisors in the Groups London and Cape Town offices, our operations, with several major projects and much higher field supervisors in Pakistan and Bangladesh and additional levels of activity in the enlarged Group.
In the UK, projects EHS resources for specific major projects such as seismic included the transition of the Schooner and Ketch fields and acquisition or drilling.
There is an annual internal EHS audit completion of Tullows first offshore operated development at programme and in 2005 six full audits were conducted plus Horne & Wren in the Southern North Sea.
In South Asia we several additional audits of drilling rigs and seismic crews conducted seismic programmes in Pakistan and Bangladesh, across our operations.
where at peak activity 3,000 people were working on Block 9.
The Group also undertook a significant drilling programme External Benchmarking during the year with 50 development wells and 10 exploration We manage our EHS performance through the Groups wells.
In total, 3.7 million man hours were worked in 2005 Integrated Management System IMS, which is a disciplined compared to just under 2 million man hours in 2004. framework for the management of the environment, health, safety and security throughout the Group.
Under the IMS Excellent EHS Performance in 2005 we also track and record our experiences, allowing us to Despite these record levels of activity, there were no continually work to improve our performance.
This system significant environmental incidents at any Tullow operations fully meets the requirements of the International Standards and no occupational health, safety or security related issues.
Organisation ISO 14001 benchmark and is based on a A total of three Lost Time Incidents LTI were reported during series of integrated elements with established performance the year compared to four incidents in 2004.
All incidents were standards and clearly defined expectations that every relatively minor in nature, as was the case in 2004.
The Lost operation must fulfil.
Time Incident Frequency Ratio LTIFR, representing the number of lost time incidents per million man hours worked, was 0.82, Tullow plans to achieve ISO 14001 certification for all its compared to 1.96 in 2004.
This achieved our performance operations and in 2005 suitability evaluations were completed target of a LTIFR below 1.00.
These safety statistics have for the Kudu project in Namibia and operations in Pakistan.
consistently improved over the past four years, moving us While Kudu is not yet a fully approved development, the closer to our goal of being in the top quartile of companies project plan has been drafted in anticipation of achieving in our industry for safety performance.
The Pakistan evaluation was successful and we have established a three year programme to achieve full certification.
In 2006, we expect Tullow Oil plc and all its corporate standards to be ISO 14001 approved.
To enhance our reporting in this area our first Group CSR Report Enhanced Crisis Management Systems The oil and gas industry operates with inherent EHS risks will be published this year and at Tullow the enlarged Group has brought challenges but also created opportunities.
The Group operates a 365 day on-call system for crisis management, supplemented by regular Strong EHS Culture and Systems training and simulation exercises.
With our new offices we Our overall EHS performance is supported by Tullows EHS improved the facilities including a specialised high tech crisis policy which is reviewed annually and implemented across the management room.
Our goal is to ensure that in the event of Group.
Through this policy our goal is to protect people and a serious incident at any Tullow activity we will be proactive, minimise the impact of our operations on communities and the prompt and effective in our response.
This policy is implemented through appropriate training for staff and contractors and by visits to potentially higher risk activities by the Head of EHS and his team.
20 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Addressing Climate Change In the past decade there has been growing concern and We support and contribute to debate over the impact of greenhouse gases on global improved health, education and climate change.
Many industrialised countries agreed to set specified reduction limits on their emissions of such gases economic conditions in our local and this has become formalised in Europe under the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme.
The most significant impact communities of these regulations for Tullow concerns carbon dioxide CO, 2 a by-product of fuel combustion in turbines, compressors and generators utilised as part of the gas refining process.
In 2005, we signed a farm-in agreement in Angola, where there are three million cases of malaria every year.
Children For Tullow, the Bacton and Hewett installations have been are most at risk and the World Health Organisation estimates assigned allowances under this scheme capping the amount that every day 2,500 die from the disease throughout Africa.
of CO discharged into the atmosphere.
The Hewett field Through our representative there we have become involved in 2 and the Bacton terminal have a combined allowance in the Angola Mosquito Nets Project, which seeks to reduce the Phase 1 of the scheme, which runs from 2005 to 2007, of incidence of malaria in the community through the provision 1.28 million tonnes and during 2005 investment was made to of insecticide-treated mosquito nets to those too poor to afford minimise and reduce CO emissions.
An aid organisation employs local women to make the 2 improvements and their total emissions were 40% lower than nets, which are then distributed to local communities.
their combined allowance, with particular success at Bacton.
We continue to work to identify opportunities to improve the There were major natural disasters in Asia during the year with Groups performance and incorporate emissions control the Asian tsunami and the Pakistan earthquake.
While the in the design phase of all major developments.
Group formally contributed US$350,000 emergency support through recognised charities, there was also an immediate, Social and Community Involvement generous and pragmatic response at a local level by Tullow Our involvement and sponsorship of local communities is personnel.
This action demonstrates the true meaning and guided by the Groups CSR policy and CSR committee.
Aidan effectiveness of local community commitment in the Group.
Heavey, our Chief Executive, is the nominated Director with CSR and EHS responsibility and he is a strong advocate for Our first Group CSR Report Tullows commitment to its corporate, environmental and CSR is particularly relevant in the context of the oil and gas social responsibilities.
In 2005, Tullow spent 0.8 million industry and is a significant priority for Tullow management.
on a wide range of social and community projects.
This amount To enhance our transparency and reporting in this area our was marginally lower than 2004 as a result of some projects first Group CSR Report will be published this year.
This year we are committed to significantly available on our website www.
com and in paper, increasing our overall contribution.
We hope it will extend our communication and engagement with stakeholders in this In Bangladesh we support the Gulshan Literacy Programme.
area and we welcome any feedback.
In 2005 the school catered for 180 children, operating two shifts as many of the children need to go to work during normal school hours.
One cooked meal per day is provided and once a student is admitted to the programme the school covers the majority of fees and ancillary costs, including the provision of an electric lamp to assist study.
Support is also provided in aspects of health, nutrition and child development.
Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 21
