Corporate Social Responsibility The Board recognises its environmental and employment responsibilities and time chairman elected by the employee representatives.
The annual employee continues to devote significant resources towards improving standards.
survey continues to highlight improved employee satisfaction, Investors in People accreditation was successfully renewed during the year, and employee Environmental turnover continued to fall.
The operational management capability has been The Group recognises it has the potential to make a significant contribution strengthened and the recruitment process has been significantly enhanced to towards improving the environment and is determined to realise this potential.
A programme to evaluate management capability Responsibility for communicating the Groups environmental policy and and produce long term personal development plans will continue throughout monitoring compliance rests with the Groups Transport Manager and National the Group, having been successfully introduced into Network Services last Health & Safety Manager.
The Group continues to ensure all the requirements of current and future employment and health and safety legislation are met.
Examples of actions taken by the Group to minimise its environmental impact include: Charitable Support Continued use of automated vehicle routing to eliminate unnecessary mileage NCH, the childrens charity, has been the chosen charity partner for Business Post Group, its employees and its franchisees for ten years.
The Group donates Use of double-decked trailers, modified to be more fuel efficient and less one penny to NCH for every consignment carried for customers who pay their harmful to the environment accounts by direct debit and in the last year this raised 58,000.
But of equal Continued use of fuel which is both low in sulphur and lead importance are the funds raised by Group staff under the Charity Challenge Trialling the use of bio-diesel scheme, which set a target to every one of Business Posts operating locations for fundraising.
An amazing variety of events were staged from abseiling, The Group was the recipient of an inaugural EAST award organised by the skydiving and marathon swims, through golf days and a staff calendar to car journal dedicated to the promotion of environmental and sustainable washing, shaving off moustaches and giving up smoking.
In 2005 we expect technology in transport and sponsored by Lloyds TSB Autolease for its the total contribution to NCH to be in excess of 120,000.
As well as this revolutionary design for a double decked articulated trailer.
This vehicle, when magnificent effort, in January 2005 staff throughout the Company raised just compared to a similar trailer of standard design, achieved a saving in fuel short of 6,000 for the Asian Tsunami appeal, which was doubled by the consumption of 20% and an even greater reduction in CO2 emissions.
Company to make a total contribution of 11,916.
Health & Safety Business Post Group fully embraces the legal obligation to protect the health, safety and welfare of our employees and others who may be affected by our operations.
Robust proactive policies are developed and monitored to ensure training, risk assessment, safe systems of work and accident investigation procedures are deployed throughout the network.
Regular Board reviews and safety audits are undertaken to measure compliance against our standards and to take effective remedial action to provide a safer working environment.
Employment The Group has continued to make significant progress in human resource management over the last year.
The Employee Consultative Group has been strengthened to provide a robust platform for all employees to make a significant contribution to bringing about change in the workplace and to provide a forum for the exchange of information, opinions and feedback.
This has resulted in a significant increase in elected employee representatives from 13 to 59 and a three-tier site, regional and national structure, including a full- 29 Business Post Group plc
