Corporate governance continued Hitherto the majority of votes cast by ordinary shareholders at NV Depositary receipts for shares meetings have been cast by the trust ofce.
Unilever and the As at 28 February 2006, the majority around 71% of NVs Foundation NV Trust Ofce have a policy of actively encouraging ordinary shares and around 34% of NVs 7% cumulative holders of depositary receipts to exercise their voting rights in NV preference shares are held by the Foundation NV Trust Ofce.
part of its corporate objects, the Foundation issues depositary receipts in exchange for these shares.
The depositary receipts of Foundation NV Trust Ofces Board NV ordinary shares are listed on Euronext Amsterdam, as are the The Foundation NV Trust Ofce is an independent trust ofce NV ordinary shares themselves, and on the stock exchanges in with a board independent from Unilever.
The members of the Frankfurt and Zrich.
The depositary receipts for the NV 7% board are Mr J H Schraven Chairman, Mr P P fide Koning, preference shares are listed on Euronext Amsterdam, as are the Prof Dr L Koopmans and Mr A A Olijslager.
The trust ofce shall report periodically, but at least once a year, Holders of depositary receipts can under all circumstances on its activities.
exchange their depositary receipts for the underlying shares or vice versa.
Foundation NV Trust Ofces shareholding Foundation NV Trust Ofces shareholding uctuates daily its Holders of depositary receipts are entitled to dividends that are holdings on 28 February 2006 were: paid on the underlying shares held by the Foundation.
NV ordinary shares of 0.51: 408 312 848 71.44% Voting by holders of depositary receipts NV 7% cumulative preference shares of 453.78: 9 821 33.87% Although the depositary receipts themselves do not formally have NV 6% cumulative preference shares of 453.78: 5 0.00% voting rights, holders of depositary receipts are in practice NV 4% cumulative preference shares of 45.38: 23 0.00% equated with shareholders.
Holders of depositary receipts can attend NVs General Meetings, either personally or by proxy, and Further information on Foundation NV Trust Ofce, its will then automatically, without limitation and under all arrangements and its activities can be found on circumstances receive a voting proxy on behalf of the Foundation www.
NV Trust Ofce to vote on the underlying shares.
Leverhulme Trust Holders of depositary receipts not attending a shareholders The first Viscount Leverhulme was the founder of the company meeting and who participate in the Dutch Shareholders which became PLC.
When he died in 1925, he left in his will a Communication Channel can also issue binding voting large number of PLC shares in various trusts.
The Foundation is obliged to follow these instructions.
The same applies to holders of When the will trusts were varied in 1983, the interests of the depositary receipts that instruct the Foundation NV Trust Ofce beneciaries of his will were also preserved.
Four classes of special outside the Shareholders Communication Channel.
shares were created in Margarine Union 1930 Limited, a subsidiary of PLC.
One of these classes can be converted at the Voting by the Foundation NV Trust Ofce end of the year 2038 into 157 500 000 PLC ordinary shares of Shares for which the Foundation NV Trust Ofce has not granted 1.4p each.
These convertible shares replicate the rights which the voting proxies or for which it has not received voting instructions, descendants of the first Viscount would have had under his will.
are voted on by the Foundation in such a way as it deems to be in This class of the special shares only has a right to dividends in the interests of the holders of the depositary receipts.
This voting specified circumstances, and no dividends have yet been paid.
PLC policy is laid down in the Conditions of Administration that apply guarantees the dividend and conversion rights of the special to the depositary receipts.
Both the Articles of Association and the shares.
Conditions of Administration can be found on www.
Specic provisions The first Viscount wanted the trustees of the trusts he established apply in the event that a meeting of holders of NV preference to be Directors of PLC.
On 28 February 2006 the trustees of the shares is convened.
charitable trusts were: If a change to shareholders rights is proposed, Foundation NV Sir Michael Angus former Chairman Trust Ofce will let shareholders know if it intends to vote, at least Sir Michael Perry former Chairman 14 days in advance if possible.
It will do this by advertising in the Mr N W A FitzGerald former Chairman press.
Dr J I W Anderson former Director Dr A S Ganguly former Director On 28 February 2006, in their capacity as trustees of the two charitable trusts, they held approximately 5% of PLCs issued ordinary capital.
44 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005
