About Unilever continued As One Unilever we can now take a holistic view of our global Environment and corporate responsibility marketing capability and manage and deploy our talent more We seek to manage and grow our business around the world in a strategically.
Overseen by the new post of Chief Marketing officer responsible and sustainable fashion.
The values and standards by we have developed Group-wide programmes to improve our which we expect to be judged are set out in our Code of Business skills, tools and career paths, with an unprecedented focus on Principles.
brand building and development to support our new structure.
Via our Marketing Academy we have also adopted a more We aim to share these standards and values with our suppliers applied, business-led approach to training, underpinned by and contractors through our Business Partner Code which, in common toolsets and data.
turn, is based on our Code of Business Principles.
It sets out standards on ten key points of business integrity, labour Unilever's mission is to add vitality to life.
That includes standards, consumer safety and the environment.
encouraging greater vitality among our staff in a programme that encompassed the broad concepts of tness of body and tness The long-term success of our business is intimately linked with the of heart, mind and spirit.
Designed to help them manage their vitality of the environment and the communities in which we personal energy and resilience in the face of change, as well as operate.
More than two-thirds of our raw materials come from striking a good work-life balance, among other objectives, the agriculture, while water and other natural resources play an first step of the programme was an Enjoy Nutrition campaign.
equally critical role in our business.
To ensure we protect these This provided staff with important nutritional information, such key resources, we have clear, long-term eco-efficiency objectives as advice on how to reduce consumption of sugar, salt and and targets for our manufacturing operations, as well as three unhealthy fats.
We also piloted nutritional training for our chefs sustainability initiatives on water, agriculture and sh.
Over the and external suppliers so that our canteens and restaurants could last ten years, we have continued to improve our eco-efficiency offer healthier options.
performance across all of our seven key environmental parameters which we use to measure the emissions from our factories and set In today's global markets, Unilever's international heritage helps future reduction targets.
In 2004 the latest year for which gures us compete.
Our deep roots in over 100 countries worldwide give are available we continued to improve on our 2003 performance us a powerful competitive advantage, enabling us to adapt our but did not meet all our targets.
global brands to local consumers needs.
To help us understand their needs more fully weve introduced a diversity programme so The strength of our commitment to sustainability is reected in that our staff reect our consumers diversity more closely in the fact that we remain the leading food company in the Dow gender, ethnicity and many other ways.
Diversity is already very evident.
For example, our top 1 000 In 2005 we spent around 79 million on our voluntary initiatives managers span 45 nationalities.
With new initiatives, including in communities around the world.
This increase on our 2004 local Diversity Boards and toolkits, we hope to encourage diversity contribution of 65 million is partly due to the overwhelming deeper into our organisation.
response of our business to the plight of the December 2004 Asian tsunami victims.
In Unilever, by embracing our differences, we create an environment that inspires people to contribute to our business.
Our Close Up toothpaste brand launched Project Smile to bring We encourage people to be themselves within a framework of much-needed oral health care products and advice to people in shared values and goals.
This means giving full and fair rural Nigeria where only around 60% of the population use consideration to all applicants and continuing development to all toothpaste.
The campaign involved retailers of all sizes, including employees, regardless of gender, nationality, race, creed, disability, the very smallest, as partners.
We created branded kiosks tiny style or sexuality.
shops to promote Close Up, and these gave an opportunity to unemployed young people to make a living by creating new longUnilevers success depends on the economic health of the term outlets, as well as offering existing retailers a way to countries in which it operates.
In an extensive research project showcase their wares.
The success of the campaign meant it was with Oxfam GB and Novib Oxfam Netherlands Exploring the quickly extended into towns and cities and over the year sales links between business and poverty reduction: A case study on rose by 35%.
Indonesia, we examined the impact our local business has on the countrys economic well-being.
Unilever Indonesia employs about With its global supply chain, Unilever has a major role to play in 5 000 direct employees and contract workers.
The research found caring for the environment.
We believe that acting responsibly that indirectly this manufacturing activity supports around creates advantages for our business, as well as helping to address 300 000 full-time equivalent jobs in our value chain the chain environmental concerns.
For example, ensuring a sustainable that stretches from raw materials suppliers through supply of raw materials, such as palm oil, is essential for the longmanufacturing to distribution and retailing to consumers.
Such term wealth of our business.
Of course, due to the scale and employment and the wealth that it spreads around can make a complexity of this issue, we cannot do this alone.
A multisignificant contribution to reducing poverty.
stakeholder approach is required, which is why we co-founded the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil RSPO in 2004.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005 11 Report of the Directors
