Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2005 Sustainable Development Report Our Approach to Sustainable Development It is the responsibility of operational managers Vedanta aims to develop and manage a diverse throughout the Group to ensure implementation of portfolio of mining and metals businesses to the HSE policies and systems, and to monitor provide attractive returns to our shareholders operational performance against these policies.
All whilst carrying out our activities in a socially and individual units have qualied and experienced HSE environmentally responsible manner and creating specialists to assist management in implementing HSE value for the communities where we operate.
They undertake Sustainable development principles are compliance management, impact assessment, fundamental to our approach.
These principles measurement and monitoring, and continuous require us to monitor and reduce social and improvement programmes.
The operations are also environmental risks, to improve efficiencies in guided by the regulatory framework in terms of HSE the use of resources, to minimise pollution and to matters prevalent in that country and work closely with create partnerships with our local communities.
the authorities to identify and resolve any problems.
Governance Structure and All significant Indian operations have their Management Systems Environmental and Occupational Health & Safety The Group is committed to ensuring that the Management Systems certied in accordance with health, safety, environmental and social the international standards ISO:14001 and commitments of its Businesses are managed OHSAS:18001, respectively see table on page 33. appropriately and to a high standard.
To oversee The Korba complex at BALCO obtained its this, an HSE Committee the Committee was certication in accordance with ISO:14001 and established in June 2004 comprising the Chief OHSAS:18001 during the year, and the Executive of the Group, Mr KK Kaura, and the chief Visakhapatnam zinc smelter at HZL was also certied executives of the Zinc, Copper and Aluminum to OHSAS:18001.
Regular surveillance audits are Businesses.
A Non-executive Director, Dr SK carried out and management plans are prepared and Tamotia, is the Chairman of the Committee.
The implemented to facilitate continuous improvement.
Committee monitors HSE performance of the Groups Businesses and provides advice and KCM plans to have all its operations certied in guidance to the Board and management in accordance with ISO:14001 and OHSAS:18001 by achieving continuous improvements in HSE.
HZL, Sterlite and BALCO will also Committee met three times during the year ended modify their systems appropriately to incorporate the 31 March 2005. changes and expansions.
Certication for TCM and CMT will not be achieved given the short remaining A Group HSE manager was appointed during the life span of their mines.
Certications for the Mainpat year, reporting to the Chief Executive of Vedanta.
mine of BALCO are expected to be received by the The manager is responsible for convening the end of June 2005, and the Yercaud mine of MALCO meetings of the Committee and providing a flow is expected to obtain certication by 31 March 2006. of information between the Board, the Committee Plans for certication of the Bodai-Daldali deposit of and the operations, as well as ensuring the BALCO and the Kolli Hills mine of MALCO are under implementation of policy and the transfer of best review and could be progressed next year.
HSE management performance and systems The majority of the Groups operations have their compliance throughout the Group is internally and own HSE policies appropriate to the characteristics of externally audited, including periodic reviews by their business.
However, the broad principles upon regulatory authorities.
which Vedanta engages in HSE activities across units are similar.
The Board has recently adopted the HSE Policy, as recommended by the Committee and shown on page 32, to provide a uniform basis for implementation of HSE policies across Group operations in the future.
A glossary of terms used in this report is found on page 44.
DELIVER Y AND GROWTH 31 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2005 P Sus age heading tainable Development Report continued HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT POLICY At Vedanta Resources plc, we believe in sustainable development and are committed to effective management of health, safety, environment and community development as an integral part of our business.
Accordingly, we will strive to: develop, implement and maintain Health, Safety and Environment HSE management systems aligned with our commitments and beliefs and consistent with world-class standards: comply with applicable HSE regulations in all our activities, thereby providing a safe and healthy work environment: seek continual improvements through setting and reviewing targets, assessing and reporting HSE performance, using appropriate best available practices and providing all employees with HSE training: implement regular health surveillance and risk-based monitoring of employees: conserve natural resources, raw materials, water and energy by process improvements, recycling and reducing waste including waste utilisation: work with communities to contribute to their development: encourage contractors and suppliers to adopt principles and practices adopted by us: and communicate with all our stakeholders on the progress and performance of HSE management.
This Health, Safety and Environment Policy was approved by the Board of Directors on 1 June 2005.
32 32 DELIVER DELIVER Y AND GROWTH Y AND GROWTH Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2005 P Sus age heading tainable Development Report continued Status of certication of Vedanta operations to E & OHSAS Standards Company Unit ISO14001: Certication OHSAS18001: Certication Sterlite Tuticorin smelter Certied Certied Silvassa copper rening facility Certied Certied Mt Lyall mine Not Intended Not Intended Thalanga mine Not Intended Not Intended HZL Rampura Agucha mine Certied Certied Rajpura Dariba mine Certied Certied Zawar mining complex Certied Certied Chanderiya smelter Certied Certied Debari smelter Certied Certied Vizag smelter Certied Certied BALCO Mainpat mine Target June 2005 Target June 2005 Bodai-Daldali deposit To be reviewed To be reviewed Korba complex Certied Certied MALCO Yercaud mine Target March 2006 Target June 2006 Kolli Hills mine To be reviewed To be reviewed Mettur Dam complex Certied Certied KCM Konkola mines Target March 2006 Target March 2006 Nchanga mines Target March 2006 Target March 2006 Nampundwe mines Target March 2006 Target March 2006 Nkana smelter Target March 2006 Target March 2006 Awards and Recognitions Rampura Agucha came first in the regional During the year, many of our operations received safety competition run by the DGMS, in addition to awards and commendations for their contribution to other prizes in various categories: and HSE management: these were received at local, regional and national levels.
Some of the significant the Vizag zinc smelter received the State achievements include: governments award for best management for its outstanding contribution in the maintenance of safety awards by Greentech Foundation, India to industrial relations, social welfare and productivity.
the Chanderiya smelter and the Korba complex: The unit also received an award at the National Safety Day celebrations.
award of the British Safety Councils national award to the Chanderiya smelter: Health and Safety Vedanta has a commitment to provide a safe environmental excellence award by Greentech and healthy workplace for its employees and Foundation to Zawar mines: contractors.
We believe that we can minimise risks and train our employees and contractors best team and best member awards in recovery to recognise this and act accordingly.
metal sector for Rajpura Dariba mines in the all-India mine rescue competition organised by Vedantas corporate safety and health initiatives the DGMS: focus on the following elements: awards in various categories at regional levels for leadership ensuring that senior management and Zawar, Rajpura Dariba, Rampura Agucha, Yercaud operational heads provide leadership in, and are and Kolli mines in competition with other mines in committed to, health and safety: the region: management systems a majority of the Groups Rampura Agucha received the award for overall operations have adopted OHSAS:18001 certied excellence in mine environment, awarded by the management systems.
Safety committees operate at Indian Bureau of Mines: various levels to ensure that employees are involved in decisions affecting their health and safety: DELIVER DELIVER Y AND GROWTH Y AND GROWTH 33 33 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2005 Sustainable Development Report continued training safety ows from safe behaviours and through specialists, as well as relevant agencies, to look attitudes.
Regular training is provided to all at the operations and identify risks and hazards, whilst employees and contractors to increase their also recommending preventive measures.
These audits awareness and to improve their behaviours and provide valuable input and feedback to the operating attitudes towards safe working practices: and teams in reducing safety risks.
risk management risk assessments are carried Training out, particularly for hazardous operations, and Training operating personnel to adopt safe working significant risks are minimised by the application of practices is an important part of the Groups safety engineering measures and the adoption of new programme.
It is a corporate policy to provide initial technology and safe working practices.
and periodic training to all employees and contractors.
The training includes routine activities and safety Safety Committees precautions, and special focus is concentrated on Safety committees are in place at various levels to identied risks and hazards in respect of operations review incidents, suggest improvements in safety and other employee activities.
At some locations such systems, and to implement risk reduction and as Korba, Tuticorin and Chanderiya, 5S training was training to prevent recurrence.
Safety committees provided to employees to integrate safety as a way of have been strengthened in terms of representation, life, rather than as an add-on.
The system and culture frequency of meetings and implementation of their of recording all incidents, including first aid cases and suggestions.
near-misses, was strengthened during the year to improve understanding of incidents and provide HSE Steward System opportunities for prevention.
An HSE Steward System was introduced at Tuticorin see box below on an experimental basis to improve Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate standards.
This has yielded excellent results and, LTIFR for the Groups operations marginally increased importantly, is motivating individuals and teams to during the year ended 31 March 2005.
There was, integrate HSE actions into their routine activities and however, a trend of improvement in the latter half of thinking.
Given this success, other operations are the year.
A target has been set of reducing the planning to replicate this approach.
Groups LTIFR by 20% during the current financial year.
It is intended to achieve this reduction through Audits the sustained implementation of various elements of Many internal and external audits were undertaken the Groups corporate safety initiatives.
HSE Steward System at Tuticorin The HSE Steward System, introduced at Tuticorin in October 2004, covers the areas of health, hygiene, housekeeping, safety and environment and encourages the participation of every individual in the unit.
The total smelter complex has been divided into 28 areas and each area is owned by one designated HSE steward who implements the HSE system in its totality in his her own area.
In addition, five HSE representatives from the units HSE department work with these stewards to ensure the system is implemented effectively.
The HSE stewards regularly monitor their area to check hygiene, health, housekeeping, safety and environment.
Boundary limits of the owned area include roads, drains, and greenbelt within the periphery.
Based on this monitoring, cross-checked by HSE representatives, reports are produced and points are awarded to individuals and areas stewards for good performance.
These reports are regularly reviewed by the management to determine suitable rewards and penalties.
Experience so far: Over the past six months at Tuticorin, this HSE initiative has motivated and encouraged both individuals and teams to strive for a safe and clean workplace.
The use of personal protective equipment has also improved signicantly.
With six audits completed so far, 760 suggestions for improvements in HSE have been received, of which about 650 have been acted upon.
A few require significant expenditure and have been included in the current years business plan.
Further improvements in the system are being planned including quarterly rewards for employee safety.
34 34 DELIVER DELIVER Y AND GROWTH Y AND GROWTH Case Study V Vedanta Resour edanta Resources plc ces plc Annual Report 2005 Annual Report 2005 Top: A company funded school, forming part of a wide range of educational activities undertaken by the Group.
Page heading Bottom: The Group supports a variety of medical services for employees and local communities, such as the health clinic shown here.
DELIVER Y AND GROWTH 35 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2005 P Sus age heading tainable Development Report continued Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate tests for blood lead, audiometry, chest x-rays and pulmonary function tests.
As part of the improvement Company 2002 03 2003 04 2004 05 programmes, Tuticorin plans to augment its occupational BALCO 5.46 5.63 7.19 health surveillance facility during the coming year.
MALCO 16.50 12.34 10.28 HZL 25.18 22.43 25.21 Sterlite 3.75 2.05 4.13 Environment Australian operations 7.88 7.97 7.19 The Group is focusing on environmental initiatives for Vedanta 13.79 11.38 13.13 effective water management, waste minimisation and recycling, reducing air emissions, energy conservation and land stewardship, which it believes During the year to March 2005, two fatalities occurred are the main challenges to sustainability.
The Group at our managed operations.
Our sincere condolences is committed to efficient use of all resources.
Many go out to the families of the deceased.
Fatalities at the Groups operations are totally unacceptable and of the Groups Indian operations made significant irreconcilable with the Groups commitment to achieve progress in implementing their commitments to the zero fatalities and serious injuries.
It is the Groups charter on Corporate Responsibility for Environmental intention to improve safety by developing strategies to Protection, which includes signicantly reducing sulphur avoid such incidents in future.
dioxide and uoride emissions, achieving zero discharge of waste water, improved handling and disposal of During the past two years several sites have seen major hazardous wastes, and improvements in housekeeping construction projects relating to our expansion and on-site plantations.
In order to ensure a safe working environment, the Group has placed considerable Water Use emphasis, from the planning stage of the projects, on Water availability, consumption and contamination observing safety systems and precautions.
These risks range from safety teams were formed for the projects and water scarcity at sites located in arid and dry regions adherence to rigorous safety systems and compliance for example, HZLs sites in Rajasthan and the was a condition of terms agreed with contractors.
As a Tuticorin smelter in Tamil Nadu, to mine dewatering result, the LTIFR for the two year period of project and its impact on regional ground water levels in activities at these four sites was 1.43.
Regretfully, over Rajasthan and Zambia.
The Group is committed to the same period, ten fatalities occurred, all relating to the efficient use of water and has taken steps to contractors.
These were generally due to material ensure that this commitment is translated into handling and working at heights.
Appropriate specic actions to reduce water consumption.
These guidelines and operating procedures have been steps have resulted in the reduction of water introduced to prevent any recurrence of such incidents.
consumption, despite increased levels of production at many of the operations.
BALCO, MALCO, HZLs Occupational Health mines and Sterlite all recorded a reduction in specic Programmes for regular occupational health water consumption during the year, while the surveillance of all employees and contractors are marginal increase at HZLs smelters was primarily the continuing.
This includes specic examinations such as result of a lower level of production, set against Fresh water consumed in primary activities Total consumption Specic consumption million cubic metres cubic metre per tonne of product Change Change % over % over Company Year 02 03 Year 03 04 Year 04 05 2 years Year 02 03 Year 03 04 Year 04 05 2 years Sterlite 1.91 1.86 1.67 12.57 12.25 10.39 9.73 20.57 MALCO 4.91 4.25 4.31 12.22 159.20 131.90 120.90 24.06 BALCO 22.84 22.32 21.34 6.57 239.23 230.34 212.38 11.22 HZL smelters 3.67 3.56 3.56 3.00 15.89 14.40 15.27 3.90 HZL mines 4.14 3.65 3.79 8.45 7.63 5.51 5.05 33.81 Australian operations 4.56 5.81 5.43 19.08 34.29 29.01 39.32 14.67 36 36 DELIVER DELIVER Y AND GROWTH Y AND GROWTH Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2005 P Sus age heading tainable Development Report continued constant water consumption at Chanderiya.
The Air Quality Group is targeting a further 5% reduction in water In the last two years, many of Vedantas operations consumption in the year ending 31 March 2006. have begun generating captive electricity on site to help reduce high power costs.
This has led to The following cases illustrate the major efforts increased sulphur dioxide emissions which are made to reduce water consumption and expected to increase further in the coming year as a increase recycling: result of the power plants currently being commissioned at Korba and Chanderiya.
Fluoride emissions are also at the MALCO Mettur aluminum smelter, water expected to increase following the commissioning of consumption in the cooling towers was 11,465 cubic expanded smelter capacity at BALCO.
However, plans metres per day constituting 72.5% of the total fresh have been made to reduce these emissions.
Use of diagnostic and statistical tools pinpointed the evaporator, vacuum pump and Plans are progressing at the HZL and Tuticorin foundry as areas requiring improvement.
The smelters to reduce sulphur dioxide emissions from problem included non-usage of recycled water for process areas by introducing tail gas scrubbers.
the evaporator vacuum pump and periodic overow Similar efforts are in progress to reduce uoride of the foundry cooling towers.
Action plans were emissions at the Korba and Mettur aluminum drawn up to implement improvement in these areas smelters, together with the adoption of pre-baked and were completed in March 2005.
As a result, the technology in the expanded capacity.
The Mettur overall water consumption in the cooling towers has aluminium plant will be provided with a dry scrubber now come down to 8,675 cubic metres per day, which will help reduce uoride emissions.
saving about 2,800 cubic metres per day of fresh water and a corresponding reduction in waste water Some of the efforts to exercise good control and discharge.
The full impact of these improvements minimise emissions are listed below: will be felt during the coming year: Improvements at Sterlites Tuticorin copper smelter, all waste adoption of highly efficient DCDA technology for water streams are treated and recycled within the new sulphuric acid plants at Tuticorin and the plant.
A further reduction in fresh water Chanderiya: consumption was achieved by introducing air coolers in the sulphuric acid plants in August adoption of state-of-the-art Cansolv technology 2003.
The hot water generated in the process is for absorption of sulphur dioxide from the cooled in air-cooled radiators so that closed loop Ausmelt plant under construction: cooling takes place and evaporation losses are avoided.
This has resulted in a lower water addition of conversion stage in the DCDA plant at consumption rate of 9.73 cubic metres per tonne Tuticorin and replacement of heat exchangers with of finished copper, compared to 10.34 cubic superior types: metres in the previous year: plans for installing tail gas scrubbers at Tuticorin, various initiatives in water conservation at HZL Debari and Chanderiya are well under way.
Tail gas include the use of desliming hydrocyclones for scrubbers at Chanderiya and Debari will be based increased recovery from tailings, the use of a on calcine scrubbing which will use zinc oxide as reclaim water reservoir for tailing dam water at the the scrubbing medium.
This will generate zinc Rampura Agucha mine, installing a reverse osmosis sulphate solution which will be utilised in the plant for desalination and recycling of water at the downstream process.
As a result, there will be no Chanderiya smelter: and chemical consumed and no solid or liquid waste generation from the process: the BALCO smelter reduced its efuent discharge by 3,500 cubic metres per day in the last two years adoption of pre-baked technology for the new by increased recycling at various places, including aluminum smelter at BALCO: the main receiving step-down station, sheet rolling shop, alumina plant and anode paste plant.
installation of a dry scrubber at BALCOs old smelter to minimise uoride emissions is in progress: DELIVER DELIVER Y AND GROWTH Y AND GROWTH 37 37 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2005 P Sus age heading tainable Development Report continued Monitoring Waste Utilisation on-line stack analysers are in use at all sulphuric acid Opportunities to reuse and recycle waste are being plant stacks for continuous monitoring and improved explored.
Research studies are being undertaken to control: reduce the hazardous characteristics of waste and to ensure the re-use of waste materials.
Some of the monitoring of uoride emissions has also been significant successes in this area are listed below: strengthened: and overburden from bauxite mining at BALCO and on-line SPM monitors provided for kiln and paste MALCO is used for concurrent reclamation of the plant stacks at MALCO.
mined out areas: Waste Management a portion of overburden and waste rock from zincThe Group is focused on proper identication, lead mining at Rampura Agucha and Zawar mines characterisation, quantication, segregation, storage at HZL is utilised for construction of tailing dam and disposal of all solid wastes.
Overburden and embankments: waste rock from mines are systematically stacked at earmarked areas while tailings are disposed of in y ash from coal-based power plants at BALCO, tailing dams.
Jarosite from hydrometallurgical zinc MALCO and HZL is utilised for producing cement: smelters is disposed of in secure, lined containments, whilst red mud from aluminum smelters is disposed copper slag at Tuticorin is used in road construction off in earmarked ponds, including a poly-lined dyke and abrasives.
Its use in cement is being explored: facility at MALCO.
A dry disposal system for red mud is in place at MALCO.
BALCO is moving towards the during the past year, about 46% of red mud dry disposal of red mud.
A new secure landll facility generated at MALCO was used in the cement industry was constructed at MALCO and Chanderiya as as a partial replacement for low-grade bauxite: part of the expansion programme.
For safe jarosite disposal at Chanderiyas new hydrometallurgical a facility was commissioned at Debari smelter smelter, technology has been adopted which involves to recover lead and zinc from old stockpiled stabilisation of jarosite with the addition of lime and leach residues: portland cement to produce a hard, compact and inert mass known as jarox.
A secure, lined disposal studies and plant trials are under way to use zincfacility has been constructed for jarox even though lead slag in cement manufacturing at the dynamic leaching tests suggest the waste will remain Chanderiya smelter: and stable for more than 500 years.
A new HDPE-lined disposal facility has been constructed and a research project has been undertaken to recover commissioned at Tuticorin for disposal of gypsum zinc and lead from Rampura Agucha mine tailings resulting from phosphoric acid production.
Energy Conservation at HZL Mines Energy consumption at HZL mines is primarily electrical and is mainly consumed in the ore beneficiation process.
During the past year, the specic electricity consumption at all HZL mines decreased by about 6%, following a 3% reduction in the previous year.
Much of this was achieved through optimum capacity utilisation, increasing the throughput rates, improving grinding mill efficiencies and working at optimal levels to minimise energy consumption in addition to reducing the consumption of chemicals and maximising metal recoveries.
Increased process automation and the use of energy efficient equipment contributed to the reduction in energy consumption per tonne of concentrates produced.
significant saving of diesel fuel was achieved at the Rampura Agucha mine where better scheduling of dumper trucks improved refuelling practices and more efficient engines have reduced diesel consumption in dumpers by 7%.
38 38 DELIVER DELIVER Y AND GROWTH Y AND GROWTH Case Study V Vedanta Resour edanta Resources plc ces plc Annual Report 2005 Annual Report 2005 Top: A tailings dam at Rampura Agucha, used for the disposal of tailings.
Page heading Bottom: Tailoring classes empower women, enabling them to nd employment and create small businesses.
DELIVER Y AND GROWTH 39 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2005 Sustainable Development Report continued Energy Consumption the systematic closure of two HZL underground Total energy use fuels and electricity amounted to zinc-lead mines at Sargepali Orissa and 19.6 million GJ during the year ended 31 March Agnigundala Andhra Pradesh, including mine and 2005.
Excluding KCM, this represented an increase mill decommissioning, clean-up and plantation on of 5% over the previous year.
This higher energy use the waste dump and tailing dam: and was primarily due to higher production levels.
Electrical energy accounted for about 70% of the a significant proportion of land in use at various total energy used, an increasing proportion of which operations is under green cover.
Tuticorin smelter is now being generated through captive facilities.
has 25 hectares of greenbelt within its premises while Rampura Agucha mine has 230 hectares of Energy conservation efforts at Vedanta include greenbelt within its mining area, which constitute energy audits and identifying energy efficiency about 25% of their respective land areas.
These are projects such as the use of energy efficient regularly maintained and augmented.
Use of energy efficient practices, the facilities is also planted with the permission and allocation of adequate resources for energy partnership of the local people.
conservation projects and regular follow-ups reect the Groups belief in energy conservation.
Community Operations undertake various activities based on an Total energy use will increase signicantly over the assessment of the needs and aspirations of the next few years as a result of the Groups expansion community.
The major thrust of community initiatives projects.
However, the Group is targeting a 5% are in the following areas: reduction in specic electricity consumption through energy efficient projects.
health care: Land Stewardship education, sports and the disabled: The Group fully appreciates the importance of minimising the disturbance to land and of female empowerment and rural livelihood: rehabilitating disturbed land.
Vedantas initiatives in this area include some significant successes: rural infrastructure and community development: and in all our bauxite mines at BALCO and MALCO, we financial and organisational support to people in follow the practice of concurrent reclamation of distress.
mined out areas by backlling with overburden and tree planting with suitable species: Health Care Organised health care activities are only one part of an abandoned HZL zinc-lead tailing dam of about the Groups community initiatives.
KCM continues 38 hectares at Zawar was rehabilitated by planting, its pioneering initiatives in health care.
Its rollback including an area with acid-producing tailing, using malaria programme has recorded great success with an integrated biotechnological approach with the a 62% reduction in malaria cases and no fatalities help of the National Environmental Engineering from malaria since 2001.
This has resulted in the Research Institute: KCM model being adopted by the Zambian government in its national programme.
Reclamation Process at BALCO The reclamation of mined out areas at BALCO is carried out in the following manner: removal and storage of topsoil: hard overburden and waste material are placed in the previously mined out area: after levelling and compaction of this backlled material, the areas are covered with topsoil stacked separately in the earlier cycle of mining: and the reclaimed land is then afforested.
Ongoing care and maintenance is carried out to ensure a good survival rate for the plantation.
40 DELIVER Y AND GROWTH Case Study Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2005 Sustainable Development Report continued KCM has been central to Zambian mining industry VAL has organised mobile health units for efficient workplace HIV AIDS awareness and prevention, and and quality health care, impacting 35 villages and community outreach programmes.
The International 700 tribal families in the drought and famine stricken Finance Corporations HIV AIDS guide for the mining terrain of Kalahandi district in the State of Orissa.
The sector was developed in partnership with KCM and PHC is being upgraded by adding 20 beds and other launched at the Konkola mine on 1 December 2004, accessories.
Emphasis is placed on malaria being World AIDS Day.
eradication by regular fume fogging.
Our health centres at the operating locations in India There is also a vision of health care at the Group and routinely reach out to the needy by distributing company level which transcends the boundaries of primary medicines.
Awareness camps are regularly the individual units.
HZL sponsored a state-of-the-art organised by company doctors on reproductive cardiology centre at Udaipur in 2002, funding the health, child immunisation and health problems of entire capital cost itself.
The centre is being run by the specic target groups.
The tribal populations Government of Rajasthan and in a short time span around the Zawar mines of HZL and Kolli bauxite has emerged as a leading centre benefiting mainly the mines of MALCO have been the beneciaries of such poor and tribal population of southern Rajasthan.
HZL contributed INR 500,000 to Kalyan Arogya The Vizag smelter organised two blood donation Sadan, Sikar and INR 4,100,000 to Vivekananda camps as part of an HIV AIDS programme jointly with Memorial Research Society, Tamil Nadu to strengthen the District AIDS Control Society and Blood Bank Cell their infrastructure to promote the Indian system of of King George Hospital, Visakhapatnam.
Himjyoti Foundation, Dehradun received Yashad Hospital at the Vizag smelter works with INR 1,100,000 for the promotion of herbal and PHCs in the villages of Mindi, Gajuwaka and medicinal plants and development of a plant-based Shriharipuram as part of our immunisation and health care system for rural areas.
The Dr CT Mehta family welfare outreach programmes.
Three Rehabilitation Centre received INR 800,000 as a immunisation camps covered 1,485 children donation for the distribution of articial limbs and and 277 people were covered under four family Jaipur Foot to the poor and needy.
Education, Sports and the Disabled Comprehensive health check-ups and systemic Education examinations are being conducted for children in and Education is an important part of the Groups around the Zawar mine on a regular basis with a community initiatives: follow-up including remedial measures.
The Rajpura Dariba mines health centre conducted check-ups on HZL, BALCO and MALCO fully fund schools at their 360 children in the year ended 31 March 2005. units, mainly catering for the children of employees but also allowing children from the neighbouring Support was extended to PHCs in three villages near population to attend: Tuticorin by providing necessary medical equipment to enhance the quality of health care.
Sterlite also HZL spent INR 2,180,000 this year on various operates five rural health clinics providing access to educational activities including distribution of quality health care in twelve villages.
Ten health and uniforms, books, stationery and teaching learning aids: hygiene awareness camps were conducted during the year ended 31 March 2005. there are more than a dozen private schools operating in and around the townships of BALCO.
At BALCO, doctors visit adopted villages regularly, BALCO provides these schools with land and building with consultation and primary medicines provided facilities, as well as providing grants-in-aid and free of charge.
At MALCO, a health clinic caters for subsidised school buses to encourage formal people below the poverty line and medical camps are schooling amongst local children: organised for the neighbouring population.
MALCO assisted in renovating two Anganwadi centres to provide nursery facilities for local children and provided books, stationery and uniforms where required: DELIVER Y AND GROWTH 41 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2005 Sustainable Development Report continued the distribution of study material benefited over The Disabled 1,400 children enrolled in the evening study centres HZL has been extending assistance to physically and being run in and around Tuticorin by Sterlite: mentally challenged children.
To support this, the Badhir Balkalyan Vikas Samiti, Bhilwara in Rajasthan VAL is creating a hostel facility at the Industrial and Viklang Kalyan Samiti in Udaipur are recipients of Training Institute, Bhawanipatna for 50 students, annual financial support for training and rehabilitation renovating and constructing rooms in the existing of disabled children, specically aimed at Government school at Lanjigarh for tribal children strengthening educational programmes for them.
and creating two child care centres at the Sterlite has signed a corporate membership agreement resettlement village, Niyamgiri Vedanta Nagar, with Vidya Pragasam Special School in Sankaraperi which will accommodate 200 underprivileged Panchayat which has physiotherapy and vocational children: and training facilities for children with cerebral palsy, autism and multiple disabilities.
The school has 55 HZL is contributing INR 100,000 per month to children coming from families living below the poverty ISKCON Chowpatty for midday meals to children.
During the year ended 31 March 2005, HZL also contributed INR 100,000 to Matrimangal Kanya Female Empowerment and Rural Livelihood Mahavidyalaya, Ringas, INR 750,000 to Rawal The Group is conscious of the issues of rural Mallinath ji Foundation, Jodhpur and INR 250,000 livelihood and the important role that women can to Ramanandacharya Sanskrit Vishwavidyala, Jaipur full.
The aim is to organise SHGs, in coordination for midday meals to children.
with other agencies, and to provide support for vocational and skills training.
The programme is at an Sports early stage but holds great promise, in particular: The Group provides support to local communities in a variety of sporting areas: Tuticorin has made a start this year by promoting and supporting a number of SHGs: in January 2005, KCM signed an agreement with the Football Association of Zambia to provide HZL has donated INR 2,000,000 to local rural selfsponsorship for the KCM Premier League.
This governance through an NGO, Seva Mandir, to league was ofcially launched on 18 March 2005: create an endowment in February 2004 for the protection and conservation of village commons the prestigious All India Hind Zinc Mohan Kumara spread over six tribal blocks near Udaipur: Mangalam Football Tournament is organised each year by HZL at the Zawar mine, with teams VAL is providing regular employment to about participating from across the country: 2,000 unskilled village youths in various projectrelated activities by constantly upgrading their the Tuticorin operation organised a district level skills.
It has also facilitated the formation of eight sports meet for children jointly with the sports SHGs in a resettlement village involving about 95 authority of Tamil Nadu.
Over 900 promising women to make them sustainable through small athletes from various parts of Tuticorin district businesses: attended the meet in August 2004: KCMs capacity building for small and medium the Zawar mine hosted a national camp for 1,300 entrepreneurs holds great promise and is likely to cadets during the year and hosted a state-level and be extended to other units.
KCM has a local district-level sports meet for school children: and business development plan, which seeks to: the Vizag smelter hosted the Andhra Pradesh i develop local business and contribute to poverty Welfare Board Sports and Culture Meet 2005, alleviation in the short term, and attracting 1,200 participants representing over 225 companies.
The Vedanta Rolling Championship ii diversify the economy of the copper belt in the Cup was introduced for the best team of the event.
long term: 42 DELIVER Y AND GROWTH Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2005 Sustainable Development Report continued KCM has to date trained 23 SMEs in capacity Education development under a partnership programme with The education funding consists of three areas: the African Project Development Facility, nanced by the International Finance Corporation.
An Sterliteracy provides training for around 70,000 evaluation revealed that turnover and employment students in 230 centres across India: for the participating SMEs increased substantially: and the prison programme, where there are 26 centres running education and vocational training in jails the KCM Widows Cooperative was launched to throughout India: and give financial support to this vulnerable group.
In addition, training and other support was given to the municipal training programme, which has farmers, mainly women, in beekeeping and honey computer labs in 24 municipal schools, covering production.
Rural Infrastructure and Community Child Care Development There are 16 child care centres in Tamil Nadu The creation of durable assets and the renovation, and two in Orissa for children between three and repair and maintenance of the existing public utility six years of age.
This was developed in response to infrastructure is a major part of the Group's research looking into the needs of families below community programme.
HZL, as part of ongoing community support to local Female Empowerment needs at all units, has undertaken the digging of The Female Empowerment Scheme encourages tube wells and the maintenance of hand pumps.
women to complete their higher education through Reengus College, founded in 1995.
The programme is In partnership with the Government of Rajasthan, driven by the belief that if a woman in the family is HZL is contributing INR 186 million towards the cost educated then the entire family gets educated.
of constructing the Mansi-Wakal dam.
This dam is due for completion in August 2005 and will augment Financial and Organisational Support to People the drinking water supply of Udaipur.
in Distress Our deepest sympathies go out to all those who Tuticorin has contributed INR 716,000 to implement suffered in the unprecedented Tsunami disaster.
The the Governments Sajaldhara Scheme which will Group extended both financial and in-kind support.
provide drinking water to 43 villages around The Group contributed INR 15 million to the disaster Tuticorin and benefit 20,000 people.
relief funds in addition to one days wages contributed by employees.
Relief material in the form of clothes, MALCO undertook desilting operations at Yercaud blankets, stoves, food packets and utensils from the Lake by using local youths.
This was an important MALCO and Sterlite operations located in Tamil Nadu task in revitalising local drinking water sources.
were distributed to the victims.
School children have planted saplings around the lake for better recharge and the use of plastic in and HZL has undertaken various activities as part of around the lake has been banned.
drought and famine relief in the villages around its units in Rajasthan.
The activities primarily focus on Sterlite Foundation providing fodder to livestock, drinking water to The Group maintains close links and helps the humans and livestock, and digging deepening of Sterlite Foundation, although this is an independent wells.
Immediate relief in terms of food packets and charitable body.
clothes were distributed to an area near Rampura Agucha mine which experienced ash oods.
The Sterlite Foundation was founded in September 1992, with the objective of assisting underprivileged Fire tenders, ambulance and medical aid are routinely youths to realise their aspirations.
The Foundation offered in emergencies to assist in areas near to focuses on three areas: education, child care and Group units.
DELIVER Y AND GROWTH 43 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2005 Sustainable Development Report continued Way Forward Vedantas work in the community will be greatly Sustainable Development Report Glossary enhanced by the recent employment of a Group AIDS: acquired immune deficiency syndrome manager, along with site level managers, to provide Cansolv: sulphur absorption technology patented by Cansolv of Canada thrust and focus in engaging with stakeholders, DCDA: double contact double absorption assessing their needs and aspirations, and putting in technology for sulphuric acid place appropriate plans and actions.
The Group is production systematically seeking NGOs who can act as partners DGMS: Director General of Mine Safety in the Government of India in our development initiatives.
E&OHSMS: Environmental and Occupational Health & Safety Management Systems The Group commissioned the Institute of Rural Fatality: the death of an employee or Management, Anand, and Xavier Labour Research contractor resulting from a work related injury Institute, Bhubaneshwar, for NGO mapping in GJ: gigajoules Rajasthan and Orissa, respectively.
Similar exercises HDPE: high density poly-ethylene, a synthetic are being carried out in Tamil Nadu and material used for providing an impervious lining in waste disposal Chhattisgarh.
The Group envisages further facilities improvements in community initiatives in the four HSE: health, safety and environment Indian states in which it operates.
GIVE International, HSEC: health, safety, environment and a leading international NGO, is providing direction community and supervision in planning, monitoring and ISKCON: International Society for Krishna Consciousness evaluating these initiatives.
ISO: 14001: an international environmental management system standard Substantial resources have been allocated to each published by the International Organisation for Standardisation Group subsidiary to allow them to provide support to Lost Time Injury: an accident injury forcing the their local communities on an ongoing long-term basis.
employee contractor to remain away from his her work beyond the day of the accident Scope and Basis of Sustainable LTIFR: lost time injury frequency rate: the Development Report number of lost time injuries per million This report attempts to highlight our contribution to manhours worked sustainable development by our managed NGO: non-governmental organisation OHSAS: 18001: Occupational Health and Safety operations, focusing on our performance in the areas Assessment Series standards for of safety, health, environment and community occupational health and safety development.
Performance data for some of the key management systems PHC: primary health centre indicators has been included in the report for all Recycled Water: water released during mining or current operations, except KCM, along with processing and then used in comparative data for the past two years.
These operational activities have also been aggregated across the Group, except SHG: self help group SME: small and medium entrepreneurs for KCM.
Fine dust particles suspended in air Reporting of data for current and past years, and their TPM: total productivity maintenance comparability, is inuenced by a number of changes to Water used for total new or make-up water entering the Groups operations, including new production Primary Activities: the operation and used for the operations primary activities: primary capacity, browneld expansion projects and adding activities are those in which the captive electricity generation facilities at many of the operation engages to produce its product Indian operations.
These limitations have been 5S: a Japanese concept laying emphasis on appropriately explained in this report.
Comparability of housekeeping and occupational safety data is also affected by the different methodologies in a sequential series of steps as Sort Seiri : Set in Order Seiton : Shine adopted for data collection systems.
We are Selso : Standardise Seiketsu : and committed to continuous improvement and the Sustain Shitsuke achievement of uniformity and consistency in data collection and reporting systems, whilst also adding further performance indicators in the coming years.
44 DELIVER Y AND GROWTH Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2005 Sustainable Development Report continued ASSURANCE STATEMENT 1.
Background At the request of Vedanta Resources plc the Group, we have reviewed the contents of their Sustainable Development Report of the 2005 Annual Report found on pages 31 to 44 the Report relating to performance on Health, Safety, Environmental and Community initiatives HSEC.
The Report is prepared by the Group, which is responsible for collection, compilation and presentation of information within it.
Our responsibility is to provide conclusions regarding the information presented in the Report with respect to HSEC performance of the Group.
However, this Statement should not be taken as a basis for interpreting the Groups performance across the scope of issues covered in the Report.
Approach There is currently no statutory requirement in India for preparation and publication, nor generally accepted international standard relating to verication, of HSEC reports.
Therefore, a review process was used employing a series of customised work steps to ensure consistency in our assessment.
This involved challenging and substantiating the assertions and claims made in the Report, to the extent the Report relates to current years performance, and also involved a review of processes for the collection, collation and internal reporting of HSEC data.
Limitation of scope The scope of our work was limited to making verication visits to the Groups units at HZL Udaipur, BALCO Korba, Sterlite Tuticorin and MALCO Mettur.
The Australian and Zambian operations are not covered by this assurance statement.
Our review of the data reporting procedures was limited to sample checks of HSEC data for the year ended 31 March 2005.
Basis of our review The following steps were carried out by us in order to form our conclusion: Interview of the Group Manager HSE and key personnel at units such as functional heads as well as personnel with responsibility for functions of HSEC.
Review of selected documents which were used to capture and collate information relating to HSEC performance parameters as well as policy and system documents.
Conducted visits to key units, to review data collection, reporting and internal assurance processes relating to HSEC performance.
Conclusions The senior management of the Group has demonstrated commitment towards HSEC management and implementing an HSEC governance system, as evidenced by periodic Group level review of such matters.
There is also the presence of Health, Safety and Environment and Corporate Social Responsibility functions at individual units as well as at Group level.
We observed that the Group has developed internal procedures for HSEC data collection, compilation and analysis.
Based on our review, the key conclusions are as follows: Our sample check of some of the significant data in the Report indicated that these have been correctly transposed from internal reporting, and the contents of the Report is consistent with documentary evidence obtained during the course of our work, with the exception of data related to water usage at units other than Sterlite, Tuticorin, which rely partly on estimation and not on metering, and therefore there is scope for improving reliability.
The Report provides few key performance indicators KPIs on HSEC matters.
Completeness of the Report could be improved if additional HSEC KPIs, relevant to the Groups processes and operations, were included.
Ernst & Young Pvt Ltd Delhi 1 June 2005 DELIVER Y AND GROWTH 45
