Corporate and Social Responsibility, including HSE Venture has a focus on HSE with a clear responsibility held at Board level by the Chief Operating Officer.
Board endorsement of our HS&E Policy was reflected in a revised version being issued in 2005.
2005 Highlights CO production reduced by 26% on Kittiwake 2 All Environmental Statements approved Successful biodiversity benchmarking exercise Facilitation of a southern North Sea environmental network Business continuity plan in place No lost time injuries on Audrey Continuing investment in produced water reinjection equipment Greater emphasis on auditing Responsibility to the Environment The very nature of our core business has a potential impact on the environment in which we operate.
Wherever possible we avoid negative impacts on the environment during these operations.
However, as this is not always possible we seek ways to minimise or mitigate any impacts.
Every project is therefore subject to rigorous assessment and the necessary submissions made to the DTI, our regulator.
In 2005 we submitted formal Environmental Statements for the Chestnut and Goosander developments.
These were publicly advertised and both were accepted.
In addition, 18 other formal applications were made for our drilling well pipeline activities, all of which were accepted.
There is an ever-increasing regulatory burden in the North Sea.
Several new regulations were issued in 2005 and more will appear in 2006.
We anticipate that the time taken to obtain permits will extend.
Staff that need to keep up to date with both the detail of the requirements but also the spirit behind them and the myriad of guidance that goes with them received environmental legislation briefings on the new requirements and latest interpretations during the year.
This allowed both their understanding to improve as well as an enhanced ability to demonstrate leadership with any contractors that they manage.
In addition, the Company created a Consents and Notifications Register aimed at ensuring that not only the timescales for applying for permits were not missed but also that the potential for late delivery by the regulator or an extended consultation period could be factored into our schedules.
EU Emissions Trading Scheme EUETS The new EUETS came into operation at the start of 2005.
In 2004 we conducted an independent, external verification of our emissions monitoring scheme.
This baseline audit was repeated formally under the Scheme rules in 2005.
Our Kittiwake platform is the only Venture installation registered to the Scheme and our verified CO emissions were 48,000 tonnes.
2 This was 26% below our target of 65,000 tonnes, which was itself an 8% reduction on our emissions averaged over three preceding years.
We have no requirement to purchase CO credits in 2006 and have approximately 17,000 tonnes to trade.
2 We are aware that phase II of the EUETS will include flaring from Kittiwake and Chestnut.
There is some uncertainty on how the Scheme will be applied and on how flaring volumes in previous years will be verified.
Although this has industry-wide ramifications, due to the potential impact on our producing assets, we are working with the DTI towards gaining a defined and acceptable carbon flaring allowance.
Oil in Water Water that is produced from the reservoir along with the oil is separated out and then discharged, either to sea or back into the reservoir, by produced water reinjection PWRI.
In 2006 this becomes a regulated area under the Offshore Pollution Prevention and Control OPPC Regulations with a permitted level of discharge and a possible financial penalty for exceeding that level.
The Kittiwake platform is equipped to use PWRI although this was not fully utilised in 2005 due, among other things, to reduced maintenance under previous ownership in prior years.
Venture invested approximately 0.5 million in 2005, following a similar amount in 2004, in anticipation of the regulations and also to meet our policy for environmental protection.
Late in 2005, negotiations were entered into with the DTI to allow a permit level that was realistic and achievable and to minimise, if not remove completely, any potential penalties for 2006.
These negotiations are in progress.
VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 47 CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY, INCLUDING HSE Environmental Benchmarking and Biodiversity In 2004 and 2005 Venture took part in an environmental benchmarking study led by Insight Investment, part of HBOS and a shareholder in Venture.
Our performance was compared with a range of mining energy companies, including oil majors and multinationals.
Ventures environmental management system EMS is an integrated system and does not specifically address biodiversity.
However we were positioned at 17th out of the 35 companies taking part and in 6th place in environmental leadership.
This is a satisfactory result given that Ventures EMS is still in the process of evolving as the Company grows.
In 2006 Venture will continue to work with Insight to ensure we consolidate our performance to the level that we consider appropriate to the business, certainly within the top half of the table.
Ventures current portfolio is predominantly located in areas of relatively low biodiversity sensitivity, but in the southern North Sea SNS this is likely to change.
The possibility of a large tract of the SNS becoming a Special Area of Conservation SAC became evident in 2004 when environmental statements became subject to increased levels of assessment.
The SAC for an area that includes the A fields and Ensign is likely to be approved by the EU in 2006.
This will bring a more rigorous assessment regime, extended time required for consultation and subsequent approval and also possible limitations on operations.
Environmental Leadership One area in which Venture is proud to have taken an industry lead in 2005 is in the forming and chairmanship of an SNS Environmental Forum.
Our activities on Annabel in 2004 showed that there was a lack of coordination between the companies operating in the SNS, little dialogue and virtually no sharing of best practice or costs.
The Forum now meets quarterly and is attended by 20 companies ranging from majors to new entrants.
It has been received enthusiastically by both the DTI and their technical advisors, the JNCC Joint Nature Conservation Committee.
Both bodies are always keen to attend meetings as a communication vehicle.
The Forum now shares information and data on studies and DTI issues, initially through the Venture website and latterly more formally through a separate database.
Environmental Record and Standards Performance falls into two areas, leading indicators and lagging indicators.
Leading indicators are those activities that are undertaken to promote the environmental programme and ultimately prevent incidents, while lagging indicators represent incidents and measuring the results of loss.
A range of leading indicators was developed in 2005 for the Operating and Financial Review and these will now be formalised in 2006.
The traditional lagging indicators show an excellent performance with no significant environmental incidents, either spills or permit exceptions.
Performance against other direct indicators relevant to our operations is also satisfactory.
These key performance indicators KPIs include CO and other greenhouse 2 gases, waste, chemicals and oil discharged to the sea.
In 2006 we will also consider the usefulness of direct KPIs, representing our operations in total, versus indirect, essentially office based, KPIs.
This will be in order to reflect the Environment Agencys expectation on Environmental Disclosures.
We will also give attention to our supply chain and engage with our critical contractors on their environmental programmes.
Contractor Engagement Venture has the ability and the obligation under our HS&E Policy to influence the activities and to require certain standards to be met, even by those contractors whose market capitalisation and scale of operations outweighs our own.
Recognising the advantages of independent assurance, in 2005 we started a process of identifying those key contractors who bring HS&E risk to our operations.
We assessed the status of their Environmental Management Systems in terms of accreditation to a recognised international standard.
In 2006 this accreditation will be required and we will ensure that Ventures own EMS is formally verified as meeting the principles of ISO 14001.
48 VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY, INCLUDING HSE Responsibility to People Venture had 73 employees at the end of 2005, a 35% increase on the 54 employed at the start of the year.
About 40 long-term contractors were also employed.
All these staff are office based and none suffered a lost time injury LTI in 2005.
Venture is Operator of the Audrey platforms where in 2004 one LTI occurred.
Despite an increase of around 40% in working hours on Audrey there were no LTIs in 2005.
Ventures operations in its licensed blocks involve many people working offshore on production installations and drilling rigs, but not under Ventures direct control.
During 2005 over 1.25 million hours were worked in these operations and the LTI frequency rate LTIFR was 2.5, which was around the industry average.
Audit In the pursuit of continuous improvement, in 2005 Venture continued with an auditing programme that included both contractors and our own Management System.
This will be extended in 2006 to include our host platform operators, Marathon and ConocoPhillips, who play a large part in the transportation of Ventures oil and gas.
Venture was also very happy to be a founder member, along with BP and Shell, in FPAL Verify.
This is an industry wide system of auditing contractors safety and environmental management systems.
The intent is that if an approved body does an audit on a supplier then each and every member that subsequently contracts with that supplier does not have to repeat the audit.
By co-sponsoring audits costs can be reduced and efficiencies gained in the contracting process.
Business Continuity Crisis Management Emergency Response Venture has one office.
Total loss of the office is extremely unlikely but the impact would be considerable.
This risk was recognised as part of the 2005 Business Risk Review and therefore framework Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery Plans were put in place.
In 2006 these plans will be used in an exercise based on total loss of the office.
Drills and exercises were also carried out with Crisis and Incident Response Teams to ensure that rapid, effective and proactive response to an incident would occur.
It is recognised that in most cases the front line immediate response would be the contractor responsible for site operations.
Responsibility to Society Social Investment Venture believes that business growth and community development can go hand in hand.
We consider the communities in which we exist to be one of our most important stakeholder groups.
To date our contributions have been made in an ad-hoc manner by supporting employees who want to give their time to charities and community organisations.
For example we gave 1,000 for sponsorship for the girls under 18 hockey district squad and a 1,000 donation to the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation.
In addition we made smaller sponsorship contributions, e. g. to a local school for an environmental competition.
To recognise the Companys growth and standing in the community in 2006 we will formalise our social investment policy.
Our employees are our strongest link with local communities and it is therefore through encouraging our employees voluntary efforts that we will give support to these communities.
Business Ethics A Business Ethics and Integrity Guidance note was issued to all staff in 2005.
This guidance note reinforced the Business Principles to which Venture has committed itself and described the standards of behaviour that we wish to promote both within the company and with enterprises that wish to do business with us.
VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 49
