14 Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate and Social Responsibility Report We try harder.
for the environment and the community Managing Corporate and Social Responsibility Environmental impacts Responsibility for Corporate Social Responsibility CSR at We remain committed to measuring and, wherever possible, Board level rests with the Group Personnel and Corporate reducing the negative impacts of our business on the Affairs Director.
During 2005, in order to broaden and deepen environment.
We offset those emissions which we cannot CSR in those countries where we have direct control, CSR avoid and our European corporate operations and some management and monitoring was assigned to Country Risk of our licensees are carbon neutral.
For our independent licensees, Regional Licensee Directors are responsible for promoting Our largest impact is from greenhouse gas emissions, both adherence to Group CSR principles and policies.
from our ofces and our rental locations and vehicle eet.
Secondary impacts come from the waste which we send CSR strategy to landll and incinerate.
Our CSR strategy ows from the Company values set out in our statement of business principles see www.
Each year we measure these impacts, using data which is reviewed and analysed by the independent Edinburgh Centre We believe that we have been adopting best practice in the way for Carbon Management working with The CarbonNeutral we work with our stakeholders for many years.
We recognise, Company formerly Future Forests.
The analysis covers however, that we can be more rigorous and transparent in the emissions from electricity, gas, oil, propane, landll and way we manage these relationships.
Therefore, for 2006, we incinerated waste by our Group headquarters, European have set a small number of targets for those indicators which corporate operations head ofces and rental locations, along best demonstrate our performance in meeting our overall CSR with business travel by staff.
We have used more rigorous data goals.
For the community, our focus will be on developing a collection methods in 2005, which has necessitated restating framework for the wide range of local initiatives currently gures for previous years, in the following table.
Our environmental targets will focus on achieving Year 2003 2004 2005 further reductions in emissions in our European corporate head CO emissions tonnes 19,389 21,133 18,054 2 ofces, where we have direct control over our energy usage.
However, these targets will be set towards the end of 2006 to Incineration waste tonnes 598 604 74 allow us to continue to improve the quality of our data collection Landll waste tonnes 804 855 735 during a period of transition for the business.
Corporate operations In 2006, we will concentrate on ensuring that these targets In 2005, we achieved our carbon neutral status for our are met in the Groups European corporate operations.
We will operations by: encourage our independent licensees to do likewise with a view to bringing all locations displaying the Avis brand into a targeting reductions of CO emissions through the more 2 common CSR measurement system over time.
We will report efficient use of buildings.
We are also extending the range on our progress in due course.
of materials which we recycle, to include printer cartridges, mobile phones and plastic cups: and We have again participated in the Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility Index Survey.
We are a member of the FTSE4Good Index and the Kempen SNS Smallcap SRI Europe Index.
Avis Europe plc 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Carbon neutral status maintained for our European corporate operations offsetting non-reducible emissions from energy use and non-recycled waste via tree planting and support of other Case study: Pioneering tree planting in Brittany renewable energy and technology projects that reduce Avis has supported The CarbonNeutral Company in its greenhouse gas emissions.
Since 2000 we have offset some project with the Mayor of the village of Querrien, Brittany 76,500 tonnes CO through a combination of forestry and 2 to plant new woodland near the village and to maintain climate-friendly technology projects.
In 2005 alone we have the area as forestry for 99 years.
The site not only offset 19,400 tonnes CO. 2 absorbs CO emissions, but also provides a recreational 2 space for the community and helps protect the water Fleet operations catchments of the village and promote local biodiversity.
We seek to minimise emissions from our vehicles wherever possible.
In 2005 we have: Some 30,000 trees have been planted over the 16.6 acre site.
They should absorb about 8,200 tonnes CO over 2 continued to change the eet regularly, so that vehicles run the 99 year period.
Approximately 75% of the site has at the optimum level of efficiency: been allocated to Avis, the remainder being reserved for conducted over 40 checks between each rental to ensure other CarbonNeutral Company clients.
The annual CO 2 vehicles are well maintained: and emissions of Avis France are about 1,200 tonnes CO. 2 introduced new environmentally friendly vehicles.
Avis It is the Groups first planting site in France and possibly Sweden purchased over 400 of the new ethanol-powered the first forestry carbon project undertaken in France.
Saab 9-5 BioPower cars during 2005 as well as around 75 Ford Flexi-fuel and 20 Toyota Prius.
We continued to supply gasoline-electric hybrid vehicles at the three principal Portuguese airports.
Community We encourage our customers to support our programme by: We aim to make a positive contribution to the communities in which we operate.
producing an environmental driving code to help reduce the amount of fuel used: and Responsibility for decision-making on community matters facilitating those who book their rental on-line to make their is devolved to our country and local operations and the most journey carbon neutral.
In 2005, the number of customers important single criterion for involvement is the positive impact choosing to do this rose by over 50% to over 1,500. which we can generate.
Increasingly, however, our activities centre around road safety and the provision of vehicles for Our external environmental accreditation again includes an community purposes and the planting of trees in mitigation A rating from the Safety and Environmental Risk Management of our environmental impacts.
We also encourage our staff to Rating Agency, well above the industry average.
Avis Sweden become involved in team-based charitable fundraising activities.
maintains its eco ISO 14001 standard.
16 Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate and Social Responsibility Report continued Managing our environmental impacts The Better by Far Team at the Forest of Marston Vale in Bedfordshire, one of 12 community forests in England.
The team helped to replenish stocks of indigenous bluebells and other wildowers as part of Marston Vales wider goal to plant five million trees by 2030.
In 2005, community organisations which have had free use Workplace of our rental vehicles have included: Avis can only deliver its We try harder.
promise by fostering a strong team spirit and making the Group a great place to work.
les Restaurants du Coeur, France.
Providing food to the homeless: We do this by listening to our employees, through one-to-one Stichting fide NEES Foundation, Holland.
Providing transport meetings, large scale staff surveys and our European Employee for young people with physical disabilities or who are Council, which consists of representatives of all corporate chronically ill: and operations and meets with management twice a year to discuss matters of transnational interest.
Mensajeros fide la Paz, Spain.
Giving free access transport to orphaned children.
We employ an extremely diverse range of people.
Our employment policies recognise this and reect the local Our tree planting activities have included: circumstances in individual countries.
Wherever we operate, Vilnius Forest Enterprise, Lithuania.
Staff, partners and however, we follow common principles of non-discrimination customers have planted over 6,000 trees in a programme in recruitment, development, remuneration and advancement.
developed with Vilnius State Forestry: We also require the highest standards of honesty, integrity and fairness from all our employees, wherever they work.
Forest of Marston Vale, England.
A staff team helped prepare an area for tree planting and replenished the stock of bluebells We believe that the effectiveness and efficiency of the business and other wild owers: and is enhanced by employing people with extensive experience Alicante, Spain.
With The CarbonNeutral Company, we of the Group at all staff levels.
We work hard to retain staff, have planted palm and olive trees in the vicinity of our eet not least by personal development and internal promotion.
We continue to have approximately 50% of staff in Avis Europe with more than five years service with the Group.
Staff have taken part in a wide range of charitable fundraising activities.
Highlights during 2005 included: Our 2004 2005 staff survey covered 12 business units across Europe, representing 90% of employees.
The results showed Helsinki-Tallinn Sailing Race.
An Avis team took part in the that overall employee satisfaction had risen over two years race, which raises funds for the Tallinn Childrens Hospital: from 67.5% to 69%.
Pride in working for Avis was up from Paris to Courchevel relay race.
Avis won the Best Effort 71.5% to 72.6%.
The average rating for the entire survey was award in this 750 kilometre relay race in aid of organ donation 64.4% compared to 62.9%.
Given the background of significant awareness: structural and management changes in the Group we believe that these results are encouraging.
UK staff have raised funds through coffee mornings, car washing and Travelling Ted, a teddy The survey also identied areas where we could do better.
bear which travelled around UK locations attending charity We have therefore introduced a number of initiatives at head events: and ofce and country level, particularly in the areas of recognition, performance management and communication, to reect Three Peaks Challenge.
A team of 21 Avis staff participated local concerns.
in the Three Peaks Challenge to raise funds for CARE International, a global humanitarian organisation.
Avis Europe plc 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Minimising emissions from our eet In 2005, we continued to introduce new environmentally friendly vehicles onto the eet.
In Sweden our licensee purchased over 400 new ethanol-powered Saab 9-5 BioPower cars and we continued to supply gasoline-electric hybrid vehicles in Portugal.
Marketplace We were the first car rental company to achieve the ISO 10002 We aim to make Avis the first choice of our customers and CMSAS 86:2000 standard for complaint management, and are so customer satisfaction and loyalty are absolutely central still the only car rental company to hold this accreditation to the Groups continuing business success.
This international standard covers all our European ofces, and demonstrates We monitor customer satisfaction primarily by customer surveys that we have a closed feedback loop.
It includes ensuring and by the level of complaints and the way we deal with them.
that we have the mechanisms, training and values in place to collect, record and collate feedback and provide continuous The three key measures of customer satisfaction are: formal senior management review to highlight and correct service failures to the customers satisfaction.
overall satisfaction: propensity of customers to recommend Avis: and An indirect, but powerful, indication of how we treat our customers is the number of awards which we receive.
we won two prestigious business traveller awards for the second year running the Business Traveller Awards for Best The Managing Director of each operation takes personal Car Rental Company and Best Car Rental Company Worldwide, responsibility for the monitoring and improvement of the together with a further 13 awards across the territories in which customer satisfaction scores.
The majority of these awards are based directly on customers views.
Each month we distribute over 12,000 customer opinion surveys to a random selection of customers shortly after their rental.
Over 3,000 of them normally reply.
For reporting purposes, we restate all the feedback to the month of rental and then undertake an analysis so that we can identify any problems as a basis for taking the appropriate action.
Corporate operations in each country receive a monthly report on responses from their own customers.
Local Customer Champions work with cross-functional Customer Action Teams to respond to queries and criticism, both on individual cases and systemic issues identied.
The aim is continuous improvement in satisfaction levels.
In 2005, we have sought to improve the customer experience by introducing faster and automated check-ins, a shorter, more transparent rental agreement and in-vehicle navigation systems.
Overall satisfaction levels have shown steady improvement over the past five years.
In the year to December 2005, overall perception has improved by nearly 1% and the ratio of refunds to rentals improved by 6.4%.
