Corporate Social Responsibility WE FOCUS OUR Corporate Responsibility Statement WORLDWIDE Policy innovative, and which provide opportunities for OPERATIONS ON: Cookson recognises that its operations impact employee training and development to maximise a wide community of stakeholders, including personal potential and develop careers within the FAIR AND EQUITABLE investors, employees, customers, business Group.
Cookson believes that wherever in the EMPLOYMENT associates and local communities and that world they work employees have the right appropriate attention to the fulfilment of its to be treated in good faith and on the basis PRACTICES corporate responsibilities can enhance overall of respect for the dignity of the individual.
The THE HEALTH AND performance.
In structuring its approach to the Cookson Code requires all Group companies to various aspects of corporate social responsibility, ensure that recruitment, training, promotion, SAFETY OF OUR the Company takes account of guidelines and career development, termination and similar WORKFORCE statements issued by stakeholder representatives employment-related issues are based on and other regulatory bodies from around the world.
individual ability, achievement, experience and THE ENVIRONMENTAL Social, environmental and ethical matters are conduct without regard to race, colour, IMPACT OF OUR reviewed by the Board, particularly as regards nationality, culture, ethnic origin, religion, sex, OPERATIONS.
the impact such matters may have on the Groups sexual orientation, age, disability or any other management of risk and the internal control reason not related to job performance or systems in place for addressing any significant prohibited by applicable law.
The Cookson Code requires all employees, officers and Directors to have a duty of loyalty to Code of Conduct the Group.
Individuals may not use their positions The Company has a Code of Conduct Cookson to profit themselves or others at the expense of Code, which has been distributed throughout the Group.
Personal interests that do, may or the Group in 12 languages and by which all its might appear to conflict with Group interests or businesses are required to operate.
The Cookson improperly influence the performance of an Code emphasises the Companys commitment to individuals duties must be avoided at all times.
compliance with the highest standards of legal Cookson seeks to be a good corporate citizen and ethical behaviour.
The Cookson Code is wherever it conducts business.
The Cookson Code reproduced in full on the Companys website.
requires employees to observe all national and As stated in the Cookson Code, the primary local laws and never seek to gain any advantage goal of Cookson is the protection and through the inappropriate use of payments, advancement of the interests of investors by business courtesies or other inducements.
Bribery providing attractive returns on a long-term basis.
Group businesses must In striving to achieve this goal, management respect and take into account regional and local must conduct its business in a responsible concerns, customs and traditions.
manner, while engaging in careful risk-taking as an essential ingredient of business success.
The Helpline Cookson Code requires that particular care be Cookson has a 24-hour Employee Business given to the preservation and protection of Group Concern Helpline and e-mail facility.
This is assets by making prudent and effective use of operated by a professional, external provider of resources.
Long-term customer satisfaction is employee support, counselling and business recognised as being essential to the attainment concern services, which provides Cooksons of Group goals, which means listening carefully to employees and business associates with an customers product and service requirements independent and confidential service through and maintaining a reputation for integrity in all which to register any concerns about any business and other dealings.
incorrect or irregular practices they perceive in The Group can only achieve its goals through Cooksons workplace.
With the express permission the efforts of its employees.
Cookson recognises of the caller or e-mail correspondent, the service that job satisfaction requires working environments provider reports any matters raised to a designated that motivate employees to be productive and team at Cooksons Head Office for investigation.
Cookson Group plc { 26 } Annual Report 2005
