Electricity KWH, millions Health, Safety and Environmental Statement Policy Like many manufacturers, some Group companies have potential Cookson has a Health, Safety and Environment HS&E Policy environmental liabilities because of past operations at their based on the principle of operating in a manner that preserves current or former sites.
Where remediation is required, Cookson health, safety and a sound environment.
For Cookson companies environmental managers and external specialists work with worldwide, the minimum acceptable standard is to meet their government authorities to ensure that remediation is conducted legal HS&E obligations, however, the aim is to improve continually.
Cookson believes that good HS&E performance is an integral part of effective and profitable business management.
The Policy, Compliance which is reviewed regularly, is available in full on the Companys Although a small number of enforcement notices were issued to website, www.
Cookson companies in 2005, only one to date has resulted in a monetary penalty.
No court actions were filed against Cookson Management Systems companies for HS&E non-compliance in 2005.
The Board assumes ultimate responsibility for HS&E policy and for Additional information on HS&E matters can be found on the monitoring its implementation, while executives and line managers Companys website.
are directly responsible for HS&E matters in the operations under their control.
A reporting system is in place to collect, collate and Marketplace report on key performance indicators.
Advice and support is Many of Cooksons businesses are at the forefront of developing available from the corporate HS&E function, led by the Group Head lower environmental impact solutions for their customers and of HS&E who reports on these matters to the Board.
Performance Workplace In 2004, Cookson began a new programme to reduce energy use, Cooksons success depends very much on retaining the and the associated emissions of carbon dioxide, the principle commitment of the people who work within it.
The Group strives to greenhouse gas.
The programme includes training employees to ensure that employees have a safe environment in which to work understand energy use and conservation principles and introducing and that employment practices are fair and equitable.
energy audits to assist high-use sites in identifying and implementing conservation measures.
This programme is already Safety showing results.
For example, at our largest energy consumption Cooksons goal is zero work-related injuries and illnesses.
To site, initial efforts have reduced lighting costs by 70% and overall achieve this, a worldwide initiative has been implemented to energy costs by 18%.
improve safety performance, with a particular focus on applying The number of Cookson locations certified to ISO 14001, the sound risk assessments and ergonomic principles.
The programme international standard for environmental management systems, includes minimum standards of performance, targeted assistance continues to increase.
By the end of 2005, 42 locations had to higher risk sites and a variety of training and awareness achieved certification and 13 additional locations were activities.
From 1999 to 2005, the rate of injuries and illnesses implementing the standard.
A growing number of Cookson resulting in absence from work improved by 53%.
In 2005, over operations are also achieving certification to the OHSAS 18001 half of Cooksons operations around the world achieved our goal of standard for health and safety management.
This growth is an zero work-related illnesses and injuries.
indication of the commitment of Group companies to improved One area of particular focus has been the elimination of workenvironmental performance.
related injuries through better application of ergonomic principles.
A number of Cookson companies in the US have been named as The last three years have seen extensive ergonomic training potentially responsible parties under the Superfund law for wastes throughout the Group and the establishment of ergonomic teams disposed of at sites owned by third parties.
Although likely Group at a number of facilities, leading to a significant improvement in costs depend on many factors, the few cases that remain active are performance.
expected to be settled within the amounts already provided.
