CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY During the year, the Group continued to integrate SEE matters The principal mechanism for the management of SEE risks and into its mainstream management processes, fully embracing SEE opportunities is the Groups existing risk management framework.
matters in its risk management framework.
The Groups During the year risk registers were reviewed to identify, assess and commitment to CSR is recognised by its membership of the make explicit risks that were deemed to have specific SEE CSR FTSE4Good Index Series.
Consideration was given to any additional actions required, and CSR themes and priorities were defined and The Group is committed to operating in a socially, ethically and incorporated in risk registers as appropriate.
The Risk Management environmentally responsible manner in every aspect of its business Committee, which is responsible for overseeing compliance with the activities.
The Group aims to be recognised as transparent and Groups CSR policy, reviewed the key CSR themes and priorities for ethical in its dealings and to contribute through its normal business each business and reported its recommendations to the Board.
operations and its community involvement to the general economic and social well-being and development of the communities in which The corporate risk register was similarly reviewed by the Executive it operates.
As part of its commitment to external reporting, the Committee and the Board on two occasions during the year with Group has sought to comply in this report with the disclosure specific emphasis on SEE CSR dimensions.
guidelines issued by the Association of British Insurers ABI.
By pro-actively identifying and managing significant SEE related During the year, the Board has taken regular account of the risks, the Group aims to maintain its commitment to a high standard significance of SEE matters to the Groups business.
The Board of corporate social responsibility.
The following have been defined considers that it has received adequate information to enable it to by the Board as the principal CSR themes and priorities relevant to identify and assess significant SEE matters which may have an the management of the Groups exposures to SEE related risks that impact on the short and long-term value of the Group, and the may impact upon the short and long-term value of the Group: Board is satisfied that SEE matters are currently managed so as not ensuring the safety of employees, contractors and the general to represent a material risk to the Group.
The Board has ensured public through adherence to recognised safety standards, that the Group has effective systems for managing SEE related risks and the promotion of a health and safety culture throughout and appropriate targets have been set for the executive directors and the Group: other relevant senior managers, linked to bonus entitlements.
maintaining a commitment to a working environment in which During the year, the Board reviewed and revised the Groups CSR personal and employment rights are upheld, and ensuring policy and developed a statement of its CSR strategy.
The Groups equality of opportunity for all employees and job applicants: CSR policy is supported by other policies, covering the environment, maintaining a commitment to a working environment which health and safety, community involvement and human resources, enables employees to realise their maximum potential and to be including its equal opportunities policy.
appropriately challenged and fully engaged in the business, with opportunities for skill enhancement, personal development and The Groups CSR strategy is to build on current management employee share ownership: processes, in which there already resides a highly developed awareness of CSR issues, to make the management of CSR part of making a positive contribution to the physical environment the mainstream activity of the business.
A strategic action plan was through environmentally responsible management and put in place identifying and prioritising CSR actions for the year adherence to relevant statutory and regulatory standards: ended 31 March 2005 and beyond.
The Group Chief Executive is contributing to a reduction in the impact of energy related the Board member responsible for CSR strategy and is assisted by activities on the environment through the promotion and the Company Secretary and a CSR co-ordinator.
CSR compliance provision of renewable energy options,  officers were designated to co-ordinate the individual business units energy and energy efficiency measures: responses to SEE matters.
commitment to NIE Supplys social action plans, including Specific SEE related matters, such as in the areas of health and attention to the issues of debt prevention, the continued safety, regulation and the environment, are the subject of ongoing promotion of keypad meters and provision of services to reporting and presentations to the Board.
As part of its strategic customers with special needs: review during the year, the Board received a specific presentation on continuing to deliver available efficiency improvements and CSR.
The Board has reviewed SEE training needs for existing investing within the limits of price controls to provide the directors and is satisfied that appropriate needs have been fulfilled, Northern Ireland community with a safe and reliable electricity and has agreed how account will be taken of SEE matters in the transmission and distribution infrastructure and a quality service future training of directors.
Board members will receive appropriate at an affordable price: and induction in CSR matters when joining the Company.
maintaining a highly ethical approach to regulatory responsibilities, obligations under licences, public positioning and marketing of products and services.
24 Corporate Social Responsibility Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005 The Groups externally resourced internal audit function carried out a The Group Chief Executive has overall responsibility for the equal verification of the SEE CSR disclosures contained in this section of opportunities policy.
This policy commits the Group to providing the Annual Report in recognition of the close alignment between equality of opportunity for all employees and applicants for SEE CSR and other business risks and to further embed SEE CSR employment.
Employment decisions exclude consideration of an into mainstream business processes.
individuals religious affiliation, political opinion, gender, marital status, disability, domestic responsibility, race, ethnic background, The internal auditors were satisfied that the disclosures are sexual preference, irrelevant criminal convictions or any other supported by adequate and appropriate evidence.
Their review personal factor which is not relevant.
Equal opportunities, concluded that the Group had appropriately adopted the harassment and disability policies have been updated to remain requirements of the ABI guidelines on Socially Responsible consistent with best practice and changing legislation.
The latest Investment, and assigned an overall assurance rating of high.
Group disability survey showed that 2.2% of employees considered In addition, key elements of the Groups CSR activities are subject themselves as having a disability.
to specific external verification including ISO 14001 and Investors in People IIP.
There were no occasions during the year when the Group was found to have failed to comply with equal opportunities legislation.
The Equality Commission commended the Groups fifth Article 55 Workplace Review of Fair Employment for the period May 2001 to May 2004, carried out in accordance with the Fair Employment and Treatment The Group is cognisant of its obligations to its employees and Order 1998. contractors under health and safety legislation.
The Groups health and safety policy aims to promote high standards and is supported In addition to formal complaints and grievance procedures, the by specific safety principles, rules, policies and procedures.
Harry Group has 15 trained harassment advisers and a harassment advice McCracken, Group Managing Director, VP&E, has responsibility for line.
The Group engages with relevant external organisations, health and safety at Board level and he shares that responsibility on including Opportunity Now, which promotes equality on gender, the the Executive Committee with Laurence MacKenzie, Managing NI Equality Forum, an employers forum for sharing knowledge and Director, T&D and Powerteam.
best practice on equality issues, the NI Equality Commission and the Employers Forum on Disability.
The Group health and safety management system is structured upon the principles of the Health & Safety Executive for Northern Ireland The Group has a wide range of family-friendly working arrangements HSENI guidance Successful Health and Safety Management and in place including maternity, paternity, adoption, parental and the Health and Safety Commission guidance Directors dependant leave, a child care scheme, career breaks, job sharing Responsibilities for Health and Safety.
There are 62 safety and flexible working hours.
representatives and 89 fire wardens trained across the Group.
To further strengthen the health and safety management system, the Eligible employees have the opportunity to participate in employee Group has adopted recommendations from a quality safety audit of share schemes.
A HM Revenue & Customs approved Sharesave T&D and Powerteam carried out during the year by RoSPA Royal Scheme has been in place since privatisation in 1993.
In 2002, the Society for the Prevention of Accidents.
last date of grant, 51% of eligible employees participated in the scheme.
In February 2005, 59% of eligible employees participated Formal processes for accident investigation and incident analysis are in the Companys new Share Incentive Plan SIP.
During the year there was a total of 14 reportable accidents across the Group compared to 13 in the previous year.
Learning and development needs are identified through Contractors working on NIEs electricity network must adhere to the performance, planning and review PPR processes.
NIE, same safety rules and requirements as Group employees.
There Powerteam and the Northern Ireland operations of Sx3 are IIP were no employee or contractor fatalities during the year.
The Group accredited, having been re-accredited in July 2003, February 2004 safety department regularly engages with various relevant and April 2003 respectively.
organisations, including HSENI, DETI and the Department of Trade and Industry.
The Group places a significant emphasis on internal communications.
Employee communications occur through a The Group believes that the pro-active management of illness and variety of channels, including team briefings, employee surveys, absenteeism is to the mutual benefit of the Group and its employees involvement groups, company forums and through interaction and and aims to promote a health culture.
The Group uses an consultation with trade unions.
Communications are managed at outsourced occupational health service operating on a managementthe individual level and the PPR processes have been designed to referral or self-referral basis, as well as a welfare consultant who is include upward feedback.
available to provide confidential welfare advice to all employees.
Existing health-related polices cover mental health, HIV infection and AIDS, alcohol and drug-related problems, smoking and first aid.
In the year ended 31 March 2005, sickness absence for the Group was 2.89% compared to 2.91% the previous year, below the national average of 4.0%.
Corporate Social Responsibility 25 The Group provides financial support to Action Renewables, a joint Environment venture with DETI aimed at raising awareness and encouraging the The environmental policy, which was reviewed and revised by the installation of renewable energy technologies in Northern Ireland.
In Board during the year, commits the Group to protecting the September 2004 NIE Supply won the Belfast Business Award for its environment and is designed to ensure compliance with all relevant work in promoting sustainable energy.
Where practical and economically viable, the Group seeks to develop standards in excess An ESCo Energy Services Company project team has been of such requirements.
Areas of particular focus include measures to established within NIE Supply to oversee sustainable energy protect against oil pollution, the responsible management of activities, regulated and unregulated, and to consider business emissions and waste, and the promotion of energy efficiency.
opportunities in this emerging field.
Since June 2001, NIE and Powerteam have been accredited to ISO The NIE Sustainable Management of Assets and Renewable 14001 and continued certification was approved in November 2004.
co. uk is part of Annual objectives and targets are set for NIE and Powerteam in the the current regulatory framework agreed between T&D and NIAER.
During the year, risk assessments were The programme has been developed to encourage  for ten 110kV substations, and environmental key friendly approaches to the provision of T&D network infrastructure to performance indicators were set for all relevant new contractors to meet customer demand in Northern Ireland.
A total of 25 renewable reduce waste to landfill.
NIE and Powerteam have 24 trained programmes and projects is now being funded and managed under environmental assessors auditors and 15 audits were completed the SMART programme.
Technologies targeted for support include during the year.
Following the seventh environmental management photovoltaics, solar water heating, biomass, domestic CHP, tidal survey conducted by ARENA Network in Northern Ireland in 2004, power and hydro-electric power, with 1m committed.
In April 2004 the Group attained the top position for the utilities sector, achieving the SMART programme won the business category at Action an overall score of 95.8%.
The sector average was 80%, with an Renewables renewable energy awards.
overall average of 65% for all participating organisations.
The Group has designated environmental compliance officers for its relevant Energia continues to promote renewable energy and in November operations.
There were no prosecutions for non-compliance with 2004 launched its total lighting energy efficiency scheme.
The environmental legislation during the year.
available funding has been successfully allocated to 61 projects, with 59 completed or underway.
Huntstown 1 began commercial operation in November 2002 and operates in compliance with its Integrated Pollution Control IPC licence, with reporting on emissions based on calendar years.
Marketplace Additionally Huntstown 1 holds emission credits for CO emissions 2 The Group aims to ensure that it is recognised as transparent and under EU ETS.
For calendar year 2004, the stations emissions of ethical in all its dealings.
A number of policies are in place to nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide and CO were 875 tonnes, 2 tonnes 2 underpin this aim including a whistleblowing policy and a code of and 1,018,685 tonnes respectively.
On a day-to-day basis these ethics, as well as the Groups corporate governance arrangements.
recorded emission levels are managed well within IPC licence limits.
During the year, Huntstown 1 has been progressing towards The Groups procurement practices aim to ensure transparency and attaining ISO 14001 for its plant management process.
fairness in its dealings with suppliers, including a policy to make payment to suppliers in accordance with agreed terms of business.
NIE manages a 3.8m energy efficiency programme approved by The Group subscribes to the Achilles utilities vendor database to NIAER and audited by the Energy Saving Trust.
This programme is pre-qualify potential suppliers for major contracts: this assessment aimed at reducing CO emissions and alleviating fuel poverty.
At 31 2 includes environmental and health and safety practices.
All March 2005 a total of 17 energy efficiency schemes have been suppliers are pre-qualified on a fair and equal basis.
The Groups implemented with estimated lifetime reductions of 230GWh in internal procurement team carries out supplier assessments on other electricity demand.
This represents an estimated 43,403 tonnes of contracts not processed through Achilles.
This is based on an CO savings and customer benefits of 15.9m over the lifetime of 2 assessment of environmental and health and safety practices as these measures.
During the year, projects targeting innovative submitted in tender documentation.
technologies such as domestic combined heat and power CHP were initiated.
In addition, through commitments in NIE Supplys price control, a further 13m of lifetime savings to customers has been delivered through investment in energy efficiency measures since 2000.
NIE Supply has continued to promote EcoEnergy, its green electricity tariff, which currently has 14,024 customers.
26 Corporate Social Responsibility Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005 NIE offers a number of services to its customers which are promoted Community through its codes of practice and through various advice providers, Through its mainstream business activities and its community including Citizens Advice Bureaux, Advice NI and Energy Efficiency involvement policy, the Group seeks to contribute to economic and Advice Centres.
The codes are produced in several different social development and environmental improvements in the local languages.
NIE aims to assist its customers with special needs communities in which it operates, both in Northern Ireland and in through a number of these services.
The total number of customers the RoI.
The Groups community involvement policy is aligned to using the critical care register is 2,709, with 2,513 on the customer three key themes: growth, safety and environment.
At 31 March 2005, 581 customers were users of NIEs password scheme, a service which provides customers with During the year, NIE continued to engage with its community additional proof of identity of agents calling at their homes.
through an on-going public safety awareness programme, promoting the importance of electrical safety to farmers, agricultural and During the year, the Group sponsored various charities and building contractors through the HSENI and NIE farm safety road organisations with sponsorship totalling 123,000.
Employees were show, safety presentations and farm safety leaflets.
In association given the opportunity to support the Tsumani disaster appeal with other agencies, including the Department of the Environment, through a one-off give-as-you-earn payroll donation and the Group the Northern Ireland Fire Brigade and the Police Service of Northern matched employee donations, as did the NIE Charities Committee, Ireland, the NIE-initiated Kidzsafe programme was launched to run by employees.
The Group raise safety awareness among school children in an effort to reduce also made a donation of 10,000 to the NIE Staff and Pensioners incidences of vandalism and electricity-related injuries to children.
The NIE Charities Committee has been in existence Over 10,000 school children attended presentations under this for almost 20 years and during that time almost 1m has been safety awareness programme during the year and in support of the distributed to many local charities.
Other examples of community programme, the NIE Kidzsafe website www.
co. uk was involvement during the year included: also launched.
The Viridian Growth Fund, which at 31 March 2005, had invested a total of 1.7m in developing businesses in Northern NIE offers contractors undertaking roadworks a wide range of advice Ireland: this fund is supported by private sector investors, and assistance to help them avoid its underground cables.
This including the Group and VGPS, DETI and the European includes advice leaflets, videos and diagrams of the underground Investment Bank with support under the EU Programme for electricity network, as well as advising contractors to check NIEs Peace and Reconciliation: website www.
co. uk for additional safety advice.
The Princes Trust, supported through the provision of office The Group recognises the social dimension of debt management accommodation: and and NIE Supply continues to offer a wide range of payment options Women into Science and Engineering WISE Committee in and debt prevention measures.
As part of its price control, NIE Northern Ireland, which has been supported for the past Supply has a target to install 175,000 keypad meters by March four years by NIEs environmental manager, who set up the 2007.
At 31 March 2005 a total of 152,794 meters were installed.
org and continues to assist This pay-as-you-go metering enables customers to budget for their in its development.
electricity payments, whilst attracting a 2.5% discount on the standard price of electricity, and provides friendly credit and userThe Groups primary responsibility is to its shareholders.
The Group friendly consumption information.
There are over 1,700 outlets in also recognises a range of other stakeholders, including its Northern Ireland from which NIE Supply customers can buy keypad customers and the wider community, its employees, those meter credits, as well as a telephone vending facility.
The energy representing the environment and its suppliers.
Stakeholder efficiency programme, which is targeted at alleviating fuel poverty, is engagement has been highlighted throughout this report.
addition, given the nature of the Groups business, there is regular interaction consultation with NIAER, CER and DETI on mainstream NIE provides financial and in-kind support for Northern Irelands business issues with SEE CSR dimensions.
Regular interaction on Energy Efficiency Advice Centres to offer free and impartial energy similar issues also takes place with elected representatives, GCCNI efficiency advice to its customers and engages with organisations and the media.
The Group also liaises with contractors, landowners including the Fuel Poverty Partnership Group and the Department of and environmental representatives, including the Environment and Social Development.
Heritage Service when undertaking Environmental Impact Assessments, which are mandatory for transmission projects.
NIE aims to ensure that its customers receive a quality service at an affordable price.
By the end of T&Ds third price control period 31 The Groups CSR Policy and other CSR information can be March 2007, T&D prices will have reduced by around 45% in real found on the Groups website www.
co. uk under terms since privatisation.
T&Ds strong record of cost efficiency, Corporate Responsibility.
delivered while improving network performance and performance against customer standards, is part of its mainstream business commitment to the community.
Further details on T&Ds operating performance during the year are outlined in the Operating Review.
