793529 1170 3 6 05 10:41 Page 76 Corporate Responsibility and Environmental Issues Vodafone Group Foundation, mobile operating subsidiaries and their foundations and Corporate Responsibility employees committed total funds of over 2.5 million to the Asian Tsunami relief.
Vodafone sees corporate responsibility CR as the process of understanding the This included the provision of free calls to and from the affected region and expectations of stakeholders in the Company and taking appropriate action to meet those employee matched donations in a number of countries.
Further details of the expectations where they are realistic and legitimate.
Stakeholders include customers, activities of the foundations are provided in the Foundation Yearbook which can be investors, employees, suppliers, the communities where the Group operates and where found at www.
org about: and, networks are based, governments and regulators and representatives of civil society.
In addition to the Companys CR Report, nine mobile operating subsidiaries have CR is relevant across all aspects of business strategy and is encapsulated in the now published their own CR reports.
strategic goal of being a responsible business.
The Executive Committee, chaired by During the year the Group commissioned and published research into the broader the Chief Executive, receives information on CR and the Director of Corporate socio-economic impacts of mobile in the developing world and launched the initial Responsibility provides a report to the Board.
All mobile operating subsidiaries have a results.
Further information is available at www.
representative on their management boards with responsibility for CR.
CR is also at the heart of Vodafones values and is clearly linked to one of the four passions, Passion for Vodafone retained its position in both the FTSE4Good and Dow Jones Sustainability the world around us.
Vodafones approach to business is underpinned by the Business Principles.
These Vodafone has continued to develop the level of independent assessment and assurance cover both corporate and individual behaviour and are communicated to employees of the CR programme and performance data.
The scope of work for the Groups in a number of ways, including induction processes, web-sites and briengs.
auditors Deloitte & Touche LLP has been extended to allow a conclusion to be Further information on the Business Principles can be found on expressed on certain performance data procedures across the business, as well as to www.
CR matters are included within the Groups review reporting against the requirements of the assurance standard AA1000AS.
This development programme for directors and senior managers.
assures, in all material respects, whether reporting reects the material CR issues for Vodafone Group and whether processes are in place to ensure completeness, and Vodafone aims to integrate CR into the business and this is being reected in reporting on responses to concerns on those issues.
The assurance statement is governance, policy, process and reporting.
For example, CR is integrated into published in the CR report.
Vodafones risk management processes such as the formal annual conrmation provided by each mobile operating subsidiary detailing the operation of their controls Environmental Issues system as outlined on page 63.
The Group continues to monitor and manage the impact of its activities on the These processes are supported by stakeholder engagement, which seeks to provide a environment and is committed to minimising adverse impacts in an appropriate clear understanding of expectations of performance.
The Group engages with manner.
Over the last twelve months, progress has been made across a series of stakeholders in a variety of different ways.
For example, during the 2005 financial projects that address environmental issues.
These include addressing the concerns year, meetings relating to CR issues were held with over 20 investors, employees were related to the perceived link between radio frequencies and health, the use of energy, surveyed with an 89% response rate and the Group conducted research with the the reuse and recycling of handsets and accessories, the management of waste and public which involved over 12,500 interviews across ten markets.
This helps to ensure the use of ozone depleting substances.
Examples of initiatives include: Vodafone is aware of the issues relevant to the business and that it is focused on the priority areas.
This is covered in more detail in the Companys CR Report for the 2005 Approving, in April 2005, a new policy relating to Responsible Network Deployment.
financial year, which can be found at www.
This is supported by a set of guidelines to help mobile operating subsidiaries achieve leading edge practices relating to community consultation, public concerns Performance is closely monitored and reports are provided to most subsidiary company relating to health, masts and phones and environmental impact: boards on a regular basis.
This has driven demonstrable performance improvement and is valuable in benchmarking.
Progress is being made in responding to our Making available up-to-date information regarding radio frequency eld strength stakeholders expectations.
Some examples are set out below and further details are values from locations that have been selected by an independent body.
Fourteen provided in the Companys CR Report for the 2005 financial year: out of sixteen mobile operating subsidiaries published these values and all measurements demonstrate that RF elds in publicly accessible places close to A specialist team has been established in Group Marketing to coordinate base stations are substantially below ICNIRP guideline levels.
Vodafone Hungary will development of socially beneficial products across Vodafone.
Current projects start to make the information available in July 2005 whilst Vodafone Japan is include products and services for the deaf and blind or others with difficulty using undertaking a trial: conventional handsets: Developing an energy modelling tool to help predict the climate change impact of Vodafone commissioned an independent assessment of compliance with its network expansion, and to support target setting.
The Group has also carried out an standards on age-classied content, chat services, games and Internet browsing.
intensive programme of meetings with key equipment vendors to discuss energy A mobile Internet ltering service has been designed to help parents prevent their efficiency gains to be made through their product development programmes: children accessing inappropriate content and this is expected to be rolled out across all operations during 2005 and 2006: Launching a handset reuse and recycling scheme in Egypt, one of the first such schemes in a developing market.
The Group now has schemes operating in all The Vodafone Code of Ethical Purchasing has been integrated into supplier controlled markets except Albania: and performance management processes.
During the year, 25 of the Companys largest suppliers completed self-assessment questionnaires against the Code and five onSending over 90% of our network equipment waste for reuse and recycling, site reviews were conducted at suppliers facilities: meeting the commitment from last years CR report.
The Vodafone Group Foundation has continued to implement a programme of grant Further details of these initiatives are provided in the Companys CR Report for the making activity in accordance with its mission statement.
The Company, the 2005 financial year and on www.
