Affiliate businesses Partner Networks Proportionate Customers Country Operator At 31 March At 31 March Austria A1 Percentage 2005 2004 1 Ownership thousands thousands Bahrain MTC-Vodafone Bahrain Croatia VIPnet Americas 2 Cyprus Cytamobile-Vodafone United States 44.4% 20,173 17,257 Denmark TDC Mobil EMEA Estonia Elisa 3 France 43.9% 7,011 6,309 Finland Elisa Switzerland 25.0% 993 960 Belgium 25.0% 1,073 1,088 Hong Kong SmarTone-Vodafone Poland 19.6% 1,443 1,126 Iceland Og-Vodafone Romania 20.1% 1,010 738 Kuwait MTC-Vodafone 4 South Africa 35.0% 5,087 3,404 Lithuania Bit Kenya 35.0% 879 535 Luxembourg LUXGSM Asia Pacific Singapore Mobile One Fiji 49.0% 76 56 Slovenia si.
mobil-vodafone China 3.3% 6,994 4,913 Notes: 3 At 31 March 2005, the Groups associate in France had subsidiaries in La Runion and La Mayotte.
Customers in these countries were excluded at 31 March 2004, but at 31 March 2005, the Groups proportionate customers included 226,000 customers in respect of these countries.
4 At 31 March 2005, the Groups associate in South Africa had subsidiaries in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Lesotho, Mozambique and Tanzania.
Customers in these countries were excluded at 31 March 2004, but at 31 March 2005, the Groups proportionate customers included 594,000 customers in respect of these countries.
Performance 19 | Corporate Responsibility Vodafone sees corporate responsibility CR as the process of understanding stakeholders expectations of the Company and taking action to meet those expectations where they are realistic and legitimate.
By stakeholders we mean customers, employees, suppliers, the communities where we operate, governments, regulators and representatives of civil society as well as investors.
Stakeholder engagement: key lessons Embedding CR in the way we do business Vodafones approach to business is underpinned by the We engage with stakeholders in a variety of ways.
They cover both corporate and during the year we held meetings on CR issues with over individual behaviour and are communicated to employees 20 investors: we surveyed employees: and we conducted through induction processes, websites and briefings.
over 12,500 interviews with the public across 10 markets.
For further information on the Principles, see: The following CR issues emerged as global priorities for www.
com responsibility businessprinciples Vodafone: health aspects of mobiles and masts: inappropriate CR is embedded in Vodafones values and is clearly linked content and content standards: supply chain impacts: to one of our four passions: Passion for the world around us.
handset recycling: clear pricing and energy use.
We believe that CR issues are most effectively managed The Companys CR Report for the 2005 financial year as part of our core business processes rather than as a presents our performance on these issues.
New Zealands campaign against text bullying Many young people have been the victim of text bullying receiving mean, offensive or threatening text messages.
But as with physical bullying, they are often too embarrassed or frightened to tell anybody about the problem and seek help.
In 2004, Vodafone New Zealand launched a campaign to tackle this unpleasant practice.
The company joined forces with NetSafe, an independent non-profit organisation that provides cyber-safety education for New Zealanders.
Posters and brochures were developed providing information on what children, schools and parents can do about text bullying, and how Vodafone and NetSafe can help.
They encouraged young people to call NetSafe if they were being bullied via their mobile.
The posters and brochures were distributed to schools, libraries, cinemas and swimming pools around New Zealand.
The campaign was also featured on national television and radio.
The campaign produced an impressive response, with calls from 20 schools in the first two days requesting additional posters and brochures.
The number of bullying incidents reported to NetSafe decreased by 30% in three months.
20 Corporate Governance | During the year, our CR management has focused on: donations of 33 million to The Vodafone Group Foundation, local Vodafone Foundations and social projects.
Vodafone enhancing our processes for issues management and Group Plc, The Vodafone Group Foundation, local operating stakeholder engagement so that they feed more effectively companies, their foundations and employees committed total into business decision making funds of over 2.5 million to the Asia tsunami disaster relief.
embedding CR into the day-to-day operations of the business We developed a new policy relating to Responsible Network Deployment, supported by a set of guidelines to help strengthening internal communications operating companies.
developing a CR strategy for the next five years.
Fourteen of our sixteen operating companies now publish information on radio frequency field RF strength values at Corporate responsibility highlights of the year: independently selected locations showing that RF fields A specialist team has been established within Group in publicly accessible places close to base stations are Marketing to coordinate development of products with high substantially below guideline levels.
Current projects include the launch of products We developed an energy modelling tool to help predict the and services for customers with special needs, and the pilot climate change impact of our network expansion.
We also of services for the micro-finance market in East Africa.
engaged with key equipment vendors to discuss potential We have designed a mobile internet filtering service to help energy efficiency improvements.
parents prevent their children accessing inappropriate Over 90% of our network equipment waste was sent for content.
This is expected to be rolled out across all reuse or recycling.
In addition to the Companys CR Report, nine mobile We integrated the Vodafone Code of Ethical Purchasing into operating subsidiaries have now published their own supplier performance management processes.
year, 25 of our largest suppliers completed self-assessments against the Code, and we carried out five reviews at Further details of CR performance are in the Companys suppliers facilities.
CR Report for the 2005 financial year and at Vodafone and its operating companies made charitable www.
com responsibility Africa: the impact of mobile phones During 2004, Vodafone commissioned four research studies into the socio-economic impacts of mobile phones in Africa.
Key findings include: A developing country which has an average of 10 more mobile phones per 100 people between 1996 and 2003 had 0.59 percent higher GDP growth than an otherwise identical country.
Fixed and mobile communications networks, in addition to the openness of the economy, the level of GDP and other infrastructure, are positively linked with Foreign Direct Investment and the impact of mobile telecommunications has grown in recent years.
Mobile telephony has a positive and significant impact on economic growth, and this impact may be twice as large in developing countries as in developed countries.
97 percent of people surveyed in Tanzania said they could access a mobile phone, while only 28 percent could access a landline.
62 percent of small businesses in South Africa and 59 percent in Egypt said they had increased their profits as a result of mobile phones, in spite of increased call costs.
com africa for more information.
