793529 1160 3 6 05 10:41 Page 75 Employees The Group has developed and launched a global Customer Delight system which Employee involvement gathers monthly feedback from thousands of customers around the world to see The Board of directors aim is to ensure that employees understand the Companys how Vodafone measures up to their expectations.
strategic goals and the mutual obligations of working in a high performing, valuesThe second Employee Survey was conducted in February 2005 and over 89% of based organisation.
employees took the opportunity to share their views.
The results will be used to Vodafones Vision and Values provide a common way of doing things and the Group measure progress and develop a further programme of action to support the objective remains determined that they continue to ourish throughout the business: implicit in of creating a high performance, values based culture with people as a competitive all that the Group does for and with its shareholders, customers and employees.
Vodafone has now launched a global induction programme to ensure that all new employees are introduced to the Groups culture, vision and objectives.
Employment policies The Board places a high priority on effective employee communications to promote The Groups employment policies are consistent with the principles of the United important messages and a wide range of mechanisms is used to achieve this.
In Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour addition to the more traditional channels, such as the global team brieng programme, Organisation Core Conventions and are developed to reect local legal, cultural and the Group is increasingly using its own products and services such as SMS and audio employment requirements.
High standards are maintained wherever the Group based messaging to reinforce their efcacy as internal communications media.
This operates, as Vodafone aims to ensure that the Group is recognised as an employer of will be developed further in the future.
This year has also seen the launch of Vodafone choice.
Employees at all levels and in all companies are encouraged to make the TV, the Groups bespoke television service used to simultaneously disseminate key greatest possible contribution to the Groups success.
The Group considers its messages and data worldwide via the Groups global intranet.
All of these initiatives employee relations to be good.
are supported and enhanced by a comprehensive range of award winning in-house publications, for effectively sharing information with employees on key performance Equal opportunities indicators for the business.
Vodafone does not condone unfair treatment of any kind and operates an equal opportunities policy for all aspects of employment and advancement, regardless of Within European subsidiaries, employee representatives meet annually with members race, nationality, sex, marital status, disability or religious or political belief.
In practice, of the executive management team in the Vodafone European Employee Consultative this means that the Group is able to select the best people available for positions on Council to discuss the performance and prospects of the Group and significant the basis of merit and capability, making the most effective use of the talents and transnational issues.
experience of people in the business, providing them with the opportunity to develop During 2003, Vodafone conducted its first bi-annual Employee Survey in order to and realise their potential.
measure the effectiveness of its communications initiatives and its standing as an employer.
84% of employees shared their views with the Company and, as a result, The disabled the Board initiated a Group level action plan with three themes.
These, and the The directors are conscious of the special difficulties experienced by people with initiatives put in place during 2003 and 2004 to address them, are summarised below: disabilities.
Every effort is made to ensure ready access to the Groups facilities and To communicate and bring the Vodafone strategy to life: services and a range of products has been developed for people with special needs.
In addition, disabled people are assured of full and fair consideration for all vacancies for Chief Executive, Arun Sarin, and other members of the executive management team which they offer themselves as suitable candidates and efforts are made to meet their continue to host the Talkabout roadshow programme which aims to visit each special needs, particularly in relation to access and mobility.
Where possible, mobile operating subsidiary annually.
In the Talkabout sessions, management modications to workplaces have been made to provide access and, therefore, job discusses the shared vision for Vodafones future with as wide an audience of opportunities for the disabled.
Every effort is made to continue the employment of Vodafone people as possible, listening to their views and talking about the issues people who become disabled via the provision of additional facilities, job design and the that matter most to them and exchanging ideas about how Vodafone can serve its provision of appropriate training.
customers as a single, global team.
This programme provides the perfect opportunity to articulate the Vodafone Journey, which is how the Group has Health, safety and wellbeing chosen to identify its strategic goals and priorities and its progress in achieving The health, safety and wellbeing of the Groups customers, employees and others who them.
could be affected by its activities, are of paramount importance to Vodafone and the To ensure the world class development of Vodafone people: Group applies rigorous standards to all of its operations.
Annually, each operating subsidiary is audited against these standards and the results are submitted in a report One of the Groups key strategic goals is to Build the best Vodafone Team.
This for discussion by the Board of directors.
signies a long-term investment in building the Groups organisation capability.
The aim is to create a steady stream of talent at every level of the organisation, with a The Groups annual global health and safety audit has shown a consistent rise in continued emphasis on developing operational excellence.
Vodafones Global scores from the audits in 2002, 2003 and 2004.
New standards and policies have People Development function is working with the Groups operating companies to been produced and implemented with an increase in consultation, participation and create common global approaches to people and management development.
This best practice sharing by health and safety professionals from the operating includes resourcing and assessment standards, consistent performance reviews, subsidiaries.
These include revised standards on radio frequency eld exposure, health formal training structures including e-learning and an annual process to review the and safety risk assessment and health and safety planning.
Further standards and a performance and potential of Vodafones most senior managers in order to plan comprehensive health and safety management system are in the consultation phase.
To consider how the Group might anticipate and better respond to the needs of its customers: Governance | 75
