Corporate social responsibility VT Group is working diligently to secure its place as a good corporate citizen.
We continue to review and enhance our performance in the key areas of employment, ethics, the environment and relationships with stakeholder groups and the communities in which we work.
Strenuous Employees Environment efforts continue to be made to promote the We recognise that many of our activities Our employees, who now number some VT image, amongst other things as a focus have the potential to enable us to enhance 11,000 worldwide, including our joint of loyalty for all employees.
and protect the environment in which we ventures, remain our most important asset Communication with employees at all levels live and work.
Whilst the chief executive and during the year, there have been has ultimate responsibility, it is for individual continues to be extremely important.
In several significant developments intended business units to implement the relevant addition to the enhanced group publication, to recognise further their very valuable processes on a local basis.
We remain VTi, local communications groups and contribution.
These include the introduction committed to a process of continuous feedback are actively promoted at all levels.
of a flexible benefits package and the review and improvement to minimise any restructuring of contributions to the final The group is committed to developing and adverse impact our activities may have on maintaining an environment where diversity salary pension scheme to permit it to the environment.
We currently operate and equality are valued and promoted.
remain open for employees who are already the following initiatives within the This policy benefits the business as it helps members.
All employees have access to Shipbuilding division: deliver a wide range of skills and experience the externally managed confidential All lighting has been replaced by more across the organisation.
This year we are assistance helpline.
efficient high frequency fluorescent units introducing HR information technology VT is fast-growing and developing and it A similar system at head office is additionally software to enable improved monitoring operated by movement sensors: is vital that our employees feel they are an and reporting of diversity and equality at integral part of this changing landscape.
The groups policy and practice A waste transfer station has been We have developed and published our is to encourage the recruitment and established which is available for use by vision for the group and actively sought the all VT units in the area.
This facilitates the subsequent training, development and involvement of the workforce at all levels.
sorting of waste for onward recycling and promotion of disabled people on the Looking back a few years, as the group currently covers metals, paper, card, glass, basis of their aptitude and abilities and mobile phones and toner cartridges.
In all, developed from its shipbuilding and the retention and re-training of employees some 14% of all waste is now recycled, defence-orientated base, it became who become disabled.
double that previously, and all monetary apparent that some employees in the The group devotes a significant amount of proceeds are donated to charity.
growing non-defence areas of the time and resource to employee training and business were uneasy at being associated Initiatives elsewhere include: retraining and this year has spent 2,233,000 with a company with defence origins.
2004: 3,063,000 which includes the cost of A green travel policy which is in use To address this employee concern, whilst it training in respect of the move to Portsmouth widely across the group.
Employees are was clearly not possible to change this core in this regard.
This excludes the cost of asked to share travel where possible.
business, a number of important steps on-the-job training which, whilst substantial, Minibuses and taxis are used to transport were taken to address the balance.
The annual training employees in order to reduce fuel These included changing the company awards evening, which recognises those consumption and exhaust emissions name, introducing a new corporate image who have made significant developments in and also to ease traffic congestion and detaching the group head office this area, has become a major event.
at peak times: 20 VT Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Training award scheme Duke of Edinburgh Share Incentive Plan Award Scheme Our annual training awards celebrate To underline our commitment with young A further launch of the UK and US sharesave achievements both at work and in people in business, we are involved with schemes during the year was well supported the community.
the Duke of Edinburgh Award Scheme and and there are, in addition, proposals to we currently sponsor the Year in Industry activate the All Employee Share Option Plan, contribution to the Business Award 2005 now known as the Share Incentive Plan.
which is open to all placed gap year students and undergraduates.
It is a national scheme which currently has some 500 industry subscribers and provides students with the opportunity to make a significant contribution to the host companys business.
VT Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 21 Corporate social responsibility It is important to the group that its businesses and employees engage with the community in which they operate.
VT Halmatic fund and work with Stakeholders In April 2005, VT Group joined Business in manufacturers to improve the use of the Community.
This association of over We maintain regular contact with our major composites in the construction of road 750 member companies is committed to institutional shareholders and take careful trailers which reduces weight and improving its positive impact on society.
account of views expressed by them.
During the year we will nominate our therefore fuel consumption.
We also continue to engage with our executives to join its Seeing is believing Ethics major suppliers to understand and, programmes run by the community and we where appropriate, to encourage their aim to develop and publish a Corporate The group aims to conduct its business priorities on ethical and environmentally Responsibility Policy.
in an ethical manner and to honour its friendly sourcing of materials.
The groups commitments to its suppliers, contractors There is a central group charity committee policy, in relation to all of its suppliers, and customers.
made up of employees representative of the is to settle the terms of payment when main areas of the group.
This committee negotiating the detail of the transaction and The group complies fully with the latest meets regularly throughout the year and then to make payment in accordance with statutory and other regulatory requirements distributes corporate funds to charities those terms provided VT is satisfied that the on agents and business ethics, both in the with preference given to those local to the supplier has provided the goods or services UK and the US.
groups principal places of business and in accordance with the agreed terms and There is published on the intranet an which relate to education, health, community conditions.
The groups policy, unless internal code of ethics with which all and the arts.
During the year the group otherwise agreed, is to pay all its suppliers employees are required to comply.
contributed a total of 86,000 2004: within 45 days of the end of the month in Gifts must be declared and expensive 77,000 to charitable organisations which which it receives the goods or services.
The number of days purchases creditor included four specifically targeted larger days outstanding for payment by the group donations to beneficiaries selected by the The group operates a whistleblowers line at the year end was 44 2004: 35. committee.
The total figure also included with direct access to the audit committee 25,000 given to the Tsunami appeal on financial matters and to the chief executive Involvement with the community to match a similar amount raised by on all other matters.
All employees have employees throughout the group in the UK It is of considerable importance to VT that been made aware of this facility.
its employees and businesses engage during the first two weeks of January 2005: No donations are made to political wherever practicable with the local separately, in the US a total of $25,000 was organisations.
communities in which they operate.
raised for the same cause.
22 VT Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Very Reverend David Brindley Dean of Portsmouth Picture supplied by The News VT Halmatic recyclable VT Shipbuilding joins VT assists St. Thomas boats Carbon Trading Scheme Cathedral, Portsmouth appeal brochure A totally recyclable boat being built by VT All boilers use gas instead of oil as the During the year the marketing team provided Halmatic.
This is made of polyethylene which, primary fuel: this reduces carbon dioxide assistance to the Cathedral Church of at the end of the boats useful life, can be emissions by some 25%.
We have registered St Thomas, Portsmouth, in producing a melted down and reused.
The material also with the government-sponsored Carbon brochure to launch the Cathedral appeal fund.
has the benefit of being more durable than Trading Scheme which requires a continuous similar materials more traditionally used in reduction of 15% failing which a substantial boat construction.
The scheme, introduced by the European Union, is a cap and trade system for energy intensive sectors.
Under this, we are given an allowance of permitted emissions: any part of the allowance not utilised can be traded with a less successful operator.
There is thus a financial driver to achieve the reduced emission levels.
The overall scheme forms part of the commitment by European Governments to meet the reduced CO2 emission levels set by the Kyoto Agreement.
VT Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 23 Corporate social responsibility The year has seen a comprehensive revision of health and safety and the adoption of a comprehensive set of requirements and expectations.
In addition to monetary gifts, the group in promoting the upskilling of the local the sharing of best practice and lessons also sponsors or encourages employees to workforce by sitting on the San Diego learned around the group, thereby Committee in Southampton.
become involved in a variety of beneficial activities, including: Employees sit on various Economic The outcome of the review will see the Development panels and local authority VT Communications organises tours of the implementation of a new group policy sponsored committees which investigate detailing business requirements and BBC whilst VT Shipbuilding on average local area investment and development.
expectations designed by a senior external hosts one school visit per week to its Portsmouth operation: consultant working with the group.
He will Health and Safety remain until a replacement senior and VT Halmatic is currently hosting an The year has seen a comprehensive experienced practitioner is appointed, apprentice and offering support and review of health and safety carried out who will report directly to the chief executive.
guidance in the construction of a new with the assistance of independent consultants.
This has led to the adoption Safety training continues across the hovercraft for Solent Search and Rescue.
of a comprehensive set of health and safety business units at all levels and the board There are many instances throughout the requirements and expectations and an have held a training session on their group of individual employees who work ongoing review of our operating responsibilities.
Emphasis is being placed tirelessly to make a contribution to their procedures, tailored where appropriate on the responsibility of all staff, regardless local communities and we support and to the business unit.
We have developed of status, for their own safety and that of all encourage their activities wherever possible.
the Safety, Health and Environment forum, fellow employees, customers, contractors chaired by the HR director and comprising An employee of VT Griffin Services, Inc. and visitors.
Occupational health is a key the health and safety managers of business has contributed to a number of charitable part of our approach and we are increasing units together with representatives from and community based projects and has our resources in this area, particularly within the group and external consultants.
enlisted the help of her colleagues at the Shipbuilding, addressing its associated Its aims are to enhance VTs ability to Kings Bay Naval Base in Georgia where hazards, including noise, vibration and comply with its obligatory reporting and she works, including a Back to School manual handling.
governance requirements, to enable the programme which supports children at a Regular reports on health and safety are group to achieve respect for its collective local refuge for abused families.
The chief executive is approach to, and performance in, health Employees from business units in and safety, from its stakeholders, peers the nominated director responsible for south Hampshire take an active role and the wider community and to enable health and safety.
24 VT Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Jubilee Sailing Trust The VT Young Graduate Achievement in the Award Scheme Community Prize Supporting the Jubilee Sailing Trust, In September 2004, our VT Young Graduate Pete Vickery from VT Communications serves a charity based locally but with national Award Scheme was launched by Ivan Lewis his local community in Bude, Cornwall though coverage, which promotes integration MP, then Parliamentary Under Secretary of membership of the local life saving club.
between able-bodied and physically disabled State for Skills and Vocational Education.
Pete has been a member of the club virtually people by offering people of mixed abilities This scheme is a partnership between VT since its formation in 1953 and has served as the opportunity to be part of the crew and Shipbuilding and Sholing Technology College its president.
He continues to work tirelessly sail as equals on board a magnificent tall for girls in Southampton which gives young for the club and even takes holiday from ship.
This year, we are specifically sponsoring women the opportunity to embark on a two work to carry out club duties.
His efforts were a number of places on the re-creation of year course to supplement their education in rewarded at the recent VT Training Awards the voyage by HM Schooner Pickle from science and technology.
VTs involvement evening when he won the Achievement in Cape Trafalgar to Falmouth to mark the includes assisting pupils with technical the Community prize.
bi-centenary of the Battle of Trafalgar.
projects, educational visits and representation on the schools board of governors.
VT Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 25
