Corporate Social Responsibility Report Our approach Throughout 2005, the Group Operations Executive Committee The Weir Group is a global organisation, working in sectors and reviewed the safety, quality and environmental performance industries that have a significant impact on human and natural against objectives set for 2005.
The primary concerns are to resources.
As an organisation, our core values include integrity, reduce accidents in the workplace and maintain high standards self-determination and valuing people.
These values ensure we of environmental management in all of our activities.
remain focused on meeting our responsibilities to our customers, suppliers, employees and shareholders, as well as to the communities where we work.
Workplace Safety has the highest priority within Weir.
The Groups policy on By ensuring that corporate social responsibility is an inherent health and safety requires that all our companies take a proactive part of leadership that crosses all boundaries in our organisation, responsible attitude to the protection of their employees health we seek to combine business success with support for people, and safety.
We recognise that corporate social responsibility requires us first and foremost to listen to our All companies carefully evaluate risks to personnel wherever they are external and internal customers in everything we do and to working and take appropriate steps to minimise such risks.
These respond to their needs through the enduring excellence of include ensuring that project design engineers consider design our actions, policies and processes.
factors that minimise or eliminate the risk of accidents to personnel during site installation and commissioning.
All Group companies are In line with this philosophy, we pursue excellence through our required to comply with the legislation governing health and safety global Environmental, Health and Safety forums whose goal is at work and to conduct regular formal health and safety reviews at to eliminate work-related injuries, prevent pollution, conserve plant and site level.
These reviews are undertaken by nominated resources, comply with regulatory requirements and improve managers and employees to ensure that risks are properly evaluated, performance.
These forums annually review our performance events leading to accidents are examined and appropriate remedial in these areas, collect data, share best practice and plan for the or avoidance action initiated and subsequently monitored.
In turn, these plans are disseminated and included reporting procedures have been implemented so that the safety within individual business plans throughout our operations.
performance of individual companies is monitored and peer-to-peer This ensures consistency in performance measurement and audits are conducted in order to provide a critical assessment of improvement activities.
Forum members also perform cross each companys performance.
company safety audits to identify practices that are working well and areas for improvement.
Concern reports are used to We involve and inform our employees as much as possible.
track completion of corrective actions.
Given the diverse nature and geographical spread of our operations, it would be inappropriate and impractical to apply uniform In 2005, the European HSE Group Forum decided to take the procedures group-wide and each company is therefore responsible first steps to adopt OHSAS 18001 in the UK with the expectation for achieving and maintaining appropriate consultation and that this will become an international standard within 2 years.
We communicate generally OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health Safety Assessment Series with employees through the production and distribution on a was developed by the British Standards Institute as a health and regular basis of printed and electronic newspapers and bulletins safety management framework allowing organisations to ensure for employees to promote awareness of current progress and that they are consistently and accurately identifying hazards and developments within the Group.
Providing a platform for eliminating and managing these identified risks, the system supports the The Group gives full and fair consideration to employment organisation to continually improve its products, people and applications from disabled persons.
Where an employee becomes process by fulfilling the overhanging safety policy that indicates disabled, arrangements are made wherever practicable to continue the Companys commitment and objectives.
employment by identifying an available job suited to that persons capabilities and providing any necessary retraining.
The Groups Setting targets and objectives allows organisations to monitor the career development programme encourages disabled employees development of the safety culture and any non compliance that to reach their full potential.
may adversely affect the business and its supply chain.
In short, OHSAS 18001 offers a proactive approach to reducing accidents, The Group has experienced a 73% reduction in the number of Lost near misses, and other incidents year on year.
Time Accidents LTAs over the last four years.
The increased focus in this important issue included full investigations of all accidents The process of identifying development opportunities is currently being carried out and reported at the Group Operations Executive underway, involving each company in undertaking a gap analysis Committee meetings.
The companies who have the highest of their current management systems.
numbers of accidents are audited by our insurers to ensure that the In addition, OHSAS 18001 is compatible with both ISO 14001 proper systems and processes are in place.
The reduction can also and ISO 9000, potentially allowing an amalgamation of all be attributed to improvements in education and training and management systems in the future.
adoption of Lean manufacturing principles.
In 2006, we are focusing not only on accidents, but on near misses to further improve the safety culture that is being engendered across the Group.
34 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2005 Lost time accidents 2001 - 2005 An effective environmental management system certified to ISO 14001 helps the Group operate in a safer, more cost-efficient and 350 environmentally responsible manner while also complying with 300 relevant environmental legislation.
250 The key benefits associated with implementing a certified 200 environmental management system are: 150 100 demonstrating conformance: 50 management confidence: 0 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 Total 314 212 155 80 86 approved management of environmental risk: independent assessment: compliance with legislative and other requirements: Safety at work Most incidents and injuries at work arise during day-to-day continuous performance improvement: routine tasks, meaning safety must be the number one priority cost reductions: every day.
In 2005, Weir Services Division produced a video discussing the five key safety values that have been adopted in supply chain benefits.
order to define the types of safe behaviours and attitudes they wish to foster in the business.
Initiatives undertaken by Weir Group companies during Weir Services Division is committed to improving its safety 2005 include: performance year-on-year, by adopting these values and making the conscious decision to live by them.
This will have a very significant contribution to its safety record, making Weir Services Environmentally friendly a safer, better place to work.
products In the United States, Weir Specialty Pumps was involved Environment in a project to reduce the The Weir Group is committed to the protection of the number of fish killed as a result environment in which all its companies operate.
of the use of river water by Each Weir company will comply with the relevant regulatory industry.
New regulations were requirements applicable to its business.
put in place setting out that inlets in both irrigation systems or power plants must reduce what Each Weir company will ensure that it is seen to be a good is known as fish kill.
The WEMCO Hidrostal pump and screen citizen in the community in which it operates and adopt proved to be able to pump with nearly 100% survival rate, which practices aimed at minimising the environmental impact was borne out by independent research by the US Fish and of its operations.
Wildlife Service showing that our pump was the safest and most The Groups environmental policy is the responsibility of the environmentally friendly option.
Group Operations Executive Committee, while its implementation is the responsibility of divisional managing directors.
Each Weir division is required to report on environmental performance Community and maintain environmental management practices.
During the year, Group companies were involved in numerous community, social and cultural initiatives.
Causes, events and As stated last year, we have been committed to achieving charities are often nominated and driven by our employees, ISO 14001 accreditation for all companies and this has now reflecting their own interests and social engagement.
participate in a range of educational and training initiatives, As part of the integration programme, Weir Gabbioneta0 will including a programme involving Weir Pumps to raise become fully compliant with ISO 14001 by the end of 2006. industrial awareness in schools through Scottish Business in the Community, engineering support for the Young Enterprise At Weir, we recognise the wider benefits that accreditation scheme, work experience placements for school children and can bring.
The three processes of ISO 14001 - to set objectives, an accessible and well-respected apprenticeship scheme.
implement the programme and monitor progress - are cyclical and continuous and ensure best environmental practice.
ISO 14001 creates a culture where environmental considerations are actively managed rather than merely observed or avoided.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2005 35 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Continued The United Way campaign Human rights Both Weir Valves & Controls USA and Weir Minerals North In 2004, the South African Governments policy of Black Economic America have long established relationships with United Way Empowerment BEE was introduced with the aim of undoing the of America, a United States wide charity set up to improve the economic damage of apartheid.
This legislation to redistribute quality of life and build caring communities by co-ordinating wealth, fide-racialise the economy and reduce income disparity various agencies involved in areas such as respite: promoting within the country resulted in South African companies being independence of those with disabilities and childrens education.
Weir Minerals South Africa was already engaged in various social responsibility projects and Weir Valves & Controls USA and Weir Minerals North America affirmative action initiatives in South Africa prior to this legislative continue to actively support United Way and all money raised change.
As part of this programme, employee mentoring has by staff is matched by the company.
The contribution in 2005 resulted in a number of middle management appointments of was US$21,600.
previously disadvantaged individuals and the company has developed black entrepreneurs by subcontracting aspects of the operation to them.
This work has led to the Department of Trade and Industry Helping Hands nominating Weir Minerals South Africa as one of the top 300 In Britain, Weir Valves & Controls UK has become involved with Empowered Companies in South Africa for the last three consecutive the local charity Helping Hands.
The company operates in a years.
The next phase envisages setting up a BEE Trust to ensure a very ethnically diverse area and is supporting the charity in full BEE rating, which will improve its competitive position while assisting immigrants through the provision of office space as benefiting the broad based disadvantaged community.
well as office stationery, photocopiers, desks and computers.
Education & training Health & welfare Whilst graduate and apprentice recruitment and their associated In South Africa, over four training programmes are implemented and formally managed million adults and 95,000 across the Weir Group, Weir Strachan & Henshaw in the UK children are HIV positive, with recruits apprentices from within the local community and invests half of newly infected people in their training and development as part of the Craft Apprenticeship under 25 years of age.
This development of skills has proven beneficial where Weir Minerals South Africa held there is a skill shortage within specific disciplines.
an AIDS campaign on World AIDS Day with the entire On three occasions in recent years including 2005, apprentices company lending a hand.
from Weir Strachan & Henshaw have won the local Apprentice Counsellors voluntarily placing items such as posters, banners, of the Year Award.
balloons and condoms throughout the company.
A result of Weir Pumps in Scotland is heavily involved in a number of this was the realisation that more was needed and an AIDS educational and training initiatives within the local community.
programme has since been introduced.
Typical projects Weir Pumps is involved in include: To date, the programme has involved volunteers completing training in the counselling and education of fellow employees and Workshops to educate secondary school pupils about careers two roadshows have been held for all employees on the dangers in manufacturing and engineering.
In addition, support is given to the Organising and participating in industrial awareness days, Tembisa Orphanage to help look after a number of HIV AIDS job shops, mock interviews and career days.
Weir Minerals South Africa also offers financial assistance towards the education of the children of employees who meet the Work experience placements.
The programme assisted 201 children in 2004 and The Princes Trust apprentices working in a team with 179 in 2005, and the total education bursaries were 14,280 and unemployed, disabled and disadvantaged people helping 14,220 respectively.
to develop a range of positive skills.
Imagineering Clubs aimed at encouraging children of primary school age to become the next generation of engineers and scientists.
Within local schools the children are helped by Weir Pumps graduate trainees and apprentices to make working models from a series of kits.
Weir Pumps is the only company in Scotland sponsoring such clubs.
36 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2005 Manufacturing industry and engineering in general is a major Marketplace contributor to the wealth of the UK and will be for the foreseeable We recognise that our corporate social responsibility also reflects future.
Weir Pumps addresses this through its commitment to in the way we behave towards our suppliers.
The Group does such initiatives.
The apprentices and graduate trainees involved not operate a standard policy in respect of payments to suppliers.
also benefit as part of their own continuing professional Each operating company is responsible for agreeing the terms development and Scottish Vocational Qualification portfolios.
and conditions under which business transactions are conducted, including the terms of payment.
It is Group policy that payments Another example of the Groups commitment to educational to suppliers are made in accordance with the agreed terms.
training and youth development is the involvement Weir Valves At 30 December 2005, the Group had an average of 61 days & Controls UK has with a local Sixth Form College.
The college purchases outstanding in trade creditors.
had identified pupils interested in engineering and graduates went along on a weekly basis throughout the year to work on Many Weir companies are collaborating closely with suppliers Engineering Business Partnership.
The project involved Weir to address environmental impacts throughout the supply chain, Valves & Controls UK challenging the pupils to solve a practical particularly in areas such as raw materials, packaging and engineering problem over 12 months, culminating in a presentation recycling, to our mutual benefit.
This has been ongoing for the past two years and each project has resulted in a new technique being developed in the manufacturing process as well as a very practical solution.
Research & development Research and development has a vital role to play in meeting our corporate social responsibilities.
The development of Supporting local communities new products that are more environmentally benign in both Weir Strachan & Henshaw has established a core of local suppliers manufacture and operation and the substitution of harmful and service providers who can support its production and service materials, offer competitive advantage to ourselves and to operations.
This supports the local community through local our customers.
employment, while also reducing transport energy requirements We recognise that many of our products are themselves and associated pollution.
contributors to environmental protection in critical areas such as power generation, nuclear handling and subsea oil and gas exploration.
We are therefore investing in research and Charitable contributions development to continuously improve their performance.
During the year, Group companies made the following contributions: 2006 will see continued investment in design, research and development, in which our corporate social responsibility Charitable being specifically health, heritage, educational and business objectives are closely aligned.
The Group made no political contributions during the year.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2005 37 38 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2005 Directors Statement of Responsibilities Directors statement of responsibilities in relation to the Going concern basis consolidated financial statements After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable The directors are responsible for: expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, ensuring the maintenance of proper accounting records which they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the financial statements.
Group at any time and from which financial statements can be prepared to comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: Internal control preparing financial statements for each financial period, which The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed the give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted for assessment of risks and the internal control framework that use in the European Union, of the state of affairs of the Group as operates in the Weir Group and has considered the effectiveness at the end of the financial period and of the profit or loss for of the system of internal control in operation in the Group for that period: the year covered by this report and up to the date of its approval by the Board.
ensuring the operation of systems of internal control and for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Group and for preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities.
The Combined Code The financial statements for the 52 weeks to 30 December 2005, The Board considers that The Weir Group PLC applies the comprising principal statements and supporting notes, are set out principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance of in financial statements on pages 42 to 90 of this report.
the Financial Reporting Council, as described in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 23 to 25 and has complied The directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been with its provisions.
consistently applied in the preparation of the financial statements, supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates As required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services as necessary.
Authority, the auditors have considered the directors statement of compliance in relation to those points of the Combined Code The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the financial which are specified for their review.
statements are set out in the Independent Auditors Report page 41.
The financial statements for the 52 weeks to 30 December 2005 Annual report are included in the annual report 2005 which is published in The annual report for the 52 weeks to 30 December 2005, hard-copy printed form and made available on the website.
comprising the Directors Report, the Remuneration Committee The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity Report, the financial statements and additional information for of the annual report on the website, in accordance with UK investors, has been approved by the Board and signed on its legislation governing the preparation and dissemination of behalf by the Chairman.
Access to the website is available from outside the UK, where comparable legislation may be different.
Sir Robert Smith Chairman Directors remuneration 21 March 2006 The Remuneration Committee Report on pages 28 to 33 sets out the remuneration policies operated by the Weir Group and disclosures on directors remuneration and other disclosable information relating to directors and ofcers and their interests.
It has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and complies with Section B of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
40 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2005
