Corporate responsibility The Whitbread way Emma Stones, the winner of the Environment category of Whitbreads Young Achiever Awards in 2004.
Emma played a central role on the committee which undertook the regeneration of her local park in Stockport, including the creation of a childrens play area.
For details of Emmas project see the corporate responsibility section of the companys website.
co. uk PAGE 22 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 5 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Whitbread has built a strong reputation as a good corporate citizen over many years and is committed to taking its corporate responsibilities seriously, not only because it makes sound business sense but because the company also believes it has a clear responsibility to do so.
On my appointment to the Whitbread Board as Human Resources Director in May 2004 I also became responsible for Whitbreads Corporate Responsibility CR programmes.
During 2004 5 we undertook a major review of the way in which our CR commitments are managed.
A dedicated team was established to provide a platform for better coordination of energies and resources across the group.
We believe that corporate responsibility is about: Marketplace: being the customers first choice for hospitality and a favoured partner for suppliers: Environment: being committed to exploring new ways of reducing environmental impact: Workplace: creating attractive and safe places to work and conditions that Angie Risley Human Resources Director help the company become Employer of Choice: Community: building strong and Marketplace mutually bene cial partnerships with communities.
During the year a senior Whitbread-wide A Whitbread-wide Healthier Eating Marketing Leadership Team MLT was group reviews progress and menu The activities in the four areas are established, to direct and coordinate development across brands.
underpinned by the principles of the activities relating to the companys Whitbread Way the way that we do David Lloyd Leisure continues to improve customers and suppliers.
The MLT things at Whitbread as outlined by the skills and expertise of its people, reports to Paula Vennells, Alan Parker.
as well as the range of facilities and Group Commercial Director.
During 2004 5, To re ect the four key areas the CR team Healthier lifestyles David Lloyd Leisure contributed to works with four business-based steering the Government sponsored On the Following extensive customer research, groups, each sponsored by a member of Move to 2010 campaign, which is a Whitbread o ers its customers a range the Executive Council.
strategic initiative of the Fitness Industry of healthier food and drink options.
uk I am proud of Whitbreads corporate The companys food innovation and responsibility record, and particularly development and supply chain teams of the progress that has been made continue to work closely with suppliers in the last year.
Details of some of the to develop menus that reduce salt, sugar highlights can be found in the following and fat content without compromising report, with more in-depth information avour and customers enjoyment.
available on the companys website.
co. uk PAGE 23 Whitbread is committed to providing great customer service and invests extensively both in employee training and development, and in customer research.
Food and drink safety Partnership with suppliers Highlights Whitbread operates an integrated Whitbreads approach is to work in eld to fork strategy, underpinned by close partnership with its suppliers to during 2004 5 the company inspections and independent audits.
assist them in developing products and made its first submission to In addition, as a signatory to the processes that continue to help both Business In the Communitys Portman Groups Code of Practice, partners meet their various objectives Corporate Responsibility Index we promote and implement sensible and to ensure long-term relationships securing a place in the top 100: drinking policies.
Details of the Code can and continuity of supply.
accredited by National Energy be found at www.
uk Whitbread is committed to an ethical Foundation, for work carried out Ensuring accessibility way of operating and sets out clear to reduce energy consumption standards of behaviour in its Code of and emissions: Whitbread has invested over Business Ethics.
10 million in property development awarded a third green star and improvements in recent years with Working in conjunction with CafDirect, under the government-backed the aim that the companys properties the UKs leading Fairtrade company, Transport Energy Motorvate continue to meet or exceed legislative Costa o ers its customers a Fairtrade scheme to recognise company requirements.
Whitbread strives, option on all its co ee and tea at eets managed in an wherever practical, to ensure that no extra charge.
Fairtrade products environmentally friendly manner: customers with disabilities are given guarantee the growers a better deal runner up in Best Recycling the same level of service as any other through a fair price and better working Initiative at National Recycling customer.
Awards 2004: extra height tables to allow wheelchair users to sit closer to the table and Environment included in the Global 100 Most audio induction loops to increase the Sustainable Corporations list Better management of the companys e ectiveness of hearing aids for the hard January 2005: environmental impact in recent of hearing.
years has reduced business costs and included in DEFRAs Food Responding to customers improved environmental performance.
Industry Sustainability Strategy Whitbreads aim is to continue the Whitbread is committed to providing documents which highlighted current approach of cost reductiongreat customer service and invests three Whitbread good practice led initiatives, with consequent extensively both in the appropriate training case studies: environmental gains, and at the and development of its people and in for the third consecutive year, same time increase awareness of monitoring and responding to customer David Lloyd Leisure was named environmental issues in the business.
Across the group, customer Best Health and Fitness Operator feedback questionnaires and helplines Infrastructure improvements in the 2005 Tommy Awards: are in place.
Research is conducted on a During 2004, Whitbread established a regular basis, which provides independent David Lloyd Leisure and single, dedicated group-wide Energy and measures of the companys success in Marriott received ROSPA Awards Waste Management team.
The team is delivering high standards.
in April 2005. responsible for improved management, Premier Travel Inn operates a 100% monitoring and reporting of Whitbreads For more information please see the satisfaction guarantee.
In 2004 the energy and water usage, along with corporate responsibility section of business won the Customer Service waste and recycling practices.
Strategy of the Year award at the www.
co. uk Consumption reduced National Business Awards.
The company is focused on reducing energy consumption.
Gas and electricity PAGE 24 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 5 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Better management of the companys environmental impact in recent years has reduced business costs and improved environmental performance.
usage were down across the group in to its customer proposition of service and 2004 5, by 5.8% 4.5 million kwh and product excellence.
A great deal has been 1% 4.8 million kwh respectively.
This done over many years both to create produced a reduction in CO emissions attractive, rewarding places to work and 2 of 10,600 tonnes.
the conditions that will help Whitbread become the Employer of Choice.
For the first time, the group has been able to quantify overall water Whitbread employs more than 40,000 consumption.
Through improved leak people, mainly in the UK, and has a detection and repair, water saving range of policies covering such issues as measures and the introduction of diversity, employee wellbeing and equal new technologies we expect to report opportunities.
The company targets and David Lloyd Leisure currently has reductions going forward.
During measures employee turnover, stability 12,000 children taking weekly the year leak repair projects in pub and retention rates in each brand.
swimming lessons at its clubs and restaurants reduced water consumption provides the largest weekly childrens Employee involvement by 87,000 cubic metres.
tennis programme in Europe with 10,000 participants.
Whitbread is committed to listening to The company has reduced CO emissions 2 and involving its employees and believes by a further 750 tonnes through improved that open and regular two-way efficiencies in our owned and managed communication at all levels is an essential car eet.
In addition, the latest trucks part of the management process.
purchased are powered by a mixture of diesel and natural gas, which is Euro 4 All employees are asked their opinions certied the latest and most stringent via a Views survey and specic plans are European requirement for reducing put in place to address feedback from exhaust emissions.
Recycling increased Employees also have opportunities to express their views and receive As a major provider of food and beverages, information about the company at Whitbread both receives and makes regular meetings with management, deliveries throughout the UK which through elected representatives at require careful packaging.
As a result, the Business Improvement Groups.
companys greatest recycling opportunities are in glass bottles and cardboard where Employee Share Scheme it has been making significant progress Working in conjunction with in recent years.
In 2004 5 Whitbread Nearly 1,500 Whitbread employees CafDirect, the UKs leading Fairtrade company, Costa oers its customers recycled 1,440 tonnes of cardboard, were in a position to benefit from the a Fairtrade option on all its coee up by 116%, and 3,100 tonnes of glass, companys employee share scheme in and tea at no extra charge.
Those who joined the scheme, there is more work to do in expanding which matured in February, received a this area.
Recycling will be a continued collective reward of circa 2.6 million.
In November 2004, 3,506 employees were granted options over 1,149,817 Workplace shares at 653p under the terms of the At Whitbread, there is clear recognition Savings-related Share Option Scheme.
of the need to recruit and retain high At 19 April 2005 nearly 5,500 employees calibre people for the company to live up held options over more than 3.6 million shares under that scheme.
PAGE 25 The importance of health and safety to Whitbread is evidenced by its inclusion on the companys WINcard.
This means that health and safety is one of the key measures used to determine employees incentive payments.
Support to volunteering Whitbread is keen to support and encourage volunteering as a means of both encouraging personal fullment and development, and in recognition of the important contribution volunteering can make to employee moral and motivation.
The companys Employee Volunteer of the Year awards, set up in 2003, publicly recognise and reward outstanding contributions.
Payroll giving Whitbread operates a matched funding and a payroll-giving scheme for its employees.
Originally set up in 1997, the payroll-giving scheme was re-launched in July 2004.
Over 6,300 employees now participate with annual donations set to reach around 500,000 in 2005.
Health and safety Whitbread is committed to providing a Angie Risley with Sarah Gaughan left, our new face of Whitbread, and Lynda Ferrin right, winners safe and secure environment for both its of the top two categories of the Employee of the Year 2004 in the Whitbread Young Achiever Awards.
To support and demonstrate this commitment: health and safety is one of the key Focus on training measures on the companys WINcard: leaders and department managers.
At Whitbread, great emphasis is placed the Chief Executive is the director Across Whitbread some 900 people on improving the skills, expertise and responsible for ensuring that are working towards an apprenticeship performance of employees through health and safety issues are or NVQ.
Almost 500 young people a continuing programme of training addressed: graduated from the Junior Chef and development.
In 2004 5, the Academy a collaboration between companys new e-learning training brand managing directors are Whitbread and the Compass Group to programmes won two of the top awards personally committed to providing provide chef skills.
at the Institute of IT Training Awards.
a strategy for embedding The programmes have so far delivered health and safety throughout David Lloyd Leisure became a Central web-based training at both brand and their business: YMCA Qualications approved centre corporate level to more than 25,000 sta.
and its internal health and tness each brand has a health and safety qualications were aligned to the During the year Whitbread expanded management plan that is reviewed national qualications framework.
They its award-winning Chef Modern quarterly: expect to support around 400 delegates Apprenticeship Programme to embrace through this programme.
quarterly health and safety additional career opportunities at outlet performance reports are presented level, including waiters waitresses, bar to the Board for review.
team members, receptionists, team PAGE 26 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 5 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Whitbread charitable contributions totalling over 2.2 million During 2004 5, Whitbread contributed more than 1.6 million to the community, made up of donated employee time and re-cycled furniture and equipment.
In addition, the Whitbread Charitable Trust WCT made direct cash contributions of over 690,000.
Whitbreads employees and customers raised a further 1.3 million through charitable activities, including 160,000 donation to the DEC Tsunami Appeal, to which the WCT contributed 50,500.
Community The Whitbread Inquiry is a partnership of key agencies in the North West Health and safety training Whitbread has a long history of working chaired by Sir David Ramsbotham, with its community partners.
The companys The company places great former HM Chief Inspector of Prisons.
community investment programme importance on providing health It was set up to establish what works focuses on helping young people and safety support and training.
in tackling the social exclusion of young achieve their potential by concentrating Highlights during the year include: people and recommend best practice: on a few carefully chosen projects that over 2,000 team members combine benefit to the community with The award-winning Whitbread trained in emergency first aid: advantages to the business.
sponsored Count me in Calendar David Lloyd Leisure introduced was set up to provide a platform for In recent years, Whitbread has an interactive training tool as all UK charities to promote their established a number of successful a means of inducting all team awareness-raising campaigns.
partnerships with young peoples members on health and safety, www.
Major food safety and disability current programmes include: In addition to Whitbread group awareness: programmes, a number of the Whitbread Young Achiever Awards, 132 ex Premier Lodge sites companys brands also ran successful a joint venture with the Home Ofces received safety and security community projects: Volunteering and Charitable Giving coaching visits: Unit which is supported by leading David Lloyd Leisure sponsored a series volunteering and young peoples pub restaurants and high of Mile events to encourage a million agencies.
The awards were set up to street restaurant brands ran a people to run a million miles to raise recognise and celebrate the outstanding total of 35 health and safety millions for charity.
org achievements of young volunteers.
workshops, training around 500 Whitbreads restaurant brands adopted www.
co. uk: management level employees.
individual Charities of the Year, including This followed a major training Whitbread Action UK, a three-year Brewers Fayre supporting Whizz-Kidz, programme in the previous year: partnership with leading environmental Beefeater adopting The Association of regeneration agency, Groundwork, in support of the training a Childrens Hospices and T. G. I. Fridays which is supported by a significant grant number of safety manuals and supporting KidsOut.
They have raised from the Lottery Fund.
The programme codes of practice were reviewed substantial amounts for each charity was set up to train transferable skills to and reissued.
as well as awareness levels among volunteers and help them make their customers and Whitbread people.
For more information, see the communities cleaner, safer and greener.
uk Corporate Responsibility section of www.
uk The Whitbread Book Awards were www.
co. uk established by the company in 1971 and celebrate the most enjoyable books of the last year by writers based in the UK and Ireland.
The 2004 Whitbread Book of the Year Award winner was Andrea Levy for Small Island.
This year the company joined forces with the National Library for the Blind to fund Angie Risley the braille transcription of two 2004 Human Resources Director Whitbread Award-winning books, including Small Island.
