William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Corporate Responsibility Statement Corporate Responsibility Statement the CR Working Group which was The CR Working Group comprises the Introduction established in the summer of 2004 Chief Executive and Company William Hill recognises that the Group and which also met on four occasions Secretary together with functional has a responsibility to the wider during 2005. heads for the corporate strategy and community, as well as to its development, human resources, shareholders and employees, and The CR Committee is chaired by a non property, security and customer believes it makes good business sense executive director, Mr Edmonds and service departments together with to implement policies and procedures its other members are the Group representatives from the Retail and that take due regard of stakeholders Chairman and the Group Chief Interactive businesses.
This Committee monitors a this group considered the key areas of committed to improving continuously range of CR issues.
Each meeting focus for the various stakeholder its practices in the area of corporate considers a number of standing items groups: the Groups existing policies responsibility.
The range of issues as follows: and procedures in these key areas: embraced by the term corporate and the action being undertaken by responsibility CR is extremely wide, The Groups CR performance by the Group.
This resulted in an action however, the areas of major focus for monitoring a number of key plan being produced, which has been the Group relate to those matters that performance indicators KPIs in considered by each of the meetings in are considered to be material and various areas including responsible 2005 together with progress on these are referred to below.
gambling, customer service issues outstanding actions.
The Working and charitable giving: Group reviews papers prior to Risk management submission to the CR Committee: acts Reviewing external contact and The Board uses the risk management as a forum for operational queries on CR issues: and processes referred to on page 30 to management to discuss CR issues: identify and manage risks arising from and reports are provided by working CR action plans.
The most significant CR group members on CR activities in issues for the Group are considered to their areas of responsibility.
The Committee has also considered be as follows: the following matters: Communication Compliance with existing and future Product integrity issues, including the In 2004, the Group identied a need laws, regulations and codes of fairness testing of random number to increase communication, both conduct relating to responsible generated RNG based games and internally and externally, on the gambling: underage gambling and the approval of a fairness testing Groups activities in the area of protecting the vulnerable: compliance policy: corporate responsibility.
This has been prevention of crime and disorder: achieved by increasing the level of and product integrity issues: Employee communication issues, disclosure via the annual report and such as the communication of newly accounts and making additional The ongoing training, development adopted policies and the Code of information available on the Groups and motivation of employees to Business Conduct: website at www.
co. uk retain the widest possible range of regarding activities in the CR area.
The talented staff: The employee matching scheme for website contains copies of the charitable donations and Provision of a safe and healthy Groups policies in the CR area.
In encouragement of staff participation workplace in accordance with February 2005 the Group adopted a in local charity events: and relevant legislation: Code of Business Conduct available on the Groups website, which covers External reporting of CR information Providing appropriate levels of the basic principles the Board expects and communication with customer service: and to be complied with across the Group stakeholders on CR issues, including in a variety of areas, including bribery, the completion of the EIRIS 2005 Protecting customer privacy and the corruption and fraud.
proper handling and use of data within the Group in accordance with The Group has an active dialogue In addition there have been relevant legislation.
with various stakeholder groups and presentations on: has met, on request, with institutional Leadership and management Responsible and underage gambling: shareholders to discuss activities in framework this area.
During 2006 the Group Product integrity: and plans to explore further avenues of Mr Harding, the Groups Chief communication with staff and Executive, is the executive director Health and safety and human shareholders alike.
with responsibility for overseeing resources.
William Hills activities in this area.
The Board also established a CR Government The Committee ensured that, through Committee in March 2005 to monitor a process of presentation and Gambling Act the Groups CR activities and this discussion with staff, they were The Gambling Act, which received Committee met on four occasions properly briefed and gained an Royal Assent in the first half of 2005, during the period.
The Chief Executive appropriate understanding of the CR states the licensing objectives as: and Board Committee are assisted by issues affecting the Group.
34 William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Corporate Responsibility Statement The prevention of crime and refresher training for some staff was LBOs, considering their potential disorder: conducted as a result.
vulnerability to robberies and violence in the workplace incidents.
Conducting gambling in a fair and William Hill has also been working Appropriate crime prevention open way: and with the RGA to develop an measures have been introduced to appropriate code regarding fairness meet the perceived risk.
testing of games which use a random measures include the tting of bandit number generator.
screens in vulnerable shops, Information on the Groups activities installation of improved digital closed in these areas is set out in the sections Gambling Commission circuit television CCTV systems and on crime and disorder, product The Gambling Commission has been tting of electronic door locks to staff integrity and responsible and established and the Group is areas.
In the event of an incident underage gambling later in this participating in liaison meetings with occurring, affected shops are statement.
this body, along with other members reassessed by the Security of the industry.
The Commission plans Department and steps taken to Codes of conduct to publish in 2006 draft codes of minimise further risk, where The Group supports the Gambling practice, licence conditions and appropriate.
The Group has Acts licensing objectives and has standards relating to gambling issues established a close liaison with a worked with relevant trade and activities and the Group plans to number of local authority associations to adopt appropriate be actively involved in this environmental health departments codes of practice and to exchange consultation exercise.
best practice in this area.
During 2003, the Association of British Bookmakers Crime and disorder Smoking ABB introduced a social The Groups current operations are The Governments proposals responsibility and good practice code licensed under relevant legislation regarding smoking have been the for LBOs and a code of practice and the Group is committed to subject of debate in early 2006 and it governing the supply and use of gambling being conducted in a way is anticipated that legislation for a xed-odds betting terminals in LBOs.
that is crime free and appropriately total ban on smoking in public places The Remote Gambling Association regulated.
The Group has a will be introduced.
RGA has also introduced a social compliance officer, the Groups Head responsibility code, which the Group In February 2005 the Group adopted a of Security, who is responsible for was actively involved in developing, formal Group-wide smoking policy.
ensuring that the Group complies and William Hill is a member of the A number of measures are in place to with relevant legislation in the area of Associations social responsibility reduce the effect of smoking in the money laundering and proceeds of committee.
The social responsibility LBOs: crime, and that appropriate training is codes deal with issues relating to provided to employees.
The ABB, of responsible and underage gambling There are currently air cleaners in which the Group is a member, has a and cover such areas as advertising over 80% of the Groups recently memorandum of understanding in and promotion, age verication, staff expanded estate: place with the Jockey Club relating to training, customer communication the sharing of information when and support for social impact No smoking areas are provided in a either criminal offences or the initiatives.
number of LBOs where the layout integrity of racing is suspected.
allows: and A similar document is in place with During 2004 the Group introduced the Football Association and the voluntary self-exclusion procedures Staff are not permitted to smoke Association of Tennis Professionals.
for problem gamblers in its retail behind the counter and customers The ABB also has arrangements estate and in February 2005 this was are discouraged from smoking agreed with greyhound racing, extended to the Groups Interactive at the counter by the display of snooker, cricket and rugby league and and Telephone betting channels.
In No Smoking signs in this area.
its practice is to inform the relevant addition, enhanced age verication governing body of the sport In addition, the Groups procedures were introduced in the whenever matters concerning administration buildings nationwide Groups online business with the aim integrity arise.
The Group co-operates operate a no smoking policy.
of preventing gambling by under 18s.
with the ABB on integrity issues.
Customer Service and call centre staff The Group complies with the current The Security Department maintains received appropriate training to deal no smoking legislation in the Republic close relationships with relevant law with customers who may wish to selfof Ireland and is preparing to comply enforcement agencies and the exclude.
GamCare provided assistance with similar legislation in Scotland, provision of information is strictly by reviewing the Groups internal which is being introduced in March controlled by the Head of Security to training materials for both the Retail 2006.
A copy of the Groups smoking ensure compliance with the Data and remote businesses.
Compliance policy is available at Protection Act.
reviews of Interactive and Telephone www.
betting self-exclusion procedures The Groups Security Department has have taken place during 2005 and undertaken risk assessments of all 35 William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Corporate Responsibility Statement policy is available at Recommendations made included the Customers and communities www.
need to improve signage to deter Customer service potential underage gambling, more William Hill is committed to high Responsible and underage gambling effective display of GamCare leaets standards of customer service and to and posters and the need to enhance William Hill encourages a socially conducting its gambling operations in staff awareness of the procedures.
responsible attitude within the a fair and open way.
William Hills Action has been taken to address betting and gaming industry and customers are key to the Groups these issues, including redesign of the within its own organisation and is ongoing success.
Dedicated customer underage gambling posters, the committed to the Governments service departments are in place for introduction of self assessment stated objective of protecting each of the Groups main operations documentation, audits by shop children and the vulnerable from handling enquiries on a large range of managers and deputy managers, adbeing harmed or exploited by issues.
Service complaints are given hoc audits by line management and gambling.
The Group has been serious consideration and consistent refresher training.
In addition, the actively involved through relevant procedures are in place across the requirement to comply with Company trade associations in developing Group and are monitored.
procedures relating to social industry-wide codes in the area of Comprehensive betting rules, which responsibility has been included in social responsibility and is committed detail the terms and conditions under the role summaries for LBO managers, to listening to the views of relevant which all transactions placed with deputy managers and customer stakeholder groups.
The Group has an William Hill are accepted, are available service assistants.
It is planned to ongoing dialogue with GamCare, a to customers.
The Group endeavours undertake audits on a periodic basis charity involved in providing to resolve all betting disputes in a fair, going forward and to incorporate information, advice and practical help consistent and equitable manner.
responsible gambling within the regarding the impact of gambling, However, if these are unable to be Groups more general mystery and is also a major contributor to the resolved to the customers satisfaction shopper programme, Retail Eyes.
The the customer is entitled to refer the Group is committed to implementing matter to the Independent Betting During 2005 a best practice age appropriate procedures within the verication process for use with Arbitration Service IBAS.
William Hill organisation to deal with both has agreed to abide by any ruling online customers was introduced and responsible and underage gambling revised procedures were they make.
and further details are set out in the implemented in the Groups retail section Codes of conduct on page 35.
Product integrity estate regarding underage gambling.
In February 2005, the Group There is a continuing dialogue with William Hill has a number of products introduced self-exclusion procedures banks via relevant trade associations where the outcome of an event is for Interactive and Telephone to establish if they can provide determined by a random number customers to complement those additional verication in this area.
RNGs are either introduced in 2004 for LBO customers.
William Hill will continue to monitor administered by external third parties best practice as it develops and to Shortly following the introduction of or by the Group itself.
The Group has review its policies and procedures on introduced procedures to ensure that the Groups self-exclusion procedures, a regular basis.
GamCare assessed the understanding the randomness of its own RNGs is certied and that fairness testing of of responsible and underage The Group has also introduced gambling issues within the Groups game outcomes is conducted.
The wording on its customer Group has also been working with LBOs, which involved visits to 39 LBOs communications regarding in 4 regions.
The Group passed the third parties to help provide regular responsible gambling e. g. shop door assurance on the accuracy, fairness audit and feedback was provided poster, promotional material, from GamCare following the and integrity of its gaming systems.
customer statements and other The Group continues to work with completion of the process.
William correspondence with customers and Hills self-exclusion procedures and suppliers with the objective of facilities to enable gamblers to limit ensuring they adopt the high level of those that were operating in the the amount of money they spend on Stanley shops acquired in June 2005 fairness testing conducted internally.
have both gained GamCare Privacy certication.
Standardised selfA copy of the Groups responsible exclusion procedures have now been The Group has systems in place to gambling policy is available at adopted across the retail estate.
protect the privacy of information www.
During 2005, the Group engaged an provided by customers.
William Hill external consultant to undertake a complies with the Data Protection Act Access to services further audit in a total of 30 shops 1998 and the Data Protection Customers with disabilities have a across all regions to assess Principles set out in that Act in the right of access to the Groups services.
compliance with the Groups collection and processing of personal Accessibility issues are taken into procedures.
Periodic audits are account in accordance with recommendations were made undertaken with relevant heads of appropriate codes of practice when following this review and various department to review practices in this opening and retting the Groups actions undertaken to improve area.
A copy of the Groups privacy LBOs, and a combination of ramps, activities in this area.
36 William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Corporate Responsibility Statement stair lifts, disabled toilets and management.
An external health and facilitating training by District induction loops for the hard of safety consultant advises the Training Co-ordinators.
In addition to hearing are tted, where appropriate.
Staff are provided with the usual induction process, an In addition, services offered in the information and training on health example of training provided during LBOs can be accessed on the internet and safety issues as part of their the year was the substantial training or via the telephone.
Details of all of induction and on an ongoing basis.
of all Retail employees in the new these services can be obtained from Risk assessments are undertaken and processes and working practices the William Hill Customer Helpline.
the Group monitors the application involved with the Groups electronic and understanding of the safety point of sale rollout.
Following last instructions through a system of years training on responsible Employees safety audits, Health and Safety Cogambling issues within the LBOs, the The Groups success is dependent on ordinators and the Health and Safety Group was assessed by GamCare and its employees and it is committed to Committee.
In early 2005 the Groups was subsequently awarded high standards of employment practices in the area of lone working accreditation.
As part of the business practice.
The Group rewards were reviewed and updated.
continuity planning testing individuals fairly and is committed to Following the introduction of programme, the Group also providing equality of opportunity, electronic point of sale in the Groups continued with a series of business training and development and a safe retail estate, the LBO procedures continuity workshops for employees workplace.
manual continues to be reviewed and working in the Telephone betting, updated to reect issues arising from Interactive and IT operations which Policies the implementation.
In addition involved dealing with, and reacting A comprehensive set of human during 2005 a further review and to, a theoretical business crisis.
resources policies are in place update has been carried out on the including policies covering health and The Group also has in place a procedures in place at the Groups safety including specic policies on Management Development Policy greyhound stadia.
stress management and smoking, focussed on identifying those equal opportunities and harassment, individuals within the organisation Equal opportunities exible working, training and that demonstrate both the ability to The Group is committed to equal development, the acceptance of gifts operate at a more senior level and the opportunities in the workplace in and hospitality and whistle blowing.
personal drive and enthusiasm to terms of selection, promotion, These are communicated to develop themselves.
In 2005 the programmes are in place covering policies are communicated to Group Group approved a Code of Business development for supervisory junior employees and there are clear lines of Conduct.
At present this has been management, middle management, responsibility regarding monitoring communicated to the Groups senior senior management and senior their effectiveness, implementation managers and it is planned to make executives.
the code available more widely to all staff during 2006.
A copy of the During 2005 the Group launched a Training and development Groups Code of Business Conduct is formal performance management William Hill is committed to investing made available at process for its most senior employees.
in the training and development of all www.
This included a substantial training its employees.
The Group provides investment to ensure consistency and William Hill is committed to initial induction training at the effectiveness.
During 2006 it is undertaking its operations in a way, commencement of employment intended to roll this programme and which respects individuals human including training on responsible and training out to the next tiers of rights and treats individuals with underage gambling supported, management.
where necessary, by specic skills training relevant to their job.
Further Communication Health and safety training and development is provided The Group places considerable value to individuals throughout their career A copy of the Groups health and on the involvement of its employees to enable employees to maintain and safety policy is available at and is committed to providing improve standards of performance, www.
A Health effective communication on matters deal effectively with any changes to and Safety Committee meets which may affect staff, and more the work environment and to develop regularly to review compliance with generally, on the development and their abilities and realise their full applicable health and safety performance of the Group.
Selection for further legislation and regulation, to keep up period a review of internal training and development is based on to date with best practice and to communication was conducted and individual needs, ability and the review and maintain compliance with various recommendations to improve needs of the business.
Training is health and safety procedures.
The internal communication were made.
provided either internally or Committee includes senior managers As part of the review, workshops were externally as appropriate and the from the Groups human resources, held with staff across the Group and Group has a dedicated team of security, property and company staff feedback was sought and noted.
employees providing training and secretarial departments, together The existing Group magazine has development within the Group and with representatives of operational been replaced by a new style 37 William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Corporate Responsibility Statement publication, Will2Win, which will be were 24,621,000 and 3,071,000 During 2005 employees from the circulated to all employees on a birespectively.
These funds are used by former Stanley LBOs raised 56,000 monthly basis.
the respective bodies for a wide for Children In Need through various variety of purposes including animal fundraising events.
William Hill added Employee representatives are welfare issues.
a further 19,000 to bring the total consulted regularly on a wide range funds donated to 75,000. of matters affecting their current and A budget has been independently future interests and are encouraged established for the greyhound stadia The Group has established a to raise any issues or concerns.
The to be used to assist with greyhound Charitable Donations Committee, Group has established staff councils welfare issues.
A facility has been which reviews, on a quarterly basis, for Retail staff in each of the Groups established which will enable up to 25 requests for charitable donations geographic regions.
These are chaired dogs to be housed for up to three against the Boards agreed policy.
by the relevant Regional Director.
months with the intention of William Hill does not make donations There is also a council in place for the permanently re-homing them.
In the to political parties.
The first three months of opening 16 acquisition of Stanley Retail and the greyhounds were successfully Environment review of communications during the re-homed by this facility.
year have led to changes being A copy of the Groups environmental Charitable donations proposed in the future organisation of policy is available at the staff councils.
These changes will The Groups charitable donations are www.
It is be nalised and implemented during mainly focussed on organisations recognised that all business activities 2006. involved in areas of greatest relevance have a direct and indirect impact on to the William Hill business and in the the environment and William Hill During 2005, William Hill completed a early part of 2005 the Board adopted strives to act in an environmentally Group-wide communication a charitable donations policy stating responsible manner.
programme to introduce electronic that the major focus of the Groups point of sale within its LBO estate efforts would be in supporting bodies Policy which kept employees informed of involved in: As a retail and service organisation, the process via regular briengs with the Groups main impact on the Promoting a responsible approach to line management and update videos environment is through the buildings gambling: undertaking research into and the opportunity to provide William Hill operates and the problem gambling: and providing feedback to management has been resources used by staff in their day-toinformation, advice and help to those given.
The Groups environmental who are at risk or are experiencing practices reect William Hills business As a result of the acquisition of difficulties with their gambling: operations, and its main risks and Stanley Retail, the Group invested Greyhound and racehorse welfare: interactions with the environment, substantially in communication with and and are largely focussed on: the existing William Hill employees and the new colleagues from the Support to disadvantaged Compliance with environmental laws acquired business.
This involved a individuals in horse and greyhound and regulations: series of road shows, newsletters, racing.
group and individual briengs, Minimising waste by the promotion together with personalised letters to The Group is also committed to of recycling practices and re-use of individual employees explaining the providing support, wherever possible, materials as opposed to disposal, implications of the acquisition and to its employees through their own where this is practicable: future timetable for integration.
In the past this has been dealt with on a relatively ad-hoc efficient use of energy and water and basis.
However, for 2005 the Group Supporting sports-related investigating ways of reducing allocated a proportion of the Groups consumption in this area: and and other bodies charitable donations budget to match William Hill is committed to being a Raising awareness of environmental funds up to a specified limit raised responsible corporate citizen and issues within the Group.
by employees on local charitable recognises its wider social projects.
On occasion, the Group also responsibility by seeking to support Action to date supports organisations with whom it the communities in which the Group does business in their fundraising The Groups Property Department operates through charitable efforts and in these cases donations takes primary responsibility for donations and other relevant may not fall within the donations identifying issues and opportunities payments.
within the Groups LBO estate and the following action has been taken: Levies During the period the Group made charitable donations of 351,000 of The Group supports horse racing via High frequency light ttings are which 200,000 was paid to the the statutory levy and greyhound specified in all new development and Responsibility in Gambling Trust.
racing via the voluntary donation to refurbishment projects thereby the British Greyhound Racing Fund reducing the number of lamps BGRF.
The sums payable for 2005 requiring disposal: 38 William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Corporate Responsibility Statement The Group is fully compliant with all Key performance indicators KPIs Over time the Group plans to make current legislative guidelines were developed in a number of areas additional information available to regarding the disposal of hazardous to allow the Group to monitor its CR stakeholders via the Groups website waste and is preparing to comply performance: and in future annual reports.
The with the new Waste, Electrical and Group welcomes feedback on it Voluntary self-exclusion procedures Electronic Equipment WEEE activities.
for problem gamblers were Directive which is being introduced introduced in the Interactive and in 2006: Telephone betting businesses: Air-conditioning and fascia lighting GamCare certication was obtained are controlled by time clocks to for LBO social responsibility ensure efficient use of energy: procedures: Electrostatic air cleaners are installed Enhanced age verication in over 80% of the Groups LBOs.
This procedures were launched in the updated gure from 2004 takes into Interactive business with the aim of account the Groups increased estate preventing gambling by under 18s: following the recent acquisition of Stanley Retail: The citizen card proof of age scheme was introduced in the retail estate: New style fascias continue to be rolled out as LBOs are upgraded Fairness testing procedures were which will reduce electricity introduced to ensure the integrity of consumption: game outcomes: More energy efficient inverter air A performance management scheme conditioning units are being installed was launched for senior on new projects and when management: and replacements are required: and A review of internal communications Water management systems for toilet was conducted.
facilities continue to be rolled out to reduce water consumption and an In 2006, the Group intends to increasing proportion of the LBO continue to progress those initiatives estate is tted with water meters.
For example, it will continue to monitor Facilities for recycling paper and toner KPIs established during the year with cartridges are in place at the Groups a view to establishing targets once a head ofce and regional ofce trend in data has been established.
The Group continues to During 2006, the Group will continue monitor opportunities for recycling to work with the Gambling materials from the William Hill LBOs Commission in their consultation and administration buildings.
exercise on draft codes of practice, licensing conditions and standards Future action relating to gambling issues and The Board is committed to taking activities.
The Group plans, during the steps to improve continuously its year, to embark on a further series of practices in the CR area and to audits and compliance reviews in the embedding CR issues into its area of responsible gambling.
It also corporate governance and operating intends to roll out the performance framework.
management scheme to the next tier of management.
The Group will During 2005, the Group has made continue to participate in the various significant progress in the CR area, trade associations development of which includes: codes of practice for social responsibility and other areas.
The Board establishing a CR Changes have been proposed to the Committee to monitor the Groups organisation of staff councils and CR activities: these will be nalised and implemented during the course of The Group was admitted to the 2006.
