Wm MORRISON SUPERMARKETS PLC Corporate social responsibility We view Corporate Social Responsibility CSR as being about understanding and managing the relationship between our trading operations and the economy, environment and communities within which we operate.
Following the takeover of Safeway we have undertaken a review of CSR priorities, systems and procedures in order to ensure that we continue to demonstrate responsible business behaviour, with CSR activities incorporated into business as usual across the enlarged group.
There follows an outline of how we aim to address social, environmental and ethical matters and engage our stakeholders, including customers, employees, suppliers, shareholders and the communities we serve.
Corporate social responsibility management Through our Business Ethics Working Group we take regular account of the signicance of social, environmental and ethical matters in relation to our operations.
The groups role is to oversee, review, monitor and advise on CSR matters and ensure that they are addressed in line with company policies and procedures.
As CSR is a Main Board level responsibility, the Business Ethics Working Group reports directly into the board.
The group is comprised of senior directors and managers and its CSR remit covers the key business divisions including Trading, Store Operations, Personnel, Technical Services, Manufacturing and Transport and Distribution.
A CSR manager is to be appointed and will be responsible for co-ordinating group-wide CSR strategy through the Working Group, implementing activities and policies and overseeing delivery through line management in each of the business divisions.
Corporate social responsibility vision To be recognised as a business that balances social, environmental and economic priorities with long term national brand development and commercial success.
Corporate social responsibility strategy Our focus is on managing the social, ethical and environmental issues that are material to our commercial performance, through a programme of continuous improvement.
Our CSR strategy aims to add value to our business by helping us to manage costs, minimise risks and enhance our commercial operations.
Priorities for corporate social responsibility programme Having taken account of legislative, financial, operational and reputational risks, we have identied the following as material to our business: Business Ethics Product Environment Employment Community Market Place Working Conditions The priorities for our corporate social responsibility programme are therefore: Product Integrity Safety & quality Dietary health & nutrition Sustainability and responsibility Supply Chain Management & Labour Standards Fostering fair and ethical trade Engendering positive supplier relationships Sustainability of supplies and resources Operational Environmental Management Avoiding waste Saving energy Preventing pollution Conserving natural resources Sustainable sourcing Community Investment Looking after our customers Being good neighbours Charitable support Employment Policies Health, safety and welfare For those requiring more information on how we are meeting our corporate social responsibilities, together with details on our company policies, a further report is currently under development.
This will be published on our web site www.
co. uk in a newly established CSR section, when complete.
23 Wm MORRISON SUPERMARKETS PLC Corporate social responsibility continued Work during the past year has included: The on-going review of CSR and environmental management systems, policies and procedures for the newly enlarged group, including revised terms of reference for our Business Ethics Working Group.
Process of recruitment for a CSR manager to take responsibility for the group-wide co-ordination of CSR strategy, implementing our key performance indicators, reviewing our current stakeholder engagement processes and improving the quality of the information we provide in support of our CSR activity.
An active salt reduction programme covering a wide range of products, with priority being given to the nine product groups highlighted by the Food Standards Agency.
We have also extended the availability of the Eat Smart range of salt, calorie, fat and sugar controlled ready meals, meal accompaniments, snacks and desserts to all Morrisons stores.
Eat Smart is complemented by our Better Because Its range, which is being phased in to ensure we continue to meet a wide range of dietary and nutritional needs.
Generally the full nutritional information is now included on own brand products covering energy, protein, carbohydrates, sugar, fat, saturated fat, bre, sodium and salt.
Continuing to minimise waste and maximise cost effective recovery while ensuring the remainder is disposed of responsibly.
In Morrisons stores, the volume of polythene and cardboard returned for recycling increased by 8.13% during the year to 62,570 tonnes.
In Safeway 73,100 tonnes were returned.
We will be working with WRAP Waste and Resources Action Programme to support the shared objectives set out in the Courtauld Commitment.
These are to: Deliver absolute reductions in packaging waste by March 2010 Identify ways to design-out packaging waste growth by 2008 Tackle the problem of food waste Actively controlling energy use and helping to minimise greenhouse gas emissions through our building management systems and in-house monitoring of measures designed to reduce energy consumption.
The on-going implementation of rigorous maintenance schedules, new engineering developments and fuel efficiency programmes and the recycling of consumables to help reduce the environmental impact of our transport eet.
Practical implementation of our Ethical Trading Code focused on worker welfare and labour conditions within the supply chain.
Most recently we supported the introduction of the new Gangmaster Licensing arrangements.
The use of seasonal labour is an integral part of the UK fresh food industry and we are keen to ensure that proper practices are put in place to support the law abiding practices of responsible Gangmasters.
We therefore signed up to the governments Code of Practice for Labour Providers.
Good supplier relationships are just as vital to our business as loyal customers and our larger share of the UK food market means that we are also now subject to the Supermarkets Code of Practice.
Key action plans for health and safety are focusing on risk reduction, training and support needs.
We have adopted the national targets set by the Health & Safety Commission for the reduction of workplace accidents and work-related ill health, with health and safety performance being monitored to ensure continuous improvement in all areas.
Donations to national and local causes totalled over 150,000, not including numerous gifts in kind.
In addition, fundraising by our staff, together with the generous support of our shoppers, raised 318,000 for Children in Need, 3 million to the Disaster Emergency Committee for the Tsunami Appeal and over 780,000 to our Charity of the Year, Diabetes UK.
This year we will be fundraising for Breast Cancer Research.
