WO40004 Wolseley R&A 01-45 7 10 05 12:37 am Page 40 OUR RESPONSIBILITY We are committed to sound corporate social responsibility policies WO40004 Wolseley R&A 01-45 7 10 05 12:38 am Page 41 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate social responsibility report 41 Corporate social responsibility report PBM has been working with its suppliers since 2000 with a view to ensuring Although the Board believes that the environmental impact of our that timber is sourced from forests which have been certified by recognised distribution activities is comparatively low, we are committed to sound forestry associations which promote sustainable forestry management.
Corporate Social Responsibility CSR policies and practices for good Some 48% 2004: 46% of the timber purchased in the year ended business reasons.
Our commitment to CSR is not simply a response 31 July 2005 was sourced from certified suppliers.
to increased market pressures in this area, but such issues reinforce the way that our various businesses operate.
PBM, like Build Center and Stock Building Supply Stock, has engaged with its suppliers of Indonesian plywood with a view to ensuring We regard CSR as a sustainable approach to business that seeks that any illegal logging is excluded from the supply chain.
Imports of benefits for all of our stakeholders, be they customers, employees, Indonesian plywood accounted for 2% of all timber purchased by PBM communities, the environment or the Company and its shareholders.
in each of the years ended 31 December 2004 and 31 December 2005.
During the year we have continued our dialogue with stakeholders in this Build Centers purchases of Indonesian plywood amounted to less than important area.
We are committed to the highest standards of corporate 1.5% of its timber purchases in the year ended 31 July 2003 and this governance and environmental as well as other CSR issues form part reduced to 0.2% in the year ended 31 July 2004 following Build Centers of the overall internal control process.
The Board believes that the decision to cease sales of such plywood from September 2003. businesses are best served by creating a safe working environment, which encourages and supports high levels of business performance.
Stocks purchases of Lauan plywood reduced from 0.09% of its timber purchases in the year ended 31 July 2003 to 0.07% in the year ended We focus on issues such as safety, training, behaviour based 31 July 2004 and to 0.03% in the year ended 31 July 2005.
None of performance and the provision of opportunities for our employees career Build Center, PBM or Stock purchase without appropriate permits any growth and development.
Local community initiatives are considered species of timber included in any of the Appendices to the Convention to be investments providing support that will assist those communities, on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora, complement the aspirations of our customers, give our employees which, inter alia, identify threatened species of trees.
opportunities for professional development and help us to achieve our business objectives.
The Board believes that the progressive integration PBM, which is a member of Le Commerce du Bois, the French timber of CSR throughout the business and the incorporation of broader social trade federation, will become a signatory to a code of practice being and environmental issues into day-to-day decision making will better drawn up by that federation working jointly with importers and enable us to achieve our goals.
distributors which is intended to set the standards for timber sourcing, purchasing and distribution in France based on both French domestic Health, safety and environment and internationally recognised standards.
The code of practice was A key driver of the Groups success has been the high degree of submitted to the French environment ministry in June 2005 and is autonomy which has been afforded to local managements, allowing expected to be signed in the Autumn of 2005. them to serve local markets in the most appropriate manner.
Within this decentralised structure, the Board has set down a number of health, Further progress has been made during the year at Build Center with safety and environment principles with which all businesses are required regard to the responsible sourcing of timber and the elimination of 3 to comply.
The principles relating to environment cover: the integration illegal timber from the supply chain.
Build Center purchased 247,000m 3 of environmental management into business operations: a commitment of timber in the year ended 31 July 2003, 273,000m in the financial 3 to the adoption and achievement of best practice wherever this is year ended 31 July 2004 and 350,000m in the financial year ended practicable: a commitment to prevent pollution: compliance with local 31 July 2005.
More than 97% in each of 2003 and 2004 and a little environmental legislation: the adoption where practicable of local formal over 90% in 2005 of such timber was sourced from Finland, Sweden, environmental management systems: a commitment to strive for Germany, Latvia, the UK and other European countries.
Less than continual improvement: and a commitment to ensure proper 1.5% in 2003, 1.2% in 2004 and 0.9% in 2005 of such purchases communication with employees on environmental matters.
Some 67% of the raw material purchases made in the year ended 31 July 2005 2004: 40% were from certified sources.
Timber PB & M formerly Pinault Bois et Matriaux PBM, the French Throughout 2004 Build Center trialled a responsible purchasing policy heavyside business that was acquired in July 2003, purchased some in conjunction with the Timber Trade Federation TTF.
The policy was 3 3 907,000m of timber in the year ended 31 December 2003, 856,000m formulated by the TTF to meet the requirements of the UK Governments 3 of timber in the financial year ended 31 July 2004 and 940,000m in the own timber procurement policy.
The policy was developed with the benefit financial year ended 31 July 2005.
More than 85% in the calendar year of input from principal suppliers, with a view to ensuring that increasing 2003, 86% in the financial year ended 31 July 2004 and 88% in the volumes of sustainable timber are progressively being made available to financial year ended 31 July 2005 of such timber was softwood, mainly the business, especially where timber is sourced from forests where sourced from countries such as Russia, Finland, France and Sweden.
certification schemes are not widely in place.
The TTF has now endorsed A little over 5% of the timber purchased in the year to 31 July 2005 was the policy and its Governing Board will consider at its next meeting in hardwood, sourced from suppliers who have not been censured by the January 2006 whether to make adoption of the policy compulsory for United Nations as part of resolution number 2001 1343. all its members.
WO40004 Wolseley R&A 01-45 7 10 05 12:18 am Page 42 42 Corporate social responsibility report Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Wolseley UK is currently developing a web-based interface onto which PBMs hardwood business achieved certification for its chain of custody suppliers can log their responses to specific questions which will also procedures in November 2003.
Cerland, PBMs garden products capture documentary evidence in support of their claims, such as chain business, also achieved certification for its chain of custody procedures of custody certificates.
Wolseley UK aims to have the system fully during 2003.
Significant progress has been made during the year operational before the end of 2005. to achieve the same recognition in PBMs softwood import business, with the requisite pre-audit report having been completed in March 2004.
3 Stock purchased some 3,750,000m of timber in the year ended 31 July PBM is currently planning to have achieved PEFC certification for the 3 3 2003, 4,400,000m in the year ended 31 July 2004 and 4,580,000m in import business by the end of 2005.
3 the year ended 31 July 2005 of which 1,380,000m were of structural panels.
Almost all of such purchases in the financial years 2003, 2004 Stock does not have a formal chain of custody procedure for its timber and 2005 were sourced from the USA and Canada, with less than as it relies upon the chain of custody procedures in place within its 3 100,000m being sourced from Europe.
Some 90% in the year ended suppliers.
As noted above, the vast majority of purchases made by 31 July 2005 2004: 90%: 2003: 85% of such purchases were made Stock are from suppliers who hold recognised certifications and the from suppliers who hold certifications from recognised forestry company maintains an extensive dialogue with them on sustainability sustainability agencies, such as the American Forest Products issues including chain of custody.
Association and the Canadian Standards Association.
Waste management The American Forest Products Associations Sustainable Forest Initiative All of the European companies comply with EU and domestic waste programme requires participants to meet an exacting standard of management regulations.
In Ireland, Heatmerchants continues to reduce environmental principles, objectives and performance measures.
The compliance costs by back-loading secondary waste paper, cardboard, standard integrates the perpetual growing and harvesting of trees with wood pallets and plastic from branches to the main distribution centre the protection of wildlife, plants, soil and water quality, together with for recycling.
In the year ended 31 July 2005, over 800 tonnes of such a wide range of conservation goals.
Stock maintains a constant dialogue material was recycled and thus saved from landfill, resulting in cost with its suppliers, reviewing their environmental practices and policies, savings of 1124,000. encouraging sustainable forestry management practices and seeking opportunities to improve the use of natural resources.
Brossette in France has installed containers at each of its branches for the collection of plastic, paper, wood and metal for recycling.
AG in Sales of engineered wood products, which are substitutes for wide Austria continues to operate its waste management strategy that has dimension solid-sawn timber, increased by over 21% in the year been in place since 1994 and which streams waste for collection ended 31 July 2005 2004: 35%.
Such substitutes improve structural and reprocessing by specialist contractors.
performance, thereby reducing the need to harvest as many larger, older trees.
Stock has optimised the use of off-cuts in its truss manufacturing facilities and, where possible, off-cuts which cannot otherwise be used Chain of custody are recycled by wood products manufacturers in order to minimise It is well recognised that whilst sustainable sourcing is vital, it is also waste, reduce the need to use landfill sites and to reduce costs.
key that illegal timber is eliminated from the supply chain, from the Stock estimates that more than 4,800 tonnes of landfill has been forest of origin to the end user.
Build Center began work in 2003 on avoided in the year ended 31 July 2005 which has resulted in savings of a chain of custody project that initially saw the implementation of new more than $290,000 in waste management costs alone.
Equipment has procedures in five branches with 16 products within scope, all of which been installed at distribution warehouses in the UK to bale and recycle had been independently audited and approved by, or on behalf of, cardboard and hard plastic.
Recycling programmes operate in all of the both the Forest Stewardship Council and the Programme for the businesses corporate offices.
Endorsement of Forest Certification PEFC.
Environment The project required Build Center to identify certified sources for these Wolseley UK has formed an environmental steering group comprising initial 16 products, adapt management systems to identify and capture senior managers and local board directors.
The group identifies ways relevant data, undertake on-site training, create a dialogue with in which environmental issues can be captured and improvements suppliers, and create new documentation to ensure that despatch made.
Wolseley UK has agreed an environmental policy, which sets out notes and invoices contain chain of custody certification numbers the companys position to customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
and references to the certified status of the product.
Internal and Commitment has been made to continuous improvement in environmental independent third party audits have also had to be conducted.
performance, the prevention of pollution and to improving efficiency in the use of resources including energy, water, packaging and other From the original 16 products, the number of products within the chain raw materials.
of custody scheme now exceeds 16,000 and certification was achieved by the end of the year at a further 15 sites.
Wolseley UK intends to During the year, Wolseley UK has worked actively with the Energy further increase the number of branches which have secured accreditation Saving Trust to promote the use of energy efficient products in the within its chain of custody scheme to include all Build Center timber boiler market.
This has focussed on a number of high efficiency heating branches 40 in total by 31 July 2006 and by the same date to increase schemes and home insulation products.
Since 2002, sales of high the number of products within the scheme to around 18,000.
The efficiency boilers have saved over 100,000 tonnes of carbon emissions.
volume of timber controlled within the chain of custody scheme in the 3 year ended 31 July 2005 was 30,000m, some 8.6% of total timber Just six months after the establishment of an Environmental 3 purchased.
The target for the year ending 31 July 2006 is 75,000m.
Management System, Wolseley UK was able to announce in May 2005 that it had attained ISO 14001 accreditation for three of its branches.
The Environmental Management System structures Wolseley UKs approach to environmental matters and is now being trialled across the whole of its business.
WO40004 Wolseley R&A 01-45 7 10 05 12:18 am Page 43 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate social responsibility report 43 As part of the development of Wolseley UKs new head office As part of Stocks transport management programme, many suppliers in Leamington Spa, the company introduced a Green Travel plan to back-load their delivery vehicles to avoid wasteful return journeys.
encourage employees and visitors to use more environmentally friendly This initiative is part of a programme that also includes investment in a and sustainable modes of transport than the car.
As transport is a key national fleet management, fuel and servicing system aimed at achieving area for Wolseley UK, tight controls are enforced to ensure that the optimal fleet efficiency and curbing excessive emissions.
minimum number of vehicles operate out of each Wolseley UK site and emphasis is placed upon route planning to minimise delivery journeys An extensive programme of education has ensured that an appropriate and the number of miles travelled.
Progress continues to be made level of capital expenditure is invested in new environmentally friendly across the whole UK transport fleet to improve this utilisation.
These vehicles incorporate emission and fuel economy technologies which already comply with, or exceed, forthcoming The introduction of further high capacity trailers has reduced the number US Government standards.
During the year ended 31 July 2005, of vehicles operating between each of the UK distribution centres and over 300 such vehicles were replaced a little over 8% of such vehicles there has been a substantial increase in the volume of back-hauling 2004: 265 or a little over 6% of such vehicles.
These new vehicles from suppliers, thereby enhancing the efficient use of the fleet.
As can are approximately 70% more fuel efficient than the ones they replaced.
be seen from page 17, significant investment has been made in, and has been committed to, distribution warehousing.
Multiple stock In common with other Wolseley companies, Stocks maintenance replenishment deliveries to branches from suppliers have been reduced programme seeks to improve both safety and fuel efficiency by as loads are consolidated in Wolseley UKs own distribution warehouses increasing reliability through the direct purchase of spare parts and for onward delivery.
Consolidating loads reduces the number of supplier also by rigorous tyre management.
In 2004 Stock successfully tested vehicles on the road while minimising the local impact around branches.
a GPS Global Positioning System pilot programme, which indicated There is a continued focus on pooling branch vehicles across each that further efficiencies could be achieved and would allow the company of the Wolseley UK brands, which will ensure that the fleet eliminates to plan more efficient delivery routes to enhance customer service and wasteful multiple deliveries and reduces the number of miles travelled.
further reduce the number of miles driven.
The pilot also demonstrated that safety could also be improved as drivers speed can be monitored.
A major project is underway at Wolseley UK to improve fuel consumption Stock has now rolled out the initiative such that more than 225 vehicles across its primary distribution fleet.
This is being achieved through now benefit from the GPS service.
Stock intends to double this number individual vehicle monitoring, combined with driver training initiatives in the next year.
and the replacement of older, less fuel efficient vehicles.
Some 216 2004: 200 vehicles were replaced over the last year.
A number of fleet Stocks regional distribution centres were designed to facilitate product vehicles have also been trialled with particulate filtration, allowing them delivery by rail.
More than 55% 2004: more than 50% of deliveries to to gain reduced pollution certificates.
the distribution centres are made in this way, with over 15,000 wagon loads equivalent to some 60,000 2004: 56,000 truck loads received Wolseley UKs transport group also pays continuous attention to during the last year alone.
Delivery by rail continues to be encouraged servicing programmes which include regular emissions checks to and is expected to continue to grow, with our investment in distribution ensure vehicle efficiency and has adopted a reduced emissions and centres designed to receive more product in this way.
tyre pressure management system for optimal fleet use.
Ferguson in the USA has been using a transportation management system for its 1,200 Brossette in France has implemented a reorganisation programme to plus diesel powered delivery vehicles.
The system optimises the delivery reduce the number of warehouses and to regroup branches in order of goods from distribution centres to branches as well as directly to to improve productivity and customer service while at the same time customers, thereby reducing handling and transport costs together with reducing the number of delivery journeys and transport costs.
The new system has been implemented at a branch level and significant savings are expected to be achieved.
Brossette has a national fleet maintenance programme in place, which seeks to secure optimal use of its delivery vehicles while minimising Ferguson has a policy of sourcing vehicles from a supplier with a leading the impact on the environment.
Brossette seeks to take advantage reputation in environmentally friendly diesel technology.
The engines for of technological improvements when renewing its fleet to both reduce all replacement vehicles are certified to meet the US Governments 2007 emissions and to optimise fuel consumption.
All new vehicles are fitted standard for particulate emissions.
Approximately 350 12% of the fleet with the latest software technology to improve efficiency and to reduce 2004: 175 or 7% of the fleet new vehicles were acquired during the the number of miles driven.
Some 102 vehicles approximately 10% of year and each was equipped with emissions technology that meets this such vehicles 2004: 31 or approximately 10% of such vehicles were standard.
Ferguson is also seeking to take full advantage of new digital replaced during the year.
valve technology to improve air quality and fuel economy throughout its entire distribution network.
During the year Ferguson also purchased a hybrid electric petrol vehicle to evaluate the benefits of improved fuel economy and reduced emissions which such vehicles may be able to offer compared to conventional vehicles.
WO40004 Wolseley R&A 01-45 7 10 05 12:18 am Page 44 44 Corporate social responsibility report Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 PBM is engaged in a fleet renewal programme to increase fuel efficiency, Both companies have set targets during the year to reduce the improve safety and reduce both emissions and transport costs.
frequency and cost of both workers compensation and traffic incidents, In the year ended 31 July 2005, 91 vehicles were replaced 2004: 80 enhance their programmes to help employees to return to work even if representing a little over 10% of PBMs fleet 2004: 9%.
Fleet efficiency this is on modified duty, improve the reporting of claims to ensure that is underpinned by a national fleet management programme, which prompt action is taken and increase measures to ensure that employees ensures uniform operating standards.
PBM ensures that its drivers are able to seek any required medical attention.
This joint initiative has training is maintained and seeks ways of encouraging good driving.
resulted in a significant improvement in both companies health and safety records.
Health and safety The Company has developed a health and safety framework which Stock achieved a 21% reduction in the number of work related injuries requires local management to have suitable procedures in place to during the six months to 31 March 2005 with Ferguson achieving a ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations and, wherever near 14% reduction.
Both companies have achieved a 100% rate of possible, to employ best practice.
One of the key issues for the Group returning injured employees to work either on modified duty or to their is the creation of a work environment free from injury and illness and how original jobs.
we go about improving our health and safety performance.
This is driven not only by legal responsibility, but also by the ethical desire to protect Both companies have also made improvements in reducing vehicle our employees.
accidents over the last year with Stock achieving a 17% reduction in accidents in the six months to 31 March 2005 and Ferguson holding Wolseley UK has a health and safety committee, supported by the health its accident frequency rate.
These improvements are all the more and safety department.
This comprises senior managers and local board impressive as they have been achieved during a period of significant directors.
The committee reviews the UK businesses performance growth for both companies.
in health and safety matters, promotes good practice and ensures appropriate consultation on any intended changes to its health and In May 2005, Stock introduced its Driven to Safety programme, a safety management systems.
All branch and area managers are trained proactive safe driver training programme.
Since then, every delivery in this area and all employees are trained to complete their daily tasks driver has been trained in a variety of ways to recognise hazardous in a safe manner.
conditions, plan the appropriate response and take decisive action.
Every new driver joining the company will also receive such bespoke Brossette has a central health and safety committee which oversees training.
Each drivers knowledge and ability to practice safe driving the work carried out by the health and safety committees in individual techniques will be assessed.
Representatives of the company and employees sit on each local committee, together with an occupational health doctor.
All new During the year Ferguson introduced its Customer CARE Customers employees and managers receive appropriate induction and training and Associates Require Excellence programme which is intended to which includes matters related to health and safety.
symbolise Fergusons determination to achieve a culture of excellence throughout the organisation.
The programme includes two goals aimed PBM seeks to increase awareness of the importance of health and at communicating the importance of safety and quality and to promote safety matters throughout the business using a programme that a safe working environment for all of its employees.
reinforces the fact that each person throughout the company has both a responsibility and a part to play in maintaining and improving health Cesaro in the Czech Republic also demonstrated its commitment to and safety standards.
customer care during the year by achieving ISO 9001 accreditation in June 2005 for its quality management processes.
The accreditation Stock has a safety committee with responsibility for developing, acknowledges the companys ability to fulfil its customers quality introducing and monitoring the effectiveness of the companys overall requirements and applicable regulatory requirements while aiming to safety programme and objectives.
The committee comprises employees enhance customer satisfaction and achieve continual improvement with different perspectives and from varied disciplines.
Each branch of its performance in pursuit of these objectives.
manager is responsible and accountable for health and safety at his or her branch, including compliance with regulations, safety awareness and Acquisitions accident prevention.
All new employees are given induction training A great deal of importance is placed on environmental matters during relating to safe working practices and hazards present in the workplace.
the due diligence process for acquisitions.
External environmental Training is also provided when an employee is requested to handle consultants review and assess environmental risks to which the new processes, procedures or equipment.
Monthly mandatory safety Group could potentially become exposed.
Depending upon the type meetings are held at each branch during which, as a minimum, topics of proposed acquisition, this assessment could include reviews of designated by the safety committee must be discussed.
Safety issues environmental management systems, compliance with laws and within each branch are dealt with by a safety coordinator or local safety regulations and the respect and care shown for the environment.
committee consisting of a cross-section of employees.
Health and safety compliance and processes are also considered as part of the process.
Appropriate dialogue with, and indemnities Stock and Ferguson have been working together over the last 24 months from, the proposed vendors are sought where appropriate.
to improve their performance in the areas of both health and safety and traffic accidents.
The joint initiative has been driven not only by the costs Code of Ethics to the business of soaring medical and other expenses associated with A Group-wide Code of Ethics has been in place since 2003.
This sets claims for workers compensation but also the desire to reduce the out a number of fundamental principles which all our companies and incidence of injury and to reduce the consequential effect that such employees are required to follow.
In keeping with our decentralised incidences have on other employees and the business.
approach, businesses are required to adopt their own codes which respect local cultures and businesses but which also set standards that are still no less exacting than those detailed in the Group-wide Code.
To a large extent, these individual codes simply underpin and endorse existing practices.
WO40004 Wolseley R&A 01-45 7 10 05 12:04 pm Page 45 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate social responsibility report 45 New companies joining the Group are required to adopt codes of ethics Wolseley UK operates a local community donation scheme in the UK for on the same basis as existing businesses.
The Group-wide Code covers a wide range of good causes for sports, education and health schemes many areas including fair competition, compliance with laws, including in local communities.
Wolseley UK has continued its support for anti-trust laws, maintenance of the Groups reputation for integrity childrens charity NCH and is also raising funds to buy an inshore lifeboat including a prohibition on bribery and general principles for dealing with for the Royal National Lifeboat Institution.
Wolseley employees have suppliers and authorities and can be viewed on the Companys website raised funds for many local and national charities, helped by generous at www.
com or a printed copy is available from the Group support from customers and suppliers alike.
PBM works with a company Company Secretary.
Wolseley UK, for example, has incorporated the dedicated to the employment of disabled people throughout Western Code of Ethics into a wider document which sets out the principles on France.
They are mainly involved in the assembly of products sold by which business is transacted.
This includes principles related to diversity, PBM under its garden products brand, Cerland.
Tobler, our Swiss safety, inducements, communication, the environment and human rights.
business, works with a similar company dedicated to the employment The human rights policies and procedures are based on the principles of disabled people in Switzerland.
set out in the United Nations Universal Declaration on Human Rights.
During the year Fergusons employees once again actively involved The workplace themselves in community fundraising activities, helping to raise funds One of the Boards objectives is to ensure that we provide a workplace in Virginia for cancer research by taking part in the largest half marathon environment that encourages and supports our employees in achieving in the USA.
A Relay for Life team from Fergusons corporate offices their best personal performance.
Further work was undertaken during participated in this years event for the eighth consecutive year and raised the year in this area coordinated by the Group-wide human resource $30,000.
Excess stock valued at nearly $113,000 from the closure of a function that resides in Theale.
The development of leadership skills of distribution centre in North Carolina was donated to Habitat for Humanity, senior managers is also a key objective and further progress has been the non-profit organisation which seeks to eliminate substandard housing made to enable more participants than ever before to attend programmes and homelessness from the world.
Training and development programmes for all employees are crucial to the ability of the business to achieve its goals.
Employees made themselves available around the clock in support The businesses continue to devote significant attention and resource to of the American Red Cross relief effort after the devastation caused this issue, recently aided by the recruitment of more human resource by hurricane Charley in September 2004.
Stock also contributed to leaders across the businesses.
More than 12 million 2004: 11 million the American Red Cross relief effort.
Supplies donated by Fergusons was spent on training of employees during the year, with over 75,250 Ft Myers Waterworks branch helped emergency roads to be built 2004: 64,500 days of training provided.
and enabled the Red Cross to convert a fire hydrant into showers for residents who were left homeless.
In Denver, Fergusons Beautyware Whilst Wolseley is committed to promoting equal opportunities for all, Plumbing Supply donated products and services to the Colorado it is believed that, overall, women and minorities are under-represented.
Homes built through this community effort We believe that we have the right policies in place to meet or exceed are designed to help families affected by redundancy.
legal requirements in this area but we also recognise the need to better understand the factors that are critical to achieving greater diversity.
Wolseley Canada and its employees are committed to supporting Further work continues to be undertaken in this area.
Special Olympics Canada, the national not-for-profit organisation dedicated to enriching the lives of Canadians with an intellectual disability Community relations through sport.
The organisation provides sport training and competition Notwithstanding the international nature of the business, the Group opportunities for 30,000 athletes of all ages and abilities and Wolseley continues to operate with a high degree of autonomy, working in and Canada committed C$250,000 in funding in the year ended 31 July 2005 with our local communities.
We recognise our responsibility to invest as well as providing employees with paid days off to allow them to in the communities in which our businesses operate and to act as volunteer at the Ontario Games held in July 2005. a good corporate citizen.
The Company is a member of Business in the Community in the UK and has worked with that organisation Donations to help develop our approach and practice.
Following the Tsunami in December 2004 that devastated areas of south east Asia, businesses and employees throughout the Group pulled The Groups businesses are involved in a wide range of initiatives for the together to offer help.
The Group pledged in excess of 200,000 to the benefit of local communities, of which the following are representative: disaster relief fund.
Ferguson also allocated $50,000 to match employee donations.
In France, PBM and Brossette joined forces to create Stock led a team of local businesses in Montana, USA to donate initiatives to raise funds from customers, suppliers and employees materials for and help to construct a storage office and shop facility at alike.
This culminated in some 1460,000 being presented in June 2005 Johns Golf Course.
The course was developed by a customer of Stock to Plan France, the international humanitarian organisation, which will for his son, who wanted to take up the game despite living with the use the funds to co-finance their rehabilitation and reconstruction effects of Cornelia DeLange Syndrome, a form of Downs syndrome that programme in Sri Lanka, which is specifically aimed at providing 1,200 affects mental and physical development.
The course is now enjoyed by permanent homes in 11 locations together with new community facilities.
many local people able bodied and disabled alike and a fundraising golf tournament was recently hosted by the course to help enable the In addition to these initiatives, the Group supports charities relevant customers son to attend the World Special Olympics.
to the countries and to the locations in which its businesses operate.
These are wide-ranging and cover health, welfare, education, civic and Over the last year Stock responded to six challenges from California to community projects as well as culture and the arts.
Each year, several Florida initiated by the television series Extreme Makeover: Home Edition hundred donations are made.
In the USA, many of our employees make to help reconstruct homes to improve the lives of families who have had regular contributions to the United Way, an organisation which distributes to cope with severe personal difficulties.
This was in addition to the funds to charities.
In the UK, a Give as You Earn Scheme operates with companys ongoing support for diverse Habitat for Humanity projects the assistance of the Charities Aid Foundation which distributes funds across the USA.
Stock has also entered into commitments of more than to UK charities.
Further details of the donations made during the year $50,000 per annum to fund educational, arts and childrens programmes are set out on page 52. in the Raleigh area.
