This report marks a year of good progress for our CSR agenda.
I am pleased to say that since the Groups creation in 2001, commitment to responsible business practices has remained an integral part of the way we operate.
From product sourcing through to the point of sale and beyond, our quality assurance processes ensure that we incorporate within our bottom line plans a focus on being socially responsible, environmentally friendly and safe.
Likewise, we employ health and safety best practice for our colleagues and customers alike and our colleagues are given every encouragement to develop their careers within the Group.
As our business develops, good governance should be at the heart of everything we do.
We continue to focus our activities in the four key areas of our Marketplace, our Workplace, our Environment and our Community.
We are particularly proud this year of Playground Partnerships an exciting new 2. initiative that has been developed to award grants to primary schools to improve their playgrounds and the quality of pupils playtime.
Playground Partnerships encourage primary school children to develop creative proposals explaining why their playgrounds need improving and the changes they would make if they had sufficient funds.
The scheme encourages teamwork within schools to design and develop their play areas.
Proposals are independently judged by a panel comprising educationalists, landscape architects and play experts, and grants are awarded to the best entries.
Eighty grants totalling 250,000 were awarded in 2004 enabling the proposals to become reality.
This initiative has also won significant praise within the retail sector with Woolworths Kids First winning the 2005 Retail Week Corporate Responsibility award for its work in the community.
We value the huge contribution of our employees and are committed to offering the opportunity for them to develop by providing a rewarding graduate training scheme and varied and challenging career opportunities.
At a time when some companies 1.
Playground Partnerships 10,000 are closing down their final salary pension schemes, I am pleased to report that the Award Winners at Briary County Woolworths Group pension scheme was updated in April 2004 enabling us to retain Primary School, Herne Bay.
this valuable benefit for our employees.
Chillingham Primary School at new store in Byker.
For a full report on the Groups activities in CSR, please refer to the Companys website, www.
com, and click on Corporate Social Responsibility.
Alternatively, for a hard copy of the 2005 CSR report please contact the Company Secretary.
Yours sincerely Trevor Bish-Jones Chief Executive 22 March 2005 13 Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
