How we behave WPPs Corporate Responsibility Policy and our Many professionals from within WPP companies Code of Business Conduct provide guidance for our people play an important part in developing and revising industry on a wide range of ethical, social and environmental codes in sensitive areas such as advertising to children subjects.
Both documents are publicly available on our and the marketing of food and pharmaceutical products.
For example, Denise Maguire, managing director of Hill & We have established an initial set of key performance Knowlton Hong Kong, is chair of the Ethics Committee indicators KPIs in our Corporate Responsibility Reports.
for the Council of PR Firms: Gary Laben, CEO of KnowledgeBase Marketing, is a member of the Ethics Advisory Committee of the US Direct Marketing Corporate responsibility goals Association: and Sue Brooker, a director of Millward Brown, is a member of the Professional Standards In 2005, we set ourselves three ongoing corporate Committee for the UK Market Research Society.
These were: Most of the campaigns we produce for clients do Contribution to society Undertake pro bono work and not cause complaint, but occasionally complaints do occur make donations to charity to a value of 0.4% of revenue.
relating to matters of taste or fact.
In most countries these Marketing ethics Comply with all laws and industry are arbitrated by government or industry organisations.
codes governing marketing material and to track our Our 2005 Corporate Responsibility Report will contain performance globally to establish how we are doing.
statistics on the number of cases upheld against campaigns Environment Calculate climate impact, purchase by WPP companies.
recycled paper and install recycling facilities in 10 of our largest ofces.
Each of our goals requires co-ordinated effort Privacy across five continents.
This is made more complicated by WPPs management structure that devolves a great Privacy is an important issue for our market research and deal of management responsibility and discretion to our direct marketing companies as they hold and use consumer operating companies.
Our operating companies strive to comply with In 2005 we made progress towards all three of these national data protection laws and marketing codes of goals.
The details are reported below.
practice such as the UK Data Protection Act and the EU Data Protection Directive.
The impact of our work Cause-related marketing The work our operating companies produce is a significant Cause-related marketing links brands to charities, usually part of our corporate responsibility performance.
Supporting through a donation for every product purchased.
Executed clients by marketing products that offer environmental and sensitively, these campaigns benefit both brand and charity.
social benefits is also key.
In addition, WPP businesses Many WPP companies work on cause-related marketing.
work for governments producing campaigns to raise public awareness of issues such as climate change, the importance of health and well-being and the dangers associated WPP as an employer with drugs.
Diversity Marketing ethics Our goal is to have a talent base that reflects the communities in which we operate.
We believe diversity As a minimum our businesses are expected to comply contributes to our business creativity and enhances our with all laws, regulations and codes of marketing practice.
Our nonOur Code of Business Conduct states that we will not discrimination policy, introduced in 1992, commits us knowingly create work which contains statements, to select, develop and promote the best people without suggestions or images offensive to general public decency regard to factors such as race, religion, national origin, and will give appropriate consideration to the impact of colour, gender, sexual orientation, age or disability.
our work on minority segments of the population, whether that minority be by race, religion, national origin, colour, gender, sexual orientation, age or disability.
Annual Report 2005 How we behave 111
