How we behave Social investment WPP is also working with the World Economic Forum on an initiative to change perceptions of Africa WPP companies have a history of supporting charities on amongst business leaders.
The donation of our time and skills at Many senior WPP executives also give pro bono no cost or minimal cost is worth much more than an advice and support.
This is because the work we Sir Martin Sorrell is an active participant in programs undertake for charities helps them recruit members, raise at the following international business schools: London funds and advance causes.
The net benefit to the charity Business School: IESE, Spain: Indian Business School: is usually many times the value of our input.
Harvard Business School and Boston University: and In 2005, our total social investment was worth Whistling Woods International Institute for lm, television 17.3 million, equivalent to 0.32% of revenue 2.9% of and media arts, Mumbai, India.
This includes 13.9 million A donation from WPP has paid for a library to be in pro bono work based on the fees the benefiting built at the Lower Basic School in Sanyang village, Gambia.
organisations would have paid for our work and This has been stocked by books donated from across WPP 3.4 million in donations.
WPP came fourth in the UK companies.
WPP is also providing funds to help the village Guardian newspapers Giving List 2005 based on 2004 build a healthcare clinic.
data that ranks FTSE 100 companies by the value of their social investment.
Employee volunteering Pro bono work by category 2005 Many of our people give their time and expertise as % volunteers to support good causes in their local Health 23% communities.
We encourage this because it benets the Local community 21% charity and our people.
For example: Other 17% Good Deeds is the volunteering programme for Y&R Education 14% and Mediaedge:cia employees in Detroit.
Employees can Environment 13% spend two work days each year giving back to the Arts 7% Illegal drugs 5% community through individual or agency-wide volunteering activities.
For each employee that participates, the agencies donate $100 to the community organisation supported.
MJM recognise the importance of community Donations by category 2005 % participation.
Employees can take up to two days of Health 26% paid company time, every six months, for community Other 26% service activities.
Education 18% VMLs community service programme gives employees Local community 18% two workdays a year to volunteer in the community.
Arts 8% VML employees work with five Kansas City organisations Environment 4% that need volunteers.
Burson-Marsteller China launched a volunteering programme in 2005, giving employees two work days WPP the parent company a year to support community activities.
The Company focuses its support on education and the arts.
In the UK we supported a range of organisations including: the Charles Edward Brooke Girls School in London, which specialises in media arts: the Royal College of Art annual illustration competition and support of Hardship Fund: two bursary awards for D&AD, the professional association for design and advertising: and the National Portrait Gallery and Natural History Museum in London.
Annual Report 2005 114 How we behave
