How we behave WPPs Corporate Responsibility Policy and our Many professionals from within WPP companies Code of Business Conduct provide guidance for our people play an important part in developing and revising industry on a wide range of ethical, social and environmental codes in sensitive areas such as advertising to children subjects.
Both documents are publicly available on our and the marketing of food and pharmaceutical products.
For example, Denise Maguire, managing director of Hill & We have established an initial set of key performance Knowlton Hong Kong, is chair of the Ethics Committee indicators KPIs in our Corporate Responsibility Reports.
for the Council of PR Firms: Gary Laben, CEO of KnowledgeBase Marketing, is a member of the Ethics Advisory Committee of the US Direct Marketing Corporate responsibility goals Association: and Sue Brooker, a director of Millward Brown, is a member of the Professional Standards In 2005, we set ourselves three ongoing corporate Committee for the UK Market Research Society.
These were: Most of the campaigns we produce for clients do Contribution to society Undertake pro bono work and not cause complaint, but occasionally complaints do occur make donations to charity to a value of 0.4% of revenue.
relating to matters of taste or fact.
In most countries these Marketing ethics Comply with all laws and industry are arbitrated by government or industry organisations.
codes governing marketing material and to track our Our 2005 Corporate Responsibility Report will contain performance globally to establish how we are doing.
statistics on the number of cases upheld against campaigns Environment Calculate climate impact, purchase by WPP companies.
recycled paper and install recycling facilities in 10 of our largest ofces.
Each of our goals requires co-ordinated effort Privacy across five continents.
This is made more complicated by WPPs management structure that devolves a great Privacy is an important issue for our market research and deal of management responsibility and discretion to our direct marketing companies as they hold and use consumer operating companies.
Our operating companies strive to comply with In 2005 we made progress towards all three of these national data protection laws and marketing codes of goals.
The details are reported below.
practice such as the UK Data Protection Act and the EU Data Protection Directive.
The impact of our work Cause-related marketing The work our operating companies produce is a significant Cause-related marketing links brands to charities, usually part of our corporate responsibility performance.
Supporting through a donation for every product purchased.
Executed clients by marketing products that offer environmental and sensitively, these campaigns benefit both brand and charity.
social benefits is also key.
In addition, WPP businesses Many WPP companies work on cause-related marketing.
work for governments producing campaigns to raise public awareness of issues such as climate change, the importance of health and well-being and the dangers associated WPP as an employer with drugs.
Diversity Marketing ethics Our goal is to have a talent base that reflects the communities in which we operate.
We believe diversity As a minimum our businesses are expected to comply contributes to our business creativity and enhances our with all laws, regulations and codes of marketing practice.
Our nonOur Code of Business Conduct states that we will not discrimination policy, introduced in 1992, commits us knowingly create work which contains statements, to select, develop and promote the best people without suggestions or images offensive to general public decency regard to factors such as race, religion, national origin, and will give appropriate consideration to the impact of colour, gender, sexual orientation, age or disability.
our work on minority segments of the population, whether that minority be by race, religion, national origin, colour, gender, sexual orientation, age or disability.
Annual Report 2005 How we behave 111 How we behave backgrounds to gain work experience in the advertising Gender diversity 2003-2005 industry.
JWT and Hill & Knowlton also participate in % INROADS, an internship programme for minority youth.
Employees 05 54% 46% In addition, Grey holds an annual disability mentor 04 55% 45% day for 10 disabled students to experience work in 03 an advertising agency.
56% 44% Targeted recruitment activities: WPP sponsors events, Account directors 05 52% 48% such as the Harvard Business School African-American 04 51% 49% Alumni Association conference, that help inform minority professionals about new career opportunities, and position 03 54% 46% WPP as a preferred employer.
Senior executives 05 33% 67% Our agencies participate in recruitment fairs and 04 events at many minority colleges and universities.
These 32% 68% include NYUs Diversity Careers Fair: the Diversity & 03 36% 64% Female Male Leadership Group at Duke University: Howard University: the International Radio and Television Societys Minority The Groups Code of Business Conduct contains Career workshop: AAFs Mosaic Career Fair: the policies on human resource issues, such as harassment Advertising Women of New York Conference: the Asian and discrimination.
Our people can report any concerns American Diversity Career Expo: and the US Department or suspected cases of discrimination or misconduct of Labors Job Fair for Hispanics.
condentially and anonymously if desired through our Group companies also use specialised recruitment Right to Speak helpline.
For example, JWT New York In 2005, women accounted for 33% of executive is using Community Connects recruitment service.
Grey directors of operating companies, 52% of account directors advertises vacancies in diversity publications and websites and 54% of total employees.
There are three women on such as IMDiversity, the Ad Age Annual Diversity Issue WPPs Board.
All of our major agencies in the US have internal Raising employee awareness: JWT launched a new programs to increase the diversity of their workforce.
diversity and harassment training program for employees WPP also participates in a number of initiatives to in its North American ofces.
Ogilvy conducted diversity encourage diversity in the advertising industry.
These awareness training sessions for employees in 2005, and are a few examples from 2005: Y&R has appointed a chief diversity officer and held Partnerships: WPPs US-based advertising agencies are diversity leadership training for managers.
part of Operation Success, an initiative launched by the In the UK, WPP began working with Rare American Association of Advertising Agencies AAAA Recruitment, a UK graduate recruitment agency, to nd to increase diversity in the US advertising industry.
Our diverse candidates for the WPP Marketing Fellowship agencies support the work of many diversity organisations.
Rare places the most able students from These include the Business Advisory Committee which minority backgrounds with companies that have strong helps disabled people to nd jobs : Advertising Women diversity policies.
of New York TORCH Together Our Resources Can Help, The South African Governments Black Economic a program for under-served New York public high school Empowerment policy requires companies to ensure the students: the National Black Public Relations Society black population is adequately represented in their NBPRS : the Hispanic PR Association: and LaGrant workforce and to establish a level of black ownership.
Foundation, a non-profit organisation providing career WPP companies operating in South Africa are on track development support to students from ethnic minorities.
to achieve the 30% level of black ownership required for Internships: Several WPP companies, including The advertising and communications companies.
Diversity Bravo Group, Grey Worldwide, JWT, Mediaedge:cia, initiatives at our South African agencies include the Grey MindShare, Ogilvy & Mather and Y&R participate in Action Program, which provides internships for 10 young the AAAAs Multicultural Advertising Internship Program black graduates each year.
This enables students from a range of ethnic Annual Report 2005 112 How we behave How we behave Development and training Regular communication on Group initiatives such as the Worldwide Partnership Program, BRANDZ, the WPP is a people business and we aspire to high standards Atticus Awards, the WPP Marketing Fellowship Program of employment progression and investment in the and professional development workshops.
Our approach includes Periodic reports from Sir Martin Sorrell to participants performance assessment, succession planning and training.
in LEAP, and to the Leaders, Partners and High Potential Our goal is for our people at all levels in our businesses to groups.
WPPs website, Group intranet site and professional In 2005, WPP invested 32.7 million in training and Knowledge Communities.
We have introduced courses Formal and informal meetings at operating company level.
aimed at developing creative leadership, client leadership Our annual Corporate Responsibility Report is widely and personal leadership.
The parent company runs the distributed across WPP and is available on our intranet SparkLab program of innovative behavioural workshops and website.
Devised by WPP for our own people, SparkLabs aim to improve everyday communication and Health and well-being presentation skills.
The SparkLab workshops are led by professionals from the performing arts.
We aim to identify and reduce health risks and provide Our operating companies also run a range of a safe workplace.
By focusing on issues relevant to our training courses covering all aspects of agency business ofce environments, such as stress management and good and creative skills.
practice in workstation design and use, we aim to maximise the health and well-being of our people.
In turn, this Staff training and welfare 2001-2005 enables us to minimise absence from work and improve 000 productivity and employee retention.
Our agencies seek 05 32,700 to create an environment where people feel able to discuss any issues, including stress, with their manager or human 04 25,145 resources department.
Our companies also assess the risk 03 21,793 of work-related stress through regular staff surveys and by monitoring issues raised via our Right to Speak helplines, 02 20,921 Employee Assistance Programs and during exit interviews.
01 23,419 Initiatives to combat workplace stress vary by company but include: Employee share ownership Employee Assistance Programs a source of condential advice, support and counselling.
Share ownership gives our people a financial stake in the Flexible benefit programs, including subsidised childcare.
Company and a share in its success.
WPPs Worldwide Flexible work arrangements enabling people to work Ownership Plan, introduced in 1997, has granted share part-time or from home.
options to over 53,000 of our people.
Details of this plan Medical checks and health screening.
and other executive stock options can be found on page 122.
Training on stress and time management.
Communication Employee external appointments We keep our people informed and up to date with what The Company recognises that its directors and senior is happening across the Group.
With 92,000 people in executives may be invited to become non-executive 106 countries this can be a challenge, so we place great directors of other companies and that such exposure may emphasis on good internal communications.
Some be beneficial to the Group.
Consequently, executives are examples are: allowed to accept non-executive appointments with nonDistribution of the Annual Report and Accounts, competing companies subject to obtaining the approval of the Navigator company handbook, the Atticus Journal, the Group chief executive in the case of senior executives The WIRE WPPs global newspaper, and regular FactFiles and the approval of the Nomination committee in the case to all companies worldwide.
Any fees receivable out of such A monthly online news bulletin e. wire.
appointments are retained by the individuals concerned.
Annual Report 2005 How we behave 113
