Summary corporate social responsibility report Introduction In the year a new accident and incident reporting system AIR was The Group is very much aware of its social, ethical and environmental introduced to capture data more accurately.
The system is proving impacts and responsibilities and is committed to ensuring that a high effective in encouraging staff and contractors to report both major standard of corporate social responsibility CSR is built into its day and minor accidents.
to day operating culture, based on sound policies and good practice.
A summary of key issues is provided here, supported by a separate CSR Safety tours enhance our senior managers understanding of the safety report explaining in greater detail the Groups strategy and performance culture, workplace risks and employee concerns.
Of the 274 planned, during the past year.
The year saw a particular focus on prioritising health and safety: The Group received one formal safety prohibition notice during the year, improving incident reporting: achieving international standards served during February 2005, when the seat belt on a sub-contractors for health and safety and environmental management: and staff hired dumper was found to be torn.
The incident has been drawn to the development and training.
The Group has continued to introduce and attention of all relevant managers and measures have been put in place implement policies designed to ensure commitment to high standards to prevent a recurrence.
of business conduct throughout the Group.
All employees are expected to carry out their duties in an ethical manner and to report any instances Environment of malpractice of which they become aware.
Management is aiming to achieve Group-wide certification to the environmental management standard, ISO 14001, by September 2006.
The Group again participated in the Business in the Community At the end of the year 75 per cent of the Groups business units had Corporate Responsibility Index, our score rising from 63 per cent in achieved certification.
Training activities geared to improving staff 2004 to 71 per cent this year.
Our score in the Business in the awareness of environmental management issues include Institute Environment Index also rose from 61 per cent to 74 per cent.
of Environmental Management and Assessment IEMA approved courses, e-learning and site awareness videos.
CSR management The Board sets Group policies on CSR, the Chief Executive being The Group had no prosecutions relating to environmental incidents responsible for CSR at Board level.
The Group has separate management during the year.
frameworks in place for different CSR matters.
The Chief Executive is supported in their development by business unit Managing Directors.
Quality Effective quality management is central to the Groups business Work continues on drawing together, into a formal corporate CSR activities.
Existing registrations to quality standard ISO 9001: 2000 strategy, the numerous CSR-related policies, management frameworks have been maintained in all cases, with new approvals obtained in and activities already in place within the Group.
The coming year will the US, China, Europe and the Middle East.
also see the Group carry out a risk and value assessment of its CSR activities.
Staff The People section of the Operating and financial review on pages 23 QSE to 24 and the Directors report on page 34 provide details on the The Group assesses the quality, safety and environmental QSE Groups policies and practice relating to staff.
impact of its operations as an integral part of its business management processes.
Continuous improvement is driven by an annually produced Suppliers strategy, approved by the Board, and progress is monitored through a A Group procurement policy is in place informing employees of regular QSE questionnaire requiring all parts of the business to provide preferred suppliers.
These are selected through a fair tendering process detailed information and statistics.
The Chief Executive is responsible and are expected to comply with minimum CSR criteria.
It is the Groups for QSE management at Board level, supported by the Director of QSE, policy, wherever possible, to procure environmentally friendly goods and a dedicated Group QSE department and managers for specific business to use ISO 14001 accredited organisations.
During the year a revised units.
The Group Assurance Programme GAP identifies necessary approach to the assessment of suppliers QSE systems was developed improvements across the Group.
Effective training in these matters is and implemented.
a key commitment at all levels of the business.
Health and safety Group policies are in place to protect the health and safety of its employees, contractors, clients and third parties likely to be impacted by its activities.
The Group is committed to achieving external certification to OHSAS 18001 Group-wide by September 2006.
At 31 March 2005, some 37 per cent of the Groups business units had achieved certification.
The Group continues to work with Safety in Design SiD and other bodies to set a minimum standard of competence for its professional staff.
Other training initiatives include Institution of Occupational, Safety & Health IOSH approved courses, e-learning and site awareness videos.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2005 45
