Operating and financial review Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility CR in BAE Systems recognises its responsibilities to the BAE Systems is about good business practice and continual improvement.
people it employs, its customers and suppliers, We recognise our wide-ranging its shareholders, the wider community and to responsibilities and our CR framework has been developed around key the environment.
stakeholder interest and feedback, potential risk to our business and the extension, review and improvement of existing practices.
Highlights of our progress and performance across Governance of CR all areas of our social, ethical and environmental The board of directors has overall responsibilities during 2005 are detailed below.
responsibility for governance of CR matters within the Company.
Specific responsibility Further information and supporting data can be has been assigned to the recently formed Corporate Responsibility Committee.
found in our Corporate Responsibility Report All members of this committee are nonor on our website, www.
executive directors and comprise Peter Weinberg, Professor Sue Birley, Phil Carroll and Michael Portillo.
The committee is responsible for reviewing and monitoring the processes the Company uses to Management of corporate responsibility manage social, environmental and Corporate Board Remuneration ethical risk, as well as assisting the Responsibility Committee Committee Board in the development of strategy and policy in this area.
Chief Audit Executive Committee The committee is supported by the Group Legal Director, Audit Director, Group Group Business Group Internal External Legal HR Director Unit Sector Audit Review Audit Audit Group HR Director and Director of Director Board Corporate Responsibility.
Corporate Responsibility team The committee met for the first time in 2005 and has agreed several long-term strategic Strategy and review Delivery & Assurance objectives to ensure CR contributes to the performance sustainability of the Companys performance through ensuring continual improvement of application, communication and evolution of non-financial processes.
Further information on these objectives can be found in our full Corporate Responsibility Report.
Performance In 2005 BAE Systems maintained its leading position in both the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index and the pan European Dow Jones STOXX Sustainability Index.
Our total score increased from 68% to 81%, a clear indication of our improved performance in the area of corporate responsibility and sustainability.
42 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 The score reflects improvements across the programmes.
Our scores for individual we meet the highest ethical standards three areas of social, economic and in our dealings with others and have the questions all exceeded the average score environment but the results also highlighted processes in place to ensure our employees for DII companies.
a need to continue to increase transparency comply with the law in all the countries on how we manage certain business issues.
We also recognise the A survey of our UK employees carried out We are committed to addressing this.
importance of demonstrating this to our in May 2005 indicated that whilst more stakeholders.
This year we have published than 96% of our employees confirmed they Key issues for our business an external statement on our ethical would take action in the event of suspecting It is important that our CR reporting business principles and practices.
A copy unethical conduct or practice, less than 30% addresses issues that are material to of the statement can be found in our full were familiar with the specific requirements our business and reflect stakeholder Corporate Responsibility Report.
In 2005 we commissioned to be an unacceptable result and the  to provide an We do not tolerate unethical or illegal employees guides to ethical conduct have independent view of the issues relevant conduct.
The consequences of such been re-launched.
to our CR reporting and an understanding conduct may be far reaching and severe not of our CR stakeholders and their key only for the Company and its employees, but The re-launch was supported by a concerns.
We will use the findings from also for other stakeholders.
For example, promotional campaign to help highlight the this work to focus our CR reporting and we, and our employees, may be subject confidential and independent ethics helpline drive stakeholder engagement during 2006. to criminal sanction, our reputation may and in the US the 2005 ethics video be tarnished and we may suffer a loss of ethical leadership: lets talk featured our business.
Such conduct is also morally wrong.
The key areas our stakeholders consider senior leadership discussing the personal material to our business are anti-bribery significance of our ethics principles.
and corruption practices, health and safety, Our ethical principles are: government relations and political influence Additionally, we will develop, pilot and roll out and product responsibility.
Additional on-line ethics training, which is already Accountability information on these and other key mandatory in our US business, to all UK We are personally answerable for our issues is available in our full Corporate employees during 2006. conduct and actions Responsibility Report available online: Honesty www.
Health and safety There is no substitute for the truth The health and safety of our employees and Licence to operate Export control the communities around our facilities is very Integrity BAE Systems operates within a tightly important.
During 2005, a tragic incident We say what we will do: we do what we say regulated environment and is subject to at our Chorley site in the UK resulted in the Openness legislation governing defence exports.
In the death of one of our employees.
No fatality When questions are asked, we will be frank UK we are subject to the UK Export Control or serious injury is acceptable to us and and straightforward in our answers Act.
This gives the UK government powers we continue to work with the authorities over tangible and intangible e. g. electronic to understand and address the causes of Respect or digital transfers of military and other the incident at Chorley.
We value and treat each individual with sensitive technology, and over defence dignity and thoughtfulness trade between third parties.
It also provides Throughout 2005, our Chief Executive, Mike for transparency and accountability.
In the Turner, and his management team have US we are subject to regulatory controls The intent of our policies is to establish repeatedly emphasised the importance of which include the Arms Export Control Act, compliance with the law in the countries a safe work place for all who work on our the Export Administration Act, Treasury where we operate as a minimum and to sites.
In April 2005, Mike Turner met with embargoes and US Customs regulations.
aim for higher standards where possible.
the Director General of the UK Health & Safety Executive, Timothy Walker, to We have our own internal controls to ensure In 2005, BAE Systems in the US reaffirm the mutual commitment of both that we comply with these regulations.
participated in the Ethics Environment organisations to working in partnership to Michael Lester, our Group Legal Director, is Survey run by the US Defense Industry improve standards of safety performance.
the board member responsible for ensuring Initiative on Ethics and Business Conduct our compliance with export controls and DII with other major US defence companies the UK governments Code of Practice.
to assess the effectiveness of our collective ethics programmes.
The survey was carried Ethics out by the Ethics Resource Centre ERC, an BAE Systems is committed to meeting the independent non-profit organisation.
Over highest ethical standards in our dealings 25,000 employees from 14 companies with others.
The nature of our business including 1,820 from BAE Systems took means it is particularly important that we part.
BAE Systems scored among the top have strong values and an awareness of three companies in all seven categories public concerns.
We are confident that addressing the effectiveness of ethics BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 43 Operating and financial review Corporate responsibility continued In December 2004, the Executive Total injuries to all employees safety performance improvement targets Committee signed off the safety, health were also included in the personal including contractors and environment SHE policy statement objectives of our Chief Executive in 2005.
10,000 and the framework for its deployment.
This not only demonstrates the commitment Senior executives across our Company at the top of the Company but also down to 7,500 were then made responsible for ensuring each business to deliver this improvement.
5,000 2005 saw the Environment, Safety & 2,500 To ensure the policy and the framework Health Council for our US operations were implemented, Internal Audit carried raised in status to provide the visibility 0 out a series of audits to ensure that the and priority for environmental, safety and 2002 2003 2004 2005 principles of the framework were fully health issues.
In the UK, the Trade Union Total injuries implemented across our businesses.
Communication and Information Forum Injuries per 100,000 employees was established to maximise the benefit Overall, our performance in 2005 shows that This year senior executives of each of of the positive relationship with the health we have reduced the number of people being our business groups have agreed to a and safety representatives in driving injured or exposed to environmental risk or consistent approach to reporting and health and safety performance.
setting of health and safety targets.
This does not mean the same targets SHE performance is now regularly reviewed across the business: targets will be set at all levels of the business including according to business risk.
Health and the Executive Committee and the Board.
Joint statement from UK Health & Safety Executive HSE and BAE Systems BAE Systems and the HSE have now completed one year of a three-year partnership to address specific safety issues in the manufacturing sector.
The initiative was launched as part of the HSEs commitment to Revitalising Health & Safety and followed on from a previous partnership between the two organisations.
The Company and experts from the HSE are working together to develop and deploy standards of best practice in five key areas of safety risk contractor management, hand-arm vibration syndrome, working at heights, confined space working, and slips, trips and falls.
Employee involvement is being delivered in partnership with trade union safety representatives at BAE Systems UK sites.
Both organisations recognise the benefit the partnership is bringing in progressing safety standards in Great Britain.
BAE Systems is committed to achieving HSE welcomes the commitment of high performance standards for safety BAE Systems to meeting the challenges throughout the organisation.
We are of the Revitalising Health & Safety agenda.
pleased to have this opportunity to work HSE, through the joint initiative, is committed with the Health & Safety Executive on to the development of an effective driving improvements in safety, not only professional relationship across the in our own business but to establish manufacturing units.
HSE is committed to standards of good practice which can assisting BAE Systems meet the challenges be used across other sectors.
We believe by establishing productive partnerships the partnership has many benefits both at all levels of the Company and sharing in access to expertise of the HSE and in expertise to reduce injuries and ill-health.
improvements weve made to our own standards and processes.
We look forward HSE recognises the positive approach to continuing a positive and productive and good offices of the Company, and the relationship over the next two years.
significant progress with the initiative.
We want to build on this to realise our common goal of a safe and healthy work place.
Mike Turner Timothy Walker Chief executive, BAE Systems Director general, Health & Safety Executive 44 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 Education The BAE Systems education programme in the BAE Systems has supported a similar UK encourages 10 to 13 year olds to consider programme in the US for the last 13 years.
Over 17,000 students For Inspiration and Recognition of Science and were reached in 2005, when BAE Systems Technology FIRST aspires to transform culture, launched a new Schools Roadshow.
The making science, maths, engineering and Roadshow features a play about developing and technology appeal to children.
building a vehicle which can fly, float and work on land.
Post show evaluation demonstrated that the programme had a big impact, with over 70% of boys and 40% of girls saying they would now consider a career in engineering.
Workplace The Company is commited to resolving We are committed to the professional BAE Systems is committed to equality of issues in order to focus on improving our measurement of our contributions and opportunity for all employees and creating relationships with customers including the the impact they have.
In 2005 we became a workplace where everyone is treated UK MoD and US DoD.
Concrete results a member of the London Benchmarking with respect.
have already been seen from these actions.
Group LBG, which comprises some 100 As an example, a previously low scoring leading UK-based companies committed to Diversity supports our objective to maintain customer placed an order of 11m after rigorous evaluation of community competitive advantage by attracting and a series of top level relationship building programmes.
We used the LBGs agreed retaining a disproportionate share of the meetings.
Both processes continue methodology to evaluate our annual worlds most talented people.
Our full to deliver enhanced relationships and community contribution globally.
Corporate Responsibility Report sets out improved goodwill for BAE Systems.
the Groups objectives in this area and Participation in LBG provides us with a provides updates on progress against them.
Environment number of key indicators in relation to the We have a responsibility to manage our performance of our community investment This year we have revised and rolled out impact on the environment, be it as a direct programme.
A detailed breakdown of our our Respect at Work policy and guidance result of our manufacturing operations, giving in line with the LBG indicators can be to all employees in our UK businesses.
waste from our offices or the products we found in our annual Corporate Responsibility We have also become a member of Where produce.
All of our major manufacturing Report or on our website.
Women Want to Work, an online community sites have now achieved accreditation to the for working women, in order to help us international environmental management attract more women into our industry.
standard ISO 14001 and we continue to deliver improvements in relation to energy 2006 CR objectives BAE Systems invests in the training and use, waste and water consumption.
development of its people from apprentice We regularly review and update our CR school leavers through graduates to our programmes to ensure we make progress.
BAE Systems CO2 emissions most experienced functional professionals We set yearly objectives, details of which million tonnes and managers.
Employees worldwide have can be found in our full Corporate 0.60 access to over 350 online courses and all Responsibility Report, at both a strategic our major sites feature Learning Resource and operational level.
The specific CR 0.45 Centres for those without access to a objectives agreed for our Chief Executive computer.
In 2005 we continued to develop and his leadership team in 2006 are to: 0.30 effective leadership capability and embed resolve 75% of employee grievances a high performance culture through the 0.15 in the UK at local level: successful roll out of Performance Centred reflect gender diversity on leading 0.00 Leadership PCL development system university courses in choice of 2002 2003 2004 2005 across the wider leadership population graduate trainees through a Tonnes approximately 5,200. focused recruitment plan: Million tonnes 1bn turnover In 2005 a key challenge for our US exceed safety performance Community operations was the successful integration commitments made to the BAE Systems takes an active role in of nearly 8,000 employees through the UK Health and Safety Executive: community and education activities, acquisition of United Defense.
This involves meet SHE targets: supporting charities and working directly progressive alignment of people policies, with those communities close to our employee communications and establishing meet standards defined through facilities worldwide.
In 2005, our total common practices.
our internal assurance process: and community investment was 10.5m.
develop, pilot and roll out online Customer relations ethics training to all employees This figure includes cash and in-kind Maintaining good relationships with in the UK and Australia.
donations to charity as well as our our customers is key to our business.
Charity It is important that we understand our Challenge, our company-wide fundraising customers needs and give them the and volunteering programme, raised opportunity to review our performance.
2.7m from employee fundraising Customer Perception Survey US market and provided over 4,200 volunteer and Customer Voice rest of the world days for charities worldwide.
are the strategic dialogue and change processes we have in place to ensure our relationships with customers are strong, helping to maintain a real competitive edge and delivering tangible business benefits.
