32 Grainger Trust plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Financial review continued Diluted NAV or NNNAV is computed by adjusting NAV The total of our net borrowings expressed as a percentage for the market value of long-term debt and derivatives of the market value of our gross property assets loan to and for contingent tax.
These two adjustments amount to 8p and 165p per share respectively 2004: 0p and 174p respectively.
Financing During the year the group extended its core borrowing The FRS13 adjustment has increased because of the facility by 400m to 1,300m and in so doing reduced current low five-year swap rate.
At 30 September 2005 the blended margin on the facility by seven basis points.
This At 30 September 2005, the group had headroom in has resulted in some of our hedging instruments moving its borrowing capacity of 450m.
Capital Management Contingent tax, which will only crystallise on the realisation The group finances its operations through a combination of the assets and is therefore payable sometime in the of shareholders funds and borrowings with the objective future, has stayed relatively constant because of the low of optimising weighted average cost of capital WACC level of movement in the revaluation surplus in the year.
At 30 September 2005 As in previous years we also present Grainger NAV.
reflects our estimate of the present value of the reversionary The group does not take trading positions in financial surplus in our regulated and equity release portfolios.
In instruments but holds them to minimise the risk of gross terms this is the difference between what we would exposure to fluctuating interest rates.
The majority of our achieve on sale of our properties on vacancy and the value debt is subject to protective swaps, caps or collars or is attributed to them in the market value balance sheet.
We maintained at fixed rates of interest.
At 30 September have calculated the after tax present value of that surplus 2005, 657m or 76% of the groups net debt was either by discounting it back over its expected average period fixed to termination, or for over one year, or was protected of realisation at the discount rate of 8.6% our weighted by financial instruments 2004: 71%.
average cost of capital plus a risk premium of 3% 2004: 8.6%.
The adjustment increases NNNAV by 107p A combination of interest rate swaps and financial caps is per share to give Grainger NAV of 492p 2004: 480p.
used to provide a degree of certainty over future interest rate costs whilst enabling the group to take advantage of It should be stressed that this calculation is based on current favourable short term rates.
At 30 September 2005 the house prices and assumes no future house price inflation.
group held 347m of swap contracts at an average pre An annual increase in house prices of 4% would increase margin rate of 5.4% maturing between 2006 and 2014 the adjustment to 177p and give a Grainger NAV of 562p.
There were also financial caps Cash and Debt in place of 265m at an average capped rate of 6.1% Cash balances at the year end amounted to 53m, expiring between 2006 and 2009 2004: 233m @ 6.1%.
representing 3.1% of our total market value gross assets.
The effect of the fair value adjustment of marking the Of this, 26m 2004:30m, represents deposits received groups fixed rate debt and derivatives to current market or acts as security for cash backed loan notes.
rates FRS13 adjustments would be to produce a notional Group borrowings have increased from 757m to 921m, liability after tax of 10.6m or 8p per share 2004: 0p.
including capitalised loan costs of 7m 2004: 7m.
These This adjustment represents approximately 1.1% of group will be written off over the period of the loan.
The increase borrowings at 30 September 2005 and will not be in borrowings has principally arisen from the acquisition of recognised in the accounts under current pre-IFRS rules City North Group plc and West Waterlooville.
until the position matures or is terminated.
33 A summary of our gross borrowings is: Principal Interest m rate % Terminating Fixed to termination 45 6.3 2006-32 Hedged by swap contracts 347 6.3 2006-14 Hedged by financial caps 265 5.6 2006-09 Variable fixed under one year 264 5.4 2006-14 Total debt 921 5.9 Less: cash 53 Net debt 868 The group also maintains a range of borrowing maturities It is likely that the introduction of IFRS will have an impact to enable it to balance continuity of funding with flexibility.
on our disclosed net asset value.
In common with many At 30 September 2005 the average duration of the group property companies, our borrowing powers, as set out in debt was 5.1 years 2004: 6.4 years.
our Articles of Association, are based upon a multiple of our adjusted net asset value.
For this reason we are seeking International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS to amend the multiple in our Articles of Association at our IFRS are mandatory for the main UK listed companies for Annual General Meeting to be held on 2 March 2006. accounting periods ending on or after 31 December 2005 and so will affect Graingers financial statements for the first time next year.
As with most property companies, we expect the main changes will arise in the areas of deferred taxation, financial instruments, valuation movements and treatment of goodwill.
In particular, the FRS13 adjustment Andrew Cunningham and part of the contingent tax adjustment we currently Deputy chief executive and finance director make to NAV to arrive at NNNAV will form a part of the statutory balance sheet.
The difference between NAV and 20 December 2005 NNNAV will therefore represent the contingent tax on the uplift of trading properties from book value to market value.
We anticipate that, along with other companies with significant investment property assets, our income and expenditure account will become more volatile as valuation surpluses and deficits will be recognised therein.
In line with other FTSE companies, we will announce the restatement of prior year figures and the qualitative impacts on our accounts prior to our half year in March 2006.
34 Grainger Trust plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Prince William Grainger were a main sponsor of The Tall Ships Races in July.
 We seek to conduct our business in a socially responsible manner at all times In 2005, we commissioned a comprehensive external review to ensure that our CSR strategy continues to address those issues that bear most relevance to our Calendar girls unique business.
We raised over 10,000 Our strategic advisers, have conducted a review of our key impact areas and underfor Shelter by producing took structured interviews with a wide range of stakeholders.
This has resulted in a and selling a Calendar reformulation of our CSR policy statement and long-term CSR objectives to better girls calendar.
reflect the most significant economic, social and environmental issues for our business.
35 CSR Policy statement Grainger Trust plc is the UKs largest quoted residential property investor owning over 12,000 units.
As such, we manage residential and commercial space as well as undertaking residential and mixed use developments.
We recognise that our activities can have an adverse impact on the natural environment through the consumption of resources and the generation of waste and pollution, and we seek to reduce this as far as possible.
We also strive to address the economic and social impacts that we have in relation to our key stakeholders, including investors, employees, tenants and customers, local communities and suppliers.
We view compliance with relevant environmental and social legislation as a minimum standard, and seek to perform in line with good practice standards of relevance to our industry.
Our goal is to continually improve our economic, environmental and social performance, which we achieve by setting meaningful objectives and targets, and reviewing these on a regular basis.
We believe that transparency and accountability should underpin our CSR commitments, so we will report publicly on our management and performance in this area.
We are also committed to engaging into dialogue with our stakeholders, and enabling them to influence our approach to CSR.
This policy was last reviewed and updated in October 2005.
It is accompanied by a set of strategic CSR objectives, which reflect our most significant areas of responsibility.
Rupert Dickinson Chief executive officer 20 December 2005 36 Grainger Trust plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Corporate social responsibility continued CSR objectives The implementation of the companys CSR policy will achieve the following strategic objectives: Encourage staff to contribute to, and share in, the success of the company through their own ideas and ongoing professional development, whilst supporting them to maintain a healthy balance between home and work commitments.
Ensure that we treat our tenants and customers fairly, and that we are responsive to their needs.
Reduce our direct adverse environmental impacts, and help and encourage our tenants and customers to do the same in respect of the properties they occupy.
Seek to understand the needs of the communities within which we operate, and positively contribute to their well-being.
Safeguard the health, safety and welfare of our employees, tenants, contractors, visitors, clients and the general public, where they may be affected by our activities.
Engage proactively with prioritised suppliers to ensure that they meet with our specified economic, social and environmental standards.
Maintain high standards of business conduct, and secure long-term sustainable returns for our investors.
Here we describe our approach to these objectives, including current progress and our targets for the year ahead.
37 Encourage staff to contribute to, and share in, the success of the company through their own ideas and ongoing professional development, whilst supporting them to maintain a healthy balance between home and work commitments.
We recognise that the people we employ are more valuable than the assets which we own.
Our corporate culture is one of celebrating success, and encouraging entrepreneurialism, allowing employees the freedom to use their initiative whilst giving them the support they need to grow and develop in their careers.
We take all necessary steps to ensure that our people management practises are effective and fair and processes are designed to ensure that we do not discriminate.
We have comprehensive equal opportunities and harassment policies, and we will continue to work in the coming year to embed these across our business.
Staff remuneration is regularly reviewed and was compared during 2005 against Training and development independent industry benchmarks.
We offer staff an extensive range of benefits including private medical, pension, share saving schemes and generous maternity benefits.
It is important to the Grainger management team that all employees feel valued and supported for the role which they play in the companys success.
Grainger has a dedicated HR Development Manager who carries out an annual training needs analysis across the group.
This ensures that our training programmes effectively meet the needs of individuals and teams within the business.
We offer work placements to students and staff can apply for sponsorship to study for professional qualifications and other educational programmes.
Over the last year, 31 employees undertook professional education.
Overall, the average annual number of training days per employee is three, an investment of 671 per head.
We continually evaluate the effectiveness of training provided, and during 2005, 87% of staff felt their performance had improved as a result of training.
We encourage a healthy balance between work and other commitments and have frequent staff social activities.
We are open to requests for flexible working which enabled over half of our part-time workers 8% to alter their working pattern to suit both their needs and those of the business.
Our current staff turnover rate is 10.4% per annum with 30% of employees having five or more years service.
Our current male to female ratio is 4:5, with women holding 23.5% of senior management positions and 16% of the technical or professional positions.
Targets 2006 Continue to develop and embed our intranet, Source, into the business.
Participate in the Times 100 Best Companies to Work For 2006 survey and use the resulting information to identify areas for improvement in employee satisfaction as measured in the subsequent years survey.
38 Grainger Trust plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Corporate social responsibility continued Ensure that we treat our tenants and customers fairly, and that we are responsive to their needs.
As a large residential landlord, our tenants play a pivotal role in our success.
We seek to deliver high standards of service by being responsive to our tenants needs.
Our credit control team are able to provide information and advice should our tenants find themselves in financial difficulties with their rent.
We recognise the diversity across our tenant base and have introduced a variety of payment methods including direct debits, swipe cards at Post Offices and cheques for their improved convenience.
Housing Ombudsman To acknowledge that we may not always be able to resolve differences of opinion with Service our customers we have joined the Housing Ombudsman scheme which provides an independent forum for dispute resolution at no cost to our tenants.
We are pleased to have become a voluntary Our equity release customers are reassured by our membership of Safe Home Income member of the Housing Plans SHIP which provides a code of practice which members must adhere to.
As a responsible landlord we try to ensure that repairs are carried out promptly and We are only the second thoroughly.
Our dedicated Repair Line enables tenants to directly contact a member of private landlord to have the property management team to report any maintenance issue whilst also providing joined the scheme which emergency cover when our offices are closed.
Our long-term approach and regular is obligatory to Housing property visits enable us to build relationships with tenants and to develop strategies Associations.
that enhance the value of our assets, while improving the quality of housing stock.
Targets 2006 Roll out the Warm Front initiative to all eligible regulated tenants in UK.
Launch Tenants Guide packs for our regulated and ground rent tenants in the UK, including a Tenants Charter.
Monitor our performance against KPIs including the percentage of rent collected, market-let void periods, number of formal complaints and analysis of tenant exit interviews.
Extend the tailor-made e-learning training programme to all property managers to help them in making decisions that balance business needs with those of tenants.
The Tenants Guide Reduce our direct adverse environmental impacts, and help and encourage our tenants and customers to do the same in respect of the properties they occupy.
We recognise that peoples homes are fundamental components of a sustainable community and we are committed to ensuring that our developments and services contribute to social well-being.
Our growing portfolio of developments provides a significant opportunity to integrate these values and we aim to exploit the full potential of contemporary design to embed sustainability principles into new neighbourhoods.
39 This involves undertaking Environmental Impact Assessments EIAs, remediation works for regeneration projects, incorporating green spaces on brownfield land development, and often exceeding UK Building Regulations on environmental standards achieved such as water and energy efficiency.
We can not always quantify the environmental impact of our core housing stock due to its age and construction.
Energy efficiency and waste management issues are determined by our tenants own activities and willingness to implement environmental good practice.
However, we try to engage with our tenants to encourage them to employ more efficient practices.
Case Study: Warm Front Initiative Under the Warm Front Initiative, a significant proportion of our tenants may be entitled to Government grants to fund improved heating and insulation within their homes.
We were keen to introduce our tenants to the scheme, and offer our assistance in applying for the grants.
Following a positive response to an initial group of tenants, we plan to roll this out across our regulated portfolio.
To further support this initiative, we will help certain tenants who are not eligible for assistance under the scheme.
This is one way in which we do help our tenants to improve their quality of life by tackling fuel poverty, improving energy efficiency and simultaneously increasing the value of our properties.
Where properties have been sold and we retain some management responsibilities, we liaise with local planning authorities to provide recycling services where schemes exist.
Equally we encourage staff to adopt environmentally friendly practices by providing office waste recycling schemes where possible, and by purchasing environmentally preferable stationery and products.
Targets 2006 Develop and launch an environmental policy statement for our development activities, and distribute this widely internally and to external stakeholders.
Provide guidance to prospective purchasers to assist them in managing their homes efficiently and reducing their environmental footprint.
Undertake a cost benefit analysis of achieving an EcoHomes rating of Good or Very Good on all of our new development projects.
Identify meaningful measures of our environmental performance and monitor Environmental impact our performance against these.
40 Grainger Trust plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Corporate social responsibility continued Seek to understand the needs of the communities within which we operate, and positively contribute to their well-being.
We have introduced several initiatives to ensure we act as a responsible corporate citizen.
Since 2004, Shelter has been our Charity of the Year in recognition of the synergy between our business and their charitable objectives.
In 2005, we raised 30,764 through a series of imaginative initiatives and the involvement of over 180 Grainger staff.
We also continue to support Open House through a range of activities, including the Supporting Shelter co-sponsoring of Archikids Explorers Pack available free to children during the open house weekend.
We will continue to support Open House in 2006.
The marvelous support of Grainger Trust has enabled thousands of young people to encounter exemplary architecture through Junior Open House Awards and the ArchiKids Explorer Packs.
Both have a common theme they encourage innovative ideas, nurture young peoples creativity and enable them to contemplate the future development of Londons built environment.
Grainger Trust is a forward-looking sponsor who has been a delight to work with.
The hands-on contributions of staff during the Open House London Annual Event were a testament to the Grainger Trusts commitment to enriching the city and its communities.
We look forward to continuing this fruitful relationship.
Victoria Thornton, founding director We have raised a total of 47,000 for various Charities including Comic Relief, Macmillan Cancer Relief and Land Aid.
In the North East we participate in the Newcastle Employment Bond, sponsored by business Supporting Open House and community leaders, which has helped to create several hundred jobs and assist many people into work.
We also sponsored the Tall Ships Races when they visited Newcastle Gateshead quayside in July.
Our sponsorship activities also enabled youngsters from a Northumberland community group to have a private tour of the Prince William.
Our residential properties are geographically scattered, however, where we own a number of properties within one neighbourhood, we aim to participate in local events and community forums.
We recognise that our development activities can have an impact on local residents and other stakeholders.
We use a variety of methods to invite their feedback and address any potential conflicts before they arise.
Incorporating their views into our proposals significantly enhances the prospective success of our planning applications, and contributes to creating a more sustainable community.
41 Case Study: Regeneration Model for Smiths Dock Given Public View A model of our proposals for a new urban village on the Smiths Dock area in North Shields was put on public display in North Shields Library for over three weeks.
We presented our proposals to a number of resident groups from the local area at meetings.
The feedback we received from our meeting with the local resident groups last week was very informative and has helped us to further formulate our plans.
Overall they were very positive towards our proposals!
Ann Johnson, Land and Regeneration manager at Grainger Smiths Dock During construction, we seek minimum disruption to the community.
We generally operate the Considerate Constructor Scheme and liaise closely with community representatives and local residents.
We have a prompt and transparent approach when dealing with any issues or concerns.
We also try to ensure that our development activities bring associated economic benefits to local communities through regeneration and employment.
We will typically employ local labour on development projects, whether or not this is a formal requirement under Section 106 planning agreements.
Case Study: Hornsey Road Baths and Barnsbury Complex In Islington, London, we have carried out a consultation with the local Council and local communities, since submitting our detailed planning application in January 2005.
We are working closely with our Guinness Trust to ensure that this mixed use and tenure scheme is sustainable.
Our proposals include 351 residential units of which 35% are affordable, a new council office, a theatre and a Sure Start nursery.
We were delighted to build a new climbing wall for the local Montem School and contribute towards a new community facility for local young people.
Hornsey Road Baths Targets 2006 Launch a payroll giving scheme to take advantage of the Governments cash incentives for small and medium-sized enterprises SMEs.
Introduce participation in the Considerate Constructor scheme as a standard contractual requirement for construction companies employed on all new development projects.
Pilot a best practice community consultation technique e. g. Enquiry by Design or Planning for Real for one of our regeneration projects.
