BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2005 During the first half of 2005 BBA Group Legal in conjunction th In April 2005 the BitC advised BBA Group that it placed 60 with the Group senior management team revisited each of the nd among the top 100 participants in the 2004 CSR Survey and 2 policies contained in the BBA Group Legal Policies Manual.
Although we are pleased with the This exercise is regularly undertaken to ensure that each policy Groups continuing improvement as reflected in these results, fully satisfies all relevant laws and regulations and accurately we have also embraced BitCs suggestions for further reflects the philosophy of the Board and senior management on improvement.
We are hopeful that our efforts during 2005 will the manner in which BBA Groups business should be conducted.
result in an even higher placement of the Group when the 2005 As a consequence of this review, in June 2005 new policies CSR Survey results are announced in early 2006. were issued and existing policies were updated or revised.
These include our policies on Competition Law Compliance, In 2005, several BBA sites and personnel experienced direct Data Protection and Privacy, Gifts, Business Courtesies, Gratuities losses as a result of hurricanes that caused unprecedented and Favours, Equal Opportunity and Anti-Harassment.
In damage in the United States.
BBA Group is proud of the actions addition, in August 2005 our Market Abuse and Inside taken by its companies and its employees to assist those who Information Policies were completed.
Our existing policies on were affected by these disasters, including matching charitable Corporate Social Responsibility, Business Ethics and Disclosure donation programmes and the contribution of products and of Unethical Conduct issued in 2004, remain unchanged.
The services in the support of relief efforts in Gulf Coast region.
Legal Policies Manual, including each of these policies, was then released to all members of BBA Group senior management as well as the management of BBA operating companies.
We regard this Manual as core guidance to our entire management team on responsible, mandatory business conduct and require that management certify their understanding, implementation and compliance with the directives contained in the Manual.
Our CSR Steering Committee the Committee remained active during 2005.
In addition to continuing various 2004 projects, the Committee initiated the assembly of CSR metrics for our businesses.
Details of labour and employment data for the Americas were completed in August 2005.
This data includes male to female ratios, employee ethnicity, employee grievances, turnover and absenteeism.
The same exercise will be undertaken in 2006 for our European and Asian businesses.
The Committee intends to utilise the data as guidance for BBA Group companies on matters such as workplace diversity and equal employment opportunity.
The Committee also worked with BBA Group Internal Audit to enhance a CSR module that has been added to our internal audit protocol as a mechanism for verifying CSR awareness, compliance and progress within our companies.
As in prior years BBA Group continued to participate in the Business in the Community BitC Corporate Responsibility Index.
