36 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2005 Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Such interests including those of its joint venture partners, tenants, staff and the local communities in which the Group operates are vital to the Groups long-term business success.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups strategy As part of its planning obligations, Quintain has agreed to provide and policies in relation to corporate responsibility, recognising an employment portal for those seeking work, either within the the potential impact its business operations might have on the initial construction phase or in the businesses which will emerge wider economy and society.
As a minimum, the Group complies post-completion.
Funding for executives to support these with current legislation and has a number of policies and codes employment and training initiatives is contained within the of conduct in place which encourage high standards of planning agreement and we are working collaboratively with corporate behaviour in areas such as employment, equal the London Borough of Brent and the College of North West opportunities and health and safety.
On the Greenwich Peninsula, a major contribution to local labour and training initiatives has also been agreed.
Whilst their primary duty is to increase shareholder value, the directors acknowledge that in discharging this obligation, they Mixed-use and balanced communities These mixed-use developments are, by definition, being also have responsibilities to other stakeholders.
Such interests including those of its joint venture partners, tenants, staff and developed to a high residential density and it is important to ensure that living at high density in relatively affluent the local communities in which the Group operates are vital to the Groups long-term business success.
surroundings does not compound any social gaps or divisions.
We are therefore working with our local authority partners in Social both Greenwich and Brent to ensure appropriate affordable The Groups two major urban regeneration sites at Wembley housing lettings protocols are put in place.
and Greenwich are an illustration of how it is working to meet the needs of future tenants, communities, and local and central Other aspects of the scheme involve helping local lower government by creating sustainable mixed-use communities income households have access to some of the wider facilities.
which: At Wembley, we have offered a financial contribution to enable local families within selected post codes to join leisure facilities are safe and people friendly: where initial membership fees are beyond their financial reach.
support local shops, education, health and other community Other measures include the provision of health centres facilities: in conjunction with the local Primary Health Care Trust.
include affordable housing, a proportion of which is suitable Environmental for key workers: The Group recognises the importance of long-term maintenance create job opportunities for local people: of the environment and encourages continuous environmental awareness.
In general terms, we aim to minimise the risk of concentrate on brownfield sites and urban centres, thereby causing harm through careful consideration of construction rejuvenating those areas: techniques, the specification and use of sustainable materials reduce dependence on car use: and with a view to the elimination of materials or substances harmful to the environment, the safe encapsulation or removal of promote energy efficiency.
asbestos and other contaminative materials from its sites, the reduction of waste and the adoption of safe working practices The Group has, over the last year, begun to move from the planning phase of these major mixed-use projects to in the construction and maintenance of its buildings.
Efforts are also made during development to protect, where possible, implementation.
A key underlying strategy is being pursued by adopting a virtuous circle approach, since we believe that wildlife areas and or restore the ecological balance of the environment.
locating homes, jobs, entertainment and retail in close proximity means that local jobs will be filled, in the main, by local residents The Groups commitment to urban regeneration has resulted thus ensuring the sustainability of the regeneration.
in a number of initiatives being investigated for its major Employment projects such as an alternative waste transport system for At Wembley, Quintain is participating at the highest level in use at Wembley which will enable better recycling and improved the Chancellors Fair Cities Initiative, which specifically targets amenities.
This system would be the first of its kind in the UK.
communities with a higher than average proportion of ethnic Transport is another area under major consideration, with minorities in order to develop training and employment opportunities.
It will focus principally on employers needs as car clubs being actively negotiated both at Wembley and at Greenwich.
In addition, at Greenwich there is a low emission opposed to simply training people for jobs which may not exist.
zone whereby cars which are not compliant with European 37 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2005 Corporate Social Responsibility emissions standards will eventually be phased out and It actively promotes and develops a safety culture throughout the purchasers of dwellings will be made aware prior to purchase whole of the Groups activities and ensures that the Company is that they cannot own cars older than a certain vintage.
compliant in all respects with the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974 and associated amendments and legislation.
Energy usage is another area of importance with, for example, a site-wide energy strategy having been negotiated with Following this years review of policy, the system of internal the London Borough of Brent and a commitment to the use of control has been strengthened and now includes an overarching renewable energy in certain parts of the Wembley development.
policy and groupwide health and safety system.
The groupwide policy is aligned to Health and Safety Guidance HSG65 which The Groups head office will move in July 2005 and a review provides a clear system of review and inspection and both of the new offices and work practices will take place from directs and provides guidance to all subsidiary companies an environmental perspective with the aim of identifying and departments.
areas of improvement on current practice.
The policy clearly maps out the safety structure and Staff arrangements for the Group and is supplemented by a team It is recognised that the Groups most important resource is its of qualified personnel to ensure that the high standards on staff and that a highly motivated employee base is essential to paper are converted to high standards in practice.
The prime its continued success.
As a result, the Groups policy is to recruit health and safety resource within the Group is the team of both directors and staff of the highest quality and to remunerate three full time personnel based at Wembley London Limited, them accordingly.
Further details of the Groups remuneration the Groups main operating subsidiary, and the head of this policy are shown in the Report of the Remuneration Committee team is responsible for health and safety across the Group on pages 22 to 29 of the accounts.
The Group encourages career development through the The Head of Health and Safety is also able to call on the provision of relevant training with funding and study leave to resources of specialist risk advisors to ensure that risk exposure support professional development.
In addition, each employee is identified and eliminated or reduced as far as is possible.
As a is appraised each year with the aim of maximising his or her supplement to this, our insurers also inspect various risk areas.
Recent inspections and reviews resulted in positive outcomes regarding the way risk is managed across the business.
There are opportunities for staff to make formal input into the management of the business and a flat corporate structure and The Group actively pursues a number of key objectives regarding an open door policy promotes communication and maximum health and safety.
the elimination, where possible, of risks to health and safety The Group is an equal opportunities employer and strict codes and, where not possible, the effective provision of control of conduct are set out in the staff handbook to ensure that this measures appropriate to the risk: policy is pursued.
the development of the philosophy of injury and incident free places of work for our employees: During the year, the Group employed an average of 56 permanent staff excluding non-executive directors at its head office and 119 the reduction of accidents and other incidents to their lowest at Wembley, comprising: possible levels: 2005 2004 ensuring that employees are appropriately trained to carry out % % their duties: Gender: women 41 47 Ethnic origin 13 10 ensuring that adequate priority and resources are available Age range: to address the issues of health and safety across the Group: 18-30 20 25 the review of groupwide health and safety policy on an annual 31-45 42 38 basis: 46 and over 38 37 the review of risks and controls on an ongoing basis to improve standards of health and safety and compliance Wembley London Limited, the Groups major operating with legislation: subsidiary, has an Investors in People accreditation and conducts annual staff satisfaction surveys.
Since the year-end, the maintenance of a management control system which, inter the Groups head office has also carried out a staff satisfaction alia, identifies key personnel and a corporate health and safety survey which showed that every member of staff who responded structure: and rated the Companys culture either as extremely positive or the leading and promoting of staff awareness in relation to positive.
A small number of action points were also identified good practice and continuous improvements to the safety and are being dealt with.
culture that runs across all activities carried out by the Group.
Health and Safety During the year under review there were eight minor accidents The Group is committed to the highest standards across the Group which resulted in insurers being notified and of performance in the provision of a safe and healthy no RIDDOR reportable incidents.
The Group monitors the environment for its employees, tenants, contractors position constantly.
and visitors and considers its performance in this field to be a key performance indicator.
