BELLWAY p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2005 17 Environmental Policy Statement The housebuilding process affects the environment by the use of land and consumption of resources throughout the development process.
It is our objective to ensure that, at the conclusion of a scheme, an attractive and sustainable new environment has been created that will continue over time.
BELLWAY p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2005 18 Recognising that we have responsibilities to both limit damage to In addition to our key commitments the Group has identified a and enhance the environment, this statement sets out our policies number of specific objectives which we will endeavour to achieve.
for managing the environmental aspects across our business.
These are: Key commitments are to: Consideration of environmental aspects in the selection and Minimise any deleterious impacts on the environment and where procurement of land for development, including implications for possible to seek environmental enhancements, concentrating on biodiversity and sustainable development areas where there is most room for improvement Meet and, where possible, exceed government targets for the Aim to meet and, where practicable, exceed the requirements of all redevelopment of brownfield land relevant environmental legislation and regulations Influencing the design of sites, housing and fittings to minimise Improve our environmental performance impacts on both the natural and built environment Set specific environmental objectives and targets and periodically Providing environmental benefits and minimising nuisance arising review progress against these from construction activities and preventing pollution on development sites Ensure that Bellway's environmental aims and their importance are communicated throughout the Group, including appropriate Consideration of environmental issues within our corporate functions subcontractors and suppliers, and that a copy of the policy is sent and everyday business decision-making processes to each Bellway site The above are, of course, subject to economic considerations.
Consider the role that Bellway can play in helping to contribute to the principles of sustainable development within the UK Corporate Resposibility Report 2005 Environmental issues are also addressed in the Corporate Responsibility Report 2005 which is available to shareholders on the Companys website www.
co. uk or on written application to the Group Company Secretary at the Companys registered office.
BELLWAY p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2005 19 BELLWAY p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2005 20 Oaklands, Bolton, Greater Manchester
