s s t r n e Sustainability Full details of Berkeleys sustainability Berkeley has, for some years now, Though the focus of Berkeleys business strategy are contained within the separate been committed to a continually evolving has recently changed, its commitment 2005 sustainability report or online at sustainability strategy.
Its broad aim to engage with its stakeholders, whether www.
is to make significant, long-term at a local, regional or national level, has contributions to the environmental, social continued.
Berkeley firmly believes that and economic fabric of the communities partnership in its schemes can ensure in which Berkeley works, as well as that not only are good quality homes to fulfil the ultimate responsibility of created, but also communities that will maximising shareholder value.
Progress truly stand the test of time.
has been good and, among several accolades, the company continues to The sustainability strategy itself is be listed in the FTSE4Good Index.
2005 subject to review each year.
Together sees the publication of Berkeleys fourth with a number of subsidiary policies annual free-standing sustainability report.
covering specific issues, such as environment, health and safety and This year, Berkeleys strategic decision equal opportunities, it sets out the to focus its activities in the field of urban companys key sustainability objectives.
regeneration provided an emphatic From time to time Berkeley develops demonstration of its commitment Group-wide policies concerning specific to sustainable communities.
Berkeleys impact areas where a consistent unrivalled expertise in this area has approach can be taken across all enabled it to augment its strong skills of the divisions.
base to create new possibilities and to maximise opportunities for vital As part of a concerted effort to assess regeneration in Britains towns and the strategy, since 2002, Berkeley has cities.
Such an approach embraces been measuring its sustainability the current and prevailing public performance against a number of Key policy agenda.
The significance of sustainability Key sustainability impacts 18 www.
co. uk e i e t e d i c m l n r o u n o h o Making a long-term contribution Developing Protecting and partnerships enhancing Safe, healthy and fulfilled m f e r k i k m r v a o o n t W C E S This year it has carried out an extensive To ensure that sustainability continues strategy and the SWG also occasionally review of these KPIs and will be to be prioritised and to develop, invites outside speakers to make introducing a number of new indicators, numerous important governance presentations to the Group.
as well as amending, or dropping procedures are in place.
Berkeleys some, of those currently in use.
All of quarterly Board reports include a These measures are in place to ensure the Groups divisions are required to summary of performance in relation that Berkeleys commitment to report on their progress in relation to to its sustainability KPIs and additional sustainability is matched by the skills Berkeleys targets and KPIs, on a qualitative information concerning the with which to implement it.
implementation of the companys sustainability strategy.
Heads of Division The company continues to disclose meetings have also placed significant information in relation to sustainability emphasis on sustainability issues this on its website, in a free-standing report year, particularly in light of Berkeleys and in this annual report and accounts.
long-term business strategy to focus With an increasing number of projects on urban regeneration projects.
implementing sustainability initiatives, Berkeley is eager to ensure that it learns Sustainability Working Group SWG as much as possible about the many meetings are held once a quarter and challenges and opportunities that arise.
are made up of Board and senior As such, the company has a number managers from across the main divisions of formal and informal mechanisms of the Group.
The SWG reviews progress for sharing good practice, such as the towards targets, performance in relation company Intranet and good practice to the sustainability KPIs and shares guidance notes and briefings.
good practice in relation to sustainability issues.
External strategic sustainability advisors attend the meetings to provide independent counsel on Berkeleys Below: Leybourne Lakes, Kent.
