Managing Directors review At the year-end Berkeley had I knew that a home was one of the core have always looked for value creation 6 divisions and 21 operating essentials of life.
Over time I grew over the long-term and the security companies, of which 1 division and to appreciate that a thriving market of knowing that safe hands are 8 operating companies are site based.
for housing provides not only the managing their business.
The Scheme In the year ended 30th April 2005 the economic means by which we create of Arrangement aligns these needs Group recorded sales from 101 sites, new communities but it can also give directly and in a way which enables down from 130 in 2004.
This again new life to old ones.
From that flowed us to continue producing an enhanced is in line with our strategy to develop our early and pioneering ventures into performance whilst minimising risk.
a smaller number of sites, though urban regeneration, which are now the In parallel, the country demands more the sites themselves are of larger-scale very essence of the modern Berkeley.
and more housing but also wants and warrant dedicated management a legacy for the built environment attention.
Because we take housing and the of which this generation can be proud.
effects of it so seriously, we also take I am delighted our business is now able In the current year excluding Crosby, our responsibilities seriously, in how to concentrate, in partnership with Berkeley is forecast to achieve sales we find land to build on, how we plan, all our stakeholders, on unlocking this from approximately 50 sites.
how we build and how we make sure remarkable potential for the future.
the communities we create thrive.
And The benefits of this model are apparent how we help the communities that are in a fall of overhead costs from 94.4 already there.
A deep understanding million to 89.3 million.
of these responsibilities, and the values from which they derive, have created Looking Forward a new passion at Berkeley one which When I founded Berkeley almost has made the company Britains premier 30 years ago, it was because I had urban regenerator.
Its a huge challenge, Tony Pidgley a passion for building and a desire which is only met though a strategy of Managing Director to create good homes for people.
Our shareholders Our people The skills and experience to make it happen Berkeleys employees are its most valued asset and their commitment to continuous improvement drives the company.
Berkeley works hard to ensure that close consultation occurs with employees on matters likely to affect their interests.
Numerous policies are in place to ensure that all employees receive the same access to employment and training, encouraging the sort of development that provides Berkeley with people whose skills match the Training and development are companys aspirations.
