Corporate responsibility report Core values: we believe that the highest standard of integrity is essential in business.
In all our activities, we aim to: Be commercial and fair Respect the needs of our shareholders, our staff, our suppliers, the local community and the businesses in which we invest Maintain our integrity and professionalism Strive for continual improvement and innovation Our approach 3i endeavours to comply with the laws, The Committee, on behalf of the Board, regulations and rules applicable to its identifies and assesses the significant Philosophy business and to conduct its business in risks and opportunities for 3i arising from As an international business operating accordance with established best social, ethical and environmental issues.
in 13 countries with over 700 employees practice in each of the countries in which A risk matrix methodology is used to world-wide, 3i aims to conduct its it operates.
Environmental, ethical and identify new risks, monitor developing business in a socially responsible manner.
social responsibility issues and standards trends and best practice, and consider It is committed to being a responsible are also taken into consideration in every changes in 3is business and culture.
member of the communities in which it aspect of the business.
This risk matrix is reviewed and updated operates and recognises the mutual 3i aims to be a responsible at each meeting of the Committee and benefits of engaging and building employer and has adopted corporate significant risks are reported to 3is Risk relationships with those communities.
values and standards designed to help Committee.
The Committee reports 3i believes that respect for human rights guide its employees in their conduct regularly to the Board.
is central to good corporate citizenship.
These values All employees have a In everything 3i does, it aims to and standards are an integral part of responsibility to be aware of, and abide be commercial and fair, to maintain its 3is culture.
by, 3is environmental, ethical and social integrity and professionalism and to policies, which are available to all staff respect the needs of shareholders, staff, Responsibilities and accountabilities through 3is portal, a web-based suppliers, the local community and the knowledge system.
Employees are The Board as a whole is responsible for businesses in which it invests.
The executive Directors encouraged to make suggestions to are responsible for ensuring compliance improve processes and procedures.
with 3is corporate values and standards.
The Corporate Responsibility Committee the Committee considers and reviews environmental, ethical and social issues relevant to 3is business and associated risks.
It also monitors and reviews the operation of 3is corporate responsibility policies and procedures.
Tony Brierley has specific responsibility for 3is environmental policies, leading the development of new initiatives and targets and reporting to the Board.
He is also a member of the Leadership Team of Business in the Environment.
27 Corporate responsibility report continued As an investor issues, this might affect the monetary a condition precedent or post completion value of that investment and, as a undertaking requiring that the situation Investment policy shareholder in that company, raise be remedied may be required from the 3i has a portfolio of some 1,500 reputational issues for 3i.
investee company or its management.
investments in businesses in Europe, Although 3i does not have Alternatively, it may be decided not to Asia and the US.
As an investor, operational control over the companies proceed with the investment.
corporate governance is a priority and in which it invests, it does have the Over the year 1,500 potential account is taken of environmental, ethical opportunity to influence the behaviour of investments were considered and and social issues when making these businesses and encourages the 67 new investments were completed.
3i believes it is development and adoption of good 1,280 potential investments did not important to invest in companies whose corporate governance.
This is achieved proceed for financial or commercial owners and managers act responsibly on through the training of investment staff reasons including, in some cases, environmental, ethical and social matters.
and non-executive Directors who are for social, ethical or environmental 3i aims to invest in companies which: appointed to the boards of investee considerations.
companies and the raising of awareness Where, after an investment has respect human rights: within investee companies of social, been made, 3i becomes aware that an comply with current environmental, environmental and ethical issues.
investee company is not operating in an ethical and social legislation: 3i is also active in promoting good acceptable way, 3i will seek to use its influence to encourage improvement.
governance in the private equity industry have proposals to address defined through the provision of tutors for Where that is not possible, 3i will seek future legislation: courses run by the BVCA and the EVCA.
to divest itself of the investment.
seek to comply with their industry 3i has procedures to reduce the standards and best practice.
risks of 3i investing in businesses which Relationship management operate in an environmentally, ethically or 3is key relationships are with the 3i recognises that the most significant socially unacceptable manner.
When companies in which it invests together risks to 3is short-term and long-term reviewing businesses for potential with the intermediaries, advisors and value arising from environmental, ethical investment, investment executives consultants used to facilitate investment and social matters arise from its are required to consider whether any and portfolio management.
If a company in corporate responsibility risks arise and, engages with these groups to which 3i has an investment acts if any risks are identified, to follow 3is benchmark its performance and improve irresponsibly on corporate responsibility corporate responsibility investment its investment procedures and skills.
Depending on the nature During the year extensive market of the risk identified and its seriousness, research and surveys of these groups were conducted in the UK, France and The 3i portal provides staff with access to all Germany.
Formal investor relations of our coporate surveys of institutional investors and responsibility policies investors in funds under 3is management and information.
were also undertaken on 3is behalf.
As a corporate As an employer 3is staff are fundamental to the success of its business.
Accordingly, one of 3is core values is to respect its staff and their needs.
Employees are organised in small teams and an environment of co-operation is encouraged to ensure the highest standards of integrity and professionalism.
3i Report and accounts 2005 28 In accordance with 3is core values, coaching and mentoring, and Board Health and safety individual consultation with employees management skills.
In addition, 3i recognises that the promotion of on matters affecting them, and fair and investment staff are required to complete health and safety at work is an essential open communication, are a high priority.
an investment training programme on function of staff and management at all During the year, 3i held an all-staff joining 3i and all staff are encouraged levels.
In an endeavour to achieve high conference.
The objectives of that to attend external courses on subjects standards, appropriate policies and conference were: to ensure that all staff relevant to their roles within 3i.
procedures have been put in place.
understood 3is vision, strategy and the During the year, in addition to these These policies and procedures are the challenges ahead: and to unify staff external courses, approximately 270 responsibility of Simon Ball, the across business lines, geographies and employees attended training and Finance Director.
In preparation for that development courses.
The purpose of 3is health and conference, interviews were conducted It is a legal and regulatory safety policy is to enable all members by an independent consultant with over requirement that all executives involved of 3is staff to go about their everyday 100 employees to ascertain employees in making or managing investment business at 3is offices in the expectation satisfaction with, and concerns about, 3i.
transactions receive anti-money that they can do so safely and without Following the conference, a further laundering training and refresher training risk to their health.
3i imposes rigorous survey of all employees was conducted.
on a rolling two year basis.
All relevant standards on its staff and subcontractors The issues raised have been considered executives have received anti-money and endeavours to ensure that the health, safety and welfare of its by executive management and, as and laundering training accordingly.
A programme of role-play-based employees, visitors, customers, 3i has comprehensive behaviour workshops across the business and subcontractors staff and the general policies to help ensure that employees regular articles in 3is staff magazine public are not compromised.
treat their colleagues and others with are used to raise awareness of corporate 3is objective is not to have any courtesy and respect.
responsibility issues, to stimulate debate reportable accidents or incidents.
3i also has a whistle blowing and provide employee training.
During During the year to 31 March 2005, policy setting out procedures for staff to the year, seventeen workshops, covering no reportable accidents or incidents raise in confidence matters of concern, approximately 240 employees, were held occurred under UK Health and Safety for an appropriate and independent in the UK, continental Europe, Asia and regulations and no reportable accidents investigation of such matters and, the US.
Following feedback from these or incidents occurred under similar where necessary, for follow-up action.
workshops, a fact sheet, explaining 3is regulations outside the UK.
approach to corporate responsibility As a member of Tommys Training and development and providing further information for Pregnancy Accreditation Programme, Encouraging the continuous staff was circulated.
3i complies with criteria for pregnancy development of staff is important to Training for Directors on corporate management, geared towards creating 3i and its business.
3is training and responsibility issues is achieved through a positive environment for parents-to-be development programme includes a system of regular Board reporting and in the workplace.
courses on communications and by Board presentations on relevant presentations, working within a corporate responsibility issues.
management matrix environment, The Corporate Responsibility Committee The Corporate Responsibility Committee, comprises Tony Brierley, Company Secretary and Chairman of the Committee, Denise Collis, Group Human Resources Director, Patrick Dunne, Group Communications Director, Douwe Cosijn, Head of Investor Relations, Albert Xu, an Investment Director in 3is Asia investment business, Hans Middelthon, an investment executive in 3is Oil and Gas team, and Ben Gales, an Associate in 3is UK Venture Capital team.
Tony Brierley Company Secretary 29 Corporate responsibility report continued Procurement by 6%.
Progress against this target will How are we doing?
3i has developed policies and procedures be reported in the accounts for the year Performance and measurement relating to the purchasing of goods and to 31 March 2006.
The Committee has overseen the services for use by the business.
These In the year to 31 March 2005, formulation and implementation of policies and procedures must be 3i generated an average of 5.8 kgs of corporate responsibility investment followed by all staff.
As far as possible, 3i waste per person per week in the UK, of procedures, implemented appropriate will work only with suppliers who support which approximately 50% was recycled.
risk management procedures and set 3is aim to source products responsibly.
3i also assesses the strategic targets and objectives for Suppliers that exploit child or sweated environmental standards of suppliers, corporate responsibility.
labour, that disregard social legislation through its procurement policy and its and basic health and safety provision, purchasing choices will favour products 3is performance is measured against that pirate the intellectual property of showing clear environmental advantages, two indices: others or that wilfully and avoidably unless there are significant reasons for the Dow Jones Sustainability World damage the environment will be avoided.
Index DJSI, a global index which 3i aims to have a collaborative tracks the financial performance of Charity and community relationship with its suppliers and, leading companies in terms of 3is charitable policy aims to support: wherever possible, when problems arise corporate sustainability: and with a suppliers performance or causes based in the communities in behaviour, will work with the supplier the Business in the Community BitC which 3i has offices: concerned to help them meet 3is Corporate Responsibility Index, which charitable activities of staff.
aims to benchmark environmental, donations made by UK staff under the ethical and social performance and Environment Give as You Earn scheme GAYE encourage sustainable development.
As a financial services business and the proceeds of staff fundraising 3i has again been selected as a employing approximately 740 employees efforts.
In the year to 31 March 2005, constituent of the DJSI during the year world-wide, 3is direct environmental approximately 23% of 3is charitable and was placed in the top of its industry impact is relatively low.
3i measures its donations were matching GAYE group on a global basis.
The DJSI own energy and resource usage where donations: researchers commented that 3is practicable and sets targets to achieve charities relevant to its corporate sustainability performance is clearly improvement.
The principal benchmarks activity, for example, 3i supports positioned among the best in the against which 3i measures its businessdynamics, a charity industry.
This is illustrated through 3is performance are for: which aims to help young people strong capabilities in embracing CO emissions: and understand business.
2 corporate sustainability from strategic planning and implementation recycling of paper and other materials.
Charitable donations made in the UK in to monitoring and reporting.
In the the year to 31 March 2005 amounted In the year to 31 March 2005, economic dimension, 3i sets industry to 343,986, supporting a variety of 3i generated CO emissions of 2 best practice with its outperformance different charities with donations up approximately 9,500 tonnes.
Over the in risk and crisis management and to 58,000. two years to 31 March 2007, 3i aims scorecards measurement systems.
to reduce these emissions source: SAM Research Inc 1 23 4 1.
3i has continued sponsor of the be one of BitCs the 2005 Dow Jones its financial support European Venture Top 100 Companies Sustainability Index.
to In Kind Direct, a Philanthropy that Count.
charity distributing Association in 2004. manufacturers surplus goods to voluntary organisations.
3i Report and accounts 2005 30 3i aims to continue to be included to evaluate the health and safety 1 within this Index and to maintain its management system.
3i achieved a performance in the next DJSI four star rating as a result of this assessment.
In 2004, 3i again participated in the annual BitC Corporate Responsibility Audit and verification Index.
3i was included in the BitCs The Committee is responsible for Top 100 Companies that Count and monitoring the operation of 3is corporate was recognised for its outstanding responsibility policies and procedures.
performance in the area of corporate The identification and management of 2 strategy that is, how a companys corporate responsibility risks is integral to activities influence its values and the ongoing operational processes of 3is principles, how these are addressed business units and functions.
3is internal through risk management, the audit function carries out periodic development of policies and independent reviews of risks and related responsibilities held at a senior level in controls in this area, including compliance the company.
3i aims to continue to with 3is corporate responsibility be included within this Index and to investment procedures.
The Committee may also Each of 3is business unit and supplement internal review processes 3 department heads is required to confirm with external reviews where necessary.
on an annual basis that their operating The Committee is not aware of any procedures, including investment material breaches of 3is policies and procedures, are consistent with 3is procedures for managing risks from standards and controls and that these corporate responsibility issues.
procedures are operating in practice.
The disclosures in this Corporate 3is performance management responsibility report are the subject of a appraisal process reviews the process requiring each statement made performance of individual members of to be verified.
staff against agreed objectives and the knowledge, skills and behaviours expected by 3i.
This process includes 360 degree feedback for all employees.
All 3is offices are the subject of health and safety audits to ensure high standards are adopted on a consistent basis world-wide.
3is health and safety 4 procedures are also independently audited by the British Safety Council Four examples of 3i's support for the local community near its offices in London.
3i continued children and parents its support for from local schools businessdynamics, taking part in the 2004 which inspires young Thames Festival.
people to become involved in business.
In partnership with The Old Vic theatre, 4.
Members of 3i staff 3i enabled over 1,300 support a voluntary children to take part reading initiative at in pantomime a local school.
workshops, and attend Models were used performances.
