ADMIRAL GROUP plc 37 Corporate responsibility of information about the Group is Mission communicated to them.
Employees The Admiral Group is committed to also regularly have the chance to state dealing fairly and with a high level of their views on the Company.
integrity with all its stakeholders.
This includes its actions and policies New staff share schemes were towards staff, the local communities in established in 2004 to replace the which the business operates and our Employee Share Trust Scheme that staff live, and the environment.
ceased following the Companys flotation in September 2004.
The Employee wellbeing Board is strongly of the view that The Group strives to create the best actual or prospective share ownership possible working environment for all plays a key role in staff incentivisation.
This is consistent with Therefore, two new schemes have the philosophy that the happier been created: people are, the better they work.
If employees enjoy what they do and the The Approved Share environment they do it in, they tend to Incentive Plan have higher levels of productivity.
The This scheme is intended to replace the Group has achieved a number of previous staff profit share, and is open awards in recognition of its working to all staff.
environment, including: Admiral Group Senior The Sunday Times 100 Best Executive Restricted Share Plan Companies to Work for included in This scheme is open to Group all six years of the publication: ranked employees of a certain level of 20th overall in the last list published seniority and those achieving outstanding performance.
It excludes The Financial Times 100 Best the current Executive Directors of Workplaces in the UK included in the Group.
The Group feels strongly all three years of the publication that this type of compensation is the most effective way to align the 100 Best Workplaces in the EU interests of staff with the interests The winner of the Admiral sponsored included in all three years lists Champion Child of Courage Award of shareholders.
2005 The Group takes great pride in Further detail on these schemes is set achieving these awards, and has a out in the financial review and number of staff initiatives to ensure remuneration report.
Employees regularly receive information on the Companys Disability financial performance, as well as any The Group gives fair consideration to other information deemed important all applicants.
The abilities and to them.
Every member of staff is aptitudes of the applicant will be invited to and encouraged to attend a considered with regard to the Staff General Meeting where a variety 38 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY The Admiral Cardiff Big Weekend 2005 requirement of the job for which he or this fund to all kinds of different she has applied.
Employees who find interests, with the number increasing themselves no longer able to carry out to 113 in 2005. the job for which they are employed will be given individual consideration.
External sponsorship Depending on the nature, severity, and The Group sponsored a number of duration of the disability, they may be high profile local events in 2005. considered for an alternative post National Waterfront Museum, within the Group.
Admiral continues to Swansea train and encourage the career Swansea Bay Festival 2005 developments of all disabled persons in its employment.
Cardiff Big Weekend 2005 The 2005 Cardiff Marathon Community involvement The Group is a leading employer in The 2005 Cardiff Lesbian and Gay the South Wales region, and employs Mardi Gras people from a wide range of The 2005 South Wales Echo A time-traveller at the National communities.
The Group encourages Waterfront Museum in Swansea Champion Child of Courage Award its employees to become involved in Admiral Calennig Family Fireshow local communities and projects that are important to both them and their Charitable Contributions families.
This can range from the In addition to sponsoring these local local football club to an amateur initiatives, the Group supports the dramatics society.
following larger charities: This initiative is supported by the WellBeing of Women through the unique idea of Henrys Pot.
The fund Diamond Brand: This charity is the only started in 1999 and allows staff to national charity that funds obstetric apply for a donation or sponsorship and gynaecological research by toward an organisation of their choice.
In 2004, 80 awards were made from ADMIRAL GROUP plc 39 Wellbeing of Womens mission is to Environment bring an end to fear and suffering caused Whilst the Groups operations do not by reproductive health problems.
directly impact on the environment, the Group still strives to minimise any Born Free Foundation and Tusk impact its operation may have.
co. uk: The Born Free that in mind some key environmental Foundation is an international wildlife policies have been implemented: charity which works to reduce animal Widespread recycling schemes, suffering and to encourage people to including paper, cups, cans, PCs, treat animals with respect.
It is printing, and photocopying cartridges involved in campaigns against cruelty in zoos, and dedicated to aiding Use of energy efficient light bulbs conservation of elephants, big cats, wolfs, dolphins, primates and bears.
Use of water purifying machines instead of plastic bottles Over the last fifteen years Tusk has supported more than 30 projects in 15 Staff are offered loans and discounts African countries.
Last year Tusk to incentivise the use of public supported 21 different projects in 11 transport African countries.
Its support comes in many different guises such as provision of 4x4 vehicles, wildlife clinics, rhino and cheetah sanctuaries, and chimpanzee enclosures.
Total awards to these organisations during 2005 were 44,000.
co. uk Charity Fashion Show Childrens Summer Party 2005
