BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Operating and financial review Corporate Responsibility BG Groups search for natural gas can take the Company to countries with Corporate Responsibility 31 challenging business climates and varied economic, environmental and social conditions.
A significant amount of the Corporate Responsibility industrys reserves are found in countries outside the Organisation for Economic strengthens the Groups ability Co-operation and Development OECD.
The Group believes that Corporate Responsibility CR strengthens its ability to deliver its business strategy.
to deliver its business strategy and, accordingly, BG Group incorporates CR in its business decision-making process.
This section summarises BG Groups performance in the four areas of CR: conduct, our people, society and environment.
More detail can be found in the 2005 Corporate Responsibility Report, which is published separately.
The Groups reputation for high standards in all its activities contributes to its business success.
The BG Group Statement of 2005 in Review Business Principles has been in place since Established the Board CR Committee Revised the Business Principles to 1998 and is published on the Groups to provide greater oversight and incorporate values appropriate to website.
It is the code of ethics for all governance of CR BG Group today and into the future employees and forms the foundation for CR Launched the STEP UP safety initiative Conducted a community relations across the Group.
The Business Principles to reinforce the focus on safe baseline review are reviewed annually.
behaviours after six contractors died In 2005, the review involved consultation as a result of three separate incidents with employees and external organisations to make sure that the Business Principles remain fit for purpose with regard to the Groups operations and reflect how civil society expects an international gas company to behave.
In December 2005, the Board approved revised Business Principles, which comprise 15 statements of beliefs and behaviours.
The revised Business Principles will be supported by two documents: Corporate Commitments fill in the detail of how BG Group will deliver the Business Principles and a code of conduct will set out the Groups expectations for all employees in relation to the Business Principles.
The revised Business Principles, Corporate Commitments and code of conduct will be launched in 2006.
Corporate CONDUCT Responsibility Guiding behaviour The Board established a CR Committee in February 2005 to provide greater oversight and governance of CR as the business grows.
Membership of the CR Committee is shown on page 42 and its terms of reference are available on the BG Group website.
In 2005, the activities of the CR Committee included: assurance that the Group will be able to conduct business in accordance with its Business Principles in new areas of activity: BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Operating and financial review Corporate Responsibility continued review of CR issues in Nigeria and Libya aggregate revenues resulting from for employees and contractors in 2005 to understand the risks and to gain mineral resource extraction.
In 2005, was 0.5 per million hours worked, 32 assurance that the Group could BG Group and other energy companies, compared to 0.6 in 2004 and a starting effectively manage these risks: working in partnership with the position of 6.7 in 1998.
Kazakhstan Government, agreed a way approval of the revised Business As reported in the Chairmans and Chief forward to implement this initiative in Principles: Executives statements, there were six Kazakhstan.
In Nigeria, the Group supports contractor fatalities during 2005.
Five were consideration of an independent report the Nigerian Governments implementation in Egypt, in two separate incidents, and one on community relations: of the EITI under the Nigerian Extractive in Kazakhstan.
These fatalities reinforced Industries Transparency Initiative.
In the focus on behaviour-based safety across agreement to the Group climate Trinidad and Tobago, BG Group is working change strategy: and the Group and acted as a trigger for a with the Government, which is piloting major review of the way that the Group receiving regular reports on Health, Safety, the initiative.
The outcome of this review Security and the Environment HSSE.
was a statement by the BG Group Investor dialogue Executive that it believes that all injuries CR workshops took place during the last An active programme of engagement on are preventable, a Group safety goal of zero year to guide employees on how to think CR issues with major shareholders and injuries and a revised Health, Safety and through ethical concerns and apply the analysts is in place.
In 2005, this included the Environment HSE Policy.
Since August 2005, CR face-to-face meetings with analysts, statement was incorporated into the has been included in the induction courses written responses to surveys and a revised Business Principles.
attended by new UK-based employees.
The presentation and discussion session led by workshops provide an environment for the Chief Financial Officer.
Shareholders A comprehensive programme is in place to employees to raise concerns.
Participants can also access reports and presentations strengthen the safety culture further.
The requested more guidance on CR and ethics on the BG Group website.
Chief Executive launched the STEP UP and sought reassurance that they were safety initiative in October 2005 with a In 2005, Goldman Sachs ranked BG Group expected to comply with the Business webcast across BG Group.
in the top 10% of the oil and gas sector for Principles even in cases where compliance managing environmental, social and To complement this programme, the Group might impact short-term performance or governance issues.
The Group also issued BG Safety Behaviours and BG Life profit.
The Group will address this in the continues to be a member of the Savers standards.
These set out what launch of the revised Business Principles.
FTSE4Good index and Dow Jones behaviours are expected of employees and In 2005, the Group investigated Sustainability indices.
contractors and provide clear safety rules to seven allegations in accordance with prevent unsafe acts that may trigger an OUR PEOPLE its Whistleblowing policy, relating to incident.
Over 6 000 staff and contractors During 2005, BG Group employed an malpractice, HSSE and general employee around the world took part in safety average of 5 363 people, of whom 4 000 concerns.
The Group also investigated six workshops to discuss what the new were employed outside the UK.
One employment standards mean to them and to commit BG Group recruited 1 053 people contract was terminated and two to ways in which they could improve the worldwide, increasing the workforce by incidents were reported to the police for safety of their operations.
12% compared to 2004. International further investigation.
We found evidence opportunities increased, with 443 Around 900 UK-based employees had been of fraud in one case and took remedial employees taking up assignments outside trained in safety intervention by the end of action.
No evidence of fraud emerged their home country, enabling them to 2005.
The Group aims to train all employees from the remaining two cases.
None of develop greater cross-cultural experience these cases involved allegations against and long-term contractors worldwide in and share knowledge.
safety intervention by the end of 2006. management or employees who had a significant role in the Groups internal The BG International Management Health control over financial reporting.
Programme introduced in 2002 and BG Group strives to provide healthy accredited by the UKs Chartered Institute Adding value to economies working conditions for its employees and of Management is a popular and BG Group helps sustain and develop the to avoid health risks to the public.
The successful way of training employees who economies of the countries in which it Group manages how work can affect have the potential to be managers in the works by improving access to energy health for example, the use of computer future.
The first 42 students graduated supplies and paying taxes and royalties.
display screens, exposure to infectious in April 2005 with ten nationalities The Group also offers business to local disease or the effect of noise on hearing represented.
A further 69 people are suppliers, provides employment and and how the health of employees can currently on the programme with 50 training to national staff and invests in affect their ability to work.
In 2005, all of BG Groups major operated Safety BG Group recognises the link between facilities such as offshore platforms, power BG Group has always focused on safety: business success and thriving local stations, gas distribution networks or operational and occupational.
In late 2005, BG Group onshore production networks controlled by safety performance has improved retained Lord Holme to advise on the Group and offices used the Group significantly since 1998 due to the sustainable development.
The Groups health assurance framework to identify introduction of safety management approach to sustainable development will local issues, understand gaps in health systems in the 1990s and behaviour-based be presented to the CR Committee in 2006. provision and monitor policy compliance.
Behaviour-based BG Group supports the Extractive safety implementation stems from The Group monitors and responds to understanding what people do in practice Industries Transparency Initiative EITI, global health issues that may affect its an initiative to promote transparent in the workplace and eliminating unsafe workforce.
In 2005, these issues included behaviours.
The rate of lost time injuries reporting by governments of the the threat of pandemic flu, stress and BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 location-specific risks linked to the A series of recommendations were made growing BG Group country portfolio.
and progress has been made in Employees by location 33 implementing these.
Average in 2005 The Group has an employee assistance programme that employees can contact Human rights for support and advice in confidence or BG Group applies the principles of the UN anonymously if required.
In 2005, 3% of Universal Declaration of Human Rights and UK-based employees used this service.
the core International Labour Organisation standards within its spheres of influence.
Security To do this, the Group protects the human BG Group seeks to protect employees and rights of its employees through policies on contractors, physical assets, information equal opportunity and non-discriminatory and reputation from harm.
The personal treatment, security and labour standards security of employees remains its most and respects the protection of the human important security objective.
rights of its contractors and people affected UK 1 363 An increasing number of employees by its operations.
Non UK 4 000 are travelling to, living in, or working in BG Group supports the Voluntary countries where customs and security Principles on Security and Human Rights, threats can be unfamiliar.
These security developed by the governments of the USA a challenges include high levels of violent Employees by region and UK in collaboration with business and crime, kidnapping, illegal detention, fraud, Average in 2005 human rights organisations.
The Voluntary corruption, political instability and the Principles concern the assessment, compromise of information.
The threat of training and reporting of human rights local and international terrorism remains a risks, related to the use of private and state reality in many countries and is regularly security forces.
Any employee posted or travelling overseas has access to security Guidance on human rights has been information relating to travel, local produced and will be made available to business operations and working practices staff in 2006.
A training package is being and, where necessary, in-country protection.
developed and will be delivered to those working in countries that present BG Group has frameworks in place to particular human rights challenges.
limit fraudulent activities and threats to South America 39% electronic systems and information.
Asia Middle East 24% Social investment BG Group works directly with local Mediterranean Basin and Africa 11% SOCIETY North America and the Caribbean 8% communities that are affected by its Community relations Europe 18% operations as well as contributing to BG Group recognises that maintaining appropriate national initiatives.
These positive relationships with neighbouring a As of March 2006, the regions in which social investments focus on projects that communities is key for its reputation and the Group manages its operations were add to long-term sustainability within future commercial success.
The information shown the Groups theme of opportunity and is aligned with the way in which the The Group conducts Social Impact operations were managed in 2005. skills for development.
Projects are chosen Assessments to help understand and that reflect stakeholder concerns and mitigate potential impacts of proposed also help BG Group meet business activities on local communities.
BG Group objectives where possible.
Lost time injuries frequency works to enhance the positive impacts per million hours worked In 2005, BG Group spent a total of such as local employment and 3.6 million on voluntary social investment contracting opportunities and minimise 0.8 2004 3.5 million.
potential negative impacts such as 0.7 increased road traffic or disruptions to Employee involvement 0.6 economic activities where practicable by BG Group supports the involvement of 0.5 changing project design, utilising new employees in local charity and community 0.4 technologies or targeting social organisations.
This includes donations of investment projects.
0.2 In 2005, BG Group commissioned Richard BG Group operates a matched funding 0.1 Sandbrook, an expert in development and scheme that recognises efforts by extractive industries, to survey community 0.0 employees to raise money for charities 03 04 05 relations at six locations across the Group.
Overall, the quality of relationships with local communities was found to be good The Group contributed around and there were no examples of activities 0.5 million to local relief efforts following or procedures that would be considered the Asian tsunami: this figure includes contrary to international good practice.
matching employee donations of around The independent survey concluded that 46 000.
Later in 2005, the Group also BG Group is implementing its Business matched employee donations following Principles as these apply to community the earthquake in Pakistan 13 000 and relations, but could be more proactive.
Hurricane Katrina in the USA 4 700.
0.7 0.6 0.5 BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Operating and financial review Corporate Responsibility continued BG Group operations in Egypt, Trinidad introduction of gas technologies that and Tobago and the UK ran BG Group demonstrably reduce emissions.
Voluntary contributions to 34 Energy Challenges fundraising events social and educational projects In 2005, in recognition of the increasing involving physical and mental challenges m financial implications of emissions, over 24 hours, which raised a total of BG Group successfully implemented a 4.5 around 0.4 million for local charities.
Group-wide environmental emissions 4.0 ENVIRONMENT database accessible directly by major 3.5 BG Groups core business is enabling the operated facilities.
This database is 3.0 use of gas as an energy source.
The Group designed to record and analyse emissions 2.5 specialises in assembling the components to air, land and water.
2.0 of the gas chain that bring gas to markets In 2005, operations under BG Groups 1.5 from remote locations.
It also promotes control emitted 6.4 million tonnes of 1.0 technologies that enable gas to be carbon dioxide equivalent comprising 0.5 substituted for higher carbon content carbon dioxide and methane.
This is an 0.0 fuels or to be used with much greater increase of 22% on absolute emissions 03 04 05 energy efficiency.
The introduction of these compared to 2004.
The increase was technologies to the markets supplied by associated with increased electricity BG Group has the effect of helping to demand from customers in Northern Greenhouse gas emissions from control carbon dioxide emissions in those BG Group operated facilities Ireland, increased energy demand to markets.
BG Group operates a Group-wide support gas production and higher than million tonnes carbon environmental management system to forecast gas flaring in India and dioxide equivalent minimise the negative effects of its Kazakhstan.
Total operated emissions per 7 activities and to ensure compliance with unit of throughput of oil and gas increased applicable environmental regulations.
6 by 7% as the rise in emissions was greater The BG Group environmental philosophy than the rise in energy throughput.
5 of operating beyond compliance with local Equity share emissions from BG Group 4 regulation to meet internationally accepted operated and non-operated activities rose 3 good practice was reinforced in 2005 by 22% to 10.8 million tonnes of carbon through its specific incorporation in the 2 dioxide equivalent.
The main reasons for the Groups HSE Policy.
As part of this increase were increased electricity demand 1 commitment, BG Groups major operated in the Philippines, and LNG business growth facilities are required to achieve external 0 in Trinidad and Tobago and Egypt, as well as 03 04 05 certification of their environmental the reasons given above for operated management systems to the international emissions.
Total equity share emissions per standard ISO 14001.
Recently acquired and unit of throughput rose by 2%.
developed operations in Canada and onshore Trinidad and Tobago expect to achieve certification in 2006 and 2007 respectively.
The ISO standard was upgraded in November 2004.
By the end of 2005, 60% of assets had been certified to the new standard.
BG Group has been working to position itself to respond to governmental climate change policies and international measures such as the Kyoto Protocol, which came into force in February 2005.
Constraints on carbon dioxide emissions favour low carbon content fuels, such as natural gas.
In January 2005, BG Group assets within the UK and Italy entered the EU Emissions Trading System.
Carbon dioxide emission allowances in the years 2005-2007 have been established for BG Group offshore platforms and power stations.
The Group is currently acting to ensure that installations comply with the scheme.
The introduction of the Kyoto Protocol also encourages the use of the Clean Development Mechanism to incentivise emission reduction projects implemented in developing countries.
The Group is assessing business opportunities for the 5.0 3.0 5.6 3.5 6.4 3.6
