Business and Financial Review Business and Financial Review Retail Banking Wholesale Banking which grew during the year to 0.93%.
During 2005, Wholesale Banking, which comprises our Commercial 5% of our new lending had an average loan to value ratio Banking and Treasury operations, delivered core operating LTV of over 90%, slightly higher than in 2004 but still profit of 132m, 5% higher than in 2004.
Commercial significantly lower than the estimated industry average Banking core operating profit increased by 23%, with of around 10%.
The average LTV of our new lending in strong growth in business banking and lending businesses, 2005 was 61% 2004: 57% and the indexed LTV of our whilst Treasury core operating profit reduced by 10m loan book at the end of 2005 was 44% 2004: 42%.
to 43m, primarily due to fewer structured finance transactions taking place in 2005.
Total repossessions in 2005 were less than 100 properties and lower than in 2004.
Commercial Banking The proportion of non-performing lending balances in our Money transmission unsecured personal loans business rose to 5.1% at the end We continue to deliver strong growth in cash sales to of 2005 2004: 4.2%, in line with levels seen in December financial institutions, with sales increasing by over 20% 2002 and over 30% lower than the average for Finance and to 66bn in 2005.
Cash handling deposits also increased Leasing Association members.
During the year we tightened from 59bn in 2004 to 64bn in 2005.
The number of our credit criteria for unsecured lending on a number of cheques processed continues to decline, reducing by occasions in order to maintain our strong asset quality.
Within our money transmission business, we have commenced a series of projects with the goal of creating a paperless and more cost efficient business.
In 2006 we will continue to work with the Post Office to make increased use of their counter automation technology for our commercial customers, to assist in reducing the volume of paper involved in deposits and withdrawals.
We are also restructuring our own back office operations to reflect the planned improvements and increased automation.
Call centre staff will in the future be able to resolve a far higher proportion of customer enquiries more quickly and without the need to pass them to back office staff.
We are testing three ways through which our commercial Business Banking customers can deposit cash and cheques with us, reducing Accounts Opened 000 our reliance on the expensive Post Office network.
We are piloting automated cash and cheque deposit machines in two cash and carry stores in the north of England, a new low cost security carrier collection service targeted at customers who currently walk their deposits to the local Post Office, and the acceptance of commercial customer deposits in some of our branches.
We continue to develop new products and services to maintain our position as one of the leaders in the money transmission market.
In 2006 we plan to launch a pre-paid debit card product, which has proven to be highly successful in the US, and is an ideal replacement for our existing paper cash cheque product.
The card will be targeted at the business sector, with potential customers including companies who manage staff incentive schemes or who have workforces paid in cash.
Lending During 2005 we agreed in excess of 2bn of new lending facilities.
Commercial lending balances increased by 0.9bn to 5.5bn, the majority of this growth being via secured loans.
We continue to reduce the balances in the small ticket leasing sectors that we announced we were exiting in 2003, with a further 150m running-off during 2005 and 100m remaining Commercial Lending at the end of the year.
Balances bn 12 Alliance & Leicester Annual Report & Accounts 2005 2003 4.1 2003 11.0 4.6 2004 2004 16.4 2005 5.5 2005 24.3 Business and Financial Review Other Matters In recent years we have been expanding the number of sectors Capital to which we lend.
We have seen strong growth in our property Our total tier 1 capital ratio at the end of 2005 was 7.6%.
lending portfolio over the past two years and now have loans Our core tier 1 capital ratio, which currently consists solely of over 400m in this sector, whilst in the PFI segment of the of equity capital, ended 2005 at 6.5%.
We have continued market our balances at the end of 2005 have increased to over to manage our capital levels taking into account the 70m.
In 2006 we plan to continue to grow our existing growth in risk weighted assets, our dividend policy and the commercial lending businesses, as well as to expand our potential for increased volatility in the Groups income commercial property lending activities to include professional statement introduced by International Financial Reporting buy to let lending, where the customers property portfolio Standards.
In 2005 we bought back 0.6m shares at a cost consists of a minimum of five properties, is valued at over of 5m.
1m, and has a loan to value ratio of less than 75%.
We continue to take a proactive approach to the level and We are continuing to grow our lending to businesses with mix of our capital.
In 2006, we intend to issue up to a turnover of less than 10m, but this still remains a very 300m of preference shares, subject to shareholder small part of our total commercial loan book, with total approval at our AGM in May and market conditions.
Our loans being less than 300m.
core tier 1 capital will then include equity and preference share capital, and we are aiming for this ratio to be Business banking between 6.0% and 6.5% at the end of 2006.
Our capital In 2005 we opened 24,300 business banking accounts, plan also includes a share buyback programme.
We now have 67,000 active business banking accounts 2004: 55,100.
Basel II During the year we opened new business centres in Bristol, We submitted our Basel II waiver application to the Leeds, Manchester and Newcastle.
The business centres are Financial Services Authority in December 2005, within the already contributing to increasing the number of full first wave deadline.
For banks in the first wave and whose banking relationships, which assisted in the growth of new applications are accepted, Basel II is currently scheduled to business banking accounts and lending balances in 2005. be implemented from 1 January 2007.
During 2006 we are planning further improvements in the For credit risk, we have applied to adopt an internal ratings way we service our business banking customers.
In addition based IRB approach for most asset classes across both to the alternative network trials discussed above, we are Retail Banking and Wholesale Banking.
For Wholesale planning to open at least four business centres, and Banking assets we have applied to adopt the foundation have launched a new internet banking service for all our IRB approach.
For operational risk, we intend to adopt the commercial banking customers.
This service will assist in standardised approach.
improving customer service standards and cost efficiency.
We continue to expect a reduction in our risk weighted Treasury assets under the new rules as a result of our high quality Treasury delivered a core operating profit of 43m in 2005 balance sheet and responsible lending policies.
Treasury profit reduced by 10m, primarily due to fewer structured finance transactions Dividends taking place in 2005.
We continue to implement our progressive dividend policy, During 2005 we have continued to manage the Groups with a total dividend of 51.5p per share in 2005, 7% higher than in 2004.
In the future we plan to maintain this policy, liquidity, funding and hedging requirements successfully.
We continue to actively diversify the Groups funding base and increase our dividends by above the rate of inflation.
and extend the maturity of our non retail funding, including Dividend growth over the next couple of years is expected reviewing securitisation and other funding options.
to reflect our plans for business development and continued franchise growth, and will therefore be more Asset quality closely aligned to earnings growth.
Asset quality is very strong in both Commercial Banking and Treasury.
Commercial lending non-performing assets, being loans over 30 days in arrears, represent just 0.32% of the book, slightly better than at the end of 2004.
Our 5.5bn of commercial lending balances include 4.7bn of balances representing finance and operating leases and secured loans, and 0.8bn of unsecured loans.
Of the total leasing book of 2.5bn, over half is bank guaranteed.
Treasury asset quality remains strong with 95% December 2004: 97% of exposures having a long term credit rating at or above single A.
Alliance & Leicester Annual Report & Accounts 2005 13 Business and Financial Review Business and Financial Review Corporate Social Responsibility Report The following report contains a summary of the All customers are treated with respect and requests 710,000 information contained within our 2005 Corporate Social are dealt with as quickly as possible.
When we make Responsibility CSR Report.
The full report is published errors we correct them as quickly as possible: where Charitable donations on our website at www.
co. uk we cause the customer loss, the customer will be compensated appropriately.
Many CSR-related matters form an integral part of our All customer complaints are treated seriously.
Each business strategy, and progress on these activities forms customer complaint is dealt with as quickly as possible part of the day to day management of the Group.
Our CSR and the customer is provided with full reasons for strategy and actions are focused around the reporting accepting or rejecting their complaint.
Complaints are guidelines set out by the Financial Organisations Reporting analysed to identify root causes and appropriate action Guidelines FORGE working group.
is taken to address any issues identified.
Our Marketplace We are transparent with our customers in all our Our key business principles dealings with them.
Our key business principles underpin all of the Groups Responsible and ethical lending policies and procedures.
These principles have been Alliance & Leicester is both an ethical and responsible agreed by the Group Board and communicated to our lender.
We aim to ensure that any money lent is used for staff through our intranet and are also available on a reputable purpose and can be repaid by the customer.
Our lending processes comply with all the appropriate Treating customers fairly regulatory standards and industry Codes of Practice.
Alliance & Leicester is committed to the principle We also work closely with police and other agencies to of treating customers fairly over the complete lifecycle ensure we do not facilitate fraudulent or illegal activities.
of our relationship with them.
Treating customers fairly All lending applications are considered in their own right.
is seen as an integral part of the Group achieving its There are, however, some sectors in which we do not vision, and is considered in strategic discussions and operate.
As part of our lending strategy we do not: in the formulation of our strategy.
Participate in financing Sovereign debt to Third As part of our policy we have defined treating customers World countries.
fairly as meaning: Provide funding for the tobacco manufacturing industry.
Products are developed and designed with a sense Knowingly support customers whose business activities, of responsibility to consumers and society, and with 365 000 give rise to exploitation of children or minority groups.
a purpose of providing customers with products and Investment in local services that they need.
community events Lend to any individual or business whose activities could lead to reputational damage to Alliance & Leicester.
Products are designed with clear features, so that customers can easily understand what they are being Lend to any individual who we know to have an offered and will not be misled or confused.
Products are stress tested to assess likely Lend to any individual entitled to claim performance in a variety of differing economic diplomatic immunity.
and market conditions, and previous experience Creditor payment policy with similar products will be considered when The Group continues to be a signatory of the DTIs Better designing new products.
Payment Practice Code: more details can be found at Communication with customers is clear, straightforward www.
It is Group policy to agree the terms and easy to understand, and complies with all relevant of payment at the start of business with a supplier, to ensure legislation and Codes of Practice.
suppliers are aware of the payment terms and to pay in accordance with any contractual and other legal obligations.
Sales and advice processes are as simple as possible, to assist understanding by the customer and to comply Trade creditors of the Company for the year ended with all legal and regulatory requirements.
We look to 31 December 2005 were 23 days 2004: 29 days, provide customers with products and services that are based on the ratio of Company trade creditors at the suitable for their needs.
Remuneration policies are end of the year to the amounts invoiced during the year regularly reviewed to ensure that they do not by trade creditors.
encourage the sale of inappropriate products.
Privacy Representations, assurances and promises that lead The Group complies with the Data Protection Act and has to legitimate customer expectations will be honoured.
stringent policies on the protection of customer privacy, If customers get into financial difficulties, we work conforming to standards set by the voluntary Banking with them to address their problems.
14 Alliance & Leicester Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Our Workplace We support a number of external bodies who are working Responsibility for all employee related matters, including towards increasing the awareness of the diversity agenda health and safety, rests with our Director of Group Human in businesses.
These include Stonewall, Race for Resources, who reports to the Group Chief Executive.
Alliance & Leicester values its employees as the key to Learning and development delivering our business strategy and we recognise our We are keen to provide our employees with a range responsibilities to provide a positive working environment.
of training and development courses to ensure they We continue to reinforce our commitment to our employees have the knowledge and skills necessary to carry out and customers that we will retain core call centre jobs in their responsibilities effectively and to fulfil their career the British Isles and will not move these jobs offshore.
During 2005, following a series of discussions with We continue to operate a variety of types of training and our trade unions, we reached an agreement for the development for our employees, and have particularly continuation of our final salary pension arrangements, focused on our e-learning capacity in 2005 through the available to 40% of our people, over a further five development of a self-service learning system for use years.
We also reached agreement to increase employer by employees.
contributions into our money purchase pension, which During 2005 over 6,000 employees undertook awareness is available to the remaining 60% of employees.
training on Money Laundering to comply with FSA We continue to provide appropriate levels of reward requirements, with the remainder due to complete this in and recognition for our employees.
This training was solely delivered through e-learning, remuneration, we also provide bonus schemes and a made available through the Group intranet.
number of schemes aimed at recognising and rewarding During 2005 we also progressed our approach to personal excellent customer service.
All of our employees have development, alongside our well established volunteering the ability to share in the success of the Group through initiatives.
Employees who wish to undertake personal a range of share schemes.
development are encouraged to consider suitable Employee communications volunteering activities within local communities We continue to develop our intranet as the primary where appropriate.
channel of communication for our staff, with over 95% Health and safety of them continuing to use it once a week or more.
As a responsible employer, we are committed to ensuring As well as being a primary communications channel for that no employee is exposed to an unacceptable risk to business updates, it also provides numerous applications their health and safety.
It is our policy to provide a safe to help our business.
and healthy working environment for our staff, our We also recently established a national Inform and customers and our contractors.
Our well-established Consult forum, chaired by our Group Chief Executive, joint health and safety committee structure, which which operates alongside our existing trade union involves management and trade union representatives, structures.
The forum is attended by directly elected meets on a regular basis and continues to afford employee representatives and union representatives, employees the opportunity to express their views and provides an opportunity for employees to develop on this important subject.
a greater understanding of, and to input into, the Bullying and harassment disciplinary policy development of business initiatives.
Feedback from grievance procedures the forum is published to all Group employees.
The Group has a robust set of policies and processes Diversity and equal opportunities relating to bullying, harassment, discipline and We are committed to equality of opportunity for all our grievances.
These have been documented in previous employees.
We will not condone discrimination on the reports and can be seen on our website at grounds of sex, race or national origin, colour, religious www.
co. uk belief, disability mental or physical, marital status, age Public interest disclosures or sexual orientation.
Individual employees may be the first to realise that there We have an equal opportunities policy, agreed with our may be something seriously wrong within a business.
We are trade unions, which states that responsibility for equal committed to ensuring that any suspicion of malpractice is opportunities clearly lies with directors and senior reported and therefore encourage all employees to raise any managers throughout the business.
genuine concerns about potential malpractice at the earliest practicable stage.
The Group treats all such concerns very We continue to operate a joint Diversity Forum with our trade unions, which provides support and guidance on seriously.
All staff can initially report any concerns, in confidence, to the Director of Group Human Resources, diversity issues, along with an opportunity for all employees to express their views on our diversity agenda.
the Group Secretary or the Head of Money Laundering.
Alliance & Leicester Annual Report & Accounts 2005 15 Business and Financial Review
