26 Alliance Trust Savings ATS is the only financial services company owned by UK investment trusts which designs, provides and administers a range of wrapper products in-house.
The profits of ATS contribute to the earnings of the Group.
Review & Outlook Stockholding and Review and Outlook Stockholders In 2004 we saw investor confidence returning with noticeable growth in contributions to investment plans with ATS.
Assets held by ATS Gross cash inflows into ATS products over the last year reached for its Customers their highest ever level of 199m and net inflows to all ATS products remained positive.
For the tax year which ended in April 2004, ATS saw subscriptions to ISAs increase by 2% which ATS Investment Plans compares very favourably with the savings industry as a whole where subscriptions to stocks and shares ISAs fell by 13%.
While for the year to 31 January 2005 gross inflows into ATS ISAs rose by 9%, we did experience increased outflows from both PEPs and ISAs, reflecting industry trends following the Governments removal of the tax credit reclaim from April 2004.
In addition, ATS continues to attract significant levels of ISA and PEP transfers as investors seek to realise the benefits of consolidation with a single provider.
During the year ATS received over 1,500 PEP and ISA transfers.
The Select Investment Plan continues to grow with over 10,000 customers now using the plan as a home for their non-tax wrapped savings and investment needs.
In recognition of the importance of the growing demand for good value products for saving for children, during the year ATS introduced First Steps, a version of the Select Investment Plan designed specifically for the childrens market with additional benefits available to the account holder when investing in either the Companys stock or that of the Second Alliance Trust.
m Alliance Trust 243 Second Alliance Trust 122 Assets held by Other Investment ATS for its Companies 487 Equities and Customers other securities 517 Cash 76 Total 1,445 Figures as at 31 January 2005 Alliance Trust Savings
