34 Corporate Governance Report Corporate Social Responsibility Compliance with the Code In carrying out our activities and in our relationships with our of Best Practice employees, suppliers and community, we aim to conduct ourselves responsibly, ethically and fairly.
Pages 28-35 of this report, together with the directors remuneration report on pages 38-41, disclose the application by Payment of Creditors the Company of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, as required by the UK Listing Authority.
We always try to achieve favourable terms when buying supplies.
Contracts and payment terms are carefully scrutinised The board reports that it has complied with the provisions of the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by and we pay in accordance with the contract agreed, which may be the suppliers own terms.
Investment purchases are settled the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 except that in the in accordance with the terms of the exchanges on which the year to 31 January 2005, performance related pay did not form investments are listed.
The Group has not adopted any code or a substantial part of the executive directors remuneration standard on payment practice.
before 1 August 2004, which is explained in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 39, and there was no insurance The Group anticipates no change in its purchasing practices in cover in place in respect of legal action against the Companys the current financial year.
In addition, from 30 April 2004, when Bruce At 31 January 2005 the Company had no trade creditors.
ATS, Johnston retired from the board and Lesley Knox became its principal operating subsidiary, had trade creditors equivalent Chairman, there were four executive and four non-executive to 8 20 days of average purchases.
directors until the appointment of Gordon McQueen as a director on 6 June 2004.
Accordingly during that period there Green Disclosures was an equality in number of executive and non-executive directors and, excluding the Chairman, less than half of the In carrying out our activities over the last year, our UK board members were independent non-executives.
greenhouse gas emissions by reason of the Groups activities office heat and power requirements and employee travel, calculated in accordance with reporting guidelines issued by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs amounted to 146 123 tonnes of carbon dioxide.
This is the equivalent of operating 12.9 10.9 three bar electric fires for a year.
Social Responsibilities and Environmental Issues In addition to evaluating a Companys management we review its policies and behaviour on issues of social responsibility and environmental impact.
These factors are considered when we make our initial investment decision and are reviewed regularly.
Voting It is the Company's policy to exercise, wherever practical, its vote at meetings of companies in which it owns shares.
We may engage in dialogue with the company on particular issues, and if not satisfied may vote against the recommendation of the board of a company in which we hold an investment.
Any proposal to vote against the recommendation of the board of the company in which the shares are held requires the approval of an executive director.
Decisions to vote against such recommendations are reported to the board.
