Operating and Financial Review People growing our capability and skill Our people strategy 2005 initiatives Amlin Advantage, the range of core and flexible Employee turnover and experience Values: inspiring commitment and We recognise that the success of Amlin is In the pursuit of our key objectives, Amlin was benefits offered to all employees is considered reinforcing what we stand for Management, dependent on our ability to attract, develop, engaged in a number of initiatives which are to be the benchmark on benefits amongst Senior Other Underwriting finance and motivate and retain talented staff.
We believe referred to below.
Lloyds businesses, according to the top ten Class underwriters underwriters support Claims Operations administration Total that our intellectual property and competitive No.
at 1 January 2005 44 52 143 170 63 106 578 recruitment agencies in the marketplace.
High BOTTOM LINE SUSTAINABLE No.
recruited promoted in period 4 5 40 24 14 29 116 advantage resides in our employees and that Reward and recognition In 2005 Well Man Well Woman medical BUT IS IT SUCESS SUSTAINABLE?
of voluntary leavers in period 2 7 19 20 6 13 67 there is a strong correlation between effective Amlin has developed a total rewards approach screening was added to the choice of flexible INSPIRATION No.
made redundant in period 0 0 5 0 6 5 16 people practices and shareholder value.
which provides a mix of financial and nonoptions and during the year, over 9.8% of No.
of retirements in period 0 0 1 0 0 0 1 financial rewards, designed to maintain our employees participated in the scheme.
Amlin GOING OUT OF GOOD FOR No.
MORALE In managing our human capital, our objective competitiveness in the employment market, with also introduced the Home Computing Initiative BUT CAN YOU Turnover 4.6% 13.5% 17.5% 29.2% 40.4% 17.0% 14.5% AFFORD TO KEEP is to create a strong alignment between the an alignment to shareholder interests, as well as and Bikes for Work government schemes to Voluntary turnover 4.6% 13.5% 13.3% 29.2% 17.0% 12.3% 11.6% IT UP?
Groups Vision and goals, shareholder value providing staff with flexibility and choice.
all employees in 2005, with the combined Mean age of employees 44 36 34 40 38 38 37 Low High and employee interests.
We aim to sustain employee take up being 24%.
Mean tenure of employees 11 6 6 13 10 6 6 Focus on Culture and Values and where necessary raise the performance During 2005, we undertook a strategic review of Source: BlessingWhite of the business by developing staff to their full our reward arrangements to ensure that the way In April 2005, we held our second Amlin Awards potential, by motivating staff appropriately and Underwriting expertise and a consistent Performance management in which we incentivise employees is closely event at the Royal Courts of Justice.
This Amlin Academy by planning ahead so that we are capable of approach to underwriting risk management In addition to the day to day management of aligned to the Vision which was set in 2004. biennial event is an opportunity for all Group Training days provided in 2005 properly addressing succession issues.
and control is critical to the success of Amlin, employees, Amlin is placing greater focus on This review, managed in conjunction with employees to join in recognising and rewarding making the retention of skilled underwriters a formal reviews of individual performance specialist, independent advisers, confirmed those individuals and teams who have made an Key strategic objectives include: business priority.
through two means: detailed business class good overall alignment and made a number of outstanding contribution to Amlins success.
A working environment where employees are reviews for each senior underwriter: and suggestions for improvement in specific areas Business 397 technical well motivated and have a strong belief in the Our senior underwriters have on average 23 performance and development reviews for such as the underwriters short term bonus Culture and values Management 189 development Group, its strategy and core values: years experience in the insurance industry and employees.
Both are intended to ensure that we arrangements and the Capital Builder Long term During 2005, a team of staff worked on a new Information The development of loyalty between the an average of 11 years with Amlin.
have the right skills in place and that we focus Incentive Plan so that they are fairer and more Code of Conduct, which has now replaced the 213 technology Group and employees: training and development where it is needed.
closely aligned with shareholders interests.
The Code Personal 172 development Continual improvement in the effective We aim to keep voluntary turnover, excluding We are presently planning to incorporate these summarises the standards which must be Professional 64 management of people and the skills retirements, of our leading class underwriters Historically, the performance of senior suggestions into our incentive arrangements applied in all our dealings with stakeholders and qualifications 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 and competency of staff at all levels below 10% per annum and our overall employee underwriters has been assessed based on over 2006 and 2007, subject where appropriate takes account of the Institute of Business Ethics Training days and across all disciplines: turnover below 15%.
For 2005, Amlins employee class of business reviews, which include an to shareholder approval.
Further details are standards and the principles laid down by the Source: Amlin The retention and growth of key skills which turnover remained within these targets.
assessment of an underwriters ability to provided in the Directors remuneration report.
All existing are critical to the business: manage a portfolio of risk and to adapt to employees undertake awareness training on Well constructed and fair reward systems Amlin Bermudas underwriting team was changing business circumstances, but has not Like many companies, Amlin has reviewed the new Code and it is also included in the Training and development which help drive superior performance and transferred from our non-marine London market addressed other important competencies and its pension arrangements and specifically its induction programmes for all employees.
Amlin Academy, now in its fifth year, provides align employee and shareholder interests: and business, providing the new business with an skills, such as the ability to manage people.
position in relation to its final salary schemes.
training and development courses for Group The development and use of first class experienced team who have a good knowledge Amlin has been actively seeking to ensure that A great deal of research and development work We have built on the preparatory work begun employees and selected open programmes for employment practices throughout the Group.
of our client distribution networks as well as a the broader skill set of senior underwriters is was carried out during 2005 which is being in 2004 on developing a set of core values for others.
The Academys objective is to provide thorough understanding of the Groups reviewed and managed, in particular to aid its implemented in 2006.
We have decided to Amlin, using staff workshops and focus groups.
a core curriculum of training, while encouraging We want to be the place to work in the industry.
remove much of the Groups risk associated The Executive Management Group has now professional and personal development at with salary inflation which is inherent in defined affirmed a set of core values, which have every level throughout the organisation.
Employee profile The depth of talent in our London market Well structured incentive arrangements benefit schemes.
These changes also improve integrity at their heart and which capture Amlin employed a total of 610 people at 31 business enabled us to achieve this while also play an important part in performance the equality of pension provision for employees managements beliefs in the values that will The Academy supports regulatory and December 2005.
The London market business promoting a number of employees to more management.
While reward systems need to across the Group.
contribute to sustaining the success of the compliance requirements and also provides has a higher proportion involved in underwriting, senior positions in London.
pay our staff fairly and competitively against Company.
These will be incorporated into the a broad range of initiatives including technical whereas the nature of the UK commercial the market they are also designed to provide While members of Amlins defined benefit Code of Conduct and, over the course training, management training and personal business requires a larger proportion of claims Our ambitions to provide superior service to our high reward for high performance.
For example, schemes will be able to accrue additional years of 2006, a programme of employee development, to help staff realise their and administrative staff.
clients and to help insurance brokers streamline the Capital Builder Long Term Incentive Plan service under the schemes, future salary engagement will be implemented.
the business placement process means that is designed to retain and reward the long-term increases will be pensioned through the Groups Total employees we have needed to increase resources in commitment of key underwriters by allowing defined contribution pension arrangements.
Amlin Academy underwriting support and to invest in our claims, them to build personal capital over a sustained Consistent with the Groups aim to operate first At 31 At 31 Total expenditure process and project management skills.
period of success, if and only if, they exceed class employment practices, affected employees December 2005 December 2004 London market business 236 224 demanding targets to help the Group achieve will receive partial compensation through higher 2003 2004 2005 UK commercial business 233 233 superior returns on capital.
For senior Company contributions under the defined Amlin Bermuda 4 0 management and others who are not contribution arrangements over a period of three 160 Group functions 137 122 140 underwriters, incentives are performance years.
These additional contributions are 120 Total 610 579 related with a greater proportion being driven designed to pass on the estimated saving in 100 by return on equity the more senior the normal defined benefit scheme costs to affected 80 60 employee, as the Group considers return on employees for the first three years following 40 equity to be the primary driver the change.
0 Business Information Management Personal Professional technical technology development development qualifications Source: Amlin 24 Amlin plc Annual Report 2005 Amlin plc Annual Report 2005 25 000 Focus on performance Driving Results Operating and Financial Review People growing our capability and skill During 2005 we designed and started delivering Employee profile at 31 December 2005 technical training to our underwriters to assist in our drive for contract certainty as required by Male full time Male part time Female full time Female part time FSA for all insurers.
We also carried out a detailed review of the skill and competency 140 needs of our claims teams so that future training 120 and development is directed at supporting our 100 capability to deliver the high standards which we 80 have set for our claims adjusting and settlement 60 in line with our strategy of delivering first class 40 client service standards.
20 0 19-29 30-39 40-49 50-59 60 plus We place great emphasis on management Age Groups development within Amlin and offer a selection of Source: Amlin programmes to help enhance self-awareness, develop leadership and change management and involvement and commitment to the based solely on their suitability for a specific role.
skills and to create a common language across Groups strategy.
During 2005, the Group In 2005, and in preparation for new EC employment our management population.
A variety of redesigned the Matrix, its internal legislation, we expanded our statistical reporting globally-recognised training providers, business communications website, with increased to include disability and ethnicity.
schools and universities are used for this prominence given to company news and key purpose.
As well as continuing with the developments and a new section linking plans We believe that a good work life balance for our management development programme at and actions to our Vision.
Additionally, the Chief employees helps their performance.
Around 3% Roffey Park, 2005 saw the launch of personal Executive attended all of the employee of employees regularly work from home and a and management development programmes induction seminars to outline the Companys further 4% have flexible working arrangements.
designed specifically for Amlin by specialist vision and strategy, and employee briefings Additionally, 36% of employees can work remotely training partners such as The Coverdale were again held after the preliminary and half as necessary.
In 2005, we introduced sabbatical Organisation and BlessingWhite.
The Employee arrangements for employees with at least ten years Consultation Forum, which was established service and ten employees took up this option.
A key initiative in 2005 was the inaugural Oxford in 2004, met three times in 2005.
From April 2006, we are extending the normal Amlin Leadership Programme, a five-day retirement age from 60 to 65 years in anticipation residential course developed in conjunction For the first time, the Company has this of UK employment legislation and in order to with Templeton College, Oxford.
The aim was year published its 2006 business plan on offer Amlin employees the option of continuing to structure a world class course around current the intranet, highlighting those matters which their employment with the group.
thinking in risk management, the business management considers are important for the environment and contemporary management.
performance and development of the Group In March 2005, Amlin Insurance Services, our What made the programme so unique was the in the current year.
UK commercial business was awarded the mix of delegates, not only from Amlin and the Investors in People Standard for the third time.
Lloyds market, but also from one of our major Diversity and flexibility This achievement was not only a business plan US shareholders, State Farm Insurance.
The Amlin is proud to be an equal opportunity objective, but an important measure of the opportunity to work together and understand employer and we ensure that the recruitment, continual improvement in standards which is very different business models has emerged promotion and development of staff are resulting in Amlin becoming the Place to Work as one of the most beneficial outputs from in our market.
We have developed a range of on-line training Initiatives for 2006 packages for our employees covering subjects During 2006, we are continuing to work towards our employee goals with the such as competition legislation, money following objectives: laundering legislation and health and safety The design and implementation of a Embedding the core values that have management.
leadership development programme to been developed during 2005 with a view provide directors and senior managers to helping sustain for the long term the Our Group Legal team identified the need for with tailored personal development and qualities which have contributed to the Amlin professionals to be trained in the complex to raise the level of leadership capability Companys success: area of EU Competition Law.
Accordingly they across the Group:.
Managing a further MORI employee developed an on-line training package which The design and implementation of opinion survey to measure staff morale was implemented across the Group during 2005. changes to the Groups reward and and track performance against our The Lloyds Market Association has offered to remuneration arrangements, specifically 2004 survey: purchase a version of our package to make it with regard to the pension schemes and Further development of core-curricula available to others in the Lloyds market, allowing incentive arrangements highlighted by matrices, to include know-how capability Amlin to substantially recover the costs the reviews conducted in 2005: and competency requirements, for all key of development.
Reviewing and updating the Group technical functions: and succession plan to reassess the risk and Developing a long-term talent Communication impact of key staff leaving the management strategy to make the The MORI employee survey conducted in 2004 organisation, the identification of organisation uniquely attractive to talent highlighted a number of areas for improving contingency and longer-term successors internal communication across the Group, so and the identification of skill gaps and as to increase awareness of major initiatives other areas of risk: the vision... 26 Amlin plc Annual Report 2005 Number of Employees
