Aviva plc 2005 Overview 12 A responsible company and employer Recognition of our performance in 2005 Our performance in developing and managing our CSR programme has been recognised by a range of external parties.
We are the only UK insurer included in both the Dow Jones Sustainability World and STOXX indexes.
We are a member of the FTSE4Good Index Series and ranked 2nd among financial services TM companies, and 23rd out of the Fortune Global 100 companies for CSR management as measured by the TM Accountability Rating.
We were ranked top CSR performer in our sector out of 18 global insurance companies by Triodos Bank.
We were also listed in the Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World.
Promoting good CSR Climate change and performance in others Avivas response As a member of the global community, Aviva has a We are committed to reducing our own CO impact 2 responsibility to encourage and inuence the behaviour through, for example, increasing energy efficiency, of others in the promotion of responsible business reducing wastage and switching to renewable sources practice.
We do this through our supplier management of electricity.
In the UK, we use 100% zero emission and investment activities.
For example, our established electricity, while our businesses in Ireland and the socially responsible investment funds continue to Czech Republic also use renewable sources of electricity.
grow and now have over 800 million in funds under We further seek to achieve positive inuence on others management.
Through our supplier management through products such as Pay As You Drive.
programme, over 75% of Aviva businesses worldwide now include CSR aspects in supplier tendering and review processes.
0% 24,000 5.7m Reduction in CO emissions Hours volunteered Amount donated to charitable causes 2 and community initiatives Corporate social responsibility What we mean by CSR Our CSR policy embraces performance in respect of standards of business conduct, the environment, human rights and health and safety as well as the promotion of good and fair relations with our employees, our suppliers, our customers and the broader community.
Looking after our customers Our businesses are focused on looking after our customers.
For example, Norwich Union Life has taken a market-leading approach to protecting policyholders interests.
It is restructuring its pension strategy by writing all new pensions policies under a single scheme thereby enabling customers to move seamlessly between products and tailor their retirement planning to their own needs.
Further details of our CSR programme can be found on pages 42 to 44.
Alternatively a printed summary copy of our annual CSR report is available from the group company secretary and the full report may be viewed on www.
