Aviva plc 2005 Overview 13 Diversity Our diversity vision is, Diversity is about everyone.
We believe in a working culture that respects, celebrates and harnesses our differences to the benefit of customers, employees, shareholders, business partners and the wider community.
Our competitive advantage depends on business teams that include people with different backgrounds, experiences and perspectives, who feel valued for the positive contribution they can make to Avivas success.
During 2005, we achieved the gold award for progress in providing an inclusive environment for women from Opportunity Now.
We were one of only 12 FTSE 100 companies to be included in Stonewalls Corporate Equality index, moving from 71st to 39th in the index during 2005, and achieved a bronze Leadership and care Making a difference award for efforts in creating a racially inclusive In Norwich Union Insurance NUI, our leadership In Morley, a programme has been introduced to workforce from Race for Opportunity.
and care programme exemplies the links we help non-investment employees to understand better, make between our customers and our employees.
think proactively about and anticipate industry issues.
The programme continues to work towards the goal In our corporate ofce, staff have a quarterly of maximising engagement and performance of all opportunity to nominate a colleague or a team employees and putting the customer at the heart who have exemplied one or more of the Aviva of decision making.
In 2005, 82% of NUI employees values.
Providing the tools to help employees make considered themselves to be passionate about a difference and measuring progress is very important.
delivering a great customer experiences, up 8% Financial reward schemes now recognise those on the beginning of 2004.
This successful programme employees who really make a positive difference is being adopted by other business units worldwide.
25 41, 000 Countries in which we Employees surveyed during 2005 have employees Employees The changing face of Aviva plc Our worldwide workforce is made up of people from diverse cultural backgrounds.
Developing a exible and adaptable workforce is a key element in our determination to meet the changing needs of our business.
Listening to our employees In 2005, we introduced our first global employee opinion survey to enable us to compare and contrast employee engagement between businesses worldwide.
Over 41,000 employees have now participated and the results will enable us to identify and share good practice across the group.
2006 will see the first complete coverage.
Developing future leaders We seek to identify and nurture our talented people.
Our annual organisation and development review enables us to review talent on a consistent basis worldwide.
This process is complemented by the Aviva Leadership Academy which provides international development opportunities for our future leaders.
Were helping to create prosperity and peace for millions of people around the world Aviva plc 2005 Business review of mind Business review Group overview 16 Basis of preparation 17 Strategy and values 18 Financial position and performance
