Corporate responsibility Corporate Responsibility highlights Corporate Responsibility for Barclays is with the Turnbull Guidance on Internal in 2005 embodied by the concept of Responsible Control for UK listed companies.
A specific We make our greatest contribution to Banking.
Responsible Banking is an integral standard on Corporate Responsibility society by being good at what we do, and part of the way we do business, and a underpins our Responsible Banking doing it in a responsible way providing central element of our overall strategy to philosophy.
products and services that contribute to make Barclays one of the worlds leading the financial systems in the countries in banks.
Responsible Banking means making Benchmarking which we operate.
We think this is the informed, reasoned and ethical decisions Barclays is a long-standing member of the context within which a major bank about how we conduct our business, how Dow Jones Sustainability Index ranking in like Barclays has its most important we treat our employees and how we behave the top quartile in 2005 and FTSE4Good role to play.
towards our customers and clients.
We participate annually in the Business in the Community Corporate The emphasis on Responsible Banking Responsibility Index, ranking 32 out of 132 leads us to focus our approach around in 2005. six key areas: Customer service Responsible Banking Financial inclusion Customer Service Responsible lending We are committed to treating our customers Environmental impacts fairly and have developed a set of aspirational Employee welfare principles to help employees understand Community investment how they can help Barclays deliver on that commitment.
A great deal of effort has gone Underpinning these themes is a strong into improving our products and services.
We are giving customers more and better information before they buy so they can Governance make more informed decisions and take Brand and Reputation Committee more responsibility for their finances.
This The Brand and Reputation Committee, commitment remains a key priority and a sub-committee of Group Executive helps us to respond to the industry challenge Committee, is chaired by Sir Nigel Rudd, posed by the UKs Financial Services Deputy Chairman and a non-executive Authority to demonstrate that we are Director on the Board.
Following a review treating customers fairly.
led by the Group Chief Executive, the focus of the Committee is on identifying Our Business Banking division in the UK and managing issues of ethical and scores consistently highly in client satisfaction reputational significance to the Barclays surveys, whilst increased customer focus in Group.
The Committee met five times UK Retail Banking has improved its customer during the year.
Internal Control Barclays has the highest brand health scores We have a system of governance standards in Botswana, Ghana and Kenya and the which form the foundation of our system of acquisition of a majority stake in Absa has internal control and governance, consistent given us access to a new set of customers Barclays PLC 14 Annual Report 2005 and a customer focused business.
Absas Our Cash Card Account, a basic current applying them to all medium or high risk brand health scores are among the highest account that gives people access to projects regardless of size.
banking without an overdraft facility, has continued to grow.
This account, designed Our approach to direct environmental Financial Inclusion to be accessible and easy to manage, now impacts is also well developed.
We operate a In 2005 we have made good strides in has over 379,000 customers.
We have central environmental management system 1.5 advancing the Financial Inclusion agenda.
also continued our financial support for to monitor and improve our performance, Absas Mzansi low-cost bank account is the Post Office Card Account which and this is certified to the international part of an initiative by South Africas banks enables people to open an account, pay standard ISO14001:2004.
We have separate to provide access to full-service banking in benefits and access money through ISO systems in Barclaycard, Barclays Spain within 15km of all South Africans.
The account has been a great success since launch late in 2004 and in August 2005 Responsible Lending We have made a commitment to making our Absa launched the Mzansi Money Transfer Our commitment to responsible lending UK operations fully carbon neutral by 2007 service to provide a low-cost, reliable, includes providing straightforward information by offsetting our remaining CO2 emissions.
secure and instant means of sending that makes the terms of a loan absolutely We will be doing this by investing in money anywhere in the country.
clear, so that the customer understands the sustainable energy projects and communityfull implications for them, and then applying based energy efficiency schemes.
In Ghana, Barclays is piloting a microfinance strict, sensible criteria about how much we initiative supporting Susu collection one lend to any individual.
Summary boxes have Employee Welfare of Africas oldest forms of banking.
Susu been added to our Barclaycard and personal Our business is only as good as the people in collection is widely used by small business loan statements to set out clearly interest rates it.
To achieve our ambitious goals we must owners such as market traders, and the and repayment information.
have a diverse and committed workforce.
microfinance initiative provides Susu collectors with deposit accounts and loans to on-lend, In December 2005 we were a prime mover Absa was one of the first banks in South as well as training for the Susu collectors and behind a new industry-wide scheme in the Africa to implement new equity ownership financial education for the traders.
UK to share more information about how rules associated with Black Economic people are managing their accounts.
The Empowerment BEE, allocating 10% of its In the UK we have launched a number of shared data will help us to make better total share capital to Batho Bonke Absas direct initiatives addressing improved access lending decisions and to help us spot BEE partner, in the form of redeemable to financial education and advice, banking customers who may be starting to have cumulative option-holding preference services and affordable credit, and provided difficulties managing their borrowing.
The members of Batho Bonke support via other organisations.
In 2005 include broad-based empowerment we launched Barclaycard Horizons, a 3m Environmental Impacts companies, community-based development programme to help overindebted lone Since co-founding and adopting the trusts or foundations, individuals who have parents with practical support, including Equator Principles in 2003, our approach not previously benefited on a large scale money management advice, training and to environmental and social risks in project from BEE initiatives, emerging entrepreneurs help to get back to work.
We have also finance has continued to develop.
and groups promoting the empowerment of continued to work closely with Credit The Equator Principles direct banks to carry women and youth.
Absa is working towards Unions and Community Development out full environmental risk assessments on the diversity objectives of the South African Finance Institutions which provide basic any project over $50m in size and take Financial Sector Charter.
appropriate action depending on the risks.
We go further than the Principles state by Barclays PLC Annual Report 2005 15 Corporate responsibility continued The health and safety of our employees is Our biggest international community story paramount.
Across our African operations we in 2005 was Barclays Miles Ahead, a fivehave a comprehensive HIV AIDS programme.
month sponsored overland expedition We provide counselling, testing, and medical from London to Cape Town that united treatment including anti-retroviral drugs to our our UK, European and African community employees and their dependants.
We make a programmes across 13 countries.
Along the positive effort to create a supportive working route, Barclays staff raised funds for charity environment for everyone, and our human and volunteered in their communities, and resources policies have been reviewed to some joined the trucks professional crew.
ensure they do not discriminate on the In all, over 7,000 employees took part in grounds of HIV status.
the fundraising events, which ranged from football events for disadvantaged children In the UK we were ranked 8th in the Race for in France, to building homes with Habitat Opportunity benchmark, 20th in Stonewalls for Humanity in Uganda, to helping AIDS Workplace Equality Index 7th highest orphans in Zimbabwe.
ranking private sector company and 27th in the Employers Forum on Disability In the UK, Barclays Spaces for Sports is benchmarking exercise.
our largest project, with 30m being invested over three years in creating and Community Investment regenerating 150 sports sites, and providing As a responsible bank it is vital to us that we coaching kit to groups across the country.
invest in the communities where we operate, Barclays Spaces for Sports is a grassroots and ensure that our funding makes a positive counterpart to our sponsorship of the impact.
Our community work is based on Barclays Premiership, with 21 flagship partnerships: we offer expertise and staff community sports sites being created with time, as well as financial investment, while Premiership clubs such as Liverpool and our partners provide specialised knowledge Tottenham Hotspur.
We are a member of the PerCent Club a group of companies that Accountability have undertaken to ensure that donations to We hold dialogue throughout the year the community over time amount to at least with shareholders, politicians and NGOs.
1% of their UK pre-tax profit.
Our progress is reflected through ethical index and corporate governance surveys We encourage our employees to volunteer and, primarily through our annual Corporate time to community activities and raise Responsibility report, available online and money for their favourite charities.
27,000 Barclays employees and pensioners received support for fundraising or The 2005 Corporate Responsibility report volunteering.
When our people raise money contains more detailed information on for charity we match the amount raised up our activities and will be available from to a set maximum.
The amount raised in 27th April 2005.
2005, including the Barclays matched element, came to 13.8m.
Barclays PLC 16 Annual Report 2005 Section 2 Responsibilities section page 2.1 Directors and Officers of Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC 18 2.2 Directors report 21 2.3 Corporate governance report 24 2.4 Barclays report on remuneration 31 2.5 Accountability and audit 45 2.6 Presentation of information 46 2.7 Risk management Riskfactors 47 Risk management and control overview 50 Credit risk management 57 Loansandadvances 60 Othercreditrisks 62 Loanimpairment: 63 Allowances for impairment 64 Market risk management 67  72  74 Disclosures about certain trading activities including non-exchange traded contracts 75 Derivatives 77  78 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2005 17
