20 BRADFORD & BINGLEY ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 WWW.
CO. UK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Corporate Social Responsibility Report Bradford & Bingley sets goals and targets for its CSR programme and we report on our progress in 2005 and the targets set for 2006.
2005 Goals 2006 Goals To improve disclosure of the CSR programme by increasing the To develop and set targets for the key performance indicators information available to the public Achieved of our CSR programme To continue to support Shelters freephone housing advice line, To support the social and economic regeneration of West Yorkshire increasing the number of calls to the helpline Achieved To launch further product initiatives with a CSR element To increase the number of departments who are Carbon To continue to increase staff involvement in our CSR programme Neutral Achieved To continue to support Shelters freephone housing advice line, To continue to increase the percentage of staff giving to charity via increasing the number of calls to the helpline payroll giving Achieved To increase the programme of support to branches for local community involvement Partly achieved Bradford & Bingley believes in placing Bradford & Bingley continues to be a member Mark Stevens, Managing Director Group Corporate Social Responsibility CSR at the of the FTSE4Good Index of socially Strategy, continues as the executive responsible heart of our business activities.
We aim to responsible companies and in 2005 we were for the Groups CSR programme.
conduct our business in a socially responsible pleased to be recognised as one of the top manner in respect of the environment, staff, 100 Companies That Count by the Sunday Doing the right thing in the marketplace customers, shareholders and local communities.
Times where we were ranked 57th in the UK Following our strategic refocus in 2004 we now in the Business in the Community Corporate have two well established arms to our business: We continue to structure our CSR reporting Responsibility Index.
along the FORGE framework for CSR Lending: providing a range of residential Management and Reporting for the Financial Bradford & Bingley was awarded two Big mortgages, secured commercial property Services Sector.
We report against the four Ticks in Business in the Communitys Awards loans and loans to housing associations major themes identied by FORGE as being for Excellence: one for our work with Retail: selling Bradford & Bingleys own those most relevant to financial services Shelter, and a collaborative action award for savings products and a choice of other organisations Marketplace, Workplace, our support of West Midlands Business Action financial products through our branches and Community and Environment.
Group is a consortium of financial institutions and involves the British Bankers Association Our CSR report has for the first time been Both of these arms have their own approach and the Association of British Insurers.
independently veried this year by Bureau to CSR but signicantly, both have been able Veritas, who carried out our environmental to demonstrate their CSR credentials through Bradford & Bingley is a national member of audit in 2004. their product and services range this year.
Business in the Community and the London Benchmarking Group.
CO. UK ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 BRADFORD & BINGLEY 21 POSITION IN THE BUSINESS IN THE COMMUNITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY INDEX 57th Bradford & Bingleys lending business develops borrowers cannot lose their home whatever pin badge campaign at Bradford & Bingley.
and manufactures a range of lending products happens to the stock market or interest rates.
The Foundation is a national charity raising funds primarily secured on residential property.
As a More details about SHIP are available on its to improve the quality of life for children in company, we have made a policy decision not website, www.
ship-ltd. org hospitals and hospices throughout the UK.
The Foundation funds an innovative range of projects to participate in the unsecured consumer Bradford & Bingley also continues to be active to ensure children in hospitals and hospices have lending markets as we believe our underwriting expertise is in secured lending.
in lending to Housing Associations throughout a better, brighter future.
Housing Associations are non-profit Foundation has funded projects in 23 hospitals Bradford & Bingleys residential lending activity organisations that provide affordable rented and hospices.
focuses on a range of niche areas providing homes for people unable to satisfy their mortgages for individuals who need a more housing needs in the open market.
Doing the right thing in the workplace specialist product than those available in the Our employment practices continue to reect mainstream market.
These products are sold We have provided loans to over 120 housing the human rights standards enshrined in the under the Mortgage Express brand.
associations and now finance over 100,000 United Nations Universal Declaration of social rented homes throughout the UK.
Human Rights and the International Labour Bradford & Bingley has the largest buy-to-let Bradford & Bingleys commitment to the Organisation Conventions, and cover such customer base in the UK, and in November housing association sector at 2.3 billion, items as minimum working age, working completed its 6,000th lifetime mortgage.
equates to over 7% of the Groups total hours, health and safety and discrimination.
Over 30% of lifetime mortgages sold mortgage commitments.
through mortgage intermediaries such as Our workforce should reect the communities Independent Financial Advisers are Mortgage The Savings business develops and sells in which we live and work, and our Express products.
Bradford & Bingleys competitive range of employment practices help us to deliver on deposit based investment products through our this goal.
Bradford & Bingley is a member of These products are ones that address some of branch network, online and via post telephone.
Employers Forum on Disability, Employers the growing concerns within the housing In August, we launched two new savings Forum on Age, Race for Opportunity and market in the UK.
The growth of buy-to-let accounts for children, FirstSave and SmartSave.
These organisations look at has increased the availability of rental housing ways to promote awareness of disability, age, stock in the UK, making it easier for people to FirstSave, an instant access account for race and gender within the workplace.
Lifetime mortgages children up to the age of 12, is an ideal Women now occupy 45% of management roles enable homeowners over the age of 60 to account to begin building up savings for the 2004: 44% and 24% of senior management release some of the equity they have built up future.
SmartSave is also an instant access roles 2004: 23% within the Group.
Women in their properties to enhance their lifestyle account and is available for young adults up to represent 10% of the Board 2004: 22%.
Ethnic minorities occupy 5% of management Bradford & Bingley continues to be a member FirstSave and SmartSave were launched in roles 2004: 7% and 6% of senior management of Safe Home Income Plans SHIP.
SHIP is association with Aardman Animations and roles.
We have seen a slight drop in the number the UKs leading professional body for equity Wallace & Gromits Childrens Foundation.
For of ethnic minorities employed in the workforce release providers, launched in 1991 and every new account opened, Bradford & 2005: 10%, 2004: 11% but Bradford & Bingley dedicated entirely to the protection of Bingley made a 1 donation to the Foundation continues to support and work with Quest for borrowers and promotion of safe home and in 2005 over 11,000 was donated.
In Economic Development, an organisation income and equity release plans.
We observe addition, the branch network sold a range of supporting the South Asian community within the SHIP Code of Practice which has been pin badges provided by Wallace & Gromits the UK, to ensure we have robust and fair welcomed by Age Concern.
As a member of Childrens Foundation which raised a further employment policies for all staff.
SHIP, Bradford & Bingley guarantees that 27,700 the highest amount ever raised by a 22 BRADFORD & BINGLEY ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 WWW.
CO. UK CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Bradford & Bingley is also committed to ensuring Doing the right thing in the community accessibility across our product range and we In 2005, there was an increase in Bradford & continue to provide customers with literature in Bingleys community programme 2005: different formats, such as Braille, audio and large 1,320,612: 2004: 1,295,639, continuing for a print.
Our corporate and customer facing sixth consecutive year the investment of over websites were also relaunched in 2005, having 1 million in the communities in which we live undergone accessibility audits by the Royal and work.
Preventing and alleviating the causes National Institute for the Blind to ensure the of homelessness continues to be our main websites are as user friendly as possible.
However, in 2005, we gave a larger focus to our support of Bradford & Bingley has carried out a thorough charities and organisations throughout West review of all Health & Safety, Business Yorkshire, specically in Bradford and the Aire Continuity and Security policies in 2005.
Valley where our Head Ofce is based.
The Groups Health & Safety Policy Statement Preventing and alleviating the causes was updated and a full copy was issued to of homelessness every branch and department.
This Policy Bradford & Bingley continues to support Shelter, Statement is reviewed by the Board of the UK campaigning charity for homeless and Directors every twelve months.
Our support helps Shelters freephone housing advice line, the To help meet the objectives set out in the policy gateway to the majority of Shelters services.
statement, Bradford & Bingley has established a clear and simple structure for managing health Bradford & Bingley is a national member of and safety which identies the roles and Business Action on Homelessness BAOH.
responsibilities everyone has in ensuring a safe BAOH is a unique partnership between place of work.
This was communicated to all leading businesses, homelessness agencies and staff through an online training session.
the Government which aims to break the vicious cycle of no job, no home, through Robert Dickie, Group Operations Director, helping homeless people to nd employment We recognise that the well being of our is the nominated member of the Board of and achieve independent living.
Steven employees is vital to our business.
We have Directors responsible for Health & Safety and Crawshaw, Bradford & Bingleys Group Chief comprehensive policies agreed with the chairs the Group Health & Safety Committee.
Executive sits on the BAOH executive forum.
recognised staff union UBAC on Flexible Bradford & Bingley consults with its staff, Working and Fair Treatment at Work.
We management and UBAC on health and During 2005, we continued to strengthen our continue to offer a condential counselling safety matters through the Group Health & Safety links with many community groups across service, provided free of charge to employees Committee.
As part of our ongoing development West Yorkshire.
Our Community Action Team and their families, to enable discussion of any in this area, all line managers undertook a half day issue affecting their lives at work or at home.
training course on Health & Safety in 2005.
We continue to encourage employees to Bradford & Bingley was awarded the two ticks benefit from the Groups success through symbol by the Employment Service in June 1995. share schemes.
Currently, 39% of employees This publicises our commitment to people with hold at least one Sharesave account 2004: disabilities.
Using the two ticks symbol means 52%, enabling them to save to buy we are working towards the guidelines in the Bradford & Bingley shares.
Employment Service Code of Good Practice on the Employment of Disabled People.
We have We carried out our staff opinion survey in induction loops in all branches, and have September, giving all staff an opportunity to wheelchair access and power assisted doors feed back in confidence their views and across the branch network.
Bradford & Bingley opinions of Bradford & Bingley.
A series of also provides sign language and manual roadshows were then carried out where the interpreting services in conjunction with the senior executive team fed back the results and Royal National Institute for the Deaf RNID invited further discussion.
and offer RNIDs Typetalk service.
We have undertaken further Typetalk training and will continue to do so throughout 2006.
CO. UK ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 BRADFORD & BINGLEY 23 BRADFORD & BINGLEYS COMMUNITY PROGRAMME IN 2005 1,320,612 has continued to encourage and co-ordinate The main waste streams produced by Bradford employee involvement across West Yorkshire.
& Bingley consist of general ofce waste, Bradford & Bingley continues to see condential paper waste and IT equipment.
Carbon Neutral as a positive way to The Community Action team has used central In 2005, we have reported on a weekly basis offset the Carbon emissions from budgets to specically support local communities the amount of waste generated and the and consists of staff from across all functions of percentage recycled.
In 2006, we have set a our business.
Both the CSR Report the business and a representative from the target for 65% of our waste to be recycled.
and the Annual Report & Accounts Community Affairs team.
They meet on a There are procedures in place to recycle are Carbon Neutral to minimise monthly basis to consider requests from local paper, plastic cups, toners, metals, IT their environmental impacts.
In 2005, charities and community groups and make small components and mobile telephones at central grants of about 300 on average.
During 2005, locations, whilst our branches recycle toners, we made the Insurance Marketing, 39 charities received funding in the Bingley area.
IT components and mobile telephones.
Internal Communications and Group Strategy departments Carbon Bradford & Bingley continues to support Mowlem Technical Services are in the second employee involvement, in particular through year of a three year facilities management Neutral.
In a sign of his supporting their fundraising activities.
All contract for Bradford & Bingley.
Energy commitment to leadership in this employees are able to apply for funds to management forms part of the service, which area, Steven Crawshaw, Group match their own fundraising efforts for charity is being delivered nationally via a team of Chief Executive also made his ofce in a scheme which matches the first 250 of mobile engineers checking on site controls and funds raised per employee.
During the year, a central management provision monitoring Carbon Neutral.
Although this are being put in place in central facilities to We continue to use the Carbon is a decrease from 2004, it should be help reduce water consumption.
Neutral Company formerly known remembered that staff numbers were lower in 2005 compared to most of 2004.
Printing managers Williams Lea purchase print as Future Forests as our partner services on behalf of Bradford & Bingley.
All for the programme of tree planting Bradford & Bingley also matches employee products purchased are derived from to offset the carbon emissions.
donations through the payroll-giving sustainable managed forestry plantation crop.
programme, Give As You Earn.
We continued to promote the scheme to new and existing Bradford & Bingley continues to use the Financial employees via online and internal promotions Services Purchasing Forum collaborative and have seen an increase both in take up and environmental best practice principles.
This amount donated and we now have 7.6% document, developed by the financial industry, 2004: 8.8% of our workforce donating via outlines six principles and Bradford & Bingleys Give As You Earn.
We have set ourselves a progress against these principles is explored in target to increase this to 10% in 2006. detail in our CSR Report.
Bradford & Bingley matched 74,628 of To demonstrate our commitment to disclosure employee donations 2004: 65,900. of our CSR programme, we have also Doing the right thing in the environment published our condential feedback from the In 2005, Bradford & Bingley has built on the Corporate Responsibility Index on our work carried out in our environmental audit of www.
2004 to deliver increased environmental performance and disclosure.
Bradford & Bingley produces a separate CSR Report which is available on our website, In preparation for the EU Accounts www.
co. uk or on request to csr@bbg.
Modernisation Directive, we have worked with Alternatively, please write to CSR Department, Trucost, an independent environmental research Bradford & Bingley, 134b New Street, organisation to identify the Environmental Key Birmingham B2 4NP to request a printed copy.
Performance Indicators relevant to Bradford & Bingley.
To do this, we have worked from the This is a summary of the full CSR Report.
For consultation document Environmental Key more details, please refer to the full report Performance Indicators Reporting Guidelines which includes a much larger range of key for UK Business published by the Department of performance indicators than is possible to Environment, Food & Rural Affairs in 2005. include in this summary.
24 BRADFORD & BINGLEY ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 WWW.
CO. UK CONTENTS 25 Directors report 39 Statements of Recognised Income 26 Corporate governance and Expense 29 Directors remuneration report 39 Cash Flow Statements 35 Statement of Directors responsibilities 41 Notes to the Financial Statements 36 Independent auditors report 88 Appendix: Transition to IFRS 37 Consolidated Income Statement 99 Shareholder information 38 Balance Sheets
