12 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Cattles approach to Corporate Social Responsibility Cattles is committed to the principles of such as the new EU Accounts free to all UK secondary schools in Corporate Social Responsibility CSR.
Modernisation Directive and Association collaboration with Local Education Our customers want to be treated well of British Insurers ABI guidelines.
Authorities and Education Business Partnerships.
and offered good quality financial products and services that are easy to Responsible Lending and Borrowing Our People understand.
Our regulators want to be We are committed to responsible business practices and particularly to The dedication, skills and professionalism confident that we operate in a way that is of our 4,389 colleagues of whom half are fair and honest.
Our colleagues want to responsible lending and borrowing, and female is a considerable factor in the be motivated, rewarded fairly and treated have developed bespoke customer success of our business.
The screening and lending criteria with respect.
And our shareholders want consideration of our employees welfare, to be assured that we have considered accordingly.
We actively contribute to the their working conditions, their training the risks and opportunities that affect our debate on responsible lending through and development and ensuring equal business, including social, ethical and the work of our trade associations FLA, access to opportunities is therefore environmental issues.
CCA and CCTA and by engaging fundamental.
We have a number of group directly with government departments These issues have the potential to affect policies that help us to do this, including and other relevant bodies on this issue.
our business performance and extend those relating to health and safety, equal into almost every aspect of what we do.
However, we recognise that occasionally opportunities and diversity, flexible Indeed, recognising and managing CSR a number of our customers will working, whistle blowing, as well as issues makes sound business sense.
experience problems in keeping up grievance and disciplinary issues.
regular payments throughout the term of We actively encourage all our colleagues CSR Management their loan and we aim to respond quickly to maximise their talents to drive their This year we formed the Cattles CSR and sympathetically to any difficulties own career and the business forward.
Steering Group, led by our Company that arise by referral to the Local This year over 3,000 colleagues Secretary and comprising our CSR Collection Unit.
Taking this action attended training courses and 529 Manager and senior management enables us to provide personal support employees were promoted internally.
This ensures CSR is and assistance to customers where it is needed and ensure that payment considered at the very highest level in We employ a range of methods for the group, strengthening links between programmes can be revised to meet communicating with our colleagues, the risk management and governance customers changed circumstances, including Q&A sessions with senior processes and demonstrating our where appropriate.
executives and our annual employee commitment to colleagues and other feedback survey, Speak Up.
Our 2005 Cattles also believes in raising standards stakeholders.
We have also survey included 3 questions on CSR and in financial education.
We have strengthened a number of our policies 65% of colleagues thought we cared continued to support two key relating to CSR.
about the communities in which we organisations in this area over the past work, 66% agreed they were The Audit Committee, a committee of twelve months: Credit Action and encouraged to support good causes and the Board, has delegated responsibility DebtCred.
During 2005, we made 88% thought money management for monitoring and reviewing the groups financial contributions, together with education was a good idea.
management of internal control and donations of time and resources, in business risk, including non-financial excess of 160,000.
This included the We also launched Innovate, an risks that are commonly considered part production of an innovative CD-Rom, employee suggestion scheme which has of CSR.
They also take account of KS4Finance a young peoples guide to attracted more than 500 responses on guidance on CSR related disclosures personal finance that is being distributed improvements and savings that could be Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 13 made within the business.
So far these In 2005, Cattles donated 550,109 environmental performance has also suggestions have led to potential savings 0.5% of pre-tax profits to community improved.
We have reduced the amount of carbon dioxide emissions, the most of over 400,000. activities and initiatives.
This comprised the value of our financial donations and significant greenhouse gas contributing to climate change, produced by our car Working with local communities gifts in kind totalling 396,101 and other costs of community programmes, fleet by 4% and the amount of paper Cattles is committed to working with we use by 9% by encouraging our and supporting the communities that it including volunteering activity and management time, totalling 154,008. colleagues to think about how they travel serves by addressing issues of social and use paper.
We have also been able disadvantage, encouraging the Our Hands Up volunteering scheme to collect information on the waste we improvement of financial literacy and has continued to develop.
This scheme produce for the first time this year and improving the welfare of young people.
provides tools, materials and eight hours are pleased to report that 40% of this is of paid time for teams of employees to Developing strong relationships with recycled.
complete different challenges designed communities around us, locally and During 2005, we also hosted our to improve the quality of life for people nationally, increases awareness of the living in local communities.
During 2005, inaugural environmental awareness day company, makes customers feel more at our Ruddington Fields site in Cattles donated 1,717 hours of time predisposed towards Cattles and can 2004: 491 to community initiatives.
Nottingham, under the theme of Small help to attract a wider pool of high changes Big differenceTogether we quality recruits.
Moreover, our colleagues Managing our environmental impacts can make a difference.
We have also feel that they are contributing to their produced a leaflet containing energy During 2005, we have improved our communities and can learn new skills environmental management efficiency information for the home and when working together.
car which we distributed to employees arrangements, by improving data Our relationship with Business in the collection and monitoring, communicating and customers who had either taken out Community BITC and its Cares a secured loan with us or who had better with our employees and other programme has continued to develop, purchased a car from us.
stakeholders on these issues, and with Sen Mahon, Chief Executive of successfully implementing a number of Further detailed information on our Cattles, extending his role as Chair of environmental initiatives.
approach to CSR and our performance the National Cares Leadership Team.
can be found in our 2005 CSR report, Our environmental programme is A further strengthening of our available on our website at focused on four significant environmental commitment to BITC this year has arisen www.
co. uk, or by contacting impact areas, which form the basis of with the appointment of Sen to the Jayne Johnson, CSR Manager, our environmental policy: BITC Board of Directors.
Cattles plc, Kingston House, Centre 27 Energy used in our buildings: Business Park, Woodhead Road, Birstall, In 2005, we formalised the Cattles Use of materials and Batley WF17 9TD.
consumables, such as paper: This outlines the way we manage our Waste generated through our community activities through a practical activities: and set of deliverable programmes that enable us to mix business skills, time Fuel used by our transport fleet, and resources with the needs of the particularly company cars.
In each of these areas we set detailed Sen Mahon Cattles contributes to the community Chief Executive environmental objectives and targets, the with resources both human and financial.
majority of which we have met.
