Close Brothers CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Introduction In growing its business, Close Brothers recognises that it should take account of the needs of society and the environment, and maintain ethical standards.
The group categorises its activities underpinning the management of these social, environmental and ethical issues under the three headings below.
The board takes collective responsibility for Corporate Social Responsibility and the company secretary is responsible for overseeing implementation and reporting progress to the board.
To support the achievement of higher standards of social, ethical and environmental performance, the group is a signatory to the UNEP Finance Initiative Global Compact.
However, while these standards have been applied as part of the core culture of the group, it is recognised that they are not clearly articulated, and their effects are not always quantified.
As such, two themes will underpin improvement of the groups Corporate Social Responsibility strategy: Systems development Significant progress is needed in the development of systems to allow the group to determine and disclose its performance against non-financial stakeholder expectations.
The group is developing systems which will enable a robust, quantified disclosure against key social, ethical and environmental criteria in future years.
Distributing Good Practice Whilst the group demonstrates good practice in areas such as environmental management, staff wellbeing and community engagement in many of its businesses, these initiatives are not uniformly adopted across the group.
Extension of minimum requirements, sustainability management systems and good practice initiatives across the whole of the group is an objective for the next three years.
Staff Welfare In recognising that the groups success is largely dependent on recruiting, retaining, and developing the best financial services professionals, it has developed the following key principles: To maintain working conditions for employees and visitors, each business in the group has established procedures appropriate to their particular activities to monitor, maintain and improve health and safety standards.
Health and safety committees are established, with staff representatives, to provide training and improve the working environment.
To combat stress in the workplace staff need support in maintaining a positive work life balance.
Measures to deliver this include ill health protection, four times salary life insurance cover, time away from work including a minimum two week single leave period for all staff as part of holiday entitlement and health screening including on-site cholesterol and blood pressure screening.
Group businesses are encouraged to develop their own staff consultation policies.
These include regular meetings held between local management and employees to allow a free flow of information and ideas and to discuss decisions likely to affect their interests.
Staff participate directly in the success of the business through the groups savings related share option scheme.
It is the groups policy to give appropriate consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons.
For the purposes of training, career development and promotion, disabled staff, including any who become disabled in the course of their employment, are treated on equal terms with other staff.
Community Support and Charitable Donations Charitable donations made during the year amounted to 323,000 2004 46,000.
We support the community by providing two types of charitable donation.
We offer staff the opportunity to have their own charitable fundraising endeavours matched by the group.
In addition to this, where significant humanitarian or environmental incidents occur, the group contributes to recognised charities aiming to combat the worst effects: for example over 100,000 was donated to the Tsunami Earthquake Appeal.
The Environment The group has collected data on its significant environmental impacts in order to set targets which will be regularly monitored.
The group has implemented processes to manage environmental risks so as to lower its greenhouse gas emissions and reduce, reuse and recycle, wherever possible, waste materials.
Dialogue with, and support from, Business in the Environment, to whom the group subscribes, has assisted the group in improving its environmental performance, which is a key aim of the policy.
The group has become a signatory to the Carbon Disclosure Project, which encourages businesses to disclose their climate change risks, opportunities and impacts.
Our environmental policy is published on the group website.
