23 Employees At 30 September 2005 the Group had 30,572 employees 2004: 43,383 employees, 2003: 44,507 employees.
During the year the disposal of the Afrox Healthcare business resulted in the successful transfer of over 13,000 employees to the new owner.
Employees of the company and its subsidiaries were located as follows: Europe 13,408 Americas 6,216 Africa 3,541 Asia Pacific 7,407 Unplanned employee turnover remains low and as a result, excluding disposals, the employee base remains stable.
BOC invests time and energy in developing the potential of its people.
Opportunities are reviewed and discussed with identified individuals to provide cross-line of business experience or to set up a range of functional and geographical assignments.
This contributes to BOC's success in retaining and developing the core skills and capabilities it needs to meet its business, customer service and health and safety targets.
BOC regularly reviews its succession planning processes and the availability of essential capabilities.
Results show it has solid capability in most areas and adequate succession depth to meet both its technical and leadership requirements.
Employee satisfaction and commitment Employee satisfaction is measured and managed both centrally and in the business units.
Levels of employee satisfaction and commitment are generally high.
A culture of accountability, collaboration, transparency and stretch, known as ACTS, has been developed throughout BOC.
The ACTS principles provide a framework that employees can use in their dealings with each other and with customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
The Voice of BOC employee survey was conducted again in 2005.
The survey, managed by an independent research company, is an opportunity for BOCs people to rate the Groups performance on key issues affecting their employment.
68 per cent of employees responded to the survey.
This high participation rate demonstrates employees willingness to contribute to BOCs aim of being the employer of choice.
The 2005 survey built on the employee perception data collated in 2002 regarding ACTS, customer orientation, performance management and diversity.
It also incorporated new measures on safety and the Code of Conduct.
The areas where BOC employees deemed performance to be particularly high or improved since 2002 were safety, management interest in employee well being, the Code of Conduct, performance reviews, collaboration and diversity.
The areas deemed to need further improvement were customer focus, which is still a core strength but slightly down on 2002, and employee engagement, which remained at a high level but was lower than in 2002.
As with previous surveys, business units and enabling functions are developing and implementing action plans to address the results and progress will be reviewed on a regular basis.
Employment policies and Code of Conduct The BOC Group takes its responsibilities as a global organisation seriously.
It is committed to fostering a workplace that is safe and environmentally sound.
It will always act in line with all applicable laws, regulations and industry standards.
It expects people to respect confidential information and company time and assets.
It believes in open and honest communication, fair treatment and equal opportunities.
It opposes public corruption, anti-competitive behaviour and insider trading, and it supports the fundamental principles of good governance and human rights.
In 2003 BOC launched a global Code of Conduct, a set of legal and ethical standards that apply to all BOC employees and to contractors in their business dealings with BOC.
The code is available in ten languages.
An extensive programme of communications and workshops has provided training for employees on the substance of the code.
Annual sustainability plans embed the code within the businesses and keep it visible, accessible and relevant to all employees.
In 2004, a new network of code sustainability managers was formed to ensure that processes are in place to induct new employees, to provide refresher training and to consolidate country-specific policies.
The Code of Conduct telephone helpline has been extended to cover 49 countries and promotional material has been created to publicise the contact number in each country.
BOC operates a strict policy of non-retaliation to protect and encourage people wishing to share their concerns.
BOCs employee policies and procedures are aligned with the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
BOC is a signatory to the UN Global Compact, whose ten principles - six of which relate to human rights and labour standards - are integrated into BOCs Code of Conduct.
In many areas BOCs existing standards exceed those set out in the Global Compact.
In 2005, BOC reported progress to the Global Compact Office, according to official guidelines.
In addition to the Code of Conduct, BOC provides guidance and human resources policies to support BOC people in their day-to-day activities and long-term career planning.
These are aligned to the corporate values and principles.
At the heart of this approach is the recognition that the energy and application of individuals and teams throughout the organisation will determine which companies have competitive advantage in todays complex global market.
BOCs employment policies are designed to underpin the Groups operating requirements and growth strategies.
The human resources units implementing these policies are aligned to the business units in each geography and, as far as practicable, Group policies are adapted to meet local requirements.
24 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Employees Communication and involvement BOC places a high priority on two-way communications with its people.
The primary communication channels are within the business units, where local managers work with their people and two-way communication is most achievable.
The Group also uses a number of formal and informal communication channels to share information and to shape behaviour.
In addition to traditional media such as videos, magazines, newsletters and briefing packs, BOC has continued to invest in e-mail and web-based communications technologies to ensure that consistent and coherent messages are conveyed speedily to its people around the world.
The Group actively searches for ways to involve employees in shaping the future.
Teams meet to review or jointly create processes, systems or strategies.
A variety of employee structures exist for these purposes, including peer groups, special interest groups, teams of excellence and quality teams.
Multi-disciplinary and cross-geographic groups of employees regularly meet, either face-to-face, or by using tele-, videoand web-based meeting technologies which have been installed for these purposes.
Resourcing, training and development Resourcing, training and development programmes are designed to ensure that the Group has a pool of well-qualified, gifted individuals able to meet day-to-day operational needs and plans for the future.
BOC conducts a robust annual process to assess the strengths and weaknesses of its units.
It is committed to provide its people with opportunities to develop and grow, but also to bring new blood into the organisation through targeted external recruitment.
A global, web-based recruiting platform is in place to supplement other recruitment channels.
BOC continued to place great emphasis on personal and career development over the past year.
Employees are encouraged to be proactive about their future careers and development opportunities.
The aim is for all employees to have regular discussions with their managers regarding their aspirations, prospects and development needs.
These result in the formulation of an individual development plan, which is an agreed course of action to meet employees needs as well as the needs of the organisation.
BOC offers many opportunities for career and personal development.
Employee development takes the form of on-the-job coaching and training, development projects, secondments, e-learning, as well as more traditional classroom-based training.
In addition to the development that takes place to achieve current job effectiveness of all employees, high potential employees are identified and developed with future roles in mind.
The Lead programme is an ambitious executive development programme for high potential senior managers, facilitated by world class external providers as well as senior BOC executives.
It is customised for BOC and is comprehensive in its scope.
The programme offers a tailored curriculum and is designed to equip the participants with the broad range of skills and experiences they will need to be successful leaders within the Group.
To date, some 150 senior managers have participated in Lead programmes.
A parallel leadership development programme, iLead, has been developed for high potential middle managers and is run regionally around the world.
Lead and iLead augment many other management development initiatives, which are provided to all BOCs supervisors and managers.
International assignments are used to develop high potential executives and to create opportunities within local management teams.
The success of such programmes are reviewed regularly with business unit heads as part of their performance contracts.
BOC believes that how its employees work is as important as what they produce, which is why it has concentrated on the behaviours associated with accountability, collaboration, transparency and stretch the ACTS cultural principles.
Accountability comes through people knowing what they are accountable for and being empowered to deliver.
Collaboration is about drawing on the rich diversity of styles, talents and skills across the Group to maximise achievements.
BOC values transparency because it believes that visible problems can be solved and that informed people make better decisions.
Finally, stretch advocates continually pushing the boundaries of performance.
BOC has created a set of leadership competency models, which are aligned to ACTS.
All recruitment, development, recognition and enhancement processes are being aligned to this comprehensive and unified BOC view of leadership and management.
Reward and recognition An organisation that aspires to excellence must recognise and reward the achievement of excellence.
The Group continues to refine the key value drivers of its business units and to ensure it can reward and recognise outstanding individual and team performance in the fulfilment of business goals.
Programmes to achieve this are cascaded throughout the organisation to heighten focus on effective performance at all levels.
The Group continues to move towards a total reward system that allows people to structure their remuneration and benefits to suit their individual needs.
Senior executives remuneration is linked to a Group-wide variable compensation plan, which is described in the report on remuneration on page 73.
Employees 25 Retirement benefit plans BOC considers it important that its people provide for their retirement and fully supports their efforts in this regard.
Around the world, the Group provides opportunities for people to participate in retirement programmes tailored to suit local conditions.
Just as importantly, the boards pensions committee takes prudent steps to monitor and control Group-wide retirement benefit plans with local managers being responsible for safeguarding the security of each retirement plan that they sponsor.
The financial position of the Groups main pension funds is detailed in note 8 to the financial statements.
Diversity BOC believes that diversity is a key driver of future organisational and operating effectiveness.
As one of the UKs few truly global companies, BOC highly values the rich diversity of its people.
While the Group consistently champions a set of unifying values and principles, they are not imposed regardless of local sensibilities.
Rather, the Group strives to build on the qualities inherent in its global environment by encouraging people with different views, styles and approaches.
Wherever in the world it operates, BOC is committed to maintaining a workplace free from discrimination for reasons of race, creed, culture, nationality, religion, gender, sexual orientation, age or marital status.
The success of its diversity programme is monitored and reported regularly.
Disability is not considered a barrier to employment and, as far as local conditions allow, employees are selected on the basis of their ability to perform the job.
Further necessary training is arranged, taking account of their particular needs and the resources required to meet them.
Employee share schemes Many BOC employees in the UK and some other countries have built up an equity interest in the Groups business through employee share schemes.
Options may be granted at a discount to the market price at the date of grant.
The term of options granted could be from three to seven years and any option is conditional on a commitment by the individual to make regular savings from pay that are then held by an independent organisation to purchase shares at the end of the option period.
The exercise of options under these schemes can be satisfied by the issue of new shares or the transfer of existing shares.
