26 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Social, environmental and ethical performance Exercising sound corporate responsibility is fundamental to the way BOC operates.
The Group aims always to behave ethically and to manage risk strategically.
It has a process for identifying, evaluating and managing all risks in accordance with best practice.
This section outlines the Groups systems for managing its social, environmental and ethical SEE risks and opportunities - in line with guidelines set out by the Global Reporting Initiative, the Association of British Insurers, the UKs Combined Code on Corporate Governance and the provisions of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 as it applies to foreign private issuers.
More details about BOCs risks and corporate responsibility performance can be found in the sections on risk factors on pages 38 and 39 and on the companys website, boc.
The Group works actively with its stakeholders - shareholders, customers, suppliers, employees, local communities and governments.
Underlining the Groups adherence to best practice, BOC engages with a wide variety of employee, safety, environmental and community bodies.
BOC is a signatory to the UN Global Compact.
All Global Compact principles are integrated into BOCs Code of Conduct and, in many areas, BOCs existing standards exceed those set out in the Global Compact.
In 2005, BOC submitted its communication on progress to the Global Compact Office, according to official guidelines.
BOC continues to review and adapt its business practices to achieve the Groups SEE objectives and activities.
Executive responsibility BOC has an integrated approach to SEE risks, managing them in the same way as all other business considerations through business unit and Group risk management programmes.
These processes are applied to major business decisions such as acquisitions, disposals, new ventures and major supplier contracts.
BOCs business dealings are guided by a global Code of Conduct.
The code sets out the safety, environmental, social, legal and ethical parameters that Group businesses and employees are expected to follow.
The code is the responsibility of the executive management board EMB, whilst BOCs businesses are responsible for day-to-day implementation.
EMB members are responsible for each of the codes standards, supported by the appropriate business and functional structures.
The Group chief executive has ultimate responsibility for the code programme.
He delegates oversight to an EMB sponsor board and day-to-day management to a code advisory group.
The code advisory group is chaired by the general counsel, global compliance.
Safety, health and environmental management systems are the responsibility of the Group chief executive and are implemented by business managers, supported by the Group director for safety, health, environment and quality SHEQ.
Workplace issues, including labour relations, diversity, equal opportunities and human rights, are managed by the Group director, human resources HR.
Market issues, including customer relations and ethical trading practices, are managed by the line of business chief executives.
The director of supply management oversees BOCs supply chain and ethical purchasing policy and reports to the Group chief executive.
The Group director, corporate relations, manages community relations, including sponsorships and charitable support.
The EMB regularly reviews Group systems for managing risks and opportunities, including business assurance audits, legal, SHEQ and HR reviews, appropriate training and communications, and performance management and remuneration incentives through the Groups performance contract process.
Directors are provided with appropriate SEE training and communications.
For example, they are given regular safety briefings and Code of Conduct progress reviews.
Training on defensive driving and other SHEQ priorities is provided.
The EMB sets a strategic direction with regard to all business issues, including SEE matters.
Business units implement and develop the EMBs strategy through their own management teams.
Safety and other SEE measures, as required, are included in performance contracts.
Part of the remuneration of business unit managers and their teams is dependent on achieving these measures.
The Code of Conduct Launched two years ago, the Code of Conduct embodies BOCs commitment to integrity and responsible business practice.
This year, steps were taken to reinforce the effectiveness of the code and to build it into the way that BOC does business.
The code advisory group met twice during the year.
The role of the group is to establish globally consistent ethical and legal standards, to support the business in owning and upholding these standards and to respond to issues that may require BOC to adopt a new or revised position within the Code.
Chaired by the general counsel, global compliance, the council comprises representatives from each line of business and Gist.
A robust central tracking system was introduced to capture allegations from all the businesses and channel them to the global compliance function.
The system not only records allegations that are subsequently substantiated, but also allegations that ultimately prove unfounded but that warranted further investigation.
BOCs network of sustainability managers is responsible for championing the Code within the businesses.
Guidelines on communications and training were issued and each business unit head is required to report on progress within the quarterly performance contract review.
The Code, available in ten different languages, can be accessed via boc.
com, the intranet, CD or paper copy.
It is linked to a number of other systems, notably the Groups integrated management systems and standards IMSS.
BOC operates a confidential 24 hours a day seven days a week helpline in 49 countries, supported by helpline promotional material in the form of posters, wallet cards and a screensaver.
In 2005, the Group introduced a quarterly Code report, distributed to senior management for onward cascade to all employees, giving a round up of news, recent violations, statistics and lessons relating to the Code.
Code sustainability issues are reported to the EMB and appropriate managers on a monthly basis.
In 2005, the helpline received 155 allegation cases from around the world.
19 per cent resulted in disciplinary action and 57 per cent were found to be unsubstantiated or non-violations.
The remaining cases are still being investigated.
Social, environmental and ethical performance 27 BOCs global management system IMSS IMSS integrated management systems and standards is a system developed by BOC.
It has three distinct parts: the IMSS Library, Traccess and Audit Manager.
The IMSS Library houses electronic copies of BOCs reference material, work instructions, operating procedures and management systems and standards.
Traccess is BOCs online training and competency tracking system, storing individual learning profiles and employee training histories.
Audit Manager houses all stages of the audit cycle and verifies site performance and compliance against best practice and minimum standards defined in the IMSS Library.
IMSS documents Group knowledge from high level policies to detailed work instructions, enabling all employees to be trained and assessed in the skills required by their roles.
IMSS outlines the correct protocols and minimum standards, and tracks the performance of actions needed to ensure the safe, environmentally sound and efficient management of BOC businesses worldwide.
IMSS and the Code of Conduct are mutually supportive.
Stakeholders BOCs Code of Conduct is segmented into key stakeholder groups, each of which is addressed by specific code standards and management structures and procedures.
Details are posted under the corporate responsibility section of boc.
For example, BOC works with its suppliers through a supplier evaluation, selection and performance appraisal SESPA system, which assures minimum standards of supplier performance, quality assurance and legal, ethical, social and environmental compliance.
BOCs ethical purchasing policy, an integral part of SESPA, is managed by the Group supply management function, underpinned by the Code of Conduct and supported by IMSS and a number of other web-based platforms.
Suppliers are segmented according to a combination of two matrices: supplier risk profile and product risk profile.
The highest risk category requires the ethical purchasing policy to be included in the suppliers signed contract with BOC, with BOC reserving the right to terminate the contract in the event of a breach.
Any employee can raise concerns about supplier ethics via the Code of Conduct helpline and data is captured and reported as a specific category.
Identifying and prioritising SEE risks In 2004 BOC introduced a formal process to identify and manage its SEE risks and to identify potential opportunities.
EMB directors, business unit heads and other key managers around the world submitted potential SEE risks which were consolidated by the Group risk management function and rated using predetermined scoring criteria.
Each risk was rated according to its potential impact, the adequacy of plans to mitigate the risk, and its urgency.
The broad areas identified by the SEE risk and mitigation process are: managing the safety of people associated with BOC: managing major operational hazards: minimisation of greenhouse gas emissions: energy efficiency: water conservation: global adherence to and the effective working of the Code of Conduct: managing an ethical supply chain: and continuing enhancement of product stewardship procedures.
The Groups SEE review found that management systems and mitigations already exist for identified risks, but in some minor instances enhanced measures have been, or are being, put in place.
One example is a screening process to ensure that customers have the capability to handle hazardous products safely.
Piloted this year in the UK for the packaged chemicals business, the process will be rolled out to the wider Industrial and Special Products business in 2006.
Corporate social investment strategy BOC strives to be a good corporate citizen by: operating safely and minimising the environmental impact of its activities: enhancing the wellbeing of local economies through employment on the bases of diversity, equal opportunity and merit, and: fostering strong community relations.
BOC is committed to all the communities in which it operates, wherever they are in the world, and its contribution takes on a number of forms.
At the Group level BOC supports a variety of programmes broadly aligned with the nature of the business.
Key themes are the environment, education, medical research and the arts.
At the local level BOC encourages a range of volunteering, donation and sponsorship programmes, guided from the centre but ultimately decided and implemented at country, business unit and site levels.
The choice of charitable donations is devolved through matched giving schemes.
Managing corporate responsibility performance This year the Group continued to participate in the UKs Business in the Community BiTC corporate responsibility CR index.
The index assesses companies performance against a wide range of environmental, social and ethical measures.
BOC has participated in the indexs sister survey, the Business in the Environment BiE index, since 1995.
BOC scored 89 per cent in BiTCs CR index, ranking it 39th out of 144 participating companies, including 57 from the FTSE100.
The average score among participants from BOCs comparator group was 88 per cent.
Completing the index demonstrates the Groups commitment to managing, measuring and reporting its corporate responsibility performance in an open and transparent way.
BOCs completed survey and BiTCs independent assessment of the Groups performance are published on boc.
The BiTC index is the Groups common measure and standard response to corporate responsibility and SEE enquiries.
28 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Social, environmental and ethical performance Safety, health and the environment There are no greater priorities for BOC than the health and safety of our employees, contractors, suppliers, customers and local communities, and the protection of the environment.
BOC is committed to excellence in managing these areas through normal business practice assisted by its safety, health, environment and quality SHEQ function.
SHEQ policies and procedures are the responsibility of the Group chief executive and are implemented by BOCs businesses with the support of the SHEQ function.
The SHEQ department works within the businesses to ensure that the Group has a deliverable policy, is active in its risk management and professional in its mitigation.
BOC has well-established programmes to drive improvement in SHEQ performance.
Employees are required to comply with all external regulations and the Groups policies and Code of Conduct.
Suppliers are expected to meet minimum standards set by BOCs ethical purchasing policy.
SHEQ management standards, procedures and tools are embedded in Group practice by the organisations integrated management systems and standards see IMSS section above.
IMSS outlines the standards and actions needed to align with, or conform to, internationally accredited certifications such as ISO 9000 quality assurance, ISO 14001 environment and ISO 18001 health and safety.
BOC met its objectives in 2005 when the Group: Retained safety, health and environment as the top priority at EMB level: Retained SHEQ at the forefront of Group and business unit employee communications: Sustained emphasis on behavioural safety through the Safety in BOC programme: Improved safety and environmental performance against 2004 figures: Transitioned to using proactive measures leading indicators, in addition to the traditionally reported lagging indicators, to measure SHEQ performance: Took positive measures to improve road transport safety: Continued to conduct its annual environment survey to highlight opportunities for continuous improvement: Set initial environmental targets for 2006 and beyond.
Along with the Code of Conduct and the Groups ACTS operating principles, the Safety in BOC programme ensures that SHEQ issues are managed consistently across all countries and businesses, in accordance with our SHEQ policies and principles.
Overall safety performance Safety 2004 2005 Safety is BOCs highest priority and the Group has one simple goal: zero incidents and injuries.
Safety is the first Lost workday case rate 0.41 0.37 agenda item at every EMB and business executive meeting.
Great emphasis is put on providing all our employees Total recordable case rate 1.18 1.09 with the necessary training, equipment and safeguards such that no-one gets hurt.
Business managers around the Passenger car avoidable world, with SHEQ support, continually strive to improve safety performance and, through our Safety in BOC accident rate 2.12 1.81 Truck avoidable accident rate 2.38 2.20 programme, are now focusing on individuals behaviour and the effect that safe and unsafe behaviour has on the organisation.
Each business unit has a SHEQ function, reporting to the business units executive and the Group SHEQ function through a global peer group.
This ensures that global best practice and the functional requirements of the business and Group are always at the forefront of management thinking.
BOC manufactures and distributes products that are potentially hazardous, some being stored at very low temperature or under pressure, and some having toxic or flammable properties.
Consequently, the Group is committed to reducing the risk of harm to people through its products.
Operating safely and communicating safe working practices are an integral part of its safety and product stewardship processes.
It is important for the Group not only to have clear and measurable performance standards practised by all BOC employees, plants, depots and distributors, but also to disseminate these safe working practices to our customers and suppliers.
IMSS contains product safety and stewardship instructions, policies and procedures.
Each product line has specific standards attached to it.
BOC undertakes research into the health and safety of its products, keeps abreast of new scientific information and works with industry and public bodies to reduce risk and share learning.
This year BOC launched an online safety advice service, bocsafety.
net, to help customers identify risks and unsafe practices and adopt guidance on best practice to comply with the law.
BOC continuously strives to improve safety in the workplace and combat the root causes of safety incidents.
In 2005 BOC Edwards, which manufactures hazardous gases for use in processing semiconductors, was recognised for its safety performance.
In South Africa, BOC Edwards received two NOSA safety awards for occupational risk management procedures at the nitrogen trifluoride plant in Pelindaba.
In the US, BOC Edwards special gases plant at Medford, Oregon, was awarded the OSHA Voluntary Protection ProgramsStar Program status for selfsufficiency in their ability to control workplace hazards.
EMC, BOCs US-based water management business, won several Water Environment Association awards.
EMCs water treatment plant at Ligonier, Indiana, won the prestigious Water Environment Federations Burke Award.
Regrettably, three Group employees died in work related activities in 2005.
Two employees tragically died in road incidents, one in the UK and one in the US, both of which involved third parties.
These incidents reinforce our commitment to remain focused on transport safety during 2006.
Another employee was killed in Taiwan, by falling from a height at a customer location.
In addition, BOC experienced six contractor fatalities during the period.
The Group chief executive, SHEQ director and business unit managers review every fatality and major incident personally.
Investigations are only closed when the chief executive is fully satisfied that the root causes of the incident are understood and action has been taken to prevent future recurrences.
Social, environmental and ethical performance 29 Lost workday case rate Controlling process-related risks is of the utmost importance.
Any incidents that do occur are thoroughly investigated and the lessons learned are applied throughout the organisation to minimise the likelihood of 0.6 recurrence.
Safety lessons are shared throughout the gases industry and BOC continues to participate fully in the development and application of industry-wide codes.
This year the Group built on the vision, policy and strategy put in place last year when it launched its Safety in 0.4 BOC programme.
Safety in BOC, which complements and builds upon existing safety systems, standards and tools, aims to prevent people getting hurt by effecting lasting behavioural and cultural change.
It is underpinned by the 0.2 principle that safety is not a small part of someones job, it is 100 per cent of our behaviour, 100 per cent of the time.
The aim is to establish a culture whereby each employee thinks instinctively not just about his own safety, 1 1 1 0 01 02 03 04 05 but also about the safety of others, be they colleagues, contractors or members of the community.
The roadmap is the key tool that supports Safety in BOC.
It shows the organisation where it is and how it can move from its current base to world class through a series of well-defined steps and markers.
It is a gap analysis Total recordable case rate tool that enables a particular department, site or business to assess itself in terms of safety performance, plot year by year progress on each of the nineteen roadmap components and develop a plan to progress to world class.
1.2 During 2005, the roadmap has been formally integrated into safety implementation plans within each of the businesses, which are in turn included in business planning processes and individual performance contracts.
The focus on leading indicators continued in 2005, allowing the Group to monitor safety performance in 0.8 terms of proactive measures being taken as well as lagging indicators measuring past performance.
In conjunction with the roadmap, a series of practical steps were taken during 2005 to help embed safe behaviour and the desired 0.4 safety culture.
BOCs business units in Asia and Africa rolled out SiteSafe, a focused approach for implementing the systems, standards and behaviours inherent in Safety in BOC.
SiteSafe included various modules such as LeadSafe 1 1 1 0 01 02 03 04 05 workshops to promote visible leadership among management and ActSafe, a series of safety through empowerment seminars encouraging supervisors and front line employees to recognise unsafe acts and challenge them through peer-to-peer conversations.
During 2006 other business units will use SiteSafe to cascade and Passenger car avoidable accidents further embed the Safety in BOC principles into the organisation.
At a local level, every BOC business unit per million miles throughout the world actively engaged employees through sustained communications, cascade briefings and training programmes.
3 Approximately half the major incidents across the Group result from road transport, which is also the main cause of fatalities.
Driver training has always been a high priority at BOC, both for commercial vehicles and 2 passenger cars.
Initiatives include defensive driver training, driver observation and feedback, vehicle design, use of on-board monitoring technology and anti-rollover and jack-knife training.
Last year, the Group appointed a director of Group transport safety to collaborate with regional counterparts and develop a consistent global strategy for 1 improving road safety throughout BOC.
In 2005, this appointment has started to deliver new processes and tools to share best operating practice 1 1 1 0 01 02 03 04 05 and achieve sustainable improvements in road transport safety.
For example, a new transport audit protocol was piloted in Asia and a new driver-training model will be ready for implementation in the first quarter of 2006.
A common vehicle incident reporting process was established to aid learning, while a global transport team Truck avoidable accidents of experts met twice in 2005 to prioritise initiatives to prevent fatalities or serious injuries.
per million miles Building on the Groups total ban on making and receiving calls from mobile phones while driving, a major campaign was launched to promote transport safety and reinforce the wearing of seatbelts.
This campaign was 3 supported by a global transport directive to apply a minimum set of safety standards to all fleet and contractor vehicles throughout the Group, including a requirement to fit three-point seat belts rather than lap belts where the 2 latter existed.
At Gist, safety rails were introduced for the protection of drivers when coupling tractors to trailers and stability systems were installed on all high-sided double-decker trailers to reduce the risk of rollover.
In addition to the leading indicators previously mentioned, used to monitor safety performance proactively, 1 the Group also has four reactive, or lagging, indicators to provide a consistent measure of its workplace and vehicle safety performance.
This includes all accidents resulting in the loss of one complete day of work, according to best international practice.
Many companies only report cases resulting in three or more lost workdays as deemed reportable under RIDDOR regulations: Lost workday case rate LWCR and total recordable case rate TRCR per 200,000 hours.
This includes all LWCRs and medical treatment cases: total recordable case rate TRCR, passenger car avoidable accident rate PCAAR per million miles: excluding Afrox Healthcare truck avoidable accident rate TAAR per million miles.
1.2 The figures for 2005, which include joint ventures and acquisitions, showed an improvement across all four lagging 1.0 indicators.
The disposal of Afrox Healthcare in 2005 marked a major change in BOCs portfolio, as the business 0.8 employed over 13,000 people representing around 30 per cent of the total workforce.
BOCs lagging indicators 0.6 are shown with and without Afrox Healthcare, giving a basis for future comparison.
The chart excluding Afrox 0.4 TRCR Healthcare gives a clearer indication of underlying improvement, with a 20 per cent improvement in both lost 0.2 workday and total recordable case rates since the launch of the Safety in BOC programme two years ago.
2003, 2004 and 2005 safety statistics include mergers, acquisitions and all joint ventures.
Previous years have not been restated.
30 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Social, environmental and ethical performance Occupational health and hygiene BOC requires its businesses to manage employee health activities in accordance with local laws and regulations and according to BOCs codes of practice, standards and procedures.
The Groups occupational health and hygiene OH function provides a global service striving to eradicate work-related health hazards and to ensure that employees can come to work and carry out their duties safely.
Employees have access to guidance on OH from health professionals and qualified safety, health, environment and quality SHEQ managers.
This is supported by a range of up-to-date training programmes, manuals, videos and safety data sheets, which are available through local and global SHEQ functions and on dedicated SHEQ intranet sites.
The OH function carries out reviews in all business units to provide information and guidance on the main health issues that exist in BOC operations globally and how best these potential hazards may be minimised or eliminated.
This is achieved by providing best practice standards and guidance to local SHEQ personnel who then implement these standards and policies as necessary.
Adverse employee health effects are monitored through local occupational health checks around the world.
Some are internal and others are outsourced to professional OH providers.
In some regions, Well-person health checks are available for employees and specific tests are done for employees engaged in hazardous activities.
These vary according to risk and requirements.
The main potential health issues that exist in BOC operations differ across business units.
When dealing with our gases businesses, the main potential health issues are: exposure to noise from gas compression activities and from cylinder handling: potential exposure to some gases filled into cylinders: potential exposure to chemicals used in metal cleaning and painting operations: ergonomic and manual handling risks.
As reported last year, the OH programmes developed to deal with these issues continue to be applied across the Group.
Other continued work has been the ongoing programme to reduce some of the hazardous solvents used for metal cleaning and possible substitution of those used in paints with safer and more environmentally friendly alternatives.
Of particular significance this year is the high percentage of lost workday and medical treatment cases as a direct result of manual handling, culminating in short-term acute injury and chronic conditions such as back, hand, arm or shoulder conditions.
In the Industrial and Special Products business, attention to these activities is a high priority with major effort being applied to risk assessment processes and the implementation of best practice solutions to minimise identified risks.
The principle of best practice has also been applied to new plants, such as the new cylinder filling facility in Bangalore, India, which was designed to minimise manual handling of cylinders as much as possible and hence reduce the potential risk of injury among employees.
Work has also been done to gather and analyse information relating to employee health issues, with a view to counteracting the costs of ill health and enabling actions to be established in the priority areas.
There is also recognition that even if ill health is not related to the job, there can still be a benefit to the employee and the business in facilitating early recovery and return to work.
In the south Pacific region, a scheme has been devised to speed up the diagnosis and treatment of employees suffering from injury or ill health, therefore bringing rehabilitation forward.
This process, coupled with pro-active preventative programmes, has the added benefit of reducing employee liability insurance costs, in real terms, such that they are significantly less than industry benchmarks.
The principles of this injury management scheme are being examined with a view to globalisation.
The environment BOC is classified as part of the chemicals sector, but does not have the same direct or significant environmental issues to deal with as traditional chemicals manufacturers.
The nature of BOCs activities and the type of chemicals handled are quite different.
However, in line with other industries, BOC is committed to sound environmental practices including the conscientious stewardship of its products and services.
Across the businesses, BOCs most significant environmental impacts fall into four main areas.
These are: Energy consumption: Process Gas Solutions is a major consumer of electricity, used to power air separation units.
The generation of electricity directly contributes to carbon dioxide emissions.
Vehicle transport: BOCs gases businesses operate large fleets of vehicles worldwide for delivering gas to customer sites, contributing principally to carbon dioxide emissions.
Gist operates a logistics network in Europe.
Ozone depleting potential ODP substance release: cryogenic air separation techniques require air to be cooled to achieve liquefaction.
This requires refrigeration, which has traditionally used refrigerant gases that have ozone depleting potential.
Non-hazardous and hazardous waste: this covers a range of categories and varies across business units.
For example, one of the main forms of waste from Process Gas Solutions is oil used in compressors.
In Industrial and Special Products, waste comprises packaging materials, metals, acids and alkalines used for abatement purposes in the production of special gases, solvents from painting cylinders and waste related to transport such as oil and batteries from vehicles.
BOC Edwards hazardous waste includes chemicals used in component cleaning and toxic residue from vacuum components replaced during servicing.
In Gist, the main waste is packaging materials such as paper, card and plastics.
Social, environmental and ethical performance 31 Non-compliances The Group continues to work actively with its stakeholders to ensure that environmental issues are approached violation of laws, complaints and spillages responsibly.
BOC is a signatory to the UN Global Compact and abides by its environment principles.
sites reporting incidents Australia BOC supports the chemical industrys Responsible Care programme.
BOC participates in Business in the 100 Communitys Environment Index and this year scored 88.86 per cent, ranking it 48th out of 168 participating companies and number one in the chemicals sector.
75 BOC aims to comply fully with all material environmental laws and regulations.
No prosecutions for breaches of environmental regulations were incurred in 2005.
50 Management of environmental issues that are relevant to the Groups businesses is overseen by the safety, health, environment and quality SHEQ department and implemented through a worldwide environmental 25 management system.
This includes operating instructions, training, performance tracking and auditing.
The sharing of best practice is achieved through the Groups integrated management systems and standards IMSS.
0 01 02 03 04 05 BOC has operated a comprehensive environmental survey of its sites for more than ten years.
The annual web-based survey, which covers approximately 550 sites around the world, highlights issues relevant to the Hazardous waste businesses and identifies opportunities for the development and sharing of best environmental practice.
The results variability in national legal classification are reviewed by the executive management board, business unit management teams and the Group SHEQ Tonnes x 1,000 director.
Annual environment action plans are integrated into business unit management processes and included in 12 business and individual performance contracts.
Many BOC business units have programmes to achieve ISO 14001 environmental certification.
Our welding 9 product consumables business in Germiston, South Africa, and our special gases site at Morden, UK, both achieved ISO 14001 certification this year.
Thirty key industrial sites around the world are now accredited.
However, all BOC 6 sites operate in accordance with ISO standards even if not specifically accredited, because IMSS, containing the Groups global operating systems and standards, is aligned to ISO 14001.
3 Selecting the right supplier for BOC is fundamental to conducting business effectively and ethically.
Throughout its businesses, BOC has adopted its proprietary supplier evaluation, selection and performance appraisal SESPA 0 01 02 03 04 05 process, together with an ethical purchasing policy stating that suppliers must place a high regard on safety and adhere to local legislation concerning pollution.
Ozone depleting potential This year BOC appointed a manager to identify, develop, share and support the implementation of substance release environmental best practice.
The benefits will include improvements in cost-efficiency and productivity, as well as a solvents and refrigerants reduction in emissions, waste and water consumption.
Tonnes ODP released It is now widely recognised that carbon dioxide CO2, released into the atmosphere by burning fossil fuels for 10 heat and power, is the main greenhouse gas that has an impact on climate change.
BOCs climate impact comes from intensive use in air separation units ASUs of electric power, which is still generated largely from coal-based 8 technologies.
Improving energy efficiency is a high priority at BOC.
Reductions in energy consumption benefit 6 everyone in terms of lower CO2 emissions, lower production and purchase costs and lower product prices.
BOC manages the purchase and use of power extremely carefully.
Its ASUs are run at optimal efficiency levels 4 required to meet regulatory and competitive requirements.
Long-established efficiency programmes anticipate 2 power price movements wherever possible.
To assure the highest levels of efficiency, state-of-the-art operating centres in each global region control BOCs production plants.
Over the last four years, for example, Process Gas 0 01 02 03 04 05 Solutions has undertaken more than one thousand plant and distribution efficiency projects, delivering significant annual savings.
Managing climate change issues effectively and responsibly is a matter of business and environmental necessity for the Group.
Carbon dioxide equivalent emissions from BOC production plants this year are estimated to be 7.9 million tonnes 2004: 7.5 million tonnes : 7.4 million tonnes relate to emissions from using electricity and 480,000 tonnes as a by-product of producing hydrogen by steam methane reforming.
The hydrogen-related emissions are reported for the first time this year.
BOCs electricity consumption for its production plants was approximately 11.9 Terawatt hours 2004: 11.8 Terawatt hours.
The two gases businesses, Process Gas Solutions and Industrial and Special Products, account for 99 per cent of these emissions and in 2005 they produced 2,442 tonnes 2004: 2,521 1 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalents from electricity usage for each 1 million of turnover.
2 BOCs methodology for emission estimation and addressing emission factors has been independently assessed and confirmed to be appropriate.
The Group uses energy data to help improve its energy efficiency with resultant improvements in carbon dioxide emissions.
During 2005 BOC undertook a number of pilot projects, with the assistance of the Carbon Trust, to improve energy efficiency at several UK sites.
For example at BOC Edwards Burgess Hill manufacturing facility a site energy assessment identified potentially 340 tonnes of CO2 equivalent savings and at ISPs Worsley site a similar survey identified 420 tonnes of CO2 savings.
These results will be used to develop best practice in energy management next year.
Adjusted for the US packaged gas business divested in 2004.
The methodology is consistent with all major mobile and point sources of carbon dioxide emissions within scope 1 of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol World Business Council for Sustainable Development and the World Resources Institute, March 2004, all major sources of carbon dioxide emissions under scope 2 of the protocol and major mobile sources of emissions under scope 3 of the protocol.
The figure does not include non-carbon dioxide global warming gases N2O, SF6, CH4, PFCs and HFCs or minor sources such as business travel, office electricity at small sites and decomposition of wastes and carbon dioxide emissions associated with heat and or steam imported to BOC plants.
32 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Social, environmental and ethical performance General waste Ozone depleting potential ODP substance release has decreased this year by 38 per cent.
In 2004, two plants were responsible for 60 per cent of total ODP substance release and in 2005 actions were taken to remedy the Tonnes situation at these plants.
For other plants annual refrigerant consumption and loss targets were set.
In Process Gas 100,000 Solutions a project was undertaken to reduce ODP substance release from the refrigeration system at a nitrogen liquefaction unit.
Cleaning technology developed by Hudson Technologies resulted in a significant reduction in ODP 80,000 substance loss and the saving of 3,000 tonnes per year CO2 equivalent.
60,000 BOCs Industrial and Special Products business supplies a range of refrigerant gases and is phasing out those with ozone depleting potential, according to the requirements of the Montreal protocol.
BOC Edwards supplies 40,000 special gases for the semiconductor manufacturing process, which can result in ozone depleting emissions at the 20,000 end of the process.
BOC Edwards has developed a wide range of abatement systems for rendering these 0 01 02 03 04 05 emissions harmless.
One example is the Zenith Etch Plasma, an integrated vacuum pump and abatement system.
The product assists in achieving the World Semiconductor Councils target for perfluorocarbon PFC emissions and is closely aligned to the energy reduction philosophy of the International Technology Roadmap for General waste disposal 2005 Semiconductors ITRS.
It delivers high performance PFC destruction with total power consumption of less than 10 kW, less than a quarter that of conventional systems performing the same function, making it the most energy Total 21,597 tonnes efficient system of its kind on the market.
1 Incinerated Hazardous waste and general waste performance improved in 2005 as a result of site based programmes 4 2 2 Landfilled focused on waste minimisation.
3 Recycled The transport of product by road also has a potentially significant environmental impact.
BOC operates its 4 Other 1 waste disposal vehicle fleet to the highest environmental standards.
Emissions of carbon dioxide equivalents from our transport contractor, disposal 3 operations are approximately 552,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalents.
route unspecified 3 Process Gas Solutions has put in place a global reporting card and network to focus on transport efficiency and delivery for its tanker distribution network.
The tool analyses vehicle utilisation metrics and delivery statistics.
Reports highlight trends and thus help improve transport efficiency, reduce mileage, and thereby reduce emissions.
BOC Edwards has also been working on a supply chain management project to replace air freight with sea freight General waste by type 2005 through improved planning of inventory and supply needs.
BOCs distribution services business, Gist, undertook an efficiency programme in support of key customer Total 21,597 tonnes Marks & Spencers transport strategy.
By synchronising volume more closely to store needs and implementing a 1 Plastics new planning process, efficiency was improved by 11 per cent and delivery schedules reduced by 2.8 million miles.
1 2 2 Paper and card 6 Gist and Marks & Spencer, working together, also introduced command steer trailers, drawbar Simply Foods 3 Glass 4 Metals vehicles and double decker trailers to reduce trips and therefore mileage.
Road speed was limited to 53 mph 5 General waste 3 to save fuel and automated gearboxes were fitted to the transport fleet, resulting in an estimated average saving 6 Other of 0.3 mpg per vehicle.
In addition, quiet packs were fitted to a number of fridge trailers to reduce noise emissions 4 at stores.
5 In the past three years much work has been done to improve environmental performance and to establish the business processes and metrics that will permit the publishing of pre-set performance targets.
Every BOC business has internal efficiency targets that have environmental benefits.
Some relate to structural changes in the businesses which, when in place, will improve the monitoring of performance patterns and enable the development of longer-term targets.
Process Gas Solutions, which manages the Groups air separation units and thus accounts for the majority of energy usage, will: Implement 59 power saving projects in 2006, which will reduce electricity usage by 83,000 MWh, saving the equivalent of 54,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions.
Reduce the release of ozone depleting potential materials by at least 40 per cent by 2009.
Industrial and Special Products, which has BOCs largest distribution fleet worldwide, will: Establish single customer delivery vehicle scheduling centres in the UK, South Africa and south Pacific in 2006 from a current total of 22 scheduling centres.
Centralised scheduling will lead to improvements in the efficiency of the fleet.
As part of the programme, cab computers will be installed to give real time feedback on scheduling and the automatic capture of key performance data, such as kilometres driven for each cylinder delivered and litres of fuel consumed for each 100 kilometres driven.
Review vehicle replacement policy and commit funds in 2006 to replace old vehicles across all business units.
For instance, the average vehicle age in South Africa has fallen from 9.4 years in 2003 to 6.8 years currently.
The target is an average age of 6 years.
BOC will continue setting internal targets through business unit performance contracts at site level where individual improvement opportunities have been highlighted by audits, the annual environmental survey and identification of best practice.
These targets include opportunities to reduce waste, conserve water and improve process efficiency.
Social, environmental and ethical performance 33 Product stewardship programmes minimise the environmental impact arising from the manufacture of BOCs products and their ensuing use by customers.
Growing concern about the environment and climate change has led to increased legislation, which presents BOC with potential business opportunities, such as: BOC has formed a partnership with the Morgan Motor Company to develop LIFECar, the worlds first hydrogen powered sports car.
The hydrogen fuel cell produces electric energy, powering four separate electric motors, one at each wheel.
The only waste product is water.
BOC has signed a ten-year agreement with Biofuels Corporation in the UK to supply nitrogen and compressed air used in the production of environmentally friendly biodiesel.
BOC and Dabbrook Services have combined solar power and hydrogen fuel cell technologies to develop an eco-friendly water management system for the Environment Agency in the UK.
BOC has signed several contracts in the US to supply oil refineries with hydrogen for producing cleaner fuels.
Hydrotreating meets the US Environment Agencys requirements for lower-sulphur gasoline and diesel fuels.
BOC and Cellex Power Products, Canada, are jointly developing hydrogen supply solutions to power forklift trucks used in large distribution warehouses in north America.
BOC and the Australian Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation CSIRO have developed an environmentally safe fumigant to replace methyl bromide in the treatment of soil, pests, weeds and crop diseases.
BOC is helping to cut the rate of ozone depleting emissions across the building sector with the introduction of Ecomate, an environmentally friendly foam blowing agent.
Commitment to the environment The UK-based BOC Foundation for the Environment, established with an initial injection of 1 million in 1990, continues to fund air and water quality projects.
New and ongoing projects include: a review of roadside emissions testing: development of liquid petroleum gas clean fuel cell technology: a new oxidation technique for pharmaceutical toxic waste: an evaluation of photovoltaics for solar power: research into the impact of electrical and electronic hazardous waste: and a programme to develop low cost electrolysers in support of the hydrogen economy.
This year, the Group contributed 385,000 to the Foundation and approved new awards totalling 674,000, bringing the total combined funding to date from BOC and its co-sponsoring partners to 15 million.
BOC joined forces with the North East Process Industry Cluster NEPIC to launch an environment award for schools in the north east of England.
Pupils are invited to submit practical ideas on environmental issues ranging from recycling to preservation of air and water resources.
In other parts of the world, notable contributions were made to environmental initiatives in New Zealand and Australia.
BOCs Where Theres Water community environment grants programme in New Zealand, which has awarded 45 grants throughout the country since its inception three years ago, awarded 13,000 in grants, mainly to schools undertaking water conservation projects.
In Australia, BOC donated ten hectares of land at its Wagga Wagga operations centre to Greenfleet, a non-profit organisation that reduces the environmental impact of carbon dioxide emissions by planting trees.
BOC volunteers helped local schoolchildren to plant ten thousand trees on the site.
Commitment to education BOC continues to support educational programmes in local communities through school tours, lessons in the properties of gases, health and safety briefings, careers advice, technical support and academic research.
BOCs Inspiring Gases education programme made further progress in terms of educational posters and CDs, in addition to development of the web site at boc.
The programme, designed to complement the school chemistry syllabus and to stimulate young peoples interest in science, is being run in co-operation with the Royal Society of Chemistry.
This year, BOCs UK-wide network of science ambassadors staged a spectacular new show called Its a Gas.
Staged at the Glasgow Science Centre to coincide with the 7th Institution of Chemical Engineers World Congress, the show demonstrated the properties and applications of gases with plenty of flashes, bangs and vapour clouds to appeal to young audiences.
Its run was extended to the end of the school summer holidays because of its popularity.
Other educational activities in the UK included the BOC Gases Challenge, designed to encourage secondary school students to develop chemical engineering ideas and won in its 24th year by a team of pupils from Royal Russell School in Croydon.
For the fifth year, BOC sponsored the Science, Engineering and Technology Student of the Year Awards, held at the Guildhall in London.
The winner, a chemical engineering graduate undertaking a PhD, received 500 and 500 was also donated to Loughborough University for his work on the engineering of artificial blood for transfusions.
BOC supports a range of education bodies and initiatives including:The Council for Industry and Higher Education:The Salters Festival of Chemistry:The Institute of Chemical Engineers environment award: Surrey County Councils young entrepreneur scheme: Surrey Scholars Club: the Industrial Trusts Open Industry programme: SETPOINT and Surrey SATRO.
34 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Social, environmental and ethical performance Commitment to medical research BOC made an annual grant of 10,000 to the Association of Respiratory Nurse Specialists to aid the fight against chronic respiratory diseases in the UK.
As part of its commitment to the NHS and the medical establishment as a whole, BOC leads or supports a number of research programmes, clinical trials and patient care opportunities, in addition to running clinical seminars on the use of medical gases for the relief of pain and respiratory problems.
In 2005, BOC provided 400,000 to sponsor several studies on respiratory issues, lung cancer and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD, with a major study being conducted on bronchiolitis at St Marys Hospital, Paddington.
BOC also supports several clinical bodies, jointly founding the COPD consortium with the British Thoracic Society and others, and including the long-term sponsorship of the BOC chair of anaesthesia in the UK and the Hong Kong College of Anaesthesiologists.
In addition, it supports various patient groups including the Patients Association in the UK.
Commitment to the arts The fourth BOC Emerging Artist Award, created to support promising young artists in the UK, was won by photographer Justin Coombes, a graduate of Goldsmiths College, University of London.
The 20,000 award is designed to cover a years studio rental and materials, a travel bursary and the costs of a London-based exhibition at the end of the award period.
Five other artists were awarded 1,000 each as runners-up.
Charitable donations and community involvement Operating within broad guidelines set by the Group, BOCs local businesses are responsible for choosing and funding their own causes through discretionary volunteering, donations and sponsorships.
This devolved approach has resulted in support for a rich variety of programmes that have an impact on BOCs people and the communities in which they work and live.
In 2005, BOCs global charitable donations totalled 2,032,000, including funding for the BOC Foundation for the Environment, educational programmes, medical research and the BOC Emerging Artist Award.
In the UK, BOC donated 350,000 to UK-registered charities through a matched giving scheme operated through the Charities Aid Foundation.
In addition to the numerous causes supported by matched giving, BOC also supported a number of Group causes, including the Royal British Legion, Macmillan Cancer Relief, Limbless Association, Unravel Mills, Voluntary Services Surrey Heath and Royal Surrey County Hospitals St Lukes Cancer Fund.
The Groups logistics business, Gist, donated 10,000 to schools and charities at the request of its staff after they won a competition organised by key customer Marks & Spencer.
The money was divided between Kent Air Ambulance, Davington Primary School, Pilgrims Hospice, Bysingwood Primary School and Faversham Cottage Hospital.
BOC is a member of the PerCent Club.
In December 2004, the tsunami inflicted terrible devastation on several countries in the Indian Ocean region.
BOC people and businesses in the area responded with help of all kinds food, clothing, blankets, medicines and medical oxygen as well as money.
Across the world, BOC employees donated over 200,000 to help relieve this disaster.
Their personal generosity was matched in every region by BOC double matched in most cases, bringing the total raised for the tsunami victims to 570,000.
One example of the enormous support from BOC employees around the world was BOC in Pakistan and Bangladesh, whose employees contributed one days salary to provide relief to victims.
Another example was twelve employees from BOC Edwards manufacturing site in Shoreham, who raised over 20,000 by cycling up Mount Snowdon in Wales.
Through matched giving, BOC and its employees also contributed 125,000 to the American Red Cross in support of the hurricane Katrina relief effort and to a special fund to help afflicted BOC employees.
BOC also made emergency deliveries of nitrogen to a bottling plant to speed up the distribution of drinking water to local communities around New Orleans.
In the UK, BOC Edwards sponsored Sussex Business Awards manufacturer of the year category for the second year running.
BOC Edwards sponsorship of the Seishin Judo Club in East Grinstead was matched by government body Sportsmatch and named runner-up in their annual awards ceremony.
For the second year running, two drivers from Gists Faversham site delivered a trailer of much needed furniture and aid to schools in Belarus.
In July, BOC medical gas teams across the UK ensured that victims of the terrorist attacks in London got the supplies they needed, delivering 2,500 emergency cylinders to the capital.
In the US, employees continued to assist the United Way charitable appeal through financial donations, volunteering and collections of supplies for needy children.
All financial donations were matched by the business.
BOC sponsored the building of a home for a needy family in Ohio, through the Maumee Valley Habitat for Humanity initiative.
A BOC leadership team spent a day helping to build the house in Toledo, where BOC is building a hydrogen plant to serve oil companies producing cleaner burning fuels.
Social, environmental and ethical performance 35 In Chile, BOC supported several charities, notably those caring for and educating disadvantaged children.
In Venezuela, BOC made regular donations to charities in Valencia in support of impoverished children, health and the environment.
A donation was also made to the health corporation in the state of Aragua.
BOC in Colombia supported the Noel childrens hospital and Aburra Norte young community leaders.
In the south Pacific, the business matches employee donations as a matter of course.
BOC in Australia launched the Rotary Youth Driver Awareness road safety programme, influencing attitudes and behaviour of young people before they start driving.
The business continued its long-established relationship with the Malcolm Sargent Cancer Fund, now known as Redkite.
Support includes volunteering and a scholarship programme whereby six young people with cancer receive financial support from BOC.
BOC received an award from the New South Wales Cancer Council for its long-term support of Daffodil Day.
In South Africa, employees at BOCs subsidiary Afrox continued to support their community involvement programme CIP, which helps over seventy institutions dealing with disadvantaged children.
As in previous years, the main event of the year was Bumbanani Day meaning lets build together, when 8,000 children attended events hosted by BOC staff.
The aim of the day is to celebrate the relationship that Afrox staff have built up with the children throughout the year and the achievements they have brought about through their involvement.
In addition, the Afrox donations committee supplemented CIP funds on certain projects.
For example, a delivery van was donated to Takalani, a home for disabled children, and four other CIP childrens homes received additional financial support to help with upgrading and refurbishment.
Gas and welding equipment were donated to a welding school in Richards Bay and to a skills development initiative in Johannesburg.
Funds were also allocated to: build a home for destitute children in Postmasburg, a rural town in the Northern Cape: provide a borehole and water pump at a school in Limpopo Province: purchase desks, chairs and maths sets for two other schools in the same province: and support the University of South Africas Mathematics TeachersTraining Project.
Across Asia, employees supported a wide variety of charities and community organisations.
Every BOC business unit in Asia donated generously to the tsunami appeal.
In Malaysia, employees sponsored several programmes in support of local hospitals, underprivileged and handicapped children and old peoples homes.
In China, BOC provided scholarships to students in Xian Jiaotong University, which is the leading institution for cryogenic engineering in the country.
In India, in addition to supporting a number of poverty, disease and disaster relief funds, BOC employees donated gifts to several orphanages to commemorate the 70th year of BOCs presence in India.
In Pakistan, BOC continued its support for organisations engaged in healthcare, social and literacy projects, as well as the conservation of national heritage.
During the year, recipients of donations included: the Layton Rehmatulla Benevolent Trust, an organization dedicated to providing free eye care: Friends of APWA Pakistan, a voluntary organization committed to the development and care of the underprivileged women and children: the Mohatta Palace Museum that fosters awareness and appreciation of the history and cultural heritage: and the Aga Khan Medical Hospital and Foundation.
