16 Boots Group PLC annual report and accounts 2005 corporate social responsibility Two years ago we adopted a new, more and improved public transport.
Boots is a Running business in a socially responsible systematic approach to reporting on and founder member of the Association of Town measuring the results of our many and Centre Management and today contributes way is at the very heart of Boots.
For more varied Corporate Social Responsibility CSR over 500,000 to the core funding of more than 100 years we have recognised that the activities.
These are now grouped under than 130 separate initiatives.
Additionally, four headings: Community, Environment, our store managers are heavily involved in interests of Boots and all its stakeholders Marketplace and Workplace.
This enables us and locally support such schemes in many are mutually dependent.
In 1919, Jesse to better manage, monitor and communicate practical ways.
Helping to start a lifetime of reading Boots Boot, wrote: Fellowship in recreation, Community Books for Babies is the largest early book fellowship in ideals, common sympathies Here our aim is to create a genuine sense scheme of its kind in the UK.
The partnership of partnership in the communities we serve between Boots, Nottingham City and and common humanity bind us together and to be regarded as a good neighbour.
County Library Services and health visitors and whatever fosters this happy union in Nottinghamshire was established in 1998.
Town centre management Boots continued The aim of the initiative is to develop a love its work supporting the growth and is valuable.
Todays Boots feels exactly of books in young children and a lifetime of development of town centre management reading by encouraging parents to share the same.
Caring is part of our heritage.
This commitment to positive books with their children from nine months private and public sector work is part of a It will always be part of our future.
More than 50,000 babies born in 15-year commitment to such initiatives.
Nottinghamshire have now received a free Town centres are economic competitive Boots Books Babies bag.
A recent social locations and the private and public sector impact research study confirmed that the have an equal interest in their prosperity programme has made a significant impact the private sector for reasons of investment on children physically, intellectually and and the public sector through the need for creatively.
Importantly, parents too have an environment which can be valued by all benefited, developing their own parenting sectors of the community.
Working together skills and learning how to support and we can have a marked impact in areas such enthuse their children.
as crime prevention, economic regeneration Boots Group PLC annual report and accounts 2005 17 50,000 4,000 Nottinghamshire babies tonnes of waste have received a free diverted away Boots Books Babies bag from landll Damaged and end of line products go to within the photochemical industry.
As part Improving product sustainability At Boots, the community As far as possible we try of our work on reforming our supply chain one of our key objectives is to be a leading to ensure that unwanted products ranging we developed new containers to supply our developer, retailer and supplier of health from damaged stock to end-of-line items goods to our stores.
This resulted in our and beauty products that have improved do not go to waste.
Over the last four years old containers 80 tonnes of them being sustainability criteria.
Sustainable we have given away goods with a cost recycled with the material used for council development can help to differentiate value of more than 1.6m.
Without this kerb-side collection boxes.
As a result, we Boots products by building on the trust initiative these goods would simply have have been able to divert around 4,000 in our brand and by creating opportunities gone to landll.
So this scheme is helping the tonnes of waste away from landll.
community and protecting the environment.
Using safe chemicals Retailers have Over the past year, we have focussed on Environment to ensure that they are using the most embedding the principles of sustainable We are clearly dedicated to the health of appropriate and safe chemicals in their development into new product development.
With that in mind, we products.
We have a Chemical Working This has involved the introduction of new naturally feel a passionate concern for the Group of scientific experts that takes a management tools such as a redesigned environment and want to protect it so that forward-looking approach and provides risk assessment process.
But we have also it can be enjoyed by future generations.
expert guidance and feedback on consumer been working at the other end of the product concerns.
We have set ourselves clear goals chain, with work on increasing the amount of Reducing waste to landll At Boots we are and drawn up a priority substance list which recycled material we use in bottle manufacture committed to minimising the environmental details our responses to any concerns raised.
and also a study on how sustainability impact of our business, by reducing the This is updated on a quarterly basis and is messages are communicated to consumers.
amount of waste we dispose of to landll.
available on our company website.
Our We are working with a wide variety of In 2003 we committed to reduce our approach is recognised as industry leading, external agencies, including WRAP, Forum for dependency on landll as a waste disposal not only in the UK and Continental Europe, the Future, Urban Mines and Loughborough option by 20% by March 2008.
This year but also in the US where we were recently University, to increase our knowledge and we have made a significant step towards invited to take part in an event hosted by the the effectiveness of our actions.
Some of our manufacturing Lowell Center for Sustainable Production at waste is now composted and our the University of Massachusetts discussing photochemical waste is now reused best practice in chemical management.
18 Boots Group PLC annual report and accounts 2005 corporate social responsibility 90 newtons, the pull we put on a teddy bears eyes for five minutes to make sure the product reaches our safety standards Marketplace of our Boots brand suppliers against a code Supporting charities At Boots, we work What we do at Boots is not enough on its of conduct by April 2006.
We are on course with a number of national charity partners own we are part of a larger marketplace.
each year, not just to raise money, but also We have never seen a contradiction to increase awareness of the issues that are Safety testing At Boots, we take very between running a commercial business important to them.
Over the last year we have seriously our commitment to ensuring that and providing a valuable service to society.
worked with Breast Cancer Care, Tommys, all the things we make and sell meet the That is part of our heritage, which is clearly the baby charity, and Children in Need.
highest quality and safety standards.
Many reected in the way in which we do business of our products are tested to levels far It was our eighth year in partnership with in the widest sense through our stores, beyond the formal British and European Breast Cancer Care.
Through our be up our products, our suppliers and our general legal standards at our quality testing centre front campaign, during September and approach to life.
which is the best of its kind.
For example, October, we have done a great deal both to Working with suppliers Retailers have the law says that a teddy bears eyes must increase awareness of the importance of always faced a huge challenge in ensuring be able to withstand a pull of 90 Newtons regular breast checking and raise vital funds.
that all its suppliers treat their workers fairly equivalent to nine 1kg bags of sugar for We have raised more than 1.7m for the and manage the impact they have on the 10 seconds.
At Boots, our teddy bears are charity since our partnership began.
The internationalisation of our not sent out to shelves unless their eyes addition to selling pin badges, our N 7 supply chain only makes the issue more remain rmly in place when subjected to a team have continued their support and complex.
We are not perfect, but we are pull of 90 Newtons for a full five minutes.
donated a proportion of profits on a determined to make sure that high selection of pink products.
Our people In health and beauty we are rmly committed standards are in place.
We know that in-store carried out mini makeovers to ensuring that none of our own-brand we have a robust way of monitoring the in return for a donation and took part in products rely on animal testing something situations involved and ensuring they are other in-store fundraising activities.
But that does effectively managed.
We continue to learn not mean that our products are not We worked with Tommys supporting their and promote best practice through our absolutely safe.
Our leading work in the eld of prematurity, stillbirth and membership of the Ethical Trading Initiative, in-house product development and safety miscarriage.
Through the year we sold pin an alliance of companies, non-governmental expertise, combined with a 3,500 strong badges in all our stores, raising more than organisation and trade unions which exists army of volunteers, recruited locally and 400,000.
We have also helped to raise to promote the observance of internationally ready to help us at our Nottingham testing awareness of Tommys work through support recognised labour standards.
Part of our centre whenever we need them.
for the Splashathon, in June 2004, where tiny membership commitment was to assess all Boots Group PLC annual report and accounts 2005 19 1.7m 300,000 the amount raised for donation to BBC Children Breast Cancer Care In Need through the efforts by Boots since the of our people partnership began tots were invited to take part in a sponsored a third of our workforce there.
Through all Health and safety Over the past year we splash at their local pools.
In addition, our the changes we have continued to support have continued to see a reduction in our larger stores held events to raise awareness those people affected in choosing other accident frequency rates which are now of the services Tommys provides and raise careers and jobs.
We opened a next moves well ahead of the milestone we had set additional funds during National Pregnancy careers centre at our Nottingham site, ourselves under our 10-year corporate plan.
Week in September 2004. holding workshops on job search, selfOur manufacturing area still leads the way employment and financial planning.
So far, through strong commitment and by A first for Boots this year came with our nearly 90% of those affected have decided continuing their behavioural safety support for BBC Children in Need.
We know their next move, whether that be another programme that has a proven record of this national appeal is one that is close to the job, self-employment, retraining or delivering reduced accident rates.
In our hearts of our customers and our own people.
We continue to support those stores we have introduced an improved In November 2004, we asked our stores who are not yet settled.
In any change inspection process with good practice and our customers to take part and help us programme we try to communicate as early guidance for use by stores employees.
raise funds for the charity.
A fun selection as we can with those affected, and continue The benets can be seen in reduced of Pudsey Bear merchandise hit our shelves to consult with our colleagues and their numbers of incidents.
Within logistics we and stores engaged customers in a variety representatives throughout the change.
have targeted two key areas of activity for of fundraising activities.
The result was a risk reduction manual handling and forklift donation to BBC Children in Need of more Boots retail academy Through this financial truck driving.
For these activities our people than 300,000 and a commitment to year we have been working on the formation have been through specic retraining continue our support in 2005. of a retail academy, which was launched in programmes aimed at achieving industryApril 2005.
This brings together all the Workplace leading standards.
We remain committed training and development programmes for Good practice begins at home.
Being an to continuous improvement in our health our stores in a single easy format.
It will employer that treats its people with dignity and safety performance.
enable us to develop people who can then and respect is crucial to our companys deliver the business performance our approach and with a year of significant customers and shareholders expect.
The change at Boots, this has been more academy is organised around the four key important than ever.
parts of the business pharmacy, store Supporting people through change Over operations, sales and leadership.
The training the past two years we have reduced by 1,000 will be tailored for each area, depending on the jobs in our head ofce function about the significant business issues in each.
