CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT THE GROUP AIMS TO PURSUE ITS BUSINESS WITH INTEGRITY, RESPECTING THE DIFFERENT CULTURES AND THE DIGNITY AND RIGHTS OF INDIVIDUALS IN ALL COUNTRIES IN WHICH IT OPERATES, RECOGNISING THAT THE TRUST AND CONFIDENCE OF THOSE WITH WHOM IT DEALS ARE AMONGST ITS MOST IMPORTANT ASSETS OUR COMMITMENT TO RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE BEHAVIOUR All employees and contractors who work for BPB know they are BPB recognises that the highest practicable standards of safety, personally responsible for the health and safety of themselves ethical and environmental practices are vital to its success in building and others.
Health and safety are embedded in the management value, and are a key responsibility of all employees.
Our policies responsibilities for all BPB businesses, with management being and procedures in these areas, which incorporate monitoring and responsible for ensuring that health and safety hazards are reporting arrangements, are designed to identify relevant risks and systematically identified and controlled, staff are fully trained, opportunities and provide a clear framework for our approach to safety programmes are implemented, monitored and reviewed, doing business and against which performance can be assessed.
and working environments are created in which all instances of occupational ill health and injury at work are regarded as preventable.
To reinforce our commitment to achieve these standards, BPB has produced a group-wide Code of Business Conduct which clearly sets Group and local health and safety programmes, safety audits and out the basic principles which are to be applied everywhere that formal accident investigations, together with continued investment we do business.
The Code is published on the groups internet and in training, manufacturing processes, equipment and safety intranet sites, has been translated into 29 languages and given to management systems form the key elements of our drive to every group employee.
continually raise standards, promote best practice throughout the group and foster a culture in which health and safety management The groups safety, ethics & environment committee has responsibility is integral to the way our businesses operate.
for facilitating throughout the group the promotion by management of a culture of responsible corporate behaviour and for assessing the The drive to deliver better safety performance was sustained during adequacy of management reporting of such behaviour in compliance the year with a reduction for the second consecutive year of 40% with embedded policies and procedures.
in our lost time injury frequency rate.
BPB is pleased to report that there were no fatal accidents in the year 2004 two employees Further details of our corporate responsibility activities are set out and three contractors died as a result of two road traffic accidents in a Corporate Responsibility Review which may be obtained from while on company business and one operational incident.
Although the secretarys department at the companys registered office and this is a significant improvement in our safety record, it is still some can be accessed in the corporate responsibility section on BPBs way from the perfect record BPB seeks to achieve, emphasising website www.
the need to strive to further improve our safety performance.
SAFETY ENVIRONMENT Safety at work remains our first priority and features as the first item BPB recognises societys right to expect industry to exercise the on the agenda of all management meetings.
BPB is committed highest practicable level of environmental care.
Through the groupto the protection and safety of its staff and others affected by its wide implementation of an environmental and site risk policy which operations, adopting the most rigorous and highest practicable safety provides a framework for establishing effective management standards.
Our key goal remains no injury incidents and no harm practices, BPB aims to minimise any adverse effects its activities to people and is encapsulated in the groups health and safety policy may have on the environment.
which is published in 29 languages and sets out required standards and objectives for operating safe and efficient businesses.
All operations are required to have an environmental management system in place which is at least equivalent to either ISO14001 or EMAS, the international standards for environmental management.
IMPROVING SAFETY The drive to deliver better safety performance was sustained during PERFORMANCE reportable incidents per 1,000 employees the year with a reduction for the second consecutive year of 40% in 05 5.7 04 9.5 our lost time injury frequency rate 03 15.5 02 17.0 01 27.4 l 1-day lost time accident rate Estimate 30 BPB ANNUAL REPORT 2005 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY A rolling audit programme has been established for identifying and As a global organisation, our strategy is increasingly to devolve managing environmental and site risks and opportunities, with all our human resources practices into the local businesses, creating sites being audited at least every five years and major sites at least a responsive culture that promotes the involvement and every three years.
The results of this programme are encouraging, empowerment of people at a local level, and which is aligned with with solid progress being made across the group and significant the aims of our business.
To this end, during the year BPB published savings made to group insurance costs: BPB also recently won an a clear set of values that articulate the high standards of social award for best loss prevention strategy at the European Strategic accountability, ethical behaviour and approach to working with Risk Management Awards.
colleagues, customers and suppliers that our people need to adopt in seeking to achieve the groups vision to be the preferred choice Our continuous drive to improve energy efficiency has played a key for interior building systems that provide innovative design solutions.
For example, in Norway, heat generated by the manufacturing process is recycled and used to supply over A continual supply of talented managers is essential to the future 370,000 kWh of energy to local homes and businesses, and in the success of the company.
To realise this, BPB has developed robust US, a new project to recycle waste heat has identified savings of succession planning processes, defining core competencies to ensure over 10% in total plant utility spend.
that the best people are identified and developed across the group.
Further information on the companys employment policies is set BPB works in partnership with housebuilders in the UK and a out in the directors report on page 35. specialist waste company in Canada to collect and recycle gypsumbased building site waste, thus reducing the need for landfill sites COMMUNITY and the extraction rate of the groups mineral reserves.
In addition, BPB is committed to supporting local communities and remaining over 14,000 tonnes per annum of manufacturing waste in the UK sensitive to their needs.
Our Code of Business Conduct reflects the and Ireland is converted into agrigypsum to enhance the quality of groups aim that its conduct should be a source of positive influence soil.
BPBs mineral reserves of over 1,000 million tonnes worldwide for those whom its business impacts.
BPB believes it is able to enough to meet current requirements for many decades are benefit communities most by concentrating its efforts on projects further preserved through the use of high grade synthetic gypsum which are closely related to its business operations, allowing it produced by power station desulphurisation processes.
Use of to encourage the involvement of more of its employees and to desulphogypsum and other synthetic gypsums is set to increase strengthen links with local communities.
further with the recent completion of long-term agreements with American Electric Power and Progress Energy to supply During the year, BPB carried out community projects both locally desulphogypsum to the groups new wallboard plants near Mitchell and nationally, ranging from the donation of employees time in West Virginia and Roxboro in North Carolina, which are expected and skills, materials or financial help to educational and vocational to come on-stream in 2007 and 2008 respectively.
The group donated over 100,000 to the Tsunami disaster relief fund through a number of local and international charities OUR PEOPLE including Architecture for Humanity and the Red Cross.
With a global workforce of over 12,500 people, BPB is committed to providing equal opportunities and creating a culture that recognises In 2004 05 donations for charitable purposes in the UK amounted team and individual performance, values innovation and continuous to 216,500 2004 128,000 including support for organisations improvement, and empowers and encourages individual responsibility.
providing shelter for the homeless and low-cost accommodation for young people linked to skills training and job opportunities.
