CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT Corporate Responsibility Report During 2005 we undertook a thorough review of our Corporate Marketplace Responsibility programme and put in place a challenging threeOur most significant impact on society is the indirect influence year action plan to drive it forward across the Group.
We also we can exert through responsible investing, which the Group commissioned Forum for the Future, the UKs leading sustainable pioneered.
In 1984 we launched the UKs first ethical unit trust, development organisation, to audit our programme.
Their work the Stewardship unit trust.
Our Stewardship range of products is confirmed the strong progress that had been made, as well as still the market leader.
Customers who invest in Stewardship can highlighting a number of further areas for improvement, most be confident their money will be invested only in companies that notably the need to better align our business and Corporate have been screened by an independent Committee of Reference Responsibility strategies within a sustainable business model.
to ensure the selected investments conform to the Stewardship criteria www.
My appointment as Chair of the Association of British Insurers ABI this year has coincided with their work to create a scheme The Group operates a state-of-the-art management system, to succeed the Raising Standards Quality Mark.
A new initiative, known as reo, for engaging with companies on a range of social called the Customer Impact Scheme, will include a series of and environmental issues.
We believe that companies that change company commitments and a new Consumer Panel to advise the the way they behave to address these issues also enhance their ABI board.
I look forward to new, challenging standards for long-term shareholder value.
reo is applied to our worldwide promoting trust and confidence in the Insurance sector in general equity portfolio, including our staff pension fund.
and in the Friends Provident Group more specifically, where we Friends Provident fully discloses the way it votes on the are determined to make these attributes synonymous with our shareholdings held in other companies at those companies values-driven business.
We publish monthly reports that list Friends Provident maintained its membership of both the the way we have voted and include a brief explanation of FTSE4Good and the Dow Jones World Sustainability Indices and every vote that does not support the recommendations made was ranked joint 22nd in The Sunday Times Companies that by the boards of those companies Count survey, based on an annual assessment by the charity www.
Environment At our main sites, we continue to manage our direct impacts on the environment through a structured programme of environmental housekeeping and report on progress.
Carbon dioxide emissions from both travel and buildings energy use were reduced by 14% in 2005.
These reductions were We believe it is important to be transparent in all areas of achieved largely by using less gas, as well as the continued business, including Corporate Responsibility, and we therefore switch to diesel technology in our car fleet.
Energy from provide a full report, including objectives for 2006, on our website: renewable sources now accounts for 68% of our buildings energy www.
com responsibility use, although actual energy use across our main office sites has increased by 11%.
Reducing overall energy use is a priority for Our areas of influence 2006 and we have a planned programme of improvements The life assurance industry is important from both an economic focused principally on improving our energy management and social perspective, contributing to the generation of wealth systems in Salisbury, our largest site.
and the social wellbeing of society.
Friends Provident was The Group is committed to reducing paper use and the amount of originally founded with the aim of alleviating the hardship of waste generated, as well as increasing recycling and the use of families facing misfortune.
Today, as we pay out millions of recycled materials.
Within our marketing operations good progress pounds every working day, improving the quality of life of our has been made in investigating and trialing the use of recycled customers and their families remains our aim and our core paper stocks in marketing materials.
Our asset management social responsibility.
company, F&C, already only uses paper with a substantial recycled As one of the leading financial services groups in the UK, we content and, during 2006, we plan to extend this across the Group.
recognise our responsibility to society at large and are committed to conducting business in a responsible manner, considering not only the economic factors but also our social and environmental impact.
Our Statement of Business Principles, published on our website, sets out our corporate values and responsibilities to all those who have an interest in our business.
We consider our areas of influence to be our business dealings in the marketplace, our investment policies and practices, as well as our relationships with customers, treating them fairly and serving them efficiently.
Relationships with our employees, the wider community and the environment are no less important and are also covered later.
40 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORTS CO2 emissions from gas and electricity at our main office sites: tonnes Workplace 2005 1,648 While ensuring that the needs of our customers come first, we try to help our people achieve their optimum work-life balance 2004 1,977 through homeworking, job sharing and flexible working.
We have 2003 1,858 been accredited as an Investor In People since 1999 and we undertake regular employee surveys which this year show that 2002 5,650 the Staff Engagement Index has increased from 64% to 72%.
2001 7,275 Through our broad equal opportunities and diversity policy we CO2 emissions from company cars: tonnes work hard to achieve a culture that is free from unfair discrimination.
We believe that the diversity in our workforce 2005 2,710 should reflect the diversity in our local communities.
During 2005 2004 3,075 we initiated a comprehensive equal opportunities and diversity training programme.
We promote equal opportunities more 2003 3,499 generally through our support of Business in the Communitys 2002 3,794 Opportunity Now, the Equal Pay Commission, the Employers 2001 6,074 Forum on Disability and the Employers Forum on Age.
We monitor employee sickness and turnover and we publicly Office paper use: million sheets of plain paper report our performance on our website.
We have a strong track 2005 48 record on health and safety with Silver and Bronze awards from the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents.
We recognise 2004 48 the trade union, Amicus, with whom we liaise on employee- 2003 53 related business issues.
2002 54 Community 2001 56 2005 was the first full year of operation for the Friends Provident Foundation, which has begun to fund programmes initially Waste generated: tonnes focused on financial exclusion.
Those organisations that have 2005 1,069 received grants include CentrePoint, Charity Bank, Street UK, Community First, TaxAid, Public Service Broadcasting Trust and 2004 1,121 Citizens Advice Bureaux.
Full details can be found on the website 2003 1,070 www.
org 2002 910 We also facilitate and promote payroll giving as a simple and cost-effective way for employees to donate to their favourite 2001 1,030 charity.
In recognition of the success of our main scheme 12.5% of employees participate we are delighted to have won a Gold Waste recycled: % of waste generated Award from the Payroll Giving Quality Mark scheme.
2005 31% Through our company fundraising days, employees raised over 2004 32% 20,000 during 2005 and to encourage even more involvement 2003 28% this year, we have committed to match funds raised by staff.
2002 32% Finally, we continue to promote our Volunteer Reading Scheme, 2001 30% where employees are given time out of work to visit primary schools to help young children develop their literacy and social skills.
The statistics have been drawn up in accordance with Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs guidelines.
The data above relates to FPLP.
F&C reports its Corporate Responsibility performance separately.
For the Board Keith Satchell, Group Chief Executive.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 41
