309467 1-100 12 3 06 6:29 pm Page 61 Corporate Retail banking Responsibility IT colleagues volunteered to help give the social room of the Leeds Society for Deaf and Blind People a much needed makeover Annual Report and HBOSplc Accounts 2005 61 309467 1-100 13 3 06 10:29 pm Page 62 Corporate Responsibility The Way We Do Business and the opportunity for colleagues Achieving confidence and trust in our brands We have around 2.4 million shareholders, to participate in the success of HBOS.
should differentiate HBOS from its peers around 22 million customers, around and underpin our sustainable growth.
We Suppliers 72,000 colleagues and many thousands see our primary responsibility as ensuring We will deal openly, fairly and honestly of suppliers.
Our commitment to these our business is run successfully, delivering with all our suppliers and business groups and to society in general is that strong financial performance for our many partners.
We will not demand of them collectively and individually we aspire to shareholders and transparent, value for standards that we do not apply to act responsibly and to high standards at money products to our customers.
ourselves but we will seek to understand all times.
their approach before doing business Our actions affect customers, colleagues and shareholders, as well as the environment Shareholders with them.
and communities where they live and work.
We will promote the interests of our The publication of The Way We Do Business Society shareholders by seeking to increase the last year, which gives these and other Our main contribution to society is value of their shares and dividends, and stakeholders guidance on the standards we the value we can add through our through sound corporate governance.
aspire to, together with our commitment to success in business.
We will seek to We will communicate with shareholders report against 48 key performance indicators be a positive influence on those social regularly and in doing so will seek to be KPIs, represented an important step and environmental issues which, having clear, comprehensive and balanced.
listened responsibly to our shareholders, Customers customers, colleagues and suppliers, We will be honest, fair and open in we think are important, for example our dealings with our customers and upholding human rights.
endeavour to help them at all times.
We will observe the laws and regulations We are committed to providing them with of all countries in which we operate, not value for money products, designed and just in the letter but also the spirit.
We promoted in a simple and transparent will not countenance bribery, corruption, way and made as widely available as insider trading or the concealment of possible.
When things go wrong, as they conflicts of interest.
sometimes do, we will resolve problems as quickly and fairly as we can.
We will contribute to the development of the community by making charitable Colleagues donations to initiatives relating to We will create a safe working environment financial literacy and money advice, and which encourages openness, honesty by providing opportunities for colleagues and mutual respect, and where to support the development of the colleagues can constructively challenge communities in which they live and work.
We will offer equal opportunities for all.
Delivering our commitments We will measure our progress against We will provide the opportunity for all this commitment and report this regularly colleagues to develop their skills and to shareholders, customers, colleagues knowledge, and to enjoy fulfilling and suppliers.
Wherever possible, we will careers.
We will offer competitive independently benchmark or verify that it remuneration with total rewards linked continues to meet their expectations.
to individual and collective performance, Clear cash machine information Corporate We were the first UK financial services organisation and ATM Responsibility provider to feature colour-coded green labels on all our ATMs, continued informing customers they would not be charged for withdrawing money from the cash machine.
This demonstrates our commitment to enhancing transparency and consumer choice.
the HR Forum, which sets Group policies Our relationship with our customers does We are ranked 9th in the main UK measure of and standards on, for example, pay, not stop at the point of sale.
In 2005 we corporate responsibility, the Business in the pensions, management competencies, started the rollout of our Customer Contract, Community Index.
For the second year in a chaired by David Fisher, Director, HR: which will ensure that customers needs are row, we were also included in the Dow Jones The Way We Do Business Action Group is right at the heart of all our business Sustainability Index and the Carbon Disclosure a new committee, chaired by Phil Hodkinson, divisions.
At the centre of this contract Projects Climate Leadership Index.
responsible for the review and effective is an annual product review, to ensure implementation of The Way We Do Business we are meeting customer needs.
Governance and its associated KPIs from 2006.
The delivery of The Way We Do Business In 2005 we took the lead on improving WWDB is monitored via a number of Risks and opportunities clarity around ATM charges.
The WWDB annual Where appropriate, corporate responsibility Halifax and Bank of Scotland ATMs now review for the first time last year included forms part of our risk framework described feature green signs stating that cash an analysis of supporting KPIs.
Other Board in detail on pages 55 to 60.
Risks are also withdrawals are free.
We firmly believe reviews took place on specific corporate identified and managed via the framework, that if all free ATMs are labelled with green responsibility issues, e. g. environment and especially the HBOS Communications signs and all charging machines display community investment.
Phil Hodkinson, Group, described above.
The Way We Do red signs, then transparency and consumer Group Finance Director, oversees corporate Business has been integrated into our new choice will be greatly enhanced.
responsibility at Board and Executive Leadership Commitment see workplace We continue to actively encourage Committee level.
Group Communications is section, launched to senior colleagues all ATM operators to adopt this traffic responsible for facilitating the development, in November.
This helps ensure it is part light approach.
implementation and delivery of The Way We of the core competencies against which Do Business across the Group.
the performance of all our senior managers Workplace is measured.
The sustained success of HBOS requires The Way We Do Business is a dynamic a high degree of engagement and motivation statement, progressed through a number Marketplace amongst all our colleagues.
The HBOS of specialist fora: In 2005, our strategy of offering People Strategy, the colleague commitments the Customer Contract Forum, chaired competitively priced, transparent and within The Way We Do Business statement, by Group Chief Executive James Crosby, innovative products again delivered for and the supporting HR policies and focuses on how HBOS designs, promotes consumers and shareholders.
We opened practices are all designed with this in mind.
and sells its products: 645,000 new bank accounts and issued In addition, HR management reporting the HBOS Communications Group, 1 million credit cards.
Our savings and enables the Board to track our progress in which meets monthly and is chaired by banking credit balances increased by 4%.
Chief Executive Designate Andy Hornby, manages Group-wide internal and external In 2001 HBOS brought some much needed Colleagues who are truly engaged with the communications issues, including those competition to the industry with a high business consistently demonstrate strong relating to corporate responsibility: interest bearing current account alongside a performance: they exhibit real loyalty and the HBOS Foundation, an independent no-hassle switching service.
In 2005 we built are strong advocates of HBOS, as an charity, chaired by Phil Hodkinson, invests on this with the launch of Moneyback, the employer and of our products and services.
in financial literacy and local communities first current account in Europe with a debit This clearly contributes to achieving our across the UK: card that offers cashback on purchases.
Colleague advocacy is a the Diversity Leadership Group, a debit cards now account for 65% of all card critical measure of performance in this area, Group-wide co-ordinating body responsible purchases and more than eight in ten adults and is assessed annually and monthly for driving the HBOS Equality and Diversity have one, Moneyback fits with what across the group by MORI.
vision, chaired by James Crosby: consumers want.
Were greener In recognition of our achievement in slashing our carbon dioxide emissions by 106,000 tonnes, we have received accreditation to the Carbon Trusts Energy Efficiency Scheme for the second year running.
The design and construction of the new HBOS FS headquarters in Bristol is just one example of our commitment to the environment.
Like the rest of our buildings, the Bristol development will have lighting controls and low energy light fittings installed.
But it will have the added feature of being the only HBOS property to use harbour water for cooling.
Annual Report and HBOSplc Accounts 2005 63 309467 1-100 13 3 06 9:31 pm Page 64 The HBOS Total Reward philosophy focuses determining their reward and will be the basis financial services, but also as an employer on delivering outstanding rewards for against which we will recruit, promote and and a significant generator of wealth.
These rewards develop our senior colleagues.
All of our According to an independent review by are designed to be sufficiently local to reflect activity in the learning and development the Centre for Economic and Business specific business circumstances, whilst sphere is designed to enable all our Research, HBOS contributes 10bn to the retaining a core element of consistency colleagues to realise their true potential.
UK economy, equivalent to 0.8% of GDP.
During 2005 we gave all We have a presence all over the UK, with colleagues free shares to replace our HBOS is a large and complex organisation.
over 13,000 employees in each of our previous share options scheme.
In addition We invest significant time, effort and Scottish and Yorkshire heartlands: we to our Sharekicker and Sharesave schemes, resources in communicating with all of invest significantly in both areas.
Our overall the granting of free shares demonstrates our our colleagues on a range of issues both community investment in 2005 amounted commitment to share ownership by all our business related and more specific to them to 43.14m.
We pay particular attention to as an individual.
Through regular tracking of communicating the range and the value of colleague views we respond rapidly to issues In 2005 the HBOS Foundation gave 2.13m our Total Reward offering.
Our objective is as they emerge through a wide range of in national and regional grants to projects to reinforce the alignment between individual media both face to face and electronic.
focusing on money advice and financial and collective performance and individual literacy, and developing and improving and collective reward.
Employing around 72,000 people and local communities, its two main themes.
operating across many business sectors The 2005 Million Challenge, including During 2005 we announced some major throughout the UK and internationally, contributions from both colleagues and changes to our pension schemes in terms we recognise the importance of embracing the HBOS Foundation, raised 2.3m for of aligning scheme benefits for our final salary all aspects of diversity amongst both NSPCC Children First, Help the Aged, schemes, addressing the deficits in these final our colleagues and our communities.
Samaritans and the Tsunami appeal.
An salary schemes and signalling a much more This is a further means of building colleague additional 0.35m was donated to the proactive stance in respect of membership commitment and advocacy and brings Tsunami appeal by colleagues.
Our levels for our money purchase scheme.
It remains a priority increasingly successful matched funding for us to ensure that our leadership teams scheme also raised a total of 1.67m to We have made good progress with our demonstrate diversity awareness in everything support almost 550 other charities.
The Unions, ACCORD and AMICUS, to develop they do and that they act as role models number of colleagues giving their time, energy a partnership agreement which will provide in this area for the rest of our colleagues.
and skills for the benefit of local communities the framework around which our industrial It is also important that, increasingly, the also more than doubled in 2005 to over 5,000. relations and employee relations activities demographics of our leadership teams reflect In total, 10.6m has been raised via the take place.
Our relationship with both Unions the diversity of our colleagues and our HBOS Foundation over the last three years.
is healthy: our joint discussions are customer base.
conducted in a spirit of mutual respect and We invest significantly in financial inclusion understanding.
This helps to ensure that our The sustained strong performance of our by helping deprived sections of the working environment and our terms and colleagues remains a key competitive community to access our products and conditions meet the current and future needs advantage for us and one which we believe services.
We are the biggest provider of of our business.
At all times, the HBOS social banking in the UK with almost 60% People Strategy is focused on engaging our of the market.
Halifax is the only bank to In 2005 we designed and launched a new colleagues so that they can deliver for the work with the Government on the Saving approach to how we define what good business and realise their full potential.
Gateway scheme, designed to encourage looks like for our leadership group our most saving in low-income communities by senior 2,500 colleagues.
This Leadership Community matching customers new savings pound Commitment will set the standard for We make a significant contribution to UK for pound up to 375.
The pilot has been managing the performance of our leaders, communities not only as a provider of running since August 2002 and will close in Volunteering Corporate In 2005 5,147 colleagues volunteered with charities and Responsibility community groups across the UK with over 3,500 colleagues taking continued part in team challenges, providing practical help and support for local community groups.
It has involved 69 of our branches Looking to the Future and the opening of 23,356 accounts.
Gaining a reputation for leadership in corporate responsibility is a positive Our Community Banking team specialises differentiator, especially for a sector which in banking for the not-for-profit sector.
is under considerable scrutiny from the Its partnership with the East Lancashire regulator, politicians, media and others.
Moneyline ELM, provides an innovative We made good progress last year but savings scheme for individuals who often have will continue to work to improve our to use loans to pay for basic household goods performance.
The Way We Do Business and the costs of day-to-day living.
In Scotland, will be reviewed, as well as its 48 KPIs, Community Banking also provided 3m of to ensure it remains relevant and meets matched funding to provide loan finance to our stakeholders needs.
social economy organisations through the Social Investment Scotland initiative, Further details about our activities and established by the Scottish Executive.
progress against The Way We Do Business KPIs are published in Taking Care of Environment Tomorrow, the HBOS corporate As the UKs leading mortgage lender and a responsibility report, available from major home insurer, a key concern for HBOS http: www.
com community is the issue of climate change.
HBOS is alone corporate responsibility home.
asp amongst major lenders in providing a flood cover guarantee to its 1.8m building insurance policyholders up to 2008.
For the first time, we announced that 100% of the Groups electricity would be sourced from renewables.
Total savings from energy efficiency initiatives stood at 12.9m, with a reduction of around 106,000 2 tonnes in CO emissions across the Group.
We continue to incorporate environmental considerations into our investment and lending assessment processes.
Insight Investment published its second benchmarking survey of 12 FTSE listed housebuilders environmental performance last year.
We also announced that our Corporate Division would be adopting the Equator Principles, voluntary guidelines for managing environmental and social issues in project finance lending.
Independent consultants, , have subsequently conducted a review of risk management processes in Corporate, which will allow us to provide clear information about the range of activities covered by these principles.
The HBOS Foundation The Million Challenge 8m a year is earmarked One of the main charities for the Foundation to benefiting from our Million support community Challenge last year was projects and charities.
It works with groups who They will use the money to help pay for treatment and either promote financial literacy and money advice, therapeutic services which work to rebuild the lives of or who develop and improve communities.
children who have been abused or neglected.
In 2005, the Foundation matched HBOS This vital work empowers children to deal with what colleagues donations to the Million Challenge.
has happened to them and to go on to live happy and fulfilled lives.
Annual Report and HBOSplc Accounts 2005 65
