25 BRITISH ENERGY GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2005 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY We published our first Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Report In May 2004 we implemented the Gallup Q12 survey to help identify in 2004 in order to take a more holistic view of our performance.
changes in culture, to benchmark staff engagement, and to help This report was developed using Global Reporting Initiative understand key areas for improvement.
Following consideration of guidelines and the Business in the Community  the results, actionable improvement plans have been implemented Initiative.
In line with the latter, the report was structured around at all sites and the survey will be repeated in late 2005 to measure four key areas the marketplace, the workplace, the environment progress against the improvement plans.
For consistency the highlights presented here follow this structure.
Last years CSR Report is available on our Our first Excellence Awards ceremony took place this year.
The website and this years report will be available later in the year.
awards recognise and celebrate the efforts of employees in moving British Energy forward as a successful business.
Candidates for THE MARKETPLACE the 10 award categories were nominated by their colleagues, the We are the countrys largest electricity generator and supply winners selected by the Executive Committee, and the awards electricity to major industries that play an important role in the ceremony held at the Natural History Museum in London.
Our customers include companies such as ASDA in the retail sector and Corus in the heavy industry sector.
We work During the year we completed the sale of our Head Office at Peel hard to maintain a customer focused approach and build close Park in East Kilbride and our Head Office was transferred to its partnerships with existing and prospective customers through a new location at Livingston, Scotland.
A small number of staff number of initiatives, from the provision of high quality information remained at Peel Park under a ten year leaseback arrangement of and analysis enabling them to understand and control their part of the building and some self contained engineering support electricity costs, to our popular annual Talkpower Conference teams moved to an office in Renfrew.
Power station central where they can hear about new developments and enjoy an support functions are being consolidated at our Barnwood office opportunity to network.
in Gloucestershire in order to improve the efficiency and focus of these support functions.
THE WORKPLACE Safety and environmental performance are a fundamental priority of As a result of a decision by the Office of Civil Nuclear Security, all the Company.
We monitor nuclear, radiological and industrial safety of the UKs nuclear power stations will benefit from an enhanced and environmental performance.
A summary of our performance in layer of security with the deployment of armed response units.
Until these areas is contained in the Review of Operating Performance.
permanent deployment at each station, armed tactical response units are at hand to respond to operational requirements where We invested 3.6m during the year in enhancing the skills and required.
Security is under constant review and we believe that competencies of our workforce.
We also continued to recruit these new measures will add a prudent enhancement to the new staff to maintain and extend our skills base.
During the measures already in place.
year we recruited 31 graduates, up from 21 in 2003 04, and 40 apprentices, up from 33 in 2003 04.
THE ENVIRONMENT We continue to play a key role in helping the UK meet its emissions We are committed to equal opportunities, recognising the value targets.
Over the year, generation from our nuclear power stations 2 of a diverse workforce.
In the course of the year, we completed an avoided the emissions of some 40.1 MtCO that would otherwise equal treatment survey aimed at ensuring employees feel valued, have been emitted had the same output been achieved through respected and well treated, and that they have equal opportunity fossil fuel generation.
Eggborough emitted 7.2 million tonnes of 2 and encouragement to perform at their best.
The survey highlighted carbon dioxide MtCO in the year, bringing our total saving of 2 2 a number of areas where we need to improve and to achieve this, CO emissions to around 33 MtCO for the year.
This saving is 2 we have developed improvement plans.
We continue to work equivalent to the CO emissions from approximately half the in partnership with our equal opportunities focus group, which cars on the UK roads.
consists of staff volunteers, to ensure discrimination is avoided and achieve a diverse and equally treated workforce.
26 26 BRITISH ENERGY GROUP PLC BRITISH ENERGY GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 MARCH 2005 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Following a successful trial, Eggborough has received consent from LCPD.
We provide input to committees and inquiries, and engage the Environment Agency to co-fire with biomass.
Biomass is organic with the Government through industry groups and bilateral matter and, if used as fuel, can make an important contribution to discussions.
While we welcome any UK energy policy debates, 2 the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions as the CO released our focus is on improving the reliability and performance of our from combustion is limited to that which was captured when the existing stations.
A proportion of the stations electricity now comes from biomass fuel, which also provides the company with ROCs.
During the year we sent 466 cubic metres of Low Level Waste to the Drigg plant which is owned by the NDA, down on 485 cubic Our nuclear generation also avoided the emission of about 160,000 metres in the previous year.
Each station typically produces a few 2 X tonnes kT of SO and 80 kT of NO.
Eggborough emitted 42 kT of tens of cubic metres of Intermediate Level Waste each year, which 2 X SO and 19 kT of NO in the year.
Spent AGR nuclear fuel is transported in specially designed steel flasks to Sellafield where it is initially stored in 2 Phase 1 of ETS came into effect on 1 January 2005, initially for CO cooling ponds spent fuel at our PWR at Sizewell B remains in emissions only.
The scheme is mandatory for certain sectors, storage on site.
This year we sent 298 flasks to Sellafield, down including the power sector, and is designed to achieve emissions from 386 flasks in the previous year.
The eventual long-term reductions on a cap and trade basis.
Phase 1 of the scheme runs solution for solid disposal for radioactive waste is currently the until the end of 2007. subject of an extensive investigation and consultation by the Governments Committee on Radioactive Waste Management.
The Government has published its National Allocation Plan for Phase 1 in which electricity generators receive free allowances There is growing recognition of the importance of disclosing to cover a proportion of their emissions.
As of October 2005 new EU regulations may be purchased in the market.
Eggborough has been allocated will require all electricity suppliers to provide detailed information on 2 4.54 MtCO per year during Phase 1, which is broadly consistent the environmental impact of their supply mix.
New regulations also with the overall treatment of other plants in the sector.
The final came into force on 1 January 2005 which require public authorities allocations to the electricity sector are subject to change depending to provide environmental information upon request, subject to on the outcome of discussions between the Government and the certain exclusions.
All of our power stations and their main support offices continue to Our coal-fired power station at Eggborough will be affected by the retain certification to the international environmental management revised LCPD which takes effect in 2008.
FGD plant equipment has standard, ISO 14001.
There has been increased training during the been fitted to Units 3 and 4 at Eggborough to reduce emissions and year to improve awareness of environmental legislation at various comply with the LCPD.
levels within the organisation and some of its main contractors.
Staff are encouraged to target reductions in waste production and As a major player in the UK energy industry we have taken an active resource consumption by incorporation in business unit targets, role in policy developments relating to climate change, ETS and the where appropriate.
