27 BRITISH ENERGY GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 MARCH 2005 ENVIRONMENT FGD AT EGGBOROUGH REDUCING EMISSIONS As a company whose technology plays a major part in improving the environment we also recognise the importance of managing our operations to minimise their impact on the environment.
Last year we made good progress in achieving this goal.
ADRIAN MONTAGUE, CBE, CHAIRMAN Many of our stations are in locations of high environmental Stakeholder Groups.
In the spirit of increasing transparency and importance.
We continue to maintain and improve the habitats openness, these meetings involve a broader selection of the at the stations and encourage biodiversity through our Land community, including local media and community Councillors, are Management Plans and Biodiversity Action Plan.
chaired independently and are held at times and locations to allow more of the public to attend.
The Environment Agency is undertaking a review of our authorisations to discharge radioactive substances to the We are committed to improving public access to the habitats around environment, which they regulate under the Radioactive Substances our stations in a sustainable way.
Last year we completed a major Act 1993.
The revised authorisations, planned for the end of 2006, refurbishment of the nature reserve at Sizewell as part of a are expected to lead to changes to the existing discharge limits, partnership with the Suffolk Wildlife Trust.
The project used recycled with the majority being reduced, together with a range of new materials, which require no chemical treatment, very little requirements including operational, maintenance and procedural maintenance and have a longer life span.
The new limits and arrangements are not expected to affect the ability of any of the power stations to continue to operate.
Employees responded with considerable interest, enthusiasm and We are in the process of preparing submissions to the Environment no little ingenuity to our charity of the year, The Royal Association Agency to assist in this review process and have begun to prepare for Disability and Rehabilitation RADAR.
Fund-raising activities held for the implementation of the expected new requirements.
The throughout the year raised well over the original target of 100,000, Scottish Environment Protection Agency have already received coming to over 250,000 with the Companys matched funds.
Our submissions regarding our two Scottish power stations and are charity of the year for the coming year is the Princes Trust but our expected to complete their review on a similar timescale and relationship with RADAR will continue through a mentoring scheme.
with a similar outcome to that of the Environment Agency.
COMMUNITY Our relationship with local communities continues to be very important to us.
We host regular community liaison meetings at all our stations.
At our nuclear power stations, they are attended by local Councillors, the emergency services, the NII and Food Standards Agency, local media and our station management team.
Similar local stakeholder meetings are held for Eggborough.
The Nuclear Decommissioning Authority NDA has recently taken over the management of the Magnox stations formerly owned by the British Nuclear Group.
Four of these sites - Hunterston, Hinkley Point, Dungeness B and Sizewell B - are shared with operating British Energy stations.
We have been pleased to collaborate with the NDA in developing the community liaison meetings into Site
