BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC LIVING FOR SPORT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Living for Sport aims to Operating and Financial Review re-engage 11-16 year olds back into school life through sports PAGE 22 activities in schools.
SUBTITLING Hours CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 03 51,600 04 55,000 05 64,000 SKYS APPROACH TO CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY IS ALL ABOUT BEING TUNED-IN Corporate responsibility at Sky Count Index.
The annual investment scheme and a COMMUNITY is about making the Group Corporate Responsibility charity partnership with Chicken Contribution by type successful, responsible and Review provides full details Shed Theatre Company.
This information can Environment 12% Corporate responsibility also be found on the web at The Environment Committee 11% management is overseen by the www.
reviews annual performance 74% Corporate Responsibility Steering indicators that track progress Group CRSG, which provides Customers against the Groups environmental senior direction and is tasked The provision of choice is core targets on energy consumption, with setting the vision, values to the Groups customer offering.
carbon dioxide CO emissions, 2 Cash and reviewing the achievement The Group has continued to waste and water consumption.
Management costs of corporate responsibility goals develop the technology to allow As the business has grown this In-kind for the Group.
The CRSG customers to access this choice year, energy consumption has Time comprises the members of the and help them control access.
Despite this, the executive management team and Development activities during the Group has reduced its carbon two independent Non-Executive year include further development dioxide emissions by 16%.
Since Contribution by subject Directors.
The CRSG is supported of the parental control features October 2004, all of the Groups at an operational level by the available on the Electronic sites in England, where the 28% Corporate Responsibility Programme Guide EPG that Group is responsible for energy Taskforce of senior managers will help parents to limit access purchasing, obtain their 55% from around the Group who to any channel by their children.
electricity from renewable address specific issues with The Group has also implemented sources.
In April 2005, all sites 17% support from the Corporate the Code of Practice for Interactive in Scotland moved to combined Responsibility Department.
The Gambling, developed with heat and power CHP Young people management of environmental GamCare, an organisation that sources that have lower carbon issues is overseen by the promotes responsible gambling.
Art and culture Environment Committee that Other is chaired by the Company Accessibility to programming is Secretary and reports into the provided through on-screen 5,113,772, including cash, CRSG.
Other groups are in place subtitling, audio description time, in-kind donations and to oversee health and safety and and signing.
A dedicated helpline management costs, an increase human resources policy, and for disabled customers is in of over 59,000 since 2004.
Skys people can communicate place, staffed by the Accessibility their views on corporate Service Team.
responsibility via the Sky Forum.
Community investment The Group runs an annual The Group continues to align its risk workshop on corporate community investment activities responsibility issues and to the wider goals of the maintains a corporate business and its customers and CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSIONS responsibility risk register.
utilises its brand, platform, Tonnes The Group also undertakes technology and people in 04 36,491 consultation with stakeholders community investment activities.
05 30,545 that informs corporate These activities are regularly responsibility risk identification.
reviewed to ensure that they are The Group is a member of the delivering long-term benefits to ENERGY CONSUMPTION KWh thousands FTSE4Good Index and the Dow both the community and the Jones Sustainability Index and business.
Current programmes 04 92,973 is included in Business in the include Living for Sport, Make a 05 102,971 Communitys Companies That Difference the staff community
