BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC SKY TALENT ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 One of the winners from our Sky Operating and Financial Review Talent programme, Denise Nurse.
PAGE 23 Our organisation People Plan, which defines the The Group is committed to goals and activities the Group PEOPLE developing a flexible and aims to undertake to ensure that motivated workforce which it engages its employees and supports the business goals.
aligns them to the business aims.
To achieve this, the Group aims PEOPLE, ENTERTAINMENT to make Sky a great place to The Group also encourages work and to align the culture, employee involvement through organisational development and community initiatives.
The Make AND QUALITY ARE AT THE reward to the Groups business a Difference programme allows strategy and values.
These values Skys people to choose to get are aspirational and designed to involved in their local engage employees: tuned-in: communities in a number HEART OF OUR BUSINESS irrepressible: inviting and fun.
of different ways: They help the Group to serve its customers, define the way it Sky Volunteers an achieves its goals, and shape opportunity for employees to the organisation.
Diverse ideas develop new skills and be paid and opinions are encouraged, for up to 16 hours working for helping employees to find new a cause they believe in: THE GROUPS STRENGTH IS ITS and better ways of working.
The Group fully supports the right of Sky Givers where employees DIVERSITY AND THE CHALLENGE FOR US all people who work with us to make a regular donation to be treated with respect and charity via payroll, and where IS TO CONTINUE TO ENCOURAGE THIS dignity.
We are committed to Sky will match the donation: and ensuring that no one is subjected to less favourable treatment Sky Fundraisers where QUALITY TO DEVELOP AND GROW because of their age, gender, employees undertaking a gender reassignment, sexual fundraising activity are given WITHIN THE BUSINESS.
orientation, race, religious beliefs, match-funding for their chosen marital status or disability.
Involvement At Sky, people can create their The way the Group conducts own futures.
Sky Talent aims to business and the way its develop internal talent and employees work together are discover future television critical to the Groups success.
presenters from Skys own An open environment allows employees.
Presenters and people to challenge, be creative producers make up the judging and get involved.
Skys people panel, with successful employees have elected employees from going on to take part in a four day around the business to form the presenting course and winning a Sky Forum and represent the slot on a Sky programme.
views, ideas and concerns of all employees.
Issues ranging from Reward the work environment and The Group offers an attractive practices to training and and competitive reward and development and health and benefits package.
This includes safety are discussed at the the BSkyB Pension Plan, life cover Forum.
The Chief Executive, and disability benefits, a share Executive Team and other save plan, a healthcare plan and managers regularly attend Forum complimentary Sky.
The Sky meetings to talk about Skys Choices programme was strategic priorities.
Involving launched in 2005, allowing employees through the Forum employees to make significant ensures that views are shared savings in tax and National as the Group shapes its future.
Insurance in areas such as childcare payment, computers for The views of employees are the home or a bicycle for travel to important to the Group.
In addition, Sky Club has Group-wide opinion survey was been launched, giving employees conducted to keep abreast the opportunity to be entered into EMPLOYEE TRAINING DAYS of what employees think and a free draw to win entertainment how Sky can be made an even experiences such as going to 03 39,336 better place to work.
This is an cover a major match with a 04 45,826 important measurement tool sports reporter or being an extra for the Group and guides the in a movie.
05 49,624 ongoing development of the BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC SKY FORUM ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Members of the Sky Forum Operating and Financial Review engaging together with members of Skys Executive PAGE 24 team on key issues.
Training and development Safety is covered further in the Training and development is Health and Safety section of the essential for employees to realise Directors Report on page 28. their full potential, gain new In addition a range of wellness skills and knowledge and enable initiatives has been organised, them to meet the Groups including an on-site gym or business objectives.
The Group discounts at gyms: health encourages employees to awareness events: and an improve their personal introduction to ways of helping development by integrating to reduce stress.
A dedicated learning within the workplace.
intranet site gives employees A range of training programmes access to information on where to is offered, including a Sky go if they need help and support.
introduction programme: The Group also commissioned a workplace training: coaching and programme that gives employees professional updates: leadership: access to a dedicated and technology: the broadcast confidential service that provides industry: professional skills: and professional knowledge from management and personal experts on a range of health and development opportunities.
A news traineeship scheme was launched last year, in addition to Communication the existing finance traineeship Communicating with employees scheme.
During this year the helps them to understand the Modern Apprenticeship scheme business context and focus on was introduced in Scotland, and what makes a difference.
aims to support 60 young people By creating an effective channel through a combined work and for dialogue the Group engages qualification programme in the its employees to help achieve SKY HAS A TRUE TEAM SPIRIT: first year of the scheme.
The its overall business objectives.
Group is represented at board Channels of communication level within the Broadcast across the Group are diverse WE WORK TOGETHER TO MAKE Industry Sector Skills Council, and involve people at all levels which promotes training and and locations in the business.
development opportunities This helps the Groups A REAL DIFFERENCE.
across the industry and has geographically remote people partnerships with academic and such as our Sky Engineers training bodies.
The Group also to feel an integral part of the gives all managers the opportunity business.
The Group provides high to participate in the Management quality information, advice and Essentials Programme, a series guidance to employees through a of nine modules covering series of communications tools, performance development, including Company magazines: a coaching and people resourcing dedicated publication, Digitalk, which helps managers to motivate for Sky engineers: intranet sites: their teams and meet daily global e-mails: leadership business challenges.
The quality of tools such as Vision Occupational Health and Safety magazine and Digitalk have been The Group is committed to recognised by honours such as providing a safe and healthy the Communicators in Business working environment and CIB 2005 internal newsletter believes that the health, safety gold award.
and wellbeing of all employees are of paramount importance.
The Group continues to build The Group continues to raise and maintain a flexible and levels of awareness about health motivated workforce where and safety issues amongst everyone is given equal access employees.
As part of the Groups to opportunities in recruitment commitment to employee health and employment, irrespective and wellbeing, a health and of their differences and needs.
safety CD-Rom was developed for use by all employees.
Health and 2 August 2005 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Financial Statements PAGE 25 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTENTS 26 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 28 DIRECTORS REPORT 29 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 32 REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION 39 DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES 39 AUDITORS REPORT 40 CONSOLIDATED PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT 41 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 42 COMPANY BALANCE SHEET 43 CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT 44 NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 72 FIVE YEAR SUMMARY 73 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 75 GLOSSARY Use of non-GAAP financial information This document contains certain information on the Groups results and cash flows that have been derived from amounts calculated in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP, but are not themselves UK GAAP measures.
These should not be viewed in isolation as alternatives to the equivalent UK GAAP measure and should be read in conjunction with the equivalent UK GAAP measures.
Further disclosures are also provided under Non-GAAP measure in the glossary.
Forward-looking statements This document contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 with respect to the Groups financial condition, results of operations and business, and managements strategy, plans and objectives for the Group.
These statements include, without limitation, those that express forecasts, expectations and projections with regard to the potential for growth of free-to-air and pay-TV, advertising growth, DTH subscriber growth and Multiroom and Sky penetration, DTH revenue, profitability and margin growth, cash flow generation, subscriber acquisition costs and marketing expenditure, capital expenditure programmes and proposals for returning capital to shareholders.
These statements and all other forward-looking statements contained in this document are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond the Groups control, are difficult to predict and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied or forecast in the forward-looking statements.
These factors include, but are not limited to, the fact that the Group operates in a highly competitive environment, the effects of government regulation upon the Groups activities, its reliance on technology, which is subject to risk, change and development, its ability to continue to obtain exclusive rights to movies, sports events and other programming content, risks inherent in the implementation of large-scale capital expenditure projects, the Groups ability to continue to communicate and market its services effectively, and the risks associated with the Groups operation of digital television transmission in the UK and Ireland.
Information on some risks and uncertainties are described in the Risk Factors section of Skys Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended 30 June 2004.
Copies of the Annual Report on Form 20-F are available on request from British Sky Broadcasting Group plc, Grant Way, Isleworth TW7 5QD or from the British Sky Broadcasting web page at www.
All forward-looking statements in this document are based on information known to the Group on the date hereof.
The Group undertakes no obligation publicly to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
