Corporate Social Responsibility ICG is an international business operating in six countries, with investments in a further four countries.
It employs 71 people of which 55 are located at its main office in London and aims to conduct its business in a socially responsible manner.
ICG believes that it needs to act in a commercial and professional manner, while at the same time respecting the requirements of the companies and individuals with which it deals.
This includes shareholders, staff, suppliers and the businesses in which it invests.
Offices Although ICG is not a significant contributor to pollution, since most of its activities are office based, it is acknowledged that there is some impact that its activities have on the environment.
It is ICGs aim to minimise this impact and to comply with the relevant legislation and regulations placed upon it.
Areas where the company seeks to minimise its environmental impact are in the use of energy sources within its office, the recycling of paper and other waste and the use of recycled paper within its offices.
People ICG recognises that its employees are fundamental to the success of its business.
The company therefore promotes a business environment that is based on meritocracy in which all staff may develop to their full potential, irrespective of their race, gender, marital status, disability, religious belief or sexual orientation.
The company encourages involvement through a process of employee communications, including briefings held by senior executives.
The companys employee handbook, to be launched later this year, will set out, among other matters, the companys approach to the working environment and group policies for Recruitment and Training Reward and Recognition Health and Safety Personal Development Equality and Diversity Environmental Protection During the year, all staff received money laundering training in accordance with the legal and regulatory requirements.
Refresher training is to be given at least once every two years.
The company has a whistleblowing policy, which allows staff to raise matters of concern in a confidential manner and for appropriate follow-up action to be taken if required.
No matters were reported during the year under review.
Charity and Community The company currently does not make charitable contributions although it does manage a Give As You Earn Scheme for its staff.
The company does not currently involve itself in community projects, although a committee, consisting of three main Board directors, has been set up for the purpose of assessing how ICG might best involve itself in this area in the future.
An update will be given in next years report.
Health and Safety The directors are committed to developing and maintaining a management culture that ensures the health, safety and welfare of employees and others while on company premises.
During the year, no reportable accidents or incidents occurred either under UK Health and Safety regulations or similar regulations outside the UK.
Investments The company currently invests in 86 companies throughout Western Europe and the Asia Pacific Region.
The company recognises that the most significant risk to its long term value and reputation arising from environmental, ethical and social matters arises from its investment business.
Therefore, when making an investment decision on a new company, ICG takes account of social, environmental and ethical issues and aims to invest in companies that respect human rights and comply with industry standards and local regulations.
Part of ICGs due diligence process includes, where appropriate, the production of an environmental report by third party experts.
Although ICG cannot influence the day-to-day operations of the companies in which it invests, wherever possible, it seeks to enable senior executives to attend the board meeting of its investee companies, either as an observer or a board member.
Through this attendance, it can influence the behaviour of these companies and encourage good corporate governance.
