Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility 42 Following the principles of Corporate Social Responsibility Environment CSR is important to both the Company and its JLT considers respect for the environment to be an employees.
Increasingly, our clients and suppliers also integral business responsibility and good business take a keen interest in understanding what the company practice.
does to minimise its impact on the environment as well as To this end, JLT has set the following guidelines within the positive actions JLT takes to put something back into the Group, to: the community.
Carefully manage waste so as to minimise its The Workplace production where possible, or dispose of it through JLTs goal remains to create a stimulating, innovative and recycling schemes.
dynamic working environment where talented individuals Control and where possible, restrict polluting emissions.
are rewarded and recognised for their contribution to the success of the business, both professionally and Ensure appropriate regulatory compliance in key areas personally.
including waste disposal, pollutants, energy and building regulations.
2005 has been another year of considerable change for JLT.
In response to these changes, training and Design and operate facilities taking into account the development at all levels featured heavily throughout the efficient use of energy and materials, including year, with equal emphasis being placed on technical targeting and monitoring systems for energy training and the development of soft skills.
development of our people will be key to our future Encourage the adoption of these guidelines by success.
We are committed to maintaining standards of contractors acting on behalf of the Company.
excellence across the Company and nurturing each individual employee, and will continue to invest in these To help encourage environmental awareness within the areas.
organisation, the Company will be introducing appropriate additional training for UK facilities management staff.
It is We continue with our aim of attracting and retaining the also planned to further promote recycling and the most talented individuals: welcoming new talent and minimisation of waste through the introduction of a encouraging employees to look at career development number of new initiatives within the UK.
We promote flexibility and encourage diversity amongst the workforce, both in recruitment and across all areas of employment, recognising the benefits that this brings to the Company.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Corporate Social Responsibility 43 As a Lloyds Community Programme partner, members of Charity and the community staff from our London offices give up their lunch hours Our total charitable donations for 2005 amounted to twice a week to visit the English Martyr's Roman Catholic 462,000.
All UK employees are encouraged to take part School, Aldgate to help with IT training and support.
in fundraising initiatives for charity and the community and In January 2006, a second group of volunteers embarked in 2005, JLT matched pound for pound monies raised on an introduction to the French language with year 6 and the Companys contributions exceeded 58,000. pupils.
In 2005 those matching initiatives included a sponsored row from the source of the River Thames to Tower Bridge JLT continues to support The Salveson Ski Group with by two of our Partners in our Risk & Insurance business in both funding and a volunteer for the 2006 Easter Skiing support of The Prostate Cancer Charity, The Royal British trip to the disabled skiing centre in WinterPark Colorado.
Legion and West London Action for Children.
Liz OKeefe JLT held several employee social events focused on from our Corporate Risks office in Southampton took part charity with 3 quizzes taking place in our London offices in the Atlantic Rowing Race from La Gomera to Antigua in each with a 1,500 prize that the winners could donate to support of Sail4Cancer.
David Hickman, the Groups their chosen charity.
The Summer Treasure Hunt raised Company Secretary, took part in the 710km Raid 7,500 for the charity DebRA.
Pyrenean bike ride in support of Save the Children.
We are enormously proud of all of our staff who have Many of our overseas offices are involved in local charity taken part in charity related events during 2005. initiatives and active fundraising.
Several of these have been supported by the Group and include a golf day In the UK, the Group is a Business in the Community organised by our Sydney, Australia office to raise partner and a member of London Cares.
In January much-needed funds for The Cystic Fibrosis Clinic at 2006 JLT hosted a breakfast for London Cares to support The Westmead Children's Hospital.
their corporate recruitment campaign and spoke to businesses about the many benefits of volunteering.
Our JLT Asia Managing Director travelled from Singapore to Siem Reap in Cambodia to run in the 10th Angkor Wat Our employees in the UK are eligible to receive one paid International Half Marathon to support two international community charity day per year and around 150 charities by way of donating bicycles to a local school and employees took advantage of this day, working on local orphanage, a total of 120 bicycles were donated.
This included supporting the London Cares day in May 2005 where around 40 of our staff went In the UK, The Give As You Earn scheme enables out to 3 local schools in one day to create wildlife gardens employees to make regular charitable donations in a and improve playgrounds in primary schools in 3 London tax efficient manner.
Donations under this scheme raised boroughs.
in excess of 28,000 during the year.
