Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate social responsibility feel unable to discuss such issues By the end of 2005, a further the Producer Responsibility The Board takes the area with their line managers.
Business 46 sites had received ISO Packaging Waste Regulations.
of social responsibility seriously area heads are responsible for 14001 accreditation.
All of the In Germany, the Group is a and has for many years had implementation of the standards.
UK & Ireland sites are now member of Duales System policies with respect to business Compliance is monitored annually.
Much work has also Deutschland who operate the standards, health, safety and During 2005 no incidents of nonbeen undertaken by a number Green Dot recycling system.
The Board compliance have been recorded.
of the Continental European believes that positive actions and Australasian operations, At the beginning of 2005 four with respect to social Environment, health and safety as yet unaccredited, many of Group level health and safety responsibility are not only The Group has a long-standing which should gain accreditation objectives were identified: desirable in their own right but commitment to achieving during 2006.
The following are also of potential economic continual improvement in chart shows the significant the achievement of an overall and commercial benefit to the environment, health and safety progress made over the past reduction in incidence and Company.
The Group few years in implementing severity rates: of the FTSE4Good index.
Environment, Health and Safety environmental management Committee comprises systems in the businesses.
the successful implementation Bunzls corporate social representatives from the business of the new audit process responsibility policy provides areas and is responsible to the Sites achieving ISO 14001 across the Group: a reference point to guide Board for reviewing the Groups Continuing operations stakeholders, including all environment, health and safety the provision of some 100 employees, on the elements that policy and agreeing standards quantified benchmarking of 80 drive the conduct of the business and objectives for the Group Bunzls HSE performance: 60 and relationships with the world worldwide as well as auditing and in which the Company operates.
environmental, health and safety 40 The overall policy is performance against those the identification of further 20 made up of the following objectives.
An integrated Group initiatives for improving 0 2002 2003 2004 2005 underlying elements: Standards of web-based Environment, Health health and safety standards.
business conduct Code of and Safety tool, the Bunzl Group ethics, Environment, health and System BGS has been These sites, which are shown The two indices measured at safety, Employees, Customers, developed, which is universally on a cumulative basis, now Group level are: incidence rate, Suppliers and Community.
Further applicable and adds value to the employ around 40% of staff reflecting the total number details are available on the environmental and health and within the Group.
of accidents incidents which Companys website, safety management programmes involve lost time, and severity www.
both at subsidiary and Group Following the demerger of Filtrona, rate, reflecting the number level.
During 2006 it is planned the major environmental impacts of days lost or restricted as Standards of business to extend the BGS from the of Bunzl going forward are the result of accidents or conduct Code of ethics UK and US to include the associated with the consumption work-related ill-health.
The Group has standards of businesses in Continental of fuel to transport products and business conduct which were Europe and Australasia.
A number of Continuing operations updated most recently in 2006. initiatives in each of the business 300 6000 The standards set out the Bunzl has continued its focus areas are continuing which have 250 5000 behaviour expected of each Bunzl on the environmental aspects a positive environmental benefit.
200 4000 employee and cover the areas of of its operations.
The following For example, there is focus on 150 3000 100 2000 conflicts of interest, compliance objectives were set for 2005: the efficient use of fuel by better 50 1000 with laws, rules and regulations, route planning and transport 0 0 dealing in Bunzl shares, protection the accurate and efficient management.
Uneconomic 2003 2004 2005 of confidential information, collation and consolidation deliveries have been allocated Incidence rate Severity rate protection and proper use of of comparable environmental to couriers.
Bailers, used to company assets, relationships data from all sites: compress waste paper for There has been an increase with customers, suppliers and disposal, and waste segregation from 2004 to 2005 in both the employees, compliance with the the achievement of an overall programmes have been number of reported accidents Code and reporting of unethical reduction in energy usage, introduced at more sites.
behaviour, including any issues water and raw material Discussions have been held with This is due in the main to better relating to accounting, internal consumption and waste: suppliers to eliminate unnecessary and more accurate recording controls and auditing matters.
transit packaging and wherever of lost time in the UK & Ireland To raise employee awareness the addition of an possible reusable packaging is with the introduction of the BGS, further, notices have been posted environmental section to the purchased.
All of these actions as well as the introduction of across the Company encouraging new health & safety audit: and have led to an improvement in the more businesses with less employees to Speak Out amount of waste going to landfill.
established safety procedures regarding any business related the identification of In the UK, the Group is a member into the Bunzl health and safety concerns including details of suitable industry norms of Valpak who discharge the processes.
Regrettably during confidential contacts should they for benchmarking.
relevant obligations under the year there has been one 20 Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Number of sites covered Incidence rate number of incidents per 100,000 employees Severity rate number of days lost per 100,000 employees fatality a member of the general recruitment of high quality staff the Group, notifying employees suppliers of products and public involved in a road and developing them within the of major business successes, services to ensure that the accident in the US.
businesses to maximise personal acquisitions and appointments.
welfare of workers and labour performance and progression.
This is supplemented locally by conditions within the supply The new audit process, which This is achieved by a combination a variety of newsletters, briefings chain meet or exceed was developed during 2004, has of structured Group management and intranet communication recognised standards.
been launched across the UK and development programmes, giving more specific information Management regularly meet US.
The process concentrates specific skills training within related to the business or site with suppliers to ensure mutual more on performance rather than respective businesses, where an employee is based.
understanding and to give and written procedures and aims to performance management receive feedback on services encourage best practice rather processes and the provision of Customers and goods received.
The challenging and responsible roles.
The Groups business and process has been well received During 2005 and ongoing, more livelihood depends upon its Community by the businesses.
It is too early than 500 sales professionals in customers.
Every employee is Bunzl is a member of Business to point to any improvements the US will have completed a new responsible for ensuring that in the Community in the UK and in overall standards due to its training programme developed any contact with customers and at Group level has continued to introduction.
The new process will specifically for them.
The new the public at large reflects support a cross section of be rolled out across Continental Bunzl VIP value, integrity and professionalism, efficiency and projects within registered Europe and Australasia during performance sales training honesty.
During 2005, as has charities in the fields of healthcare, 2006.
The Group Environment, and development initiative is been the practice for some education and disability.
In 2005 Health and Safety Committee has designed to enable the USs sales years, a number of businesses Bunzl and its employees across reviewed potential international professionals to learn and apply undertook formal customer the world made significant companies to approach on an state-of-the-art techniques and surveys to measure their donations to various disaster informal basis to exchange views tools.
The Group aims to provide customer service performance funds including tsunami support and issues regarding consolidation opportunities to employees and and rectify any issues identified.
via UNICEF, the Red Cross and of accident reporting.
The US strives to promote from within In addition, senior management a special fund set up by one of has continued to benchmark whenever appropriate.
This was meet key customers on an Bunzls UK employees, as well itself against OSHA incident evidenced in 2005 with the ad hoc basis to ensure as support to Hurricane Katrina rate statistics for General appointment of Brian May, an understanding of their service victims via the American Red Warehousing and Storage internal candidate, as Finance requirements and gain their Cross and Salvation Army.
The performance Director, Bunzl plc.
Graduates perceptions on how these continued to sponsor projects against this benchmark remains continue to be recruited into the requirements are being met.
relating to prostate breast cancer favourable.
The Company businesses in the US and UK The quality of the operations research through Imperial is continuing to improve the and have a successful structured and service is key and many College London.
Queen benchmarking process in 2006. training programme to enhance sites, which on an aggregate Elizabeths Training College was their development.
basis employ over 40% of staff supported to set up a painting A variety of initiatives and training in the Group, have attained and decorating course and for have been undertaken to improve Appropriate and well-timed ISO 9001:2000 accreditation.
a Job Club with the aim of health and safety performance communication to and from A number of customers have training disabled people to return across the Company.
These have employees is essential in ensuring recognised the quality of service to or start work.
Support was included the introduction of safety the effectiveness of the business.
during 2005 and a number of also given to Leonard Cheshires harnesses made of high visibility The European Information and awards have been received Workability programme, which material with retractable safety Consultation Forum continues including: the US which was provides computers and training lines to replace lanyards at all to meet to provide information named by The United Group, for disabled people to obtain US facilities, the purchase of to, and to consult with, elected Golbon for the fourth year in a recognised computer IT equipment to reduce manual employee representatives on succession and Frosty Acres qualification in their own homes, handling and eliminate the use Group and business area policies, for the second year in as well as part sponsoring two of picking steps and clear strategy and performance.
succession as their Suppliers Discover IT centres which enable communication of the traffic Some UK businesses have of the Year and Bunzl Cleaning disabled people to learn about rules in warehouses to maintain formalised information and Supplies in the UK which was computers in a friendly and appropriate separation.
In 2005 consultation arrangements given a commendation from informal training centre.
the Committee completed to ensure better employee the Leader of Westminster City In addition, Group companies the development of Group health involvement and feedback locally.
Council for its quick response and individual employees and safety policies to improve A number of businesses have to demand for products.
worldwide continue to support awareness and standards.
During undertaken employee attitude local charitable initiatives.
the year the Drivers Handbook surveys.
This has resulted in Suppliers The US has for many years was revised and distributed in the a better understanding of the Bunzl regards suppliers as raised money for the Queen UK and will be amended for other workforce and a number of partners and works with them of Peace Center, which assists jurisdictions during 2006. changes have been made as to help achieve policy aspirations homeless, mentally ill and a result.
A magazine, renamed in the delivery of products and chemically addicted families with Employees The Source, continues to be services.
Specifically the Group treatment, day care, housing Bunzl remains committed to the produced and distributed around is committed to working with its and jobs.
Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 21
