CORPORA TE & SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY As a publicly listed company at the endeavouring to be sensitive to the cultural, social and moral principles of the communities heart of the most international market in which we conduct our activities.
in the world, integrity is central to our success and we are proud of the way We aspire to be good citizens in a variety of ways, in which we do business.
We know not least, by encouraging our staff to share their that the trust of our stakeholders is skills, experience and enthusiasm through active participation in our Community Programme.
critical to the achievement of our long-term growth ambitions.
As such, Our partner charity for 2004 06 is Brainwave.
we always strive for openness and Every year in this country, 23,000 children honesty in all our business dealings become brain-injured or suffer from brain and treat our customers, shareholders impairment, sometimes following an accident, sometimes as the result of a genetic condition, and employees as valued partners in illness or birth trauma.
Brainwave is one of our business.
the UKs leading charities supporting children who suffer developmental delay as a result Our approach continues to give priority to of such a condition.
Its work is achieving those activities that are of real relevance to our remarkable transformations in the physical Five year old Charlotte Palfreeman from Swindon stakeholders and where we consider we can and cognitive states of children across the is pictured here with her mother Rachel, presenting a bouquet of owers to HRH The Queen when she have most impact.
Priorities are therefore: UK through a tailored programme where ofcially opened the Exchanges new headquarters rehabilitation exercises are taught to the childs last July.
Charlotte, diagnosed with Cerebral Palsy, Communities parents or carers.
started a programme with Brainwave in July 2003.
We believe that we have a responsibility towards the wider society in which we conduct Our financial support has already provided our business and to support our staff in their Brainwave with the funding to establish a regional individual and collective efforts to make a family support network and, by the end of the contribution to the community.
We do this by: two year partnership, around half the families on the programme will be enjoying the support of a making a positive contribution to the local officer responsible for meeting their needs.
community by adopting a partner charity: We are proud of our staff matching programme, committing to a process of continual which matches funds raised by staff for any UK environmental improvement and pollution registered charity, pound for pound.
This year prevention to minimise adverse saw a significant increase of over 50 per cent environmental impact on the communities in staff matching applications on the preceding in which we operate: year, demonstrating how our people value this programme.
We also make community awards encouraging employee involvement to charities to recognise the time spent by in supported community projects and members of staff performing voluntary work initiatives: and with them in their own time.
20 LONDON ST OCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPOR T 2005 This year we were also able to support a number maintaining accurate financial records which stronger links between corporate objectives, of charities by giving them the use of our event transparently and honestly reect the team performance, individual performance, facilities and in-house catering so they could financial position of our business: and reward and training and development.
hold business development events at the London Stock Exchange, at zero cost.
striving to meet the expectations of our Our reward package for staff is designed shareholders by maximising shareholder to provide incentives for the delivery of both Our move to Paternoster Square provided value and providing competitive returns.
short term goals and the achievement of long the Community Programme Group with the term objectives.
This is performed through opportunity to demonstrate the commercial A full programme of investor relations activity cash bonus eligibility for all staff and equity benets of large scale recycling.
A technology ensures appropriate contact is maintained with schemes for individuals with the clearest line refresh that coincided with our move enabled key audiences, including institutional and private of sight to corporate performance.
us to donate around 800 PCs and screens shareholders and analysts, through regular to Tools For Schools, a charity that matches meetings, periodic presentations and publication Our share schemes continue to encourage redundant computers from the business of information.
Communication is conducted in employees to take an active stake in the community with schools across the UK who a manner that effectively provides information success of our company, with a participation need them most.
The donation proved far less on company performance whilst ensuring level of over 70 per cent.
expensive than more traditional forms of IT the protection of price sensitive information decommissioning and disposal.
not already available to all shareholders.
In addition, we give all staff access to a comprehensive range of benets and funding Similarly, we sold much of the ofce furniture Over the past year the Exchange has held over to purchase those of most relevance through left behind in the move to staff, small business 100 meetings and calls with major UK and our exible benets scheme, which includes start-ups and charities, donating the 43,000 overseas investors.
As well as London based a number of health and welfare schemes.
raised to the Trident Trust and Brainwave.
meetings and events, investor contact involved visits to other financial centres, including Paris, As well as a stimulating environment, we Environment Amsterdam, Milan, Stockholm, Edinburgh and maintain healthy and safe working conditions.
We recognise that our activities inevitably have various US cities.
The effectiveness of the Our Health and Safety policy includes an impact on the environment.
Consequently communication programme is monitored directly procedures for the safe handling of toxic and we embrace the principles of sustainable through feedback to the company and indirectly environmentally damaging materials.
Health development and are committed to a process through feedback to our brokers and periodic and Safety is monitored by a group made up of continual environmental improvement and third party perception audits.
of representatives from each business area pollution prevention.
We treat all relevant which meets on a regular basis and considers environmental legislation and regulations as Our financial reporting has always sought to changes in legislation and related matters.
the minimum standard and seek to exceed comply with each of the requirements we are set.
This group is augmented with external them wherever possible.
Additionally, transparency in the detail of what we consultancy who review Health and Safety report continues to be an overriding objective.
standards and opportunities for improvement An Environmental Policy Statement which on a weekly basis.
There were no reportable provides a framework for developing and Employees illnesses, dangerous occurrences, or liabilities, reviewing environmental objectives is set out We recognise that our competitiveness is nor were any health and safety enforcement on our website at www.
 on employing and developing notices or convictions received.
We identify opportunities to reduce and the best people.
We aim to create the right to staff were reported under the health and recycle the resources we consume including environment for people to do their best work by: safety reporting regulations during the year.
energy, water and other natural resources, thereby also minimising the amount of waste creating a working environment which we produce.
enables employees to develop their skills and knowledge: Our relocation to Paternoster Square has enabled us to make changes to our maintaining healthy and safe working environmental impact.
Whilst we are not conditions and operating in an a significant energy and resource user, early  manner: indications are that we are making resource savings from the new building.
encouraging a working environment in which employees feel comfortable about Each year, we continue to be awarded the Gold highlighting wrongdoing: Award under the Corporation of London Clean City Awards Scheme which recognises good enabling our employees to make informed practice to reduce, reuse and recycle.
We have decisions about the effect of a wide range an established Energy Management Policy of benets on their lifestyle, wealth and which aims to minimise our impact from carbon financial security: and dioxide emissions.
promoting an environment of equality Governance of opportunity which is intolerant of We seek to deliver the highest standards discrimination, harassment or victimisation.
in boardroom practice and financial transparency by: We continue to create an environment which further develops the skills and knowledge of our facilitating open and transparent dialogue employees.
To achieve this, we have redesigned with our investor audience: the appraisal system for all staff to establish 21 LONDON ST OCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPOR T 2005
