During 2005 the Company engaged the services of Corporate and social GoodCorporation, a specialist consultancy in this field, to assist in a preliminary verification and audit of many of the Groups existing business practices and policies and in particular responsibility those that affect a number of the Groups key stakeholders.
On completion of this review, the Group received a written report and presentation covering such key areas as employees, customers, suppliers, shareholders, community and the environment.
This preliminary review is being used to identify areas where opportunities may exist to make meaningful improvements.
In delivering these business strategies, the Group recognises that It is intended that the 2006 Annual Report will provide further it is a multi-faceted and international business.
As such, it has a details on progress made, including a summary of the broad range of stakeholders, in a variety of countries, each of improvements that have been achieved during the current whom has an interest in the activities of the Group.
some of these stakeholder groups include customers, shareholders, employees, affiliates, suppliers, local communities, Customers and responsible gaming regulators licensing bodies, trade associations, consumer Customers are the Groups lifeblood.
Providing appropriate protection organisations and governments.
safeguards and protections is essential to ensure that PartyGaming remains the players choice when it comes The Companys behaviour and that of its officers and employees to online gaming.
can affect, directly or indirectly, any or all of these stakeholders, as well as influence the general perceptions of PartyGaming The Groups terms and conditions outline the responsibilities of and everything that becomes associated with it.
Our corporate both the customer and the relevant PartyGaming subsidiary.
behaviour in its broadest sense can be expected to influence In particular, the customer agrees that he she is complying with the way in which third-parties may do business with us and this the local law, in terms of the legality of playing, by accepting in turn is likely to influence the long-term success of the Group.
Since the business was formed back in 1997, its philosophy has Protecting vulnerable customers is a crucial element of been focused on acting properly and responsibly in its dealings PartyGamings strategy and in particular the prevention of with stakeholders.
Senior management recognised the risks and underage gaming on its sites.
On all of the Groups real money potential damage to our reputation and business if we fail to sites, a player is first asked for information so as to establish his her meet a high standard of professional and ethical conduct when identity, including date of birth and address.
Then, using third dealing with our key stakeholders.
In order to help manage these party databases, to the extent available, the Group seeks to relationships, the Company has adopted a range of policies that verify the identity of the player and confirm that they are old establish a framework defining the way in which the Group enough to play.
Where a player cannot be verified by these interacts with each of its stakeholders, thereby mitigating the means, they are asked to provide additional information.
potential risk attached to each of the relationships that PartyGaming has to address.
A sign of the Boards commitment to this important task is the fact that it has established an Ethics Committee of the Board to be responsible for overseeing the Companys framework of corporate and social responsibility CSR practices in the same way that the Audit Committee oversees the Companys internal control environment.
Rod Perry chairs the Ethics Committee and Lars Berg, Michael Jackson and Janos Libor are the other members.
Whilst the Committee has a broad remit, some of the particular issues upon which it is focused, given their importance to the Group, are as follows: Responsible gaming: Fairness of the gaming platforms and rules: and Charitable donation investment in the local community.
In addition, the Committee is responsible for overseeing and for establishing a regular process for reporting on and developing such practices.
39 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2005 In a fast growing and rapidly changing market, the Group aims Corporate and social to ensure that its employees have all of the technical skills and knowledge required to fulfil their roles effectively.
Training is an ongoing part of life at PartyGaming and is provided both responsibility internally and externally.
For example, our customer service continued operators in India undergo a rigorous training programme, including classroom sessions as well as on-the-job training before speaking to customers.
Suppliers The Groups key suppliers include providers of systems hardware, bandwidth and telecommunications services, payment PartyGaming has established a series of procedures and controls in order to promote responsible gaming.
These include: only processing, television advertising and other media space.
The Group seeks to ensure that it enters into valid contracts with being able to have one player account so that if later they are excluded, or choose to exclude themselves, they cannot all of its suppliers and acts in accordance with the terms of those agreements for the duration of the contract including fair re-enter the site, allowing customers to set limits on the amount they deposit within a given period and providing an option to treatment and prompt payment.
exclude themselves from the site for a pre-determined period.
In addition, the Group also contracts with over 5,000 affiliates The Group was certificated by GamCare in February 2005 in who drive player traffic to the Groups websites.
The Group recognition of the Groups high standards of responsible gaming recently introduced a new affiliate programme called and player protection.
The Group was assessed in each of the PartyPartners that aims to provide an integrated service to following key areas: each of its affiliates and since its introduction in 2005 has been well received.
Age verification system: Customer led controls for spend and session play: Community and environment As an online business, the Group believes that it is a relatively Self-exclusion options: low impact company from a community and environmental Reality checks within games screen: point of view.
However, the Group is keen to contribute to the local economies where it has a presence and has introduced a Social responsibility content and sources of help: and charity policy under which inter alia, there is now a framework Customer service training.
to facilitate the donation of funds to charities and the local community under the guidance of the Ethics Committee.
Employees In addition, as part of the policy, employees have been granted The Group is not asset-rich in the conventional sense, its main the opportunity to participate in a pro bono scheme whereby assets being its customers, its brands, its technology and its each employee is encouraged to spend a day every year reputation, each of which are driven and sustained by working in their local community.
The Group contributed to its workforce.
a number of disaster relief, health and problem gambling charities in 2005.
Over the past 12 months PartyGaming has undergone an enormous expansion in terms of employees and the total Shareholders and other providers of capital number has increased to 1,359 at the end of 2005 compared At the heart of the Groups investor relations policy is a desire to with just 856 a year earlier.
The Group has a centralised Human maintain regular and open dialogue with the Groups investors Resources HR function with overall responsibility for all and investment analysts who follow PartyGamings progress.
employees, although each of the Groups locations also has an In addition to the half yearly publication of financial results, HR function to help manage day-to-day issues.
The Group has the Group also publishes its key performance indicators every processes and systems addressing a variety of issues including quarter and the Chief Executive Officer, Group Finance Director equal opportunities, health and safety, grievances and discipline and Director of Investor Relations are engaged in a continuous and whistle-blowing.
programme of conference calls, presentations and meetings PartyGaming is truly international both in terms of customers as with investors and analysts around the world, providing an well as its employees and has a highly cosmopolitan workforce opportunity to ask questions and improve their understanding with 23 different nationalities represented across the Group.
of the Groups strategy and key business dynamics.
Similarly, Approximately 36% of the employees are female.
All employees the Group also maintains a regular dialogue with each of its in Gibraltar, Hyderabad and London are issued with a contract lending banks.
There is also an employee handbook that outlines the behaviour expected by employees, the policies that are relevant to them and the obligations of the Company.
40 PartyGaming Plc Chief Executives review Annual report 2005 A good opening hand... 41 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2005 Tournaments PartyPoker is one of the largest Flush!
providers of online poker tournaments and paid out over $2.3 billion in tournament prizes Which is how our in 2005. tournament winners feel.
42 PartyGaming Plc Chief Executives review Annual report 2005
