Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 42 Corporate Responsibility Report Corporate Responsibility Report Headcount Man Group approach to Corporate In the coming year, the focus will be on Responsibility determining our response in our core 3500 Ethical conduct and responsible behaviour business activities and on our relationships 3000 are fundamental to the way the Group with intermediaries and customers.
The Group views 2000 Corporate Responsibility CR as a collective Ethics body of principles and procedures which Ethical conduct is given high priority because 1500 govern our everyday business practices.
trust and reputation are key assets of the 1000 To help our stakeholders understand our Group.
Codes of conduct and supporting 500 approach to CR the Group will now be policies are currently included in the Groups 0 reporting its performance annually in a HR procedures with further ethical codes 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 number of areas where we believe CR relating more specifically to customer and is of relevance to our business practice.
market conduct contained in global and Geographical Headcount Further information on our approach and regional compliance manuals.
The key commitment to CR, as well as more ethical components of existing policy 1 UK: 41.2% 2 Switzerland: 15.5% detailed reporting, will be added to our documents and manuals are being 3 Europe Other: 3.8% website in the course of the coming year.
consolidated into a unified, high-level 4 USA: 29.6% Code of Ethics.
5 Asia: 5.2% 6 Australia: 3.9% Embedding Corporate Responsibility 7 Others including Middle East As part of our commitment to good practice Group policy requires that not only the letter 7 6 & South America: 0.8% 5 in this area, in 2004 the Group initiated a but also the spirit of legal and regulatory thorough review of current arrangements compliance is met.
Conduct is monitored with regard to CR.
The review is being led and enforced by Global Compliance 1 by an internal CR team drawing on external Directors in each business division 4 expertise.
The review is still in progress and supported by compliance directors and is expected to be completed in the current officers covering each local jurisdiction.
Employees 3 2 As the primary responsibility for managing The Group recognises that the quality of CR lies with line management in each its directors, officers and employees is a operating division, the review has included key strength and its people policies are Our commitment to preventing any direct extensive engagement with the divisions therefore directed at creating an or indirect discrimination on the grounds of through a series of workshops and environment that will attract, develop, race, gender, marital status, age, religious meetings with the Compliance, Group Risk, motivate and reward people of the highest belief, language, sexual orientation, Internal Audit, HR, Facilities Management calibre.
HR policies are set by the Group pregnancy or disability is expressed and and Investor Relations departments held HR department and are further developed reinforced through comprehensive policies between Autumn 2004 and Spring 2005. and supplemented by divisional HR and procedures.
departments according to the different Monitoring and reporting business models and needs of Asset We are firmly committed to identifying the The review process to date has confirmed Management and Brokerage.
Policies best people from wherever they are in the that responsible behaviour and ethical are also adapted at the regional level to spectrum of society and attracting them to awareness are inherent within the Groups accommodate differences in culture and join us.
Our decisions on employment and underlying culture and business operations employment law.
promotion are based solely upon each but there would be benefits from increased individuals ability and potential.
We believe formalisation and more transparent reporting The Group has seen a significant expansion we are an employer of choice and we have in this area.
New policies, defined procedures in employee numbers from 2,019 at procedures in place to retain talented and reporting systems are, therefore, in the 31 March 2002 to 3,180 at 31 March 2005 employees.
as a result of both organic growth and a number of acquisitions.
As well as During the year global staff turnover was As our reporting develops we will provide managing this high growth rate, we have 14% 12% in the UK.
stakeholders with more detailed reporting taken ongoing steps to improve HR across our operations.
In this years report, management and our employees working for the first time, we are including new environment.
sections on Ethics and Procurement.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 43 Corporate Responsibility Report Other significant developments in Starting from this year, we will be reporting Procurement 2005 included: on how we manage our environmental Procurement practices have traditionally impacts under three different headings: been decentralised across the Group.
The development and implementation However, reflecting the significant growth of a new PeopleSoft reporting and Offices where we manage and control of the business in recent years we began management system.
This system will the building Sugar Quay in London efforts to streamline practices in 2004. now allow us to develop and report in and the Disaster Recovery Site in Kent.
So far in the UK, this has achieved several more detail on our more significant key Sole tenants where we do not benefits to the business and annualised performance indicators in the HR area.
control the systems but are in a savings of 650,000.
Going forward the An in-depth employee survey carried out position to manage all or some of the focus of our procurement efforts will be on on a global basis by Man Investments environmental inputs three offices in developing and implementing standardised covering a range of topics including Pfffikon.
procedures across all divisions and wellbeing.
Rented offices where we are one of business units in the UK.
In addition, a number of tenants and do not have although overseas offices operate their own Further information and data on Mans control of key environmental impacts procurement functions independently of the policies and performance on employee our US offices and Centennium UK, a road map is being developed in order issues including Health and Safety will be House in London.
to incorporate CR considerations into provided in our internet-based CR Report.
procurement policies on a global basis.
The degree of control we have over the Analysis of UK Procurement Spend Environment, Health and Safety EHS management of our offices is an important It is the Groups policy to conduct its business factor in our ability to reduce our 1 IT: 31% 2 Professional Fees: 22% operations in a manner that protects the environmental impacts.
In our head office in 3 Insurance: 14% health and safety of all its employees and London we have recently negotiated a two- 4 Telecoms: 9% any third parties involved in its business.
year contract to source electricity through a 5 Small Suppliers: 8% 11 6 Premises: 5.5% green tariff which ensures we are supporting 10 7 Staff: 5% Responsibility for determining and the generation of power from clean sources 9 8 8 Marketing: 2.5% 7 implementing Health and Safety policies and significantly reducing our contribution to 9 Catering: 1% 6 1 10 Travel: 1% lies, in the UK, with the EHS Committee, climate change.
11 Utilities: 1% and in overseas offices with local Health 5 and Safety Officers.
Members of the Below we present key environmental data EHS Committee all receive appropriate for our UK, US and Swiss offices.
Full 4 training and are expected to play a role in information on the conversion factors and disseminating Health and Safety awareness calculation processes used will be available amongst all employees.
through our website in the current year.
3 2 In the year the key focus of activities was on Key environmental performance indicators: work station assessments, improvements to Community lighting and air quality in our London offices, Energy consumption and related emissions The communities that we operate in are policies for contractors working on site, important to Man Group.
Playing an active Usable floor space and, following an incident, we undertook a 2 role in these is a significant way in which we excluding DR sites 12.3 m employee major overhaul and renovation of our London express our values and develop our brand.
There were no fatalities, reportable Electricity 7,074 KwH employee injuries, fines or breaches of Health and With a head office based in the City of Gas 1,784 KwH employee Safety legislation or internal policies.
London, we are aware that some of our CO2 Emission 3,619 KgCO employee 2 neighbouring boroughs number amongst The Group is a member of the British Safety the poorest and most deprived in the UK.
The main vehicle for philanthropic giving is Air Travel the Man Group plc Charitable Trust.
The Short Medium Haul 2,354 Km employee Man Group does not have a major direct main areas of support are: Long Haul 6,868 Km employee impact on the environment as its business CO Emission 1,071 KgCO employee 2 2 is office-based.
Nevertheless, the Group is Neighbouring communities No.
of video conferencing units 33 Units aware of the importance of environmental Youth programmes with a special focus issues and is committed to measuring and on access and inclusion reducing those impacts which are within its Arts ability to control.
The Groups environmental Education policies place particular emphasis on making Small medical charities which lie outside concern and respect for the environment the mainstream of medical funding the individual responsibility of every employee.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 44 Corporate Responsibility Report On a global basis, total charitable cash It is our policy to encourage employee donations amounted to 1,658,000. involvement and participation in community Included in this amount was a special work and charitable giving.
Each year staff one-off donation of $1,000,000 541,000 nominate and vote for a Charity of the Year.
given in response to the tsunami disaster In 2005, the staff voted for Kids Company, in South East Asia.
who subsequently received a special award of 100,000 as well as the opportunity to In the UK cash donations from the Man involve staff in various aspects of the Group plc Charitable Trust increased to charitys work.
The policy of matching 640,000 in 2005.
Board members and employee fund raising continued with the management in London contributed more Group matching 60,000 raised by staff.
than the equivalent of 500,000 in The Group provided further incentives for management time to charity work.
We have staff to participate in Give As You Earn continued to make our boardroom and schemes and the number of participating other London head office facilities available staff increased to 99. for use by neighbouring business charities which lack such facilities themselves.
In the area of Arts sponsorship, Man Group continued its sponsorship of the Man In the US our businesses in Chicago and Booker Prize for Fiction and, again, New York donated $540,000 292,000 to sponsored the Man Hong Kong charity.
Of this amount $250,000 135,000 International Literary Festival.
In addition, was donated to Meals on Wheels as a Man Group announced its sponsorship of result of significant staff involvement in this a major new international literary prize the particular charity.
Donations in the year in Man Booker International Prize.
This new Australia, Switzerland and other overseas prize is for a body of fiction, rather than a offices amounted to 185,000. single work, and is open to any living author whose work is available in English.
The prize In support of neighbouring communities, will be awarded every two years and the we continued our support for, and first prize winner will be announced in June involvement with, the East London 2005.
The value of Man Groups combined Business Alliance, the East London Small sponsorships in the field of literature Business Centre and the scholarship exceeds 650,000 per annum.
programme for boys from less advantaged neighbourhoods at City of London School.
Support for two education partnerships in two neighbouring boroughs was continued.
A new and important project was our sole sponsorship of the new London Youth Rowing Club facility in the East End of London.
This facility, which was opened by Sir Stephen Redgrave, has the specific objective of providing access to the sport of rowing for both boys and girls from neighbourhoods in the East End of London.
Combining the arts and youth themes, we continued our provision of a scholarship and the funding of the annual drawing prize at the Royal College of Art and we launched a major new initiative for music in schools known as pianoMan.
Under this latter project, an internationally renowned concert pianist will be visiting two schools in every county throughout the UK.
The programme at each school comprises a musical demonstration, a master-class and a public concert.
From the participating schools, five Man scholars will be selected to receive further individual tuition in London.
