Corporate governance Corporate and social responsibility report Cable & Wireless is committed to effective management of social, Addressing the digital divide ethical and environmental matters.
The Board manages and Cable & Wireless works with governments, charities and voluntary monitors corporate responsibility through the Corporate organisations to enable those from underprivileged communities to Responsibility Steering Group, chaired by the Executive Deputy use and benefit from access to ICT.
Chairman, Lord Robertson of Port Ellen.
Bracknells popular Cable & Wireless After School ICT Academy is Business principles based at the Groups head office in Bracknell and helps 11 to 14 The Cable & Wireless Board Code of Business Principles, year olds to develop confidence in the use of technology and gain December 2004 provides standards and guidelines for business new skills.
Cable & Wireless staff are volunteer mentors to conduct across the Group.
It commits the business to ethical the scheme: conduct and includes clear guidance on: through WebPlay, Cable & Wireless enabled more than 3,000 corporate governance: underprivileged 8 to 12 year olds to learn through the creative use of ICT.
The initiative supports national curriculum targets in community investment: literacy, technology and citizenship.
Volunteer mentors from Cable & Wireless support the project: employee relations and development: in October 2004, Cable & Wireless supported Age Concerns fourhuman rights: week Silver Surfers Festival.
This provided free internet taster sessions for older people across 100 Age Concern centres in the UK: management of the Groups environmental impact: the Cable & Wireless Panama Foundation works with the Ministry occupational health & safety: and of Education to provide PCs and internet connectivity for 20,000 pupils in 14 schools across the country.
The Foundation helped supplier, customer and other stakeholder relations.
create a new IT suite in a rural primary school in Pacora, hailed by the Minister of Education as the countrys first Technological The Board additionally has a Code of Ethics specifically applicable to Innovation Classroom.
The government hopes to replicate the the Chief Executive Officer and senior financial officers.
Employees model in schools across Panama: and are encouraged to report any breach of the codes and can do so confidentially and anonymously through the Groups whistle-blowing Cable & Wireless India has worked with the Christel House procedures.
Both codes are available on the Companys website.
School, Bangalore to provide pupils with an internet-ready, fully equipped and maintained computer laboratory.
Community investment Cable & Wireless is committed to contributing positively to the Using the internet safely communities around it.
The Groups community investments are run The internet offers exciting opportunities but can have hidden in partnership with voluntary and community based organisations, dangers.
Cable & Wireless works with its partners to protect governments and charities and directed by a cross Group children from unsuitable content and raise understanding of Community Investment Committee.
In 2005, Cable & Wireless total Group-wide community Run with internet charity Childnet International, the Cable & Wireless contributions were valued at 7.7 million, of which 6.4 million Childnet Academy 2005 highlighted positive use of the internet by were cash charitable contributions.
Of the total, 1.7 million was young people, through an international web development competition spent in the UK.
for young people which attracted entries from 49 countries.
The programme offered specialist web support, technical advice and Most of Cable & Wireless business units undertake charitable and leadership training.
The winning websites can be seen at community initiatives with significant activity at Group level and www.
org in the UK, Barbados, Jamaica and Panama.
Cable & Wireless has established charitable foundations in Panama, Jamaica and Alongside the Childnet Academy 2005, the Cable & Wireless the Seychelles.
Jamaica Foundation, Childnet International and the British Council hosted a 180 strong policy conference to examine safe use of the The Cable & Wireless community investment programme currently internet by children and young people in Jamaica in March 2005. focuses on three main areas: addressing the digital divide: Policy makers, teachers and industry representatives shared best promoting safety and security in the use of the internet and practice to ensure that young people in the Caribbean can use the information and communication technologies ICT : and internet safely.
The Kidsmart Internet safety programme, supported encouraging positive use of ICT.
by Cable & Wireless, offered internet safety guidelines to teachers, parents and pupils.
26 27 2005 Annual Report Disaster response Employees may join employee representative bodies or trade Following Hurricane Ivan in the Caribbean and the Asian Tsunami, unions.
Cable & Wireless recognises unions for collective bargaining Cable & Wireless made two US$1 million donations during 2005. purposes in some, but not all, the countries in which it operates.
The first provided relief and reconstruction work in Cayman, Career development Grenada and Jamaica following the devastation in September 2004.
We have introduced personal development plans for employees to Cable & Wireless also provided immediate humanitarian supplies, help them reach their career development goals.
The Group offers telecoms equipment and expert help in the immediate aftermath training and development opportunities to employees at all levels.
of the hurricane and sent 30 tonnes of relief supplies to the affected region.
Human rights Cable & Wireless supports the Universal Declaration of Human The second donation was made towards the reconstruction of the Rights and the ILO Core Conventions relating to freedom of Maldives following the Tsunami in December 2004.
Again this was in association, the abolition of forced labour and the elimination of addition to support from Cable & Wireless engineers in restoring child labour.
the communications networks to the devastated islands.
The Maldives national telecommunications company, Dhiraagu, which Occupational health, safety and environment is 45 per cent owned by Cable & Wireless, made a further Cable & Wireless has a comprehensive occupational health, safety US$1 million donation.
and environmental programme to minimise the risks detailed below.
OHSE process is the responsibility of the Groups Corporate Employment Responsibility Steering group chaired by the Executive Deputy Workforce profile Chairman, Lord Robertson.
At 31 March 2005, Cable & Wireless had 14,781 employees comprising UK 4,499, US 41, Europe 423, Asia 221, Bulldog The integrated OHSE Management System sets common Group 505, Caribbean 4,147, Panama 1,818, Macau 932, Monaco standards, based on international standards OHSAS 18001 and 458, Rest of the World 1,411 and Other 326.
These are supported by detailed local policies and across the Group, the male female mix of the workforce was 66 per procedures to ensure compliance with local legal requirements.
cent male to 34 per cent female.
The Groups continual risk assessment procedures identify and manage potential hazards appropriately.
Employment policies Cable & Wireless employment policies comply with local Performance targets requirements and meet standards of occupational health, safety and Cable & Wireless has identified key OHSE risks.
In 2004 the Group environment OHSE, business ethics, diversity, disability, performance set OHSE objectives in each of these areas: management and employee relations.
zero occupational health, safety, fire or environment prosecutions Cable & Wireless is committed to providing a working environment or notices from enforcing authorities: in which employees can realise their potential and contribute to business success.
The Group aims to ensure that no employee, job zero fatal injuries to employees, customers, partners or applicant, customer or supplier is discriminated against.
contractors: The Groups employment philosophy is underpinned by the major injuries and lost time accidents to be reduced by 20 per principles of fostering diversity in its workforce.
This enables the cent before 2010 against the 2003 baseline : business to access the broadest possible pool of talent and sustain high-performance teams and to meet its aim of offering at least 25 per cent of National Businesses to attain ISO 14001 opportunities to all the local cultures in which we operate.
Environmental Management Standard certification by the end of 2008: Employee consultation and employee relations Cable & Wireless has formal and informal channels for employee reduce energy consumption by 5 per cent during 2005 based on consultation and communication.
The Group values the participation the 2003 baseline consumption: of its employees and keeps them informed about the Groups development.
Cable & Wireless undertakes regular surveys to increase the procurement of renewable energy to 25 per cent ascertain employee satisfaction and feeds back results to employees.
by 2010 from 2004 : In the UK and Europe employees are represented through the Employee Consultation Forum ECF.
There were no strikes or develop and report progress on plans to remove all HCFCs formal disputes during 2005.
Group-wide by the end of 2010: remove all CFCs and Halons Group-wide by the end of 2010: Corporate governance Corporate governance Corporate and social responsibility report assess suppliers of defined goods and services to ensure their This change in the data collection process brings improved ability to manage OHSE risks: and efficiency but means figures are not directly comparable with previous years results.
complete and report OHSE internal audits of all substantial national businesses.
Further information can be found in the Cable & Wireless Occupational Health and Safety Report OHSE 2005, which will Performance Data be available on the Companys website in July 2005.
OHSE performance is measured via an annual data collection exercise.
In 2005, Cable & Wireless recognised that, due to significant Performance against targets during 2005 is summarised as follows: change in the business, a new approach to data collection was required.
Accordingly, we limited data collection to four main areas of the business: UK, Caribbean, Panama and Macau.
Thirteen of our businesses submitted data, equivalent to 79 per cent of the total business by turnover and 75 per cent of the total business by number of employees.
2005 2004 1a 1b Target Actual Actual On target Occupational Health and Safety Prosecutions 000 Yes 2 Enforcement notices 0 1 0No 3a 3b Fatal injury accidents Cable & Wireless employees 0 0 0 Yes 4 Lost time incident rate per 10,000 employees Reduce by 20% by 5 end 2010 over 2003 baseline 67.6 88.4 Yes Environmental management Per cent of businesses by turnover with ISO14001 25% of businesses with certification by end 2008 12.4% 8.3% Yes Energy and transport CO per unit turnover tonnes CO 1million turnover Reduce by 5% in 2004 2005 2 2 against 2003 baseline 74.9 59.0 No Per cent of electricity from renewable energy Increase use to 25% by 2010 14.3% Yes HCFCs stored kg Remove all by 2010 13,535 31,500 Yes CFCs stored kg Remove all by 2010 4,122 5,900 Yes Halons stored kg Remove all by 2010 27,544 52,400 Yes Supplier and business unit assessment Per cent of suppliers of defined goods audited Assess 100% of suppliers of defined goods 100% 10.8% Yes Per cent of businesses by turnover conducting OHSE internal audits Audit 100% of substantial businesses 94.5% Yes Notes: 1a All normalised data is normalised against, or shown as a per cent of, the turnover of businesses participating in the data collection exercise.
1b All normalised data is normalised against the turnover of the total Group businesses.
2 Cable & Wireless UK was served with one improvement notice in October 2004 see Significant OHSE Incidents.
3a There were no fatalities in Cable & Wireless businesses during the 2005 financial year.
One incident was reported in which a contractor died as a result of a fall while working at one of Cable & Wireless sites in St Lucia.
A full investigation following the accident demonstrated that Cable & Wireless bore no responsibility.
3b There were no fatalities in Cable & Wireless businesses during the 2004 financial year.
Although an incident was reported in which two contractor employees died in a mud slide on a road, the full investigation showed that the employees were not engaged in work on behalf of Cable & Wireless, though the contractor had undertaken work for us in the past.
4 A lost time incident LTI is defined as any incident which results in an employee being absent for one day or more due to incapacity or ill health arising out of the incident and occurring within 24 hours of the incident.
The lost time incident rate is defined as the number of LTIs in the past 12 months divided by the working population, expressed as a rate per 10,000 employees.
5 This lost time incident rate is comparable with other telecom industry performance.
28 29 2005 Annual Report Significant OHSE incidents Internet acceptable use Cable & Wireless was served an improvement notice in October Cable & Wireless has an Internet Acceptable Use Policy AUP.
2004 relating to the use of a domestic extractor within a UK office This confirms the sole responsibility of Cable & Wireless customers building.
Cable & Wireless complied with this fully and awaits for their content and messages.
It defines the activities which a decision on prosecution.
An internal investigation has been customers are prohibited from undertaking, such as those which conducted and all recommendations for improvement have violate the law or threaten the integrity of any network or been implemented.
The AUP is available on the Companys website.
In January 2005 an oil spill occurred at a Cable & Wireless Stakeholder dialogue technical site in the UK.
Cable & Wireless co-operated fully with Cable & Wireless engages with many external organisations, the Environment Agency in the clean-up operation.
An internal including non-governmental organisations, fund managers and rating investigation into the incident has been conducted and agencies, regarding the Groups corporate responsibility recommendations for improvement are being implemented.
Purchasing and supply chain Cable & Wireless continues to be a constituent member of the Cable & Wireless is committed to fair relations with suppliers, FTSE4Good Index.
Cable & Wireless performance during 2005 led customers and business partners.
The Groups purchasing and supply to an improvement in the Groups corporate responsibility rating by chain function has made significant effort in 2005 to encourage two of Europes leading rating agencies, Vigeo and Core Ratings.
suppliers to respect the Groups business principles and maintain high standards of social, ethical and environmental conduct.
Cable & Wireless scored 84.5 per cent in the Business in the Environment 2004 Index of Corporate Environmental Engagement.
The Groups Responsible Procurement Policy is being piloted from The average index score was 79 per cent.
Suppliers and contractors will be requested to comply with the policy through amended contract terms.
All new suppliers will be required to comply with the policy and Cable & Wireless will work with existing suppliers unable to comply with the policy to help them to meet its requirements over a reasonable period.
The full policy can be found on the Companys website.
The Cable & Wireless Supplier Related Ethics Policy sets out rules and guidelines to ensure that all dealings with suppliers are entirely ethical.
This policy has been communicated to all relevant UK employees and will be rolled out across the Group during 2006.
Mobile phone safety Cable & Wireless monitors and manages issues related to concerns about possible adverse effects to human health from mobile phone use.
The Group tracks scientific and medical research, media, legal, regulatory and other developments as well as the public perception of risk arising from the use of mobile phones.
The scientific research on mobile phones and health has been reviewed by a number of independent expert scientific panels.
None of these panels has concluded that the use of mobile phones is harmful.
