People strategy Bob Stack explains our people strategy Top Strengths Colleagues: are proud to work for Cadbury Schweppes know what is expected of them in their job constantly try and find better ways of doing things Areas to focus on Colleagues want: freedom and support to achieve full potential more frequent conversations about performance to be given the opportunity to support local community activities as part of their development Performance is about people and that is was outstanding and the results were our five goals.
A performance discussion why we are committed to motivating, strong.
Over 90% of employees around the occurs twice a year on what objectives developing and rewarding our people.
world are proud to work for Cadbury were achieved and, just as importantly, In the current competitive employment Schweppes, know what is expected of how they were achieved, in the context market, the culture and values of a company them in their jobs and constantly try to of our eight behaviours our Leadership are criteria for potential recruits.
Our finds ways of working better.
We actively manage our values are recognised as a competitive managers development through an annual advantage in attracting and retaining the There are areas where we can improve and talent review that covers assessments of best people.
to help achieve this we have developed an potential, career and succession planning.
innovative people management programme, called Passion for People.
Aimed at In 2006 our new Annual Incentive Plan increasing our people managers skills to will further strengthen the link to our drive performance, it also embodies the externally communicated financial goals.
behaviours and values that maintain the Margin and working capital improvements exceptionally motivating culture of have now been made part of our Our approach to people management is Cadbury Schweppes.
This programme will performance measures.
guided by a global Human Resources HR start rolling out during the course of 2006. strategy entitled Our People Strategy, We track employee turnover, but we do supported by a set of HR implementation not target a global rate.
These standards were updated to ensure turnover meets the needs of in 2005 to take note of the changing different parts of the business given the nature of the global workforce and enable changes occurring at the local level.
more innovative and cost-effective ways of working.
In 2004, we launched our first global employee survey amongst a sample of 10,000 managers, to help us understand and measure their commitment and We operate a consistent performance Bob Stack engagement.
In 2005, we extended this management process globally.
At the start Chief Human Resources Officer survey to all colleagues, undertaking it in of the year all employees are set clear and 44 languages.
The response rate of 81% measurable objectives that are aligned to Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Cadbury Schweppes 19
