19.82 586.67 142.03 204.45 13.41 152.65 0 114.71 N A 41.02 162.00 45.39 153.00 46.73 22 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Social investment CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 600 500 400 300 SOCIAL 200 INVESTMENT OUR FOCUS IS... 100 DISASTER RELIEF DONATIONS 0 Operating safely, minimising accidents 2002 2003 2004 2005 and incidents Corporate Responsibility what does it mean to Cairn?
Our Approach to CR As a company grows it becomes more visible and accountable We aim to make a positive difference wherever we work and to numerous interested parties ranging from governments Cairn has a vision of its Corporate Responsibility CR which is and shareholders, to staff and to those who live in the vicinity encapsulated in the 3 Rs Respect, Relationships and of our operations.
Cairn recognises that it is essential for our Responsibility.
long term success that CR is part of the way we do business.
Respect People are Cairn's key asset and the attitude of the While ultimate responsibility for CR performance lies with the Cairn team is critical to our business culture.
In our India and Board, management responsibility and accountability has Bangladesh assets we complement local knowledge and been delegated to specific executive directors, who are expertise with the additional wider perspective that Cairn can supported by group functional managers with expertise in bring from a team of people who have worked in most of the each of the areas covered by CR.
A Group CSR Committee, oil and gas provinces in the world.
comprising both executive directors and group functional managers, has also been in place since 2003 to inform the Relationships Relationships are the key to developing any Board and management on strategic direction and setting of business and Cairns success in South Asia would not be policies on CR matters within the Group.
possible without the consistent support we have enjoyed.
Relationships are all important, whether with people living The Board are provided with regular updates on CR matters next to a drill site in Rajasthan in India or officials and and performance.
This includes presentations on CR matters politicians making decisions in Bangladesh.
For example, a human rights specialist provided an overview of the rights-aware approach to Responsibility We have a responsibility to manage the addressing human rights issues at the January 2006 Board expectations of the people who are affected by Cairns meeting.
Operating in any country is only possible when values are shared.
We believe that our core values of integrity, CR risks, along with other business risks, are managed through social and environmental responsibility, teamwork and implementation of our risk management strategy, through nurturing of individuals, creativity, risk management and which we regularly and systematically identify, analyse, assess, alliances with key partners are all ingredients that are central treat and monitor CR risks faced at the asset, country and to our success.
Cairn is operating in areas that are Group levels.
economically, socially and environmentally sensitive and as such the Company needs to take due recognition of these Group Health, Safety and Environment HSE, Security and challenges when developing plans.
Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Policies have been in place since 2002 and in 2004 we also established Group HSE, Security and CSR Guiding Principles that describe our fundamental values and approach to managing CR in GHG emissions accordance with these policies, and identify the international standards to which we aspire in our business activities.
200 In 2005 we agreed that in addition to complying with our 150 policies, we would also strive to conduct our activities in accordance with the International Finance Corporations 100 policies and in cognisance with IFCs best practice guidance and new performance standards, which are expected to come into effect in the first half of 2006.
Our Guiding 50 Principles will be amended to reflect these additional requirements during 2006.
0 2003 2004 2005 GHG EMISSIONS EQUITY SHARE PER 1,000 TONNES OF HYDROCARBON PRODUCED OGP GHG BENCHMARK PER 1,000 TONNES OF HYDROCARBON PRODUCED Tonnes CO2 1,000 tonnes of hydrocarbon 000 sterling 0.44 1.09 0.64 1.16 0.68 23 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Safety performance Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR 1.2 1.0 0.8 0.6 0.4 0.2 CAIRN LTIFR 0 OGP LTIFR 2003 2004 2005 2005 Performance and Plans for 2006 CAIRN IN THE COMMUNITY During 2005 we made good progress in both developing and implementing our approach to managing the many CR In Rajasthan challenges facing our business.
At a Group level, specific Working in partnership with the district administration attention has been placed on emerging CR issues such as and local NGOs to promote local enterprise and assessing and managing biodiversity risks, security and community development activities, with support from human rights, and the potential impact of climate change IFC, including: on our business.
U pgrade of school infrastructure and facilities at 9 schools, distribution of school bags and sitting At an operating level the main CR challenges addressed mats at more than 150 local schools and provision include the maintenance of health and safety of our staff of computers to 4 schools.
and contractors through to the specific challenges in B uilding or repair of rainwater harvesting storage Rajasthan of managing the risks associated with road structures in over 600 villages.
transportation, water resource use, land acquisition and Pr ovision of veterinary camps and mobile van to minimising community impacts.
Our CR progress in 2005 in addressing these challenges and T ree plantation programme of more than 6,000 our plans for further improvements in 2006 are presented in trees in 20 villages.
more detail in our 2005 Corporate Responsibility Report, A c amp for the physically challenged at which 236 which is distributed with the 2005 Annual Report & Accounts.
At an operating level there were a number of notable Provision of technical information and support to local achievements during 2005.
Our Sangu operations in ground water authorities to assist their assessment of Bangladesh have recorded six million man-hours seven years local freshwater resources.
without a lost time injury LTI and our Suvali and Ravva operations have also achieved over one million and four Construction and repair of nearly 300 km of road.
million man-hours without an LTI respectively.
Greenhouse Directly contributed to infrastructure development by gas emissions from our producing fields have been reduced bringing in mobile communication network.
per tonne of hydrocarbon during 2005 and our total Over 450,000 man-hours of local employment investment on local community and social projects was up provided.
Further afield As in 2004, we have sought independent external assurance A three year programme of support in Bangladesh and on our 2005 Corporate Responsibility Report from India with Sight Savers, an international charity who Environmental Resource Management ERM and their restore sight to adults and children.
assurance statement can be found on page 34 of that report.
W ater supply infrastructure to villages local to our Ravva Implementation of our CR policies and Guiding Principles has and Suvali plants.
also been assessed by IFC as part of the due diligence process associated with the negotiations for additional Provision of medical care, adult education and training funding arrangements.
IFCs findings are presented in their facilities in SYannam village near our Ravva plant.
Environmental Review Summary ERS which can be accessed Establishing a community based adolescent project to via the IFC website at www.
provide skills training for unemployed youths in Chillimpur near to our Sangu plant in Bangladesh.
We also benchmark our approach and performance with other UK and international companies.
In their 2005 Energy, Environment and Social Index, Goldman Sachs ranked OUR FOCUS IS... Cairn in the second quartile, positioned 11th out of the 31 companies in the Index.
Seeking to reduce our impact on the environment Investing in developing our people and the local communities in the vicinity of our sites LTI per one million man-hours PRODUCTION In total, more than 100,000 boepd are produced in IRON IN PLACE... Bangladesh and India from Cairn operated ventures.
THREE SITES IN PRODUCTION The Company has 12 offshore platforms, has built more than 250 km of pipelines and has constructed 3 significant hydrocarbon processing facilities, Ravva in Eastern India: Cairn has a substantial existing business across South Asia Suvali in Western India the industrial heartland of Gujarat: which has been established for more than a decade taking and Chillimpur outside the southern Bangladesh port of discoveries to production.
Cairns strategy is the ability to identify areas of unrealised The offshore Ravva oil and gas field currently provides potential and translate it into material value having regard to approximately 7.5% of Indias indigenous oil production.
the current size and market capitalisation of the Group.
The Ravva was initially thought to be a 70 million barrel oilfield Company seeks to utilise strategic alliances and joint venture but further appraisal and exploration has established 300 arrangements, where appropriate, in the best interests of million barrels in place.
value enhancement, in all operations in South Asia.
In Gujarat, Cairn operates the Lakshmi and Gauri gas fields The Sangu production plant at Chillimpur recently achieved and has recently started production of oil from Gauri.
The six million man-hours seven years without incurring any lost hydrocarbons are processed at the Suvali plant located time injuries.
This is a significant health and safety milestone close to Shells Indian Liquid Natural Gas LNG facility.
This certification is an international standard for environmental management Cairn has been in Bangladesh for more than 10 years and, which has been awarded to all of the Cairn processing along with its joint venture partners, has invested $575 facilities in South Asia.
The Companys established track record of taking The Sangu gas field continues to meet three quarters of discoveries to production is of vital importance in the gas demand of Bangladeshs second city, Chittagong, realising the value of our assets in Rajasthan.
and the surrounding area, whilst achieving world class performance in operational safety and field uptime.
