Acting responsibly Corporate citizenship During 2005 our social investment these flagship projects.
The REDI network has programme continued to support selected grown, excellent new businesses have been charities and to carry out other significant supported and a number of food security community activities, with particular focus programmes have been implemented.
An ever on countries where our businesses operate.
larger number of orphans have been identified and included in the AIDS Orphans Programme Social investment programmes supported in partnership with NOAH, Heartbeat and, during 2005 concentrated on education, more recently, Children of the Dawn health and welfare, local economic previously a small initiative within REDI.
development, the environment and the arts.
In South Africa particular attention was given Alongside these projects, over R5 million to Black Economic Empowerment BEE and was spent on general donations and two HIV AIDS.
The Financial Sector Charter FSC new initiatives were supported, the Out of the targets relating to BEE and transformation Box primary schools education programme continued to be met and exceeded in many and the Product 2 Market programme areas and programmes are in place to meet all developed in partnership with the Cape other requirements.
Further information on the Craft Design Institute.
Groups activities in connection with BEE and the FSC will be set out in the reports produced General donations were made to educational by the Business Units, as described below.
and community programmes and ad hoc donations made to the Tsunami disaster South Africa appeal, The Cape Philharmonic Orchestra, Old Mutual South Africa OMSA the SA Youth Ministers project and the OMSA is committed to growing and investing Phelophepa Health Train, which travels in socially responsible business activities, around rural South Africa supplying health employment equity and diversity, skills care to more than 40,000 patients.
development and affirmative procurement, as well as sustainable social investment projects REDI: REDI continued to benefit the 20 and the active involvement of employees in communities it serves, with 2005 being its social and community affairs.
Its Corporate most active year to date.
Activities covered Citizenship programme recognises the value a wide spectrum of business and social of non-financial performance and social infrastructure development.
focus in 2005 was towards fewer, but larger, initiatives that aimed to enhance the The Old Mutual South Africa Foundation sustainability of whole communities through the OMSA Foundation is the primary fund collective cultivation and supply of products supplier to OMSAs social investment from growing schemes.
At the year end, the assets of were supported, three at a national level the Foundation were R441 million.
The OMSA Foundation has three major AIDS Orphans Programme: Old Mutual has flagship initiatives, the Rural Economic adopted a four-pronged strategy to address Development Initiative REDI, the AIDS the social and economic challenges caused Orphans Programme and the Staff Volunteer by the HIV AIDS epidemic in South Africa.
These three programmes This strategy covers the workplace employees, continue to offer help to local communities, the broader community, financial services and vulnerable children and OMSA staff who wish advice customers, and business impacts.
to participate in voluntary activities.
In 2005, The OMSA Foundation worked with a the OMSA Foundation spent R20 million on number of organisations in this area: its Corporate Social Investment Programmes, Heartbeat, NOAH, Children of the Dawn, out of which R9.6 million was allocated to Uthando, Helping Hands and others.
Old Mutual plc 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 35 Acting responsibly Old Mutual plc Chief Executive Jim Sutcliffe talking to Old Mutual Gauteng Chief Executive Khehla Mthembu Sipho Pityane, the founder and Chairman of Izingwe, with Sipho Pityane, at the launch of our BEE ownership one of our BEE partners, at the launch of our BEE transactions.
Corporate citizenship: Africa continued The OMSA Foundations AIDS Orphans New Initiatives in 2005: Product 2 Market, OMSA is highly regarded in each of these Programme continued to expand during brought 18 master crafters to Cape Town pursuits, already having set the industry 2005, with a target of ultimately reaching to receive six weeks of intensive training in benchmark in infrastructural investment, vulnerable children in all nine provinces of the product development, marketing and sales corporate social investment, staff development country.
Support was given to orphan projects skills.
They returned to their communities and training, and the creation of a diverse in seven provinces: Gauteng, Free State, to share their new skills.
KwaZulu-Natal, Eastern Cape, North West, be exhibited in March 2006 at the opening Mpumalanga and Limpopo.
The total number of Product 2 Market in Cape Town.
The OMSA BEE ownership transaction, of children directly or indirectly supported which was implemented in August 2005 and through OMSAs various orphan programmes The Out of the Box Environmental Education is described in more detail elsewhere in this now stands at nearly 17,000.
Programme has 120 participating schools Annual Report, was widely regarded as the in four provinces: Eastern Cape, Gauteng, most innovative and broad-based of all the Four Heartbeat projects, Pieter Swart and KwaZulu-Natal, and Western Cape.
There sectoral transfers of ownership into black Botshabelo in the Free State and Katlehong are 750 teachers involved in the programme, hands.
While this was a significant step and Tembisa in Gauteng, received financial who have some 25,000 students under their in the direction of BEE, it was also part support.
A total of 1,636 children were care.
Four service providers have assisted the of an overall and long-term programme of supported directly or indirectly through OMSA Foundation in delivering the programme transformation to position OMSA to do interventions such as training and mentorship, to schools: ECO Schools, the Maths Centre, business effectively in the new, and still after-school centres, food provision, parenting, the Primary Science Programme and the rapidly evolving, South Africa.
homework assistance and support groups.
Two Learning Centres one in Botshabelo Further information on OMSAs BEE and one in Tembisa enabled Heartbeat In 2005, several small-scale farming projects programmes and their alignment to the FSC to train and mentor 323 careworkers from were set up in partnership with the Organic will be contained in OMSAs Corporate other NGOs in the care and support of Farms Group in KwaZulu-Natal, Limpopo, Citizenship Report.
This more detailed report vulnerable children.
Western Cape, Gauteng and Free State.
on OMSAs corporate citizenship activities Numerous training programmes were during 2005 will be available on the Staff Volunteer Programme: The Staff undertaken and good relationships built Companys website www.
com from Volunteer Programme consists of the Staff with various Government departments.
It will also be obtainable upon Community Builder Programme, Adopt Commercial success has already been request from the Public Affairs Manager, Old an Orphan and the Staff Charity Fund.
achieved where food security projects Mutual South Africa, PO Box 66, Cape Town have become financially viable.
8000, and from the Corporate Social During 2005, 106 projects were approved Responsibility Manager, Old Mutual plc, by the Staff Community Builder Programme, BEE: The Old Mutual Group remains 5th Floor, Old Mutual Place, 2 Lambeth Hill, resulting in over R1.8 million being allocated committed to broad-based empowerment, London EC4V 4GG.
and to being rated an A performer as measured by the FSC.
Initiatives continue to Nedbank Group A total of 20 organisations were supported be implemented to develop staff, particularly In 2005, the Nedbank Group carried out its through the Staff Charity Fund this year, with black management and leadership, to ensure corporate social investment CSI work mainly a total of nearly R400,000 being distributed black staff are supported in their roles as through the Nedbank Foundation, which to causes such as abused children, HIV AIDS leaders in the Group, to contribute to the spent R30 million in support of over 200 charities, the elderly and animal welfare groups.
building of a strong and stable society and projects in the areas of welfare, relief aid, democracy through sound investments in skills development and education, with the Branches and departments throughout infrastructure, to facilitate the entry of black largest contributions going to the last of these.
Mutualpark were encouraged to embark entrepreneurs into corporate South Africa The reduction in the number of projects from on volunteer work during the course of the through structuring and investing in BEE the previous year was consistent with the Care and Share week, which ran from deals, and to make direct investments into Foundations aim to align the funded projects 28 November to 2 December 2005. communities and society at large, particularly to business objectives.
The Foundations Participating branches and departments in areas of dire need such as AIDS orphans, contribution was five times the level required received R5,000 each towards their community development, and job creation.
community projects and a total of 50 projects were supported.
Old Mutual plc 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Roddy Sparks, Fred Robertson from BEE partner, Gloria Serobe, Louise Mojela, Old Mutual plc CEO Jim Brimstone, and Gloria Serobe from BEE partner, Sutcliffe, Professor Jakes Gerwel and Fred Robertson.
The primary goal in the area of education is development involves technical training in BoE Foundation and BoE Trust: The BoE to help with the provision of decent learning useful artisan trades and certification for Foundation and BoE Trust disbursed over environments through a school refurbishment competence.
The Foundation is also involved R4 million to projects in education and and classroom donation programme.
The in job generation and enterprise development, welfare during 2005, focusing especially on Foundation supports academic bridging by providing temporary funding and seed the Gauteng, Western Cape and KwaZuluprogrammes run by tertiary institutions and capital towards equipment, tools, assets of Natal regions.
Bursaries were provided with privately-run schools, literacy programmes at trade and premises of small and micro focus on mathematics, science and school level and adult literacy at community enterprises.
Implementation is through a commerce, and academic development level.
variety of charities, governing bodies and programmes, whilst one-off capital donations community support mechanisms.
were made to projects supporting people with Nedbank is an important sponsor of Readathon, disabilities, AIDS orphans, other vulnerable a reading and literacy inspiration project run More information on specific projects children and the elderly.
The Foundation is also involved in supported by the Nedbank Foundation will early childhood development initiatives, building be contained in the Nedbank Sustainability NBS Centenary Foundation: During 2005, the and refurbishing crches and providing Report, details of which are set out at the NBS Centenary Foundation was rebranded learning tools to nursery schoolchildren.
and proper alignment with the objectives of both Nedbank and the Nedbank Foundation HIV AIDS: The Nedbank Group is deeply Employee participation: Employee was achieved.
The foundation continues to involved in the fight against the HIV AIDS.
Its participation in upliftment and developmental focus on the KwaZulu-Natal area, reflecting its strategy in this area focuses on prevention work is part of the Nedbank Groups culture.
Over R550,000 was distributed to among the uninfected and on positive living Indeed, much of the work of the Foundation projects focusing on early education, for those who are infected.
Prevention largely would not be possible without active and environmental education and welfare.
involves educational work, while the positive voluntary employee involvement.
living programme aims to extend life Mampodi Schools Project: The Nedbank expectancy and the quality of life of those Team Challenge: By way of example, Team Groups involvement in the Mampodi Schools living with the virus.
The group is also Challenge is a team-based, communityProject started in 2004, as a result of committed to helping children affected by the focused initiative designed to give employees concerns about the level of financial literacy in disease, and employees are encouraged to the opportunity to win a share of R200,000 the country and, in particular, among school become personally involved in HIV AIDS for their respective charities, projects, causes leavers.
The Winning Teams methodology projects.
2005 saw support go to uses structured and regular competitions to charities such as Children the Source of achieve repetitive learning, teaching and Nedbank has been working with the Light and Place of Acceptance, a charity that coaching, testing and evaluation.
The Department of Housing and Social focuses on both the shortand long-term Department of Education Gauteng agreed to Development to establish 75 home-based needs of local communities, by donating conduct a pilot project targeting 12,000 grade care facilities to help HIV AIDS orphans.
The clothes and food parcels and supporting the 11 learners in 60 high schools in 2004.
The group has agreed to provide the Department establishment of vegetable gardens.
project was a success, with participation of Housing with a number of properties at levels above 90%.
Educators and learners nominal cost for this purpose.
Local Hero Programme: The Local Hero confirmed that the method was well received Programme was launched to recognise those and a highly successful way to develop Nedbank is also involved in anti-HIV AIDS employees who make a difference in their knowledge for life.
The Department then activities through its donations to Johannesburg communities through volunteer work and to agreed to extend the project to 200 schools, Child Welfare, Lerato Love Home, Cotlands support and showcase the efforts of these involving 55,000 grade 11 learners, in 2005.
Baby Sanctuary, the Jan Hofmeyr Emdeni individuals, thereby furthering a culture of All 542 high schools in Gauteng, involving Childrens Home, Hospice in Soweto, employee involvement and caring.
Since 155,000 learners, will participate in the McCord Hospital and Sparrow Ministries.
inception in 2002, together with the Nedbank Mampodi Schools Project next year, focusing Through its economic development work, Foundation the Local Hero Programme has on money management and banking.
the Nedbank Foundation is directly addressing raised more than R1.25 million for the Proposals are being developed to ensure the another critically important national priority, projects of Nedbanks Local Heroes.
In 2005, programme addresses all aspects of financial job generation, by helping people to improve donations of R270,000 were made in literacy from grades 8 to 11. their skills.
Women and out-of-school young response to the many applications reviewed are a particular focus of the programme.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 37 Acting responsibly The Old Mutual Group remains committed to broad-based empowerment, and to being rated an A performer as measured by the Financial Sector Charter Corporate citizenship: Africa continued Non-profit organisations NPOs comprise Cape farmers to achieve higher levels of the core of the Foundations client base.
NPOs  agricultural rated Nedbank in 2005 as fourth-highest productivity and with communities living placed among 74 companies in the category near the Klip River in Soweto to enable Good Corporate Grantmaker, third among them to derive socio-economic benefits 54 companies as Mostly Widely Recognised from the wetland, thereby contributing Corporate Grantmakers and third out of 45 to its rehabilitation.
corporates in the category Companies that most strongly involve their employees in The Nedbank Golf Challenge is one of the community development.
worlds most prestigious golfing events and is played at Sun City in December each year.
The Nedbank-sponsored Comrades Marathon, one of The group has long had a mutually rewarding However, it is not only professional golfers the worlds top ultradistance races between Durban association with sport for the disabled who benefit from the challenge.
the highlight being the annual Nedbank after the final day of the Nedbank Golf Championships for the Physically Disabled Challenge, Nedbank, in partnership with which, this year, took place in Durban.
The Sun International, hosts The Sports Trust championships support Nedbanks ongoing Challenge.
This corporate golf day has, to sponsorship of the South African Paralympic date, helped to raise more than R6.5 million team, which will compete in Beijing 2008. for The Sports Trust.
Additional support is provided through sponsorship of the technical excellence Donations from Nedbank Arts affinity bank programme aimed at uplifting and sustaining accounts grew in 2005, which increased the the skills of officials.
amount that could be donated by The Arts and Culture Trust.
To date Nedbank and its Trusts: The Nedbank Green, Sport and Arts clients have made a significant contribution to Participants in The Great Bed Race, which raised Affinity Trusts continued to operate during the more than R10 million that has been funds to buy beds for the Queen Elizabeth Central 2005.
Together these have donated over disbursed to over 500 projects supported by Hospital in Malawi.
R95 million to environmental, sports and art The Arts and Culture Trust.
Nedbanks 15-year relationship with WWF-SA, initially in terms of In 1994, former president Nelson Mandela the Green Trust partnership, has culminated in founded the Nelson Mandela Childrens Fund.
the first formal conservation partnership in Since then, under his chairmanship, the South Africa.
fund has grown into an international charity organisation that supports projects aimed at The Green Trust focuses on community-based improving the quality of life of South Africas conservation and operates in conjunction children and youth.
The Nedbank Childrens with WWF-SAs Conservation Division and Affinity Trust offers Nedbank clients who share advisers from other respected conservation the Nelson Mandela Childrens Funds vision organisations.
Examples of projects funded the opportunity of contributing in a tangible by The Green Trust range from environmental and meaningful way.
Launched in July 2005, education to tree planting and food gardening the Nedbank Childrens Affinity Trust donated in poorer urban environments.
The trust an initial R1 million to the Nelson Mandela also works with subsistence-level Eastern Childrens Fund.
The Nelson Mandela Childrens Fund aims to change the way society treats its children and youth.
In pursuit of this vision, the fund supports over 31,000 vulnerable and orphaned children all over South Africa through a variety of initiatives.
Old Mutual plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 The Nedbank Arts and Culture Trust supports a A Green Trust representative meeting with a member of community dance project that aims to identify and the Klip River community in Soweto, where work is nurture talent within the community of Hout Bay, done to aid farmers in achieving a high level of Cape Town.
BEE: As one of the signatories to the FSC, National Sea Rescue: Mutual & Federal is HIV AIDS: Mutual & Federal is committed to Nedbank is committed to the aims and the committed to its continued support of the the fight against HIV AIDS.
The company is full achievement of all requirements, with National Sea Rescue Institute, which offers an the only corporate sponsor of the SA AIDS an internal objective to go beyond the intent essential service along the South African Foundation.
It also offers support to various of the FSC, wherever possible.
coastline including sea rescue services from other smaller organisations involved with 28 stations nationwide, with over 600 some aspects of HIV AIDS, such as MaAfrika Nedbank remains committed to meeting and volunteers who are on call at all times.
Its Tikkun, which coordinates various exceeding the requirements of the FSC and services also include assistance with medical community-based projects in Gauteng and the to achieving the ideals of transformation and emergencies, diving accidents, yacht Western Cape.
One of MaAfrika Tikkuns focus implementing BEE initiatives under the FSC, recoveries, and lifeguarding and swimming areas is caring for AIDS orphans who have within acceptable risk parameters.
lost both parents to AIDS and have no The group has taken a number of steps to alternative adult care.
These children, often as ensure this.
The organisations philosophy Drive Alive: Drive Alive is an organisation young as six, are required to fend for is to differentiate itself in terms of its BEE aimed at ensuring the safety of road users.
themselves and their younger siblings.
The approach by strengthening existing BEE Drive Alive, in partnership with government, number of child-headed households relationships throughout the group, creating coordinates various educational campaigns continues to grow and is rapidly becoming a new relationships among established and new and projects to make the road-using public serious socio-economic concern in southern BEE players in the market: and supporting aware of safety regulations and practice.
Mutual & Federal staff also support identified emerging BEE players.
More projects include the Voluntary Public Traffic Tikkun through collections of clothing, toys information on Nedbanks approach to Observer project, the Seatbelts and Child Car and other useful goods.
the FSC and BEE will be provided in its Seats campaign, the Dont Drink and Drive Sustainability Report, which will be published campaign, the Speed Kills campaign and the Rest of Africa in April 2006.
This Report is available on Pedestrian Visibility campaign.
co. za, and also The aims of the Old Mutual Foundation in upon request from the Senior Manager, Environment: Southern Africa has a very rich Namibia are to support education, health and Corporate Governance and Sustainability, natural heritage and Mutual & Federal realises welfare, and the accelerated economic Nedbank Group Limited, PO Box 1144, the importance of preserving this heritage for development of the country.
Donations from Mutual & Federal supported WWF-SA, the Endangered The Namibian Foundation renewed its Mutual & Federal Species Fund and the Southern African partnership with existing projects, as well In 2005, Mutual & Federal continued its Conservation Education Trust SACET.
as embarking on several new initiatives Corporate Social Investment programme, SACET was established to assist students during 2005, spending over R1 million.
focusing on 25 different organisations actively studying conservation at the Wildlife College.
involved in community-based projects that People are empowered through this initiative Among the projects supported during 2005 address education, health, welfare, crime and the benefits of education and were: an R80,000 project launched in prevention and conservation issues in South conservation should be seen over time partnership with Nedbank to construct digital Africa.
As a responsible corporate citizen, through increased tourism and foreign studios in the northern region of Namibia: Mutual & Federal is committed to making a investment in southern African countries.
the upgrade of a high-school sports ground difference in the community it serves.
Support in Rehoboth, a small town in the central is generally given to the same projects each region of Namibia: the supply of uniforms and year to establish long-standing relationships.
audio-visual equipment to a rural school in Bethanie: the mathematics project launched in 2004 in partnership with Nedbank for the upliftment of mathematics in rural areas: and a project to support financial education for client segments, which received R300,000.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 39 Acting responsibly A Mutual & Federal supported vegetable garden.
These Mutual & Federal supports Matfrika Tikkun, which projects in Orange Farm, south of Johannesburg, allow coordinates community projects in Gauteng and the communities affected by AIDS to support themselves and Western Cape.
Part of the support goes to AIDS orphans learn about the benefits of caring for their environment.
who have lost both their parents.
Corporate citizenship: Africa continued In the health and welfare arena, flagship The Old Mutual Geography Block at At the end of the year, the Malawi Foundation projects included continued support to the Chemhanza High School was officially opened had assets of MK56 million, including Namibian Cancer Association, as well as the in October 2005.
Construction of this was 190,000 shares in Old Mutual plc.
flagship health project: a R100,000 donation made possible by a donation from Old Mutual to help launch the local Ministry of Healths Zimbabwe made in 2003.
A further donation Kenya Polio Eradication Programme.
of Z$90 million was made during 2005 Old Mutual Kenya staff supported numerous towards the purchase of school furniture for projects in 2005, including the Rural Vision Staff volunteerism was evident in Namibia this block.
Childrens Home in Kayole which provides a in several Christmas parties hosted during the safe haven for 35 orphaned or abused festive season for vulnerable and orphaned The year 2005 saw the extension of the children between three and twelve years old.
children, as well as elderly citizens in old relationship with the Zimbabwe cricket team, Old Mutual staff also donated food, clothes age homes.
which will now be sponsored by Old Mutual and money to the Home.
In 2005, a total until the end of 2007.
The Group believes cash contribution of Kshs.
20,000 was made At the end of 2005, the Namibian Foundation that it continues to be important to support by the volunteers in addition to food and had assets of R11,618,000, including the development of cricket in Zimbabwe.
At the end of the year, the Zimbabwe The Motherly Care Home provides shelter to Zimbabwe Foundation had assets of Z$359 billion, over 50 children, many of whom suffer from In 2005 Old Mutual Zimbabwe continued to including 1,432,784 shares in Old Mutual plc.
Volunteers support projects under its structured social provided the home with medical aid, food and responsibility programme, including Malawi mattresses.
The Home provides informal community projects, arts and culture Old Mutual Malawi continued to support a education to children at the lower primary level.
programmes and business and education number of projects in the education and The volunteers have future plans of building programmes.
health sector during 2005 with total donations classrooms and providing beds for the Home.
of MK3 million made to various organisations The Jarios Jiri Centre continued to receive and schools.
As a member of the Malawi Launched in November 2005, A Meal support in 2005, and in September 2005 a Business Coalition against AIDS, Old Mutual Amongst Friends seeks to feed the homeless pre-school, which we had helped to renovate, Malawi launched its HIV AIDS Policy and in the centre of Nairobi once a month.
Old Mutual Zimbabwe staff were involved staff in activities relating to HIV and Modelled on a soup kitchen, volunteers also involved in a sponsored walk for Jarios AIDS awareness and prevention.
Sponsorship donate cooking ingredients, cook the food and Jiri, raising Z$2,500,000.
was also provided to Blantyre District serve it to the homeless.
During December, Assembly office, Malawi Network of AIDS along with feeding the homeless, the Z$35 million was given to The Tonga, Service Organisation and the Bible Society of volunteers also held a clothes drive.
The goal which comprises two community projects, a Malawi on their HIV AIDS activities.
is to turn this into Kenyas first soup kitchen community centre and a mobile clinic.
Old and in addition provide counselling and Mutuals contribution was earmarked for the Four medical students were awarded financial rehabilitative services.
provision of medication for the mobile clinic.
prizes through sponsorship offered to top medical students of each class at the College Mercy Childrens Home provides shelter to 30 Sing Zimbabwe, a collaboration between of Medicine at the University of Malawi.
orphans aged between one and ten years, four Chitungwiza Harmony Singers and Tumbuka, Donations were also given to Malawi College of whom have been diagnosed as HIV positive.
received Z$20 million in 2005, which of Health Sciences and the Polytechnic to Early in 2005, Old Mutual staff hiked the helped towards their tour expenses to perform purchase books and drawing and design Ngong Hills to raise money for the home.
In at the Edinburgh Fringe Festival in August.
The Chitungwiza Harmony Singers also received transport expenses to South Africa for Old Mutual Malawi also made a donation to the Old Mutual Telkom Choral Competitions.
the Rotary Club to help build an orphanage feeding centre and participated in the Great Bed Race, with proceeds being used to buy beds and food for Queen Elizabeth Central Hospital.
Old Mutual plc 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 The Group is committed to sustainable social investment projects and the active involvement of its employees in social and community affairs Corporate citizenship: United States USA and a toy drive benefiting the children at the the Baltimore City Scholars and Leadership Old Mutual Asset Management OMAM Home for Little Wanderers.
The Institute of Human Virology OMAM US remains committed to supporting supported The JACQUES Initiative, which local communities around its Boston Old Mutual Financial Network OMFN helps AIDS or HIV patients better understand headquarters and member firm locations OMFN made contributions to a variety of the disease and treatment, and Healthcare for through its employee-run Charitable organisations throughout 2005.
In addition to the Homeless, an organisation that provides Foundation.
The OMAM Charitable donating their time and efforts to aid the health-related services and education to the Foundation continued to focus its efforts victims devastated by Hurricane Katrina, homeless, received staff support.
during 2005 on four target areas: OMFN employees raised over $12,000 in community, healthcare, homelessness and support of the American Red Crosss Katrina Employee gifts to charitable organisations emergency crisis intervention, and strove to relief efforts.
Funds raised were then matched were matched by OMFN through its Matching make meaningful contributions to its partner by the company, bringing the total donation to Grants programme on a dollar-for-dollar organisations.
In 2005, the Foundation made almost $25,000.
Additionally, the company basis up to an annual limit of $1,000 per total donations of $221,000.
worked closely with its agents and customers employee.
During 2005, over 30 charitable in Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama to projects or organisations were supported This year grants were made to national minimise their inconvenience and concern in this way, including Save the Children organisations such as The Rose Fund, Boys over their insurance and annuities by foundation, The Salvation Army, the Lance and Girls Club of America, and the United instituting grace periods for payments, liberal Armstrong Foundation, American Cancer Way, as well as local organisations including reinstatement guidelines, allowing verbal Society, Habitat for Humanity International, the Pine Street Inn, Home for Little Wanderers, address changes for those displaced by the Muscular Dystrophy Association, the US Fund Rosies Place and the Massachusetts Society disaster and instituting many other support for UNICEF-Tsunami Relief and the Humane for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children.
Society of the U. S. total of $25,000 was donated to Hurricane Katrina Relief efforts through a variety of OMFN held its inaugural charity golf charities including Operation USA and the challenge during the month of October American Red Cross.
at the Wetlands Golf Club of Aberdeen, Maryland.
The tournament raised almost In addition to making monetary grants through $19,000 for the Baltimore Child Abuse the Charitable Foundation, many of which are Centre BCAC.
BCAC, a highly respected hand-delivered by employees to recipient and award-winning organisation, was selected organisations, OMAM seeks to promote for its commitment to assisting children employee involvement by encouraging throughout the Baltimore-metro area.
A employees to take advantage of their paid number of OMFNs service partners and volunteer day, sponsoring company-wide vendors provided support for the event with charitable events and matching personal hole sponsorships, award donations and charitable gifts from Foundation assets.
merchandise giveaways for top scorers.
In 2005, employees volunteered for six The company also supported other local and service projects and events such as the national groups including Rebuilding Together, JP Morgan Corporate Challenge in June, a non-profit organisation that works with local which benefited The Boston Arts Festival.
In businesses and community associations to October, OMAM was again a Neighbourhood repair and rehabilitate the homes of lowSponsor for City Years Serve-a-Thon at which income, elderly or disabled homeowners in a team of OMAM employees, family members Baltimore City and County.
Parks & People and friends banded together and worked to Foundation, a Baltimore organisation that restore a local under-served Boston ensures parks are clean and safe, city trees community.
Additionally, throughout the and open spaces are maintained and calendar year, OMAM employees lent their childrens camp programmes are offered support to Daffodil Day, benefiting the during school vacations, was also supported.
American Cancer Society, Lee Denim Day The University of Baltimore received funding benefiting the Susan G. Komen Foundation, in 2005, with OMFNs contribution going to Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 41 Acting responsibly The winning Old Mutual plc Christmas card entry.
Leila Malik is a pupil at Dog Kennel Hill Primary School, one of the six London schools involved in the Companys UK SA schools twinning project.
Corporate citizenship: United Kingdom United Kingdom General donations: Ad hoc donations were their time towards the hospices main Schools project: 2005 was the second year of made throughout the year.
the UK SA schools twinning project, a received support in 2005 included the Fund partnership between Old Mutual plc and the established to help the victims of the London At the end of the year, the Bermuda British Council involving six schools from the bombs and African Footprint, a dance troupe Foundation had assets of 6.2 million, London Borough of Southwark and six schools who were invited to perform at St Jamess including 3,650,000 shares in Old Mutual plc.
The programme aims Palace for the Duke of Edinburgh Trust.
Staff to provide a unique opportunity for the twelve also chose three charities, Marie Curie Cancer OMAM UK schools to enrich the learning process by Care, ChildLine and WWF-UK to receive OMAM UK established a separate Corporate introducing an international dimension into 10,000 each from the Old Mutual Bermuda Charitable Giving programme in 2005 to the lives of the children, their teachers, Foundation.
Proceeds from the Christmas provide support for charitable causes that its parents and the wider communities.
party and money saved through the use of employees considered to be worthwhile.
The electronic, instead of paper, Christmas cards, first recipient of a donation under this Part of the success of this programme lies in totalling nearly 10,000, was donated to the programme was Leukaemia Research.
the fact that the partnership activities do not NSPCC, to support its work with children.
stand alone, but are integrated into the OMAM UK staff also participated in Jeans curriculum and the wider aims of the school In 2005, Old Mutual plc also supported for Genes and Breast Cancer Awareness so that their contribution can be delivered in a the Nelson Mandela Foundation.
This charity days, and the company matched the strategic and coordinated way.
The focus of the Foundations aim is to promote and enable total personal contributions given to both work remains on mathematics and science.
the growth of human fulfilment and the charities.
Also, instead of sending traditional Old Mutual supports this by supplying continuous expansion of the frontiers of Christmas cards, the company made a volunteers to the UK schools to aid children in freedom.
Old Mutual plc has committed to donation to Save the Children.
maths tutoring, and the Old Mutual Bermuda give 1 million over five years.
The Foundation supplies funding for Out of the Foundation uses its values and transparency Recognition of the Groups CSR activities Box environmental kits to the schools on the to promote dialogue, improve understanding In the Giving List published in the UK programme.
Many of the schools have used and demonstrate the possibilities for partners newspaper, The Guardian, in conjunction the Out of the Box kits to introduce an in its programmes.
To allow support to with Business in the Community in November environmental focus to their schools and teach address a variety of need the Foundation 2005 showing how much of their pre-tax the children about the way their lives interact divides into four programme areas: The profits the top 100 UK companies gave to with and affect the environment.
Nelson Mandela Centre of Memory and Corporate Social Investment projects, Old Commemoration, a Lecture and Seminar Mutual rose eleven places to 32nd.
Old Mutual plc staff started a volunteering Series, HIV AIDS projects and Education and programme working with children in the Rural Development.
Environment schools from the twinning programme.
As a financial services provider, the Groups Volunteers regularly visited four of the schools Old Mutual Financial Services primary aim is to meet the financial needs of to work with children who either needed OMFS donated 20,000 to the Friends of the its clients.
In doing so, the Group recognises support in maths or were gifted and could Citizens Foundation towards the building of a that it has an impact on the environment, benefit from additional tutoring.
The school in Karachi, following the earthquake in both directly through the running of its offices programme ran over two school terms last Pakistan.
When completed, the school will and indirectly through meeting the investment year and will continue in 2006. have a student capacity of 180.
Classes are needs of its clients.
due to start in the summer of 2006.
Staff matching: The Company operates a staff Environmental policy matching scheme, which supports Old Mutual Bermuda Foundation The Group introduced its environmental policy Another good cause supported by the four years ago and designated Julian Roberts employees in their own activities to raise Bermuda Foundation in 2005 was Bermudas as the member of the Board responsible for money for a wide range of charities, including Agape House.
This is a 12-bed hospice the Groups environmental performance.
in 2005, Macmillan Cancer Research, the that provides a programme of palliative This responsibility was reassigned to the British Heart Foundation and the Brain and support services, offering physical, Chairman, Mr Collins, in February 2006 after Tumour Trust.
National fundraising days for psychological, social and spiritual assistance Mr Roberts took up his new role at Skandia.
Comic Relief, Jeans for Genes, Wear it Pink to patients who are terminally ill, as well as and Children in Need were also supported to their families.
Staff from the Bermuda office Objectives have been set and individuals under this matching scheme.
also supported Agape House by volunteering named at business unit level to oversee Old Mutual plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Environmental awareness has been raised around the Group by continued communication and the rollout of Environmental Management Systems environmental issues.
Monitoring and have EMSs in place at their site of operation.
Nedbank and Old Mutual are aware of the reporting against Key Performance Indicators Data is regularly gathered and performance risk of robberies and attacks at their banking KPIs fall under these individuals control against site objectives and targets is monitored businesses and work continually to improve and this discipline is, where possible, applied and audited.
Data disclosure from the systems their systems to minimise the risk to their across the Group.
The Groups KPIs and in place occurs at both OMSA and Nedbank, employees.
environmental targets are reviewed annually which each report separately on resource to ensure their continuing appropriateness.
use in their Corporate Citizenship and During 2005 there were no significant Reporting against these targets is published by Sustainability Reports.
accidents, and no material health or safety the business units in their individual reports.
issues were reported from around the Group.
At Group level, we put annual comparable Global warming data on to the London Stock Exchanges The Group recognises that global warming FTSE4Good, the JSE SRI and Corporate Responsibility Exchange CRE affects the financial sector both directly the Dow Jones Sustainability Index system and this is disclosed to rating agencies through the energy that is used and indirectly Old Mutual plc is a member of the and other regulatory bodies.
through the business that is done.
To address FTSE4Good Index, the selection criteria for its responsibility in this area the Group started which include working towards environmental The Groups environmental objectives are: a Carbon Management Programme in 2005 sustainability, developing positive relationships in conjunction with The Carbon Neutral with stakeholders and upholding and to ensure compliance at local, national Company.
Data collection under this supporting universal human rights.
and international levels: programme will continue during 2006. to minimise the consumption of energy, Old Mutual and Nedbank are also each water and materials across operations: The Group has little contact with materials that included in the JSEs Socially Responsible to minimise solid waste generation by could do great damage to the environment.
This Index measures waste re-use and recycling wherever It has ensured, where relevant, that it has participant companies commitment and possible: avoided using materials that may cause harm.
performance against a triple bottom line of to avoid the use of materials that may sustainability in terms of environmental, cause harm to the environment: Reporting economic and social impacts.
to promote internal awareness of The Group continued to use the London Stock environmental issues with staff: and Exchanges CRE system in 2005.
This system Nedbank is listed on the Dow Jones World to support environmental initiatives by allows Old Mutual to input information to one Sustainability Index DJSI for the second year.
employees and relevant external groups.
common reference point about the Groups The DJSI was the worlds first benchmark to environmental and CSR activities on a track the performance of leading companies These objectives are applied across the Group database system enabling interested parties in terms of corporate sustainability.
Nedbank at the business unit level, using best practice to review it without having to contact the is one of only three companies with primary in environmental management.
This tool covers many listing in South Africa to be listed on that Index.
appropriate, business units have introduced of the questions raised in questionnaires policies more specific to their operations.
Code of business conduct ethics The Old Mutual Group has adopted and aims The paper used in printing the Companys Old Mutual widened its participation in to abide by a Code of Business Conduct Ethics.
Annual Report follows strict environmental corporate responsibility indices by participating The Code includes information on relations standards.
The wood fibre used is from in Business in the Communitys Corporate with customers, suppliers, intermediaries, sustainable forests, the pulp is bleached using Responsibility CR Index in 2005.
This shareholders and investors, employees, a totally chlorine-free process and the paper involved a fourth annual submission on government and the local community, itself is produced at a paper mill that is environmental matters, and for the first time competitors and compliance issues.
The Code ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and EMAS registered.
wider CR issues were also addressed.
can be viewed on Old Mutual plcs website, www.
com, and is also on the Old Management systems Health and safety Mutual Intranet for staff.
A printed copy may Environmental awareness was raised in The Group recognises its obligation to supply also be obtained from the Company Secretary 2005 through the continued communication its employees with a safe and clean working at the registered office.
and rollout of Environmental Management environment.
Data on health and safety Systems EMSs around the Group.
The EMSs compliance are collated and reported to the Martin C Murray that the Group has in place follow ISO 14001 Board twice yearly via the director responsible.
Currently over 50% of the Group 27 February 2006 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 43
