OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW MARKET BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT THE PHARMACEUTICAL What are the risks?
Antibody-based therapeutics act by INDUSTRY ENVIRONMENT Governments may decide to set prices mimicking and harnessing the bodys own for specific drug therapies which could immune system.
Monoclonal antibody As previously outlined page 1, CATs materially impact on CATs ability to therapeutics act through utilising their proprietary focus for the future will be commercialise its products successfully.
exquisite specificity for their target antigen in the area of oncology, while the focus If litigation enables the introduction in order to: of its collaborations will be in the area of biogenerics and biosimilars this may of respiratory and inflammation with reduce the value of CATs pipeline Block cell activity and or modulate AstraZeneca and Zenyth and fibrosis and once patents have expired.
immune function to prevent certain cell oncology with Genzyme.
CATs product CAT seeks to remain abreast of responses applicable in inflammation, candidates are being developed as developments in this area.
However, allergic reactions and auto-immune potential treatments for areas of unmet having a broad and balanced portfolio disorders examples of CAT-derived medical need: some are targeted at mitigates these risks to some extent.
antibodies in this category are: HUMIRA, indications where existing therapies CAT-354, GC-1008, ABT-874, are not totally effective and some are ANTIBODIES AS THERAPEUTICS MYO-029.
targeted at indications where there is no form of existing treatment at all.
The monoclonal antibody sector Activate cell activity and modulate For each product candidate and each continues to grow rapidly and monoclonal immune functions to stimulate a desired therapeutic area, CATs Board carefully antibodies are increasingly being regarded immune response examples of CATconsiders the specific market and as a major category of drugs to treat derived antibodies in this category are: competitive threats before committing serious diseases.
to the development of a candidate.
time to market and higher success rates in development than traditional Deliver other therapeutic agents to In all three of its business areas, CAT pharmaceuticals and, although pioneered specific cells tissues examples of CAT operates in a competitive environment: by biotechnology companies, many product candidates in this category are: this comes from both pre-existing pharmaceutical companies now have CAT-3888 and CAT-8015.
treatments and those at various stages one or more monoclonal antibodies of development from other antibodies in clinical study.
The great majority of approved monoclonal and protein-based therapeutics and from antibodies that are on the market today the more traditional chemistry-based There are 17 antibody drugs approved are humanised and chimaeric monoclonal molecules.
CAT also encounters for sale in the US and EU, and antibody antibodies, and just one, HUMIRA, is fully competition for collaborative alliances and drugs are expected to generate sales in human.
However, human monoclonal licensees, and is fully aware that there are excess of US$12 billion in 2005.
There antibodies now form the largest group technologies in existence that compete are over 150 monoclonal antibodies in research and development pipelines with those of CAT.
The Board believes, in clinical trials and they represent the and are therefore expected to be the however, that there is an increasing trend strongest growth area in the therapeutic fastest growing segment of antibody for the pharmaceutical industry to source proteins market sector.
Most therapeutic therapeutics in the future.
a significant part of its product portfolio monoclonal antibodies are being studied from emerging biotechnology companies.
as treatments for diseases in three This provides an growing opportunity therapeutic areas: oncology, immunology for companies such as CAT.
10 CAMBRIDGE ANTIBODY TECHNOLOGY GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Human monoclonal antibodies are, What are the risks?
Listed company obligations in themselves, less likely than murine Clinical trials for product candidates CAT is listed both in London and or chimaeric antibodies to cause adverse based on CATs technology may be on NASDAQ and, as such, is subject immunological responses in patients: lengthy and expensive and may not to an increasing number of regulatory a characteristic which has undermined be successful.
Examples successful development of many murine Programme attrition is an inevitable part are Sarbanes-Oxley and International and chimaeric antibodies in the past.
of the development of new medicines.
As CAT A total of 13 CAT-derived fully human This can be mitigated to some extent works to comply with all these monoclonal antibody drugs have entered by good clinical trial design and good requirements, resources must be devoted clinical trials, the first and most advanced initial project selection.
Further detail of which, HUMIRA, remains the only can be found on page 43. fully human therapeutic monoclonal Obtaining required regulatory approvals antibody on the market.
for drug candidates can be a lengthy, expensive and uncertain process.
CAT Source: Nature Biotechnology:Volume 23, or its collaborators may not obtain, or Number 9, September 2005. may be required to expend substantial Source: D&MD Antibody Therapeutics: resources to obtain, the necessary Product Development, Market Trends regulatory approvals to market products.
Gaining access to suitable patients for clinical trials, particularly in niche REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT therapeutic areas, may prove difficult.
Product development The standards required by regulatory There are regulatory controls that apply authorities in order to obtain the at all stages of CATs research and necessary approvals may evolve development activities from clinical trial throughout the clinical development protocol to patient data protection to phases and may therefore involve approval for marketing.
These regulations extending or amending the design of apply to all companies operating in the clinical trials significantly thus incurring bio pharmaceutical industry, although additional costs and time delays.
there is guidance specific for antibodies These risks are common to companies such as the US Food and Drug in the biopharmaceutical sector.
CAT Administrations FDA Points to seeks to mitigate the effect of these risks consider in the manufacture and testing in a variety of ways, including: of monoclonal antibody products Actively remaining abreast of regulatory for human use, which have additional developments to the extent that they impact on CAT.
Although there are impact on CAT.
many regulatory bodies around the world Actively monitoring the markets in regional and national, each regulating which CAT is seeking to operate as product development and launches, they well as the general commercial climate.
have a similar effect in terms of ensuring Recruiting qualified and experienced the safe development of new medicinal individuals to manage all aspects products.
CAT is mindful of the needs of the drug development process.
of regulators at all times and endeavours to ensure that it complies with all of their requirements and obligations.
CAMBRIDGE ANTIBODY TECHNOLOGY GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 11
