Corporate social responsibility The Group believes that the long-term interests of Composition of the workforce is reviewed on an annual shareholders, employees and customers are best served basis and employee satisfaction with equality of by acting in a socially responsible manner.
As such the opportunity is monitored as part of the regular employee Group ensures that a high standard of corporate feedback surveys.
Human Resources policies are kept governance is maintained.
under regular review to ensure that they are nondiscriminatory and promote equality of opportunity.
In Training and development particular, recruitment, selection, promotion, training and The Group has been accredited under the Investors in development policies and practices are monitored to People scheme since 1997.
This demonstrates the ensure that all employees have the opportunity to train Groups commitment to the training and development of and develop according to their abilities.
The staff appraisal system used by the Group is designed to assist employees in developing their Employees involvement careers within the Group and to identify and provide The directors recognise the benefit of keeping employees appropriate training opportunities.
The Groups corporate informed of the progress of the business.
The Group training and development strategy focuses on providing sponsors a Staff Forum, attended by elected staff opportunities to develop all of its staff and is central to representatives from each area of the business, which achievement of the Groups business objectives.
exists primarily to facilitate communication and dissemination of information throughout the Group and Equality and diversity provides a means by which the employees can be The Group is committed to providing a working consulted on matters affecting them.
environment in which employees feel valued and respected and are able to contribute to the success of the Employees are provided with regular information on the business, and to employing a workforce that recognises performance and plans of the Group, and the financial the diversity of customers.
Employees are requested to and economic factors affecting it, through both co-operate with the Groups efforts to ensure the policy is information circulars and management presentations.
The Company operates a Sharesave share option The Groups aim is that its employees should be able to scheme and a profit sharing scheme, both of which work in an environment free from discrimination, enable employees to benefit from the performance of harassment and bullying and that employees, job the business.
applicants, customers, retailers, business introducers The directors encourage the involvement of employees and suppliers should be treated fairly regardless of: at all levels by the staff appraisal process and through race, colour, nationality, ethnic origins or community communication between directors, team leaders and background teams.
gender, sexual orientation, marital or family status religious or political beliefs or affiliations disability, impairment or age real or suspected infection with HIV AIDS membership of a trade union and that they should not be disadvantaged by conditions or requirements that are unjust or unfair.
16 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Environmental policy Charitable contributions The Group complies with all applicable laws and The Group contributes to registered charities serving the regulations relating to the environment and operates a local communities in which it operates.
Included in the Green Charter, implemented by: charitable contributions shown in the Directors Report are contributions of 76,431 2004: 68,406 made by the Ensuring all buildings occupied by the Group are Group to the work of the Foundation for Credit Counselling managed efficiently by the facilities team and building who operate the Consumer Credit Counselling Service.
surveyors, for example: - using low energy lightbulbs where appropriate The Group supports the efforts of the Paragon Charity - maintaining building temperatures within Committee, which is made up of volunteer employees and CIBSE guidelines which organises a variety of fundraising activities - using light controls to reduce lighting in throughout the year.
All employees have the opportunity to unoccupied areas nominate a charity and a vote is carried out to select the - ensuring energy audits are carried out as part of beneficiary of the years events.
condition surveys Providing facilities and negotiating contracts to enable staff to re-cycle used products such as waste paper, toner cartridges, etc.
Controlling business travel and providing opportunities for staff to travel to work in various ways.
Displaying a Paragon Green Charter at all sites to encourage staff to be environmentally friendly at all times.
Health and Safety The office environment is managed so as to comply with the requirements of the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974, Workplace Health, Safety and Welfare Regulations 1992, COSHH Regulations 1988, Disability Discrimination Act 1995, Fire Precautions Workplace Regulations 1997 and the Control of Asbestos at Work Regulations 2002.
Appropriate procedures have been established to monitor and maintain the Groups Health and Safety standards.
Monitoring is undertaken internally and by external consultants and training is organised for staff from time to time.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 17
