Corporate responsibility review Acting responsibly Management and policy At Prudential, corporate responsibility CR is not an optional extra.
Prudential has developed a Group Governance Framework which It is fundamental to how we operate and is a philosophy that is is underpinned by a Group Governance Manual and associated now embedded in the business.
This encompasses all key policies and procedures, for example our Group Code of Business Conduct, our CR Policy and We recognise that our stakeholders increasingly support those our Health and Safety Policy.
We set our own codes and policies companies that define and exhibit sound values around trust, that often go further than legislative requirements.
Prudential also operates a Group Risk Framework which focuses We also believe that a companys performance in key areas on reputation issues, including those of a social, ethical and of conduct such as corporate governance, environmental environmental nature.
The controls, which are applicable across management and employment practices can have a significant the Group, are set out in the Group Governance Manual.
impact on its financial performance.
Prudentials Group Finance Director, Philip Broadley, has Board Over the last year we have therefore reviewed our CR strategy to level responsibility for social, environmental and ethical risk ensure that it continues to align our business objectives with our stakeholder concerns.
Stakeholder dialogue Trust SSAT and National Institute of community and our policy on not Stakeholder engagement enables our Adult Continuing Education NIACE, making political donations is laid out employees and relevant external groups thousands of adults and children are on page 59. to help shape what we do and ensure now benefiting and learning how to A new international employee that their reasonable expectations are make decisions that will have a profound volunteering programme, The translated into business value.
In 2005, effect on the quality of their lives.
Chairmans Award, was launched across the CR unit discussed the CR programme We extended our initiative to Asia in the Group in December 2005.
The with customers and consumers in the 2004, with an innovative programme initiative encourages employees to UK, using PruBus, a qualitative research called Investing in Your Future, which volunteer with charities within their local study.
Prudential UK has separately focuses on women, who are often communities.
The charities involved all continued to hold monthly MeetPru responsible for planning for their familys address the needs of the elderly or events, which give our customers the financial needs.
This was first launched children, and run projects that have opportunity to meet members of the UK in China and rolled out to Vietnam in aspects of financial literacy at their core, executive team and ask questions about 2005.
During 2006, we will extend this thereby supporting the Groups CR both their own policies and broader programme into India.
We now have projects in issues, including the CR programme.
than 5,000 women have graduated from most of our markets.
Improving financial capability the programme in Asia.
In 2005, Prudentials employees and Our financial education programme is More details of our international financial our businesses around the world made based on the recognition that we need literacy programme are available in our significant financial contributions in to play our part in enabling consumers 2005 06 Learning for Life publication.
response to four separate disasters: the to make the right decisions for their The booklet can be accessed at Asian tsunami: Hurricane Katrina in the individual needs.
co. uk prudentialUS: the London bombings and the from debt management to savings needs.
plc cr library research Mumbai floods.
Informing and empowering consumers to make such decisions will, we believe, Investing in our communities The Prudential Caring Fund was set up in build better and more permanent In 2005, we invested 4.7 million in January 2005, to help the local residents relationships between consumers a wide range of projects around our in countries severely impacted by the and providers.
business, supporting education, welfare devastating Asian tsunami.
This total was raised from voluntary employee We began developing our Financial includes the significant contribution donations, along with matched funding Literacy programme in the United made by many of our people around by Prudentials business units in the UK, Kingdom in 2001.
Five years later, the Group through volunteering, the US and Asia.
we are seeing significant progress.
often linked with professional skills The money raised has been distributed In the UK, via partnerships with diverse development.
It also includes direct to the countries hardest hit by the organisations such as Citizens Advice, donations to charitable organisations tsunami: Indonesia the primary the Personal Finance Education Group of 3.5 million.
A detailed breakdown recipient : India: Thailand and Sri Lanka.
pfeg, Specialist Schools and Academies of Prudentials investment in the We used our local knowledge to identify 34 Prudential plc Annual Report 2005 management.
The Board discusses Prudentials performance on In 2005, we engaged KPMG LLP to conduct a review of our CR this at least once a year.
The Board also reviews and approves our management and internal and external reporting arrangements.
KPMG provided a report to our senior management team, summarising recommendations for improvement.
In particular, The Corporate Responsibility Committee is a specialist GroupKPMG highlighted that Prudential would benefit from conducting wide committee chaired by the Group Finance Director, and another formal review of the material CR risks for the business.
In is responsible for reviewing business conduct and social and response to this, a CR risk workshop was organised in February environmental policy.
2006, with participation from all of the business units.
Our CR unit develops our strategy, provides training across the In 2006, we have engaged KPMG to review the key CR performance Group, and works closely with individual business units to provide indicators identified in our workshop, which we will use to help advice ensuring that our core values are maintained and assisting develop our CR risk management strategy for reporting and with the adaptation of Group-wide initiatives so that they meet external assurance.
appropriate charities to ensure our United Nations Environment Programme our policies and business actions donations made the most impact.
Our Finance Initiative UNEP FI, PruPIM is promote the consideration of the support focused on children and the creating awareness of the implications of environment.
rebuilding and or improvement of climate change for property investment PruPIM is the first UK property company schools and libraries.
and how we should address this.
to achieve full ISO14001 certification, In Indonesia, for example, we are Employee work-life balance the internationally recognised working with United Nations Childrens Engaging with employees and environmental management standard.
Fund UNICEF to support their understanding their expectations about The scope of this certification covers all Creating Learning Communities for corporate values, transparency, career PruPIMs operations, including its Children initiative.
Our support will help development, performance management, property investment portfolio in the UK improve the quality of education at over diversity and work-life balance is and its head office function, in High 90 primary schools by improving school important.
This understanding helps us to Holborn, London.
management, community participation, attract, retain and motivate our employees.
In the US, Jackson National Life JNL and the entire teaching learning process In Asia, for example, employee has carefully monitored and worked to training over 1,700 teachers and education is provided across our Asian minimise any negative environmental benefiting over 21,000 students.
markets through PRUuniversity, which impact since it moved to its current Socially responsible investment SRI is available to all staff and is offered in headquarters in 2000, working with state M&Gs approach to socially responsible 12 languages.
Programmes are centrally and local authorities on new projects investment SRI is set out in the booklet credited and many are endorsed by which protect the environment.
Issues Arising from Share Ownership, external learning institutions.
The courses Further information can be found in available at www.
co. uk cover CR, management and leadership, Acting Responsibly, our full Corporate SRI has focused principally on equity technical and business skills as well as a Responsibility Report 2005 6, accessed markets, with the property investment comprehensive range of self-improvement at www.
co. uk community slower to address the issue material including language courses.
prudential-plc cr A hard copy of the of sustainability.
However, with more Further information about our approach report is available from our CR unit: than 17.2 billion as at 31 December to equal opportunities and employee Laurence Pountney Hill, London 2005 of funds under management, involvement can be found on pages 58 EC4R 0HH.
Prudential Property Investment Managers and 59.
Limited PruPIM, a subsidiary of M&G, is one of the UKs largest commercial Environment sustainable property investment managers and development accounts for approximately 80 per cent Protecting the environment is essential of Prudentials direct environmental for the quality of life of current and impact in the UK.
The challenge is to in the Institutional Investors Group on combine continuing economic growth climate change and our participation with long-term sustainable development.
on the property working group of the As such, we will endeavour to ensure Prudential plc Annual Report 2005 35
