10697 Capita Front 14 3 06 09:52 Page 36 36 36 Capita Capita Business review Society and environment Benefiting our communities Corporate responsibility is an integral part of As a provider of key public services, we are a committed our business.
Our continued commercial partner to the communities in which we operate, success is dependent on constantly 95% through improving local service provision, creating new managing our responsibilities effectively.
customer retention rate jobs and contributing to social and economic growth in Corporate responsibility can mean different the local area.
We work closely with our local authority clients to help them achieve their regeneration and things to different organisations.
At Capita, regional development targets.
we have identified the issues that matter most to us and we are committed to An important strand of our community programme is our continued support for our corporate charities, the continuously improving the way we address NSPCC and The Princes Trust.
The good progress we and manage them.
made in 2004 towards our Charitable Fund target of 52 raising 1.5 million by April 2007 has continued in Our key issues are: 2005, with a wide range of events and initiatives sites achieved ISO9001:200 quality management system supported by the Group and staff across our businesses.
ensuring quality of service Initiatives included our Capita Challenge for staff, supporting our people Capita Charity Week, payroll giving and sponsorship of the NSPCCs City Dinner.
benefiting our communities reducing our environmental impacts Through our volunteering partnership with The Princes Trust, staff get the opportunity to engage with their see pages 30 to 33 local community by working with young people in the Trusts programme who are facing educational or 100% Ensuring quality of service social exclusion.
Capita is committed to delivering excellent service to key suppliers meet or exceed our customers.
With over 20,000 customers and our service standards Macmillan Cancer Relief was our third charity for numerous suppliers, Capita places a strong emphasis on 2005, chosen by our staff.
The charity benefitted maximising the efficiency and quality of services we from our annual Christmas card donation, our GAYE provide to our clients and their customers.
We also scheme and locally run events.
demand an equally high service from our suppliers.
2005 was a year we will sadly remember for both We actively monitor service levels on all client global and local disasters.
The Group contributed contracts and receive external verification of our service significant sums to both the Pakistan Earthquake excellence on key service partnerships such as CRB, BBC Appeal and the London Bombing Relief Charitable and TfL.
We regularly seek feedback from our clients on Fund.
the services they receive from our businesses and use this feedback to continuously improve our processes, procedures and overall performance.
Working closely with all our suppliers is an important element of this programme.
In 2005 we launched a Supplier Profiling Project, enabling us to fully profile all Group suppliers and understand their responsible business approach.
This project will continue in 2006.
Charitable donations m 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.1 01 02 03 04 05 10697 Capita Front 14 3 06 09:52 Page 37 37 Capita Business review Society and environment Reducing our environmental impacts p As a service business, the Groups operations have a Environmental limited direct impact on the environment.
However, we achievements 2005 1.5m recognise that our day-to-day activities impact on the environment in both positive and negative ways.
Where 3 year corporate charity target Further expanded to April 2007 any of our operations do have an impact, we have recycling schemes actively put in place a combination of both ISO14001 accredited and non accredited management systems.
across the Group Accurate measurement and monitoring of our key Adopted Digital impacts energy, waste and transport is challenging Pipeline initiative to for the Group.
Through our Group Safety, Health & donate redundant IT kit Environment network we have embarked on a Groupto developing countries 824k wide environment programme, aimed at improving measurement, increasing awareness and setting targets.
money raised to date against Estimated the Groups charity target Through a number of Group-wide initiatives, we are Carbon Footprint - improving our environmental impact by recycling our measurement of our waste, carefully disposing of assets and in some cases greenhouse gas changing the way we work.
Our relationship with water emissions supply company AquAid helped fund 34 elephant pumps in Africa.
We established a relationship with SH&E Audit programme Digital Pipeline to recycle IT equipment for developing expanded to include countries, which also enabled the Group to meet the 1.1m environmental impacts new EU WEEE Directive.
In the first 5 months of generated through NSPCC events reporting operation we recycled 1,500 pieces of IT equipment.
sponsored by Capita Our conferencing service with BT Conferencing, again provided fantastic benefits for the business an estimated saving of at least 2m per annum on p travel and hotel costs: approximately 2 million car Environmental miles saved, equating to 44,500 working hours: and p 2 targets 2006 CO emissions were cut by 400 tonnes through FTSE4 Good reduction in car travel.
Increase staff awareness Included in the index for socially of environmental issues responsible investment for the 5th consecutive year Increase monitoring of impacts Agree an appropriate measurement tool for business travel Measure our Carbon Footprint Attain further ISO14001 accreditations
