10697 Capita Front 14 3 06 09:52 Page 32 32 32 Capita Capita Business review Our people Recruiting and developing staff At Capita, we have created an open and p Capitas position as the leading provider of BPO services positive environment for our staff, making it Key staff benefits in the UK means we are able to attract and retain a a safe, friendly and rewarding place to work.
reservoir of talented and skilled people.
For all staff, Within a clear financial framework, we Capita Sharesave whether a direct recruit or transferring from another believe in giving responsibility for the dayorganisation, the rewards for working within the Scheme Group and opportunities to develop are extensive.
to-day running of our businesses to those Capita Share We are committed to providing opportunities for all to managers and staff who are delivering our develop, through the provision of a leadership and skills Ownership Plan frontline services.
People feel involved and development programme, IMPACT.
This programme are rewarded for their efforts.
Capita Value staff enables staff to equip themselves with the right skills to carry out their work effectively and provides a discount scheme development framework to help employees build Managing growth Occupational their career within Capita.
We have a strong tradition Carefully managing Capitas continued growth is a key of high staff retention, particularly at middle and pension scheme focus for managers across the Group.
Since 2000, our senior manager level, reflecting the opportunities staff numbers have increased threefold from 8,500 to Life insurance scheme for individuals working within the Group and the over 25,000.
Even more challenging is the fact that over culture of drive and achievement which pervades two-thirds of these new staff have transferred to us Personal accident cover the organisation.
from other organisations with diverse cultures and Childcare voucher working practices.
Managing this ongoing growth and Protecting and rewarding staff integration is something at which Capita excels.
scheme We ensure all our people are equipped to do their We approach each transition with an open and jobs and work in a safe and secure environment.
Interest-free travel transparent communication style, helping to make Protecting the health and safety of all staff is all staff feel secure and motivated from day one.
season ticket loans paramount and our health & safety approach is Our skill at managing the business smoothly through one of the best in our industry.
Home computing these periods of change is key to our success.
initiative Our extensive package of benefits is designed to The steps to achieving a successful transfer of staff appeal to our diverse workforce and rewards staff with a contract or acquisition include: for good performance.
With our extensive HR and administration expertise we manage all our benefits Transfer p to a very high standard.
As a quoted company, we A structured but open and consultative approach that place great emphasis on encouraging staff ownership, reassures and enthuses staff.
Communication through our share savings and share ownership techniques tailored to suit each organisations culture, schemes, while rewarding excellent performance with scale and geographic spread.
Guidance & direction p The society and environment section on our website Open communication giving staff a shared www.
co. uk contains further insight into how we understanding of objectives.
Clear leadership and maintain an excellent team and motivate our staff to allocation of responsibilities creating the means to deliver high standards of service.
Support & inspiration p Security of existing benefits, access to Capitas range of employment benefits and an ability to share in the future success of Capita, by participation in our share ownership plans.
We strive to support the enthusiasm and creativity that each employee brings to Capita and to channel it in a way that inspires each person to perform to their best.
Rod Aldridge, Executive Chairman 10697 Capita Front 14 3 06 09:52 Page 33 33 33 Capita Capita Business review Our people Encouraging innovation, celebrating excellence The Innovation Award winner was Simon Pill for his p Recognising and rewarding staff for their enthusiasm, outstanding contribution to learning within the TV ifsProShare Awards 2005 commitment, team spirit and innovative solutions, Licensing India Mill contact centre.
He totally inspires others to think how they can do their work redesigned the way induction training is conducted to Capita won the Best Financial differently.
This creates a forward thinking workforce ensure that new people to the business were getting Education Programme for with a positive upbeat attitude.
At Capita, encouraging the necessary support to turn them into experts in their Employees Award, for our and rewarding innovation and creativity is very field.
He also worked on the development of a holistic approach to financial important.
Whether it is personal recognition by a line programme aimed specifically at developing our education regarding our manager or formal recognition of excellence through managers of the future and introduced a Learning Sharesave Scheme.
our Group-wide Staff Excellence Awards scheme, we Resource Centre LRC to encourage self-learning.
His recognise and celebrate success.
initiatives have had a significant impact on self-learning within the business and attracted government funding.
Staff Excellence Awards Winners 2005 The Effective Teamwork Award was awarded to a major sales bid team which has worked around the The Service Excellence Award for outstanding clock on a new opportunity for the Group.
Their efforts commitment to service, excellent leadership and have gone beyond the call of duty.
They have frequently communication skills was awarded to Miriam Sweeny, spent time away from their homes and families and Capita Life & Pensions Services.
Her leadership of a their long hours, hard work and dedication have challenging project was critical to improving relations ensured that we are well positioned in the bid process.
with a new and important customer St Jamess Place Capital.
Miriams work has contributed to closer The Community Award underlines our wider interaction and co-operation between Capita and responsibility to our colleagues, our customers and the our customer.
communities with whom we work.
The 2005 award was awarded to Kelvin Ferguson for his brave and selfless actions, which resulted in a life saved.
During the course of his work as a TV Licensing field officer, he knocked on the door of a house which had caught fire.
The owner, who fell unconscious, was rescued by Kelvin after he had to forcefully enter the house and free the lady from a worsening fire.
His actions saved her life.
