Royal & SunAlliance 32 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Corporate Responsibility During 2005 we have made good progress and been active in ensuring that we are delivering on our stakeholder commitments.
At Royal & SunAlliance R&SA, Corporate Responsibility Overall satisfaction improved by 2% in 2005.
The results from is about how we interact with our stakeholders.
During across the Group show that employees feel we are making strong 2005 we have further clarified what this means for us in improvements, particularly in areas such as delivery on business terms of our Business Principles and how they translate into results.
Employees also registered a strong improvement in commitments that relate to our key stakeholder groups: how we deliver for our customers, demonstrating that our focus customers, employees, business partners, regulators, on putting the customer at the centre of everything we do is shareholders, community and the environment.
Our Principles were revised and updated during the year Customers and provide guidance for employees on general business Our commitments include communicating openly with practice in terms of each stakeholder group.
They link to customers and providing reliable levels of service, whether it is a our Group policies, embedding them into business behaviour, new business enquiry, renewal, claim or complaint.
We regularly and form part of our broader risk and governance framework.
benchmark our customer management performance using an Further details on these Principles and a detailed report on external model.
Our main operations are assessed against a our Corporate Responsibility CR performance can be found cross industry database that contains 260 aspects of best on our website: www.
practice in relation to customer management.
This process provides opportunities to share best practice across the Group Employees and gives us a better understanding of how we are responding Employees are encouraged to take accountability and responsibility to our customers, enabling us to improve retention of valued for their own actions in an environment where we promote teamwork customers as well as attracting new ones.
During the year our and strong leadership.
We expect a lot from the people we employ focus on retention has seen Groupwide improvements.
and in return we offer them structured personal development opportunities and reward and recognition linked to performance.
Responding efficiently to claims is critical to providing a high level Over 80% of employees now have a significant proportion of of customer service, particularly in times of emergency.
2005 their pay directly related to their personal performance, up provided some challenging opportunities for us to demonstrate from 15% in 2003.
Our target is 90% by the end of 2006. how well we can deliver, including the European windstorm in January that led to flooding in the UK and Scandinavia.
Our claims We seek regular feedback from staff, including an annual global excellence extends across the Group.
In Scandinavia we have survey which provides an important insight into working at R&SA.
invested in technology to improve the efficiency and transparency Through our CR programme, we have taken a range of actions on important issues including investment in flood defences and social exclusion.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 33 of our claims handling.
We have introduced an innovative online Community system that sends automatic updates on progress of claims In addition to flood risk we are active in a number of other areas.
and allows customers to track their claim at any time, day or In relation to road safety a new product, Drive for Life, was launched night.
This keeps customers regularly informed at what can be in Canada which provides reduced premiums for young drivers a stressful time for them, while reducing administration costs that have undergone safety training in a driving simulator.
training improves their skills and results in fewer accidents.
Ensuring complaints are resolved promptly is also key.
In the UK, We are also actively involved in addressing the issue of social we participate in the annual benchmarking survey on complaints exclusion.
Insurance offers security and peace of mind and access handling conducted by the Association of British Insurers.
In 2005 to affordable insurance is a key issue.
In the UK, we have been our performance was assessed as upper quartile across all at the forefront of providing affordable social housing insurance categories.
We make use of customer feedback on our processes for over 15 years and in 2005 we commissioned a report, and products to maintain and improve this performance.
Widening the Safety Net to stimulate debate in this area.
The report calls for greater access to insurance for socially Environment excluded groups and provides recommendations on how We are also investing in technology that will help customers insurers and local partners can work together to widen access.
to better manage their own risks.
A web based service, More details on this and other CR initiatives can be found on our co funded by R&SA, was launched in December.
EuroTempest, improves our ability to predict windstorms and provide pre-emptive advice to customers.
It provides local We have active community engagement programmes in damage forecasts from windstorms down to postcode level for operation across the Group.
Examples include, road safety in seven European countries, including the UK, up to five days in Canada, water safety in Sweden, working with the Samaritans advance http: et.
It complements another in the UK, the Red Cross in Ireland and the provision of tailored tool that we have supported for a number of years, Tropical products for rural customers in India.
Storm Risk, which predicts tropical storm activity worldwide.
Responsible investment In the UK, through our Geographical Risk Analysis tool we Our responsibility to stakeholders extends beyond managing day also have a detailed understanding of flood risk mapping at to day business activities and covers management of Company an individual property level which enables us to set premiums assets.
Our UK assets are managed by F&C Asset Management based on the true risk that each home represents.
It has also who apply their proprietary reo methodology responsible enabled us to take a lead in the broader policy debate on flood engagement overlay across our portfolios to encourage issues.
In November, we issued a Flood report highlighting companies to manage social, ethical and environmental SEE our concerns regarding future flood risk in the UK, calling for risks.
We receive regular feedback on which companies they appropriate spending on flood defences and underlining the have engaged with.
need for flood risk to be factored into new build schemes.
We have made progress against our CR objectives but recognise In addition to being actively involved in environmental that there is more to do.
For a more detailed review of our CR issues through our products and services, we monitor our performance and details of our approach going forward, please own direct environmental impacts and seek to improve our refer to the separate CR report.
Details of our performance and further discussion on environmental issues can be found in our CR report.
Only five months after floods in Boscastle, a fierce windstorm hit Europe in January.
By monitoring the weather we were able to anticipate the worst hit areas and in Carlisle we were the first insurer to have our in house loss adjusters on the ground, proactively contacting customers to provide assistance where needed.
In Sweden and Denmark, additional claims personnel were made available to enable us to handle the rise in call volumes which increased by over 1000% at their peak.
