Economic and monetary environment which required that legacy currency notes and coins be Monetary policy withdrawn by 30 June 2002.
"Also on 1 January 1999, the The Groups earnings are affected by domestic and global European Central Bank ""ECB"" assumed responsibility for the economic conditions."
The policies of the UK government, and operation of monetary policy throughout the euro zone.
The of governments in other countries in which the Group operates, ECB sets one short-term interest rate to cover all twelve also have an impact.
The UK government sets an inflation target, which changed in The UK government continues to support EMU entry in principle, December 2003 from a 2.5% target based on the retail prices but has decided the UK will not adopt the single currency until index excluding mortgage interest payments to a 2% target based it is in the UKs economic interests, with a positive referendum 253 on the consumer prices index, in line with other European countries.
The Chancellor of the Exchequer has laid down five key economic conditions for UK participation.
An assessment of The Bank of England has operational independence in setting these five tests took place in June 2003, resulting in the the repo rate to achieve the inflation target.
The Bank was given publication of HM Treasurys assessment, the 18 supporting independence by the Chancellor of the Exchequer in 1997, with EMU studies, and a third outline National Changeover Plan.
the aim of making monetary policy free from political influence, While indicating that these five economic tests have yet to be and therefore more stable and credible.
The Banks Monetary fully met, the government has set out a programme of economic Policy Committee MPC meets each month to agree any reforms and structural assessments necessary to achieve change to interest rates, and the minutes of these meetings are readiness for entry.
The Chancellor made a progress statement published two weeks later.
One-off meetings can also be held in Budget 2004, at which point he decided not to undertake an in exceptional circumstances.
In response to the downturn in immediate further assessment of the entry tests.
the global economy and the terrorist attacks, the Bank of England, along with other major central banks around the world, The Group continues to co-operate with the UK government, and cut rates sharply in 2001.
Rates remained at exceptionally low to work within the financial services sector, to develop thinking levels throughout 2002, and were reduced again in the first half of and plans regarding a range of practical issues that would arise 2003, reflecting the uncertain nature of the global and domestic if the UK were to decide to enter EMU.
In particular, the Group economic circumstances.
Signs of recovery in the global continues its involvement in discussions as to how a phased economy led the Bank of England to increase rates five times transition could be achieved, in order to minimise cost and risk.
since November 2003, to 4.75%, before interest rates were cut In addition, due attention is being paid to the implications, for to 4.5% in August 2005. elements of the Group and for customers, of the introduction of euro notes and coins and the withdrawal of sterling.
The value of sterling is also important for UK monetary conditions.
The monetary authorities do not have an exchange Uncertainty continues on the likelihood and timing of the euro rate target, but movements in sterling play a role in the MPCs being introduced in the UK.
It is not possible to estimate with monthly debates.
any degree of certainty the ultimate cost of making systems and operations fully compliant.
Expenditure in the year ended European Economic and Monetary Union EMU 31 December 2005 in preparation for the possible introduction The European single currency, the euro, came into being on 1 of the euro in the UK was minimal.
The third stage of EMU started on schedule on 1 January 1999.
During the course of 1998, it was determined Supervision and regulation that eleven countries Austria, Belgium, Finland, France, 1 United Kingdom Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal 1.1 The regulatory regime applying to the UK financial and Spain would participate.
The UK, along with Denmark, services industry exercised its right to opt out at that stage, and Sweden also The Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 FSMA determined not to be part of this first wave.
2000, containing an integrated legislative framework for regulating most of the UK financial services industry, came section On 31 December 1998, the European Currency Unit the into force at the end of 2001.
This and subsequent ECU was replaced by the euro on the international currency amendments established the Financial Services Authority 04 markets, on a one-for-one basis.
The rates for the euro against the FSA as the single statutory regulator responsible for other international currencies were based upon the official regulating deposit taking, insurance and investment closing rates for the ECU.
The bilateral rates for the legacy business in the UK.
currencies of the participating states were derived from their rates within the Exchange Rate Mechanism and the closing Under the FSMA 2000, businesses require the FSAs value of the ECU.
These rates, between the legacy currencies permission to undertake specified types of activities and between these currencies and the euro, were fixed as of including entering into and carrying out contracts of 1 January 1999.
The euro became the formal currency for all insurance: managing, dealing in or advising on, eleven then-participating states.
investments: accepting deposits: and issuing electronic money regulated activities.
The FSA has published Euro notes and coins were introduced into circulation on detailed regulatory requirements contained in a Handbook 1 January 2002 in accordance with the Maastricht Treaty, of Rules and Guidance.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Additional information Additional information
