Corporate Responsibility continued The RBS groups 56.2 million Community Investment programme goes beyond simple financial donation and aims to generate long term benefit through genuine partnerships with charities, community groups, employees and other stakeholders.
48 Community investment The Groups commitment to the Money In the UK, we focus on three programmes that Advice Trust led to the take up of 5,324 free we believe have a strong and positive impact: training places by personal money advisers, Supporting Staff Giving, Money Matters and improving the quality of advice given to people Moving On.
Supporting Staff Giving The Lone Parent Helpline responded In 2005, over 14,500 of our staff took to 25,465 calls up from 21,000 in 2004 and part in our unique double matched payroll giving distributed 4,689 information packs.
scheme which generated 8.5 million for 3,200 charities across the UK and Ireland.
In addition Moving On RBS supported a TV advertising campaign by The number of employees volunteering with 3 charities Cancer Research UK, NSPCC and The Princes Trust and Fairbridge has increased this Oxfam which encouraged more employers year with more than 1,600 employees now involved and employees to take part in payroll giving.
Make it happen 7,000 Community Cashback Awards 112 schools completed Year One of the totalling 2.5 million were made to good causes, Supergrounds programme, which transforms supported by our staff through fundraising or school grounds nominated through local retail volunteering.
branches into attractive and stimulating places to learn and play in safety.
A further 183 schools are Together with a 1 million Christmas now taking part in Year Two of the programme.
donation shared between the Top 10 Give As You Earn charities nominated by our staff, the In 2005 the Group continued to support the three schemes generated a record 12 million Aimhigher Roadshows in England, Wales, Scotland in charitable donations.
Money Matters In the US, Citizens has a long history of working in In 2005, Face 2 Face with Finance, the partnership with its local community.
Activities focus Groups unique programme to provide financial on five key areas: affordable housing, economic education, helped 260,000 young people better development and job creation, financial literacy, understand personal finance.
550 members of volunteering and the Champions in Action staff worked with teachers to deliver lessons and programme.
Further details are on page 36. interactive activities.
Make it happen Corporate Responsibility 49 First Tee.
Using golf to teach life skills RBS in the US has helped Sonya Mendez through The First Tee programme.
As Achiever of the Year, she won US$10,000 towards college education and is now mentored by an RBS employee.
Communities across New to the Face2Face the UK have seen their programme the school playgrounds transformed banks train pupils to into Supergrounds.
manage a branch helping Youngsters like these them to understand money on the Isle of Skye are and the banking system.
amongst 250,000 who are In the first year, 20 school now more active outdoors.
banks have been established across the UK.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Corporate Responsibility Directors report and summary financial statement 50 Make it happen Directors report and summary financial statement Contents 52 Board of directors and secretary 54 Summary remuneration report 58 Financial results 63 Shareholder information 51 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Governance and financial review
