Governance Corporate and social responsibility 44 Corporate and social responsibility In this section we detail our policies with respect to corporate and social responsibility.
Schroders, its Board and senior management recognise the importance of corporate and social responsibility to its employees, investors, the community at large and those in whom it invests.
We have put in place policies to ensure that we act in a responsible way and encourage our employees to do the same.
Schroders policies and activities in relation to corporate and social responsibility are covered in more detail in the Corporate Responsibility Report, which can be found at www.
An overview of the policies and some of the activities undertaken in 2005 is included in the following review.
Employees We recognise the importance of making the Company an The performance management process comprises an annual employer of choice, ensuring that our employees understand the performance appraisal against objectives and our core values: strategic aims and objectives of the Group and are clear about integrity: passion: innovation: teamwork and excellence.
We have what is expected of them, and having policies and practices that taken steps to ensure that the output from the performance make Schroders a desirable place to work and encourage management process is used to inform decisions on promotion employees to act ethically and be aware of the wider community.
During 2005, we paid particular attention to increasing We have developed a process for communicating with employees and improving the learning and development opportunities offered worldwide, on a day-to-day basis, via email and the Groups to employees globally.
We now provide them with a wide and intranet site.
We also ensure that what is explained to the market increasing range of training and development options, is disseminated internally.
There has been an increased use of strengthening our commitment to being a desirable place to work.
employee meetings designed to facilitate the exchange of views with senior management and discussion of the progress made by Equal opportunities the Group.
We are committed to equal opportunities for both existing employees and applicants seeking employment and seek to The employee opinion survey was repeated in 2005 and achieved ensure that our workforce reflects, as far as practicable, the a creditable 67 per cent.
Work continues to diversity of the many communities in which we operate.
It is the address some of the issues expressed in the responses to the Groups policy to give appropriate consideration to applications for survey.
An Employee Consultation Forum has been established in employment from disabled persons, having regard to their the UK consisting of employees elected by the workforce.
For the purposes of training, Members of the Forum meet regularly with management as part of career development and promotion, disabled employees, including a Joint Consultative Group to discuss employee-related matters.
any who become disabled during the course of their employment, are treated on equal terms with other employees.
We operate a We promote the importance of high ethical standards to zero tolerance policy to harassment and bullying.
Opportunities for employees to voice concerns about behaviours or decisions that they perceive to be unethical are in Health and safety place through our internal whistleblowing process.
We promote high standards of health and safety at work for all employees and have rolled out globally our health and safety Personal securities trading by employees is regulated and policy, which contains policies and procedures which are monitored to ensure this does not lead to conflicts of interest and expected to be followed by all employees and highlights our employees are not permitted to solicit or accept any inducements commitment to ensuring employees are provided with a safe and which are likely to conflict with their duties to clients.
Training is healthy working environment.
Training on these issues is also provided in relation to these issues and in relation to money given to employees and, during the year, two interactive laundering, terrorist finance and data protection.
e-learning training and assessment courses were introduced.
Further details on the policy are to be found in the Corporate Responsibility Report.
Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Corporate and social responsibility 45 Environment and corporate responsibility Community involvement and charitable giving Although Schroders activities as part of the financial services Employees are encouraged to participate in the community and sector have minimal direct environmental impact, we promote in civic and charitable causes.
Such involvement is seen not only energy efficiency and avoidance of waste throughout our to be of use to the community, but also as a means of operations, including appropriate conservation measures in the increasing employee awareness and assisting in their own design and use of buildings and equipment, recycling of materials development.
Schroders charitable giving is focused on and reduction in use of paper through office automation.
UK employees are encouraged to make 88 per cent.
of waste was recycled or reused.
charitable donations through the payroll system and at the end Not all targets for the recycling of waste, CO2 output, energy of the year 16 per cent.
were participating in this scheme.
In consumption and the adoption of sustainable environmental 2005 employees made charitable donations totalling 242,000. measures were met in 2005 but they were broadly in line with the Schroders matches employee contributions up to certain limits.
Further targets have been set for 2006 and are to be Employees also arrange fundraising events in support of found in the Corporate Responsibility Report.
In 2005 Schroders donated approximately 541,000 globally to various charitable causes.
The Corporation of London has recognised Schroders efforts in effective waste management by giving Schroders a platinum rating Employees are encouraged to spend time working in the in its Clean City Awards scheme, which is an improvement on the community and from June 2005 every employee has been gold award received in 2004.
Additionally, the Group, through the allowed to take up to 15 hours paid leave per year to provide investment management process, advises companies in which it volunteer services to the community.
A number of employees invests of its socially responsible investment policy which in 2005 regularly volunteer their time to work with public bodies, was extended to cover the pan-European market.
The policy community organisations, schools and universities.
During embodies the requirements of the ABI Disclosure Guidelines on November and December 20 volunteers from Schroders travelled Socially Responsible Investment and endorses the Voluntary Code to Sri Lanka to take part in house building projects co-ordinated on Shareholder Activism issued by the Institutional Shareholders by Habitat for Humanity and it is planned that employees will be Committee, the details of which are contained in the Corporate offered a similar opportunity in South Africa in 2006.
A more detailed report on the Groups community involvements is The investment process incorporates research into the contained in the Corporate Responsibility Report.
environmental, social and ethical stance of companies and Schroders will engage with companies where the scope of Responsibility environmental, social and ethical codes may fall short of Board responsibility for corporate and social responsibility issues acceptable standards.
is divided between Jonathan Asquith, the Chief Financial Officer and Alan Brown, Head of Investment.
Jonathan Asquith has responsibility for all employee, environmental and community involvement issues and Alan Brown has responsibility for the investment process, socially responsible investment and corporate governance issues relating to the companies in which Schroders invests.
