Carillion plc Section 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Operating and Financial Review 26 Corporate Social Responsibility For more than 10 years we have set the pace in our sector when it comes to applying the principles of sustainable development.
We have consistently demonstrated that sustainable and responsible business practices help us to deliver our business objectives.
Our ability to have a positive effect on the environment and on the communities in which we work is a key differentiator for Carillion, helping us to win orders, minimise our Social, Environmental and Ethical Risks, control costs and deliver better services to customers.
The following summary of the progress we have made towards becoming a more sustainable business is supported by a more detailed account in our 2005 Sustainability Report, which has been published on our website at www.
In 2005, we continued to base our sustainability programme and objectives on the strategy model we first published in 2001.
This model helps us understand how the delivery of our business objectives is supported by improving the effects we have on the environment and the communities in which we operate.
Our 2005 sustainability objectives were based on nine specific and measurable Group targets against which our average, externally verified, score was 91 per cent.
We have also continued to benchmark our performance through participating in Business in the Communitys Corporate Social Responsibility Index: in the 2005 Index, Carillion was ranked first in its sector and in the top quartile of all participating companies, positions we have held since the inception of this Index in 2003.
Our new Sun diagram shows the business behaviours and activities that have most A new challenge impact on the four priority areas of the UK In March 2005, the UK Government set a new challenge for Governments Sustainable Development business when it published its Sustainable Development Strategy, Strategy, Securing the Future.
This strategy identifies four priority areas for sustainable development: Sustainable communities: Managing Sustainability Natural resource protection and environmental enhancement: Our commitment to sustainability continues to be driven by our Climate change and energy: and Board, which is advised by a Sustainability Committee.
Following Sustainable consumption and production.
the retirement in 2005 of Sir Neville Simms, this committee is now chaired by our chief executive, John McDonough and a number To strengthen our leadership in sustainable development we have of managing directors of our business units have joined the realigned our own sustainability strategy and programme for 2006 committee to strengthen its links with the Groups operational with the Governments new strategy.
To do this we consulted activities.
The committee also continues to benefit from expert widely, both externally and internally, engaging all our people in guidance and advice provided by two external advisors Jonathon the task, because becoming a more sustainable business ultimately Porritt, Chair of the UK Governments Sustainable Development depends on their understanding and commitment.
Commission, and David Cowans, Chief Executive of Places for People Group, a major social housing association.
As a result, we have identified the business behaviours and activities that have most impact on the four priority areas of Securing the Future, as illustrated in the Sun diagram above.
Our sustainability strategy model has been redefined to relate these behaviours and impacts to the Groups business objectives and we have also identified new ways of measuring the benefits of becoming a more sustainable business.
In 2005, we also developed a Tool Kit specifically to help our marketing and work-winning teams demonstrate to customers the benefits of choosing sustainable solutions that meet their business needs.
The new Toyota Prius a hybrid petrol electric car is now available as an option for Carillion company car drivers.
With excellent fuel economy and low CO emissions, the Prius is kind to the 2 pocket and to the environment.
Section 04 Carillion plc Operating and Financial Review Annual Report and Accounts 2005 27 Health and Safety We have developed a biodiversity framework along with simple Target Zero is the high-profile campaign we launched in October guidance for everyone working in locations where they need to 2004 with the aim of reducing reportable injuries to zero by 2010. consider plants, natural habitats and the behaviours of animals.
For example, a highways maintenance team is working with local Target Zero takes a structured approach to managing Health and wildlife groups to encourage biodiversity along the M40 motorway, Safety and to creating a safety focused culture.
To do this we which Carillion maintains between its junction with theM25 and introduced a Health and Safety management model that enables Warwick.
This includes supporting and monitoring the kestrel us to develop plans to improve and measure our performance.
population, an initiative featured on the BBC programme British This model, which is based on British Standard 8800 Occupational Isles: A Natural History.
health and safety management systems Guide, has the four main principles or elements to which we aspire, namely: Carbon emissions are a significant measure of environmental performance.
We have continued to reduce CO emissions from 2 Awareness all our people and stakeholders should have an Carillion buildings and CO emissions per vehicle in our company 2 awareness and understanding of Health and Safety hazards and car fleet, through awareness, energy management and Group-wide risks that affect our business: transport and car policies.
Competence all our people and stakeholders should have the competence to undertake their work with minimum risks to Communities Health and Safety: Carillion continues to be a member of Business in the Communitys Compliance our work activities must comply with legislation, BitC PerCent Club of companies that contribute over one per cent and our people are empowered to take action to minimise of their profits in cash or in kind to community activities.
The new Health and Safety risks: community engagement strategy we introduced in 2004 continues Excellence Carillion will become recognised for excellence in to provides practical guidance to our people on how we can be a the way it manages Health and Safety.
force for good in the locations where we work.
From on-site job centres and training, to involvement with local schools like St Within each element of the model, we have identified a number Johns, in Caterham, Surrey, where we built an agility trail and quiet of specific actions and targets.
Having adopted the model within area in the school grounds.
In another initiative, we supported the Carillion, we are now rolling it out to our supply chain, with Lollipop Appeal at Darent Valley hospital, Carillions first PPP suppliers having to demonstrate that they are achieving the hospital that opened in 2000, by arranging a five-a-side football standards we require.
competition to raise funds for a childrens High Dependency Unit.
In Wales, a team from Carillion Roads worked in partnership with The results of Target Zero have been significant.
In 2005, we the Construction Industry Training Board CITB and Ferndale School achieved our lowest ever Accident Frequency Rate of 0.24, which to trial the first pilot GCSE Construction course.
represents the number of injuries per 100,000 hours worked, as reported under the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous As one of the UKs leading providers of training for support services Occurrences Regulations 1995 RIDDOR, a 35 per cent reduction and construction skills, Carillion makes a major contribution to the on 2004. development of individuals and communities.
In 2005, around 3000 people attended courses at our 16 UK training centres and some In 2005, we reported 255 injuries under RIDDOR, 162 involving 800 apprentices qualified with NVQs.
Carillion employees and 93 involving subcontractors and others, an overall reduction of 27 per cent on 2004.
Tragically there were Further afield, in response to the Tsunami disaster on Boxing Day five fatal injuries, including one Carillion employee and four 2004, Carillion became a corporate sponsor of the charity RedR, employees of sub-contractors, and 62 other major injuries, involving which sources, trains and places people with the professional skills 34 Carillion employees and 28 employees of sub-contractors.
We and resources required by the main aid agencies to provide disaster therefore have some way to go to eradicate reportable injuries, but relief and recovery.
In addition to donating cash, our support we are determined to do so and our commitment to Target Zero included seconding one of our own water engineers to Oxfam remains absolute.
to work in Sri Lanka for six months immediately after the Tsunami struck.
Environment Our partnership with The Wildlife Trusts is now in its fifth year.
The year also saw our third successful Sustainability Week, which The Carillion Natural Habitats Fund continues to go from strength was arranged to coincide with World Environmental Day in June.
In 2005, we worked on five new projects with Trusts Over 150 events took place across the Group, demonstrating local to Carillions business activities.
For example, we are working that corporate social responsibility and a culture of sustainability with The Wildlife Trust for Birmingham and the Black Country to are embedded more firmly than ever at the heart of our produce an atlas of reptiles and amphibians in the area.
Success in creating a successful and sustainable we have contributed 125,000 to the Wildlife Trusts, sponsoring business depends primarily on the quality and commitment of our 26 projects and providing opportunities for our people to work people.
In 2005, 518 Carillion employees won Values awards in with a number of different Trusts.
recognition of their efforts in going the extra mile to exceed the expectations of our customes.
They showed that by living Managing and reducing waste is an important aspect of our values we can make a real, tangible difference to the quality environmental protection and we are working hard to minimise of the services we provide and to the performance of our business.
the waste we generate and send to landfill.
On projects such as the new John Radcliffe hospital in Oxford, we are now re-using or recycling over 90 per cent of construction waste.
