206697 Report & Accounts Front 20 3 06 7:40 pm Page 16 CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT ST. JAMESS PLACE FULLY SUPPORTS ALL THE INITIATIVES AIMED AT ENSURING COMPANIES ADOPT A RESPONSIBLE ATTITUDE TOWARDS THEIR STAKEHOLDERS AND IN PARTICULAR TO CLIENTS, STAFF, AND THE COMMUNITY.
Our Clients They are self-employed business people who represent Our mission statement is To be regarded as the most only St. Jamess Place in respect of the financial products professional and trusted provider of advice on wealth and services made available by the Group.
The provision of high quality advice is self-employed status, members of the St. Jamess Place delivered by members of the St. Jamess Place Partnership Partnership form a close bond with the Company and who build strong relationships with their clients.
Our share its core values.
Providing Financial Advice clients strategy is focused on being able to offer clients a can trust is at the heart of what they do.
comprehensive range of products and services and we consult regularly with members of the Partnership so All members of the Partnership have experience in that the needs and expectations of clients are clearly Financial Services before joining St. Jamess Place.
In an environment where trust is paramount, average, they have over 15 years service in the Financial all clients can have peace of mind knowing that St. Jamess Services industry.
Place stands behind and guarantees the advice given by members of the Partnership when recommending any of Once with the Company, they are trained in St. Jamess the products and services provided by companies in the Place products and services and receive regular St. Jamess Place Group.
information and guidance with regard to changes in legislation or regulation.
A number of them will specialise Sound and trusted advice is at the heart of our proposition in particular aspects of financial advice, e. g. Pensions and we place great emphasis on clearly communicating advice, Inheritance Tax planning, Corporate markets, the characteristics of our products and services to clients.
and the Company provides A substantial part of our business is the management of further support and encourages continual professional clients money and we aim to do that well through our development in these areas.
When it comes to settling life and health claims we take a positive approach Members of the Partnership are also encouraged to build and do not hide behind small print.
Wherever possible long term relationships with their clients and with the we will pay claims in line with the spirit of the contract.
Company and our remuneration arrangements are Inherent within everything we do is our desire to be fair designed with that in mind.
Partner retention has and reasonable to clients and all our stakeholders and remained incredibly high in recent years and averages at whenever we fall short of that we will do our utmost to over 90% per annum year on year.
Our Employees The Partnership We firmly believe that our employees give us a sustainable The St. Jamess Place Partnership is made up of some competitive advantage in a marketplace where the of the most experienced, able and highly regarded provision of high quality service is paramount.
The professionals working in financial services.
attitude, knowledge, skills and commitment of our people continues to be a strong differentiator and we continue to 16 206697 Report & Accounts Front 20 3 06 7:40 pm Page 17 CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT continued invest in training and development programmes so that we purpose-built Head Office in our current home town of are able to meet the needs of our business and customers.
Cirencester, which will provide 45,000 square feet of We have a structured induction process for new starters space and enable all back office functions to work which provides an insight into what its like to work at together in one building in 2007.
Our values of integrity, openness and fairness are the foundation for the way we deal with St. Jamess Place has a well-established awareness of our people.
statutory and social responsibilities with regard to the employment of disabled staff, whether it be the Our employee retention rate for 2005 is 88% and recruitment or subsequent management.
The Groups attracting new employees has rarely posed an issue for us.
approach ensures that every effort is made to achieve Days lost through sickness across the business currently continuity of employment in the event of an employee stands at 3.7 days per employee per year, which is becoming disabled.
Similarly best practice principles significantly below the national average.
We remain ensure that the Groups responsibilities are met as an committed to our equal opportunities policy for potential equal opportunity employer.
and existing employees, recognising peoples individual ability and merit, free from any form of discrimination.
Our workforce gender profile is fairly evenly split with a ENVIRONMENT REPORT total of 288 females and 271 male employees.
The Company recognises that it has a responsibility to the environment and we will continue to take positive steps to The performance and development of our people is address our direct and indirect environmental impacts.
encouraged and supported with a formalised Performance Development Review Process.
Our reward package is Corporate Environmental Policy competitive with a comprehensive range of benefits The Companys Corporate Environmental Policy can be provided to all employees including pensions and health found on its website www.
co. uk, and continues to cover benefits and the potential for annual bonuses linked form the basis of the Groups approach to reducing to the Companys performance.
Recognising the benefit environmental impacts.
The policy sets out our objectives, of all employees having the opportunity of an equity commitment to setting and measuring realistic targets and interest in the Company everyone can join the Share Save communicating with our stakeholders.
The policy scheme and acquire discounted shares.
72% of all objectives are reviewed annually, and are used to drive the employees are now members of this scheme.
changes in process and procedures in order to work Management are also given the opportunity to participate towards reducing CO emission levels wherever possible.
2 in share incentive schemes, further details of which are set out in the Remuneration Report.
Achievements The Company measures its environmental impacts using Communication eco-points.
During 2004 we measured a 7% reduction in We remain committed to an open style of communication the Companys environmental impact versus a target of and keep all employees and members of the Partnership 2.7% reduction.
This achievement was due to a number of informed on a regular basis on matters which might affect initiatives implemented during this and previous years, their day-to-day work or be of interest to them.
We which resulted in the following achievements against encourage regular feedback from our people and our targets: managers are expected to have monthly one-to-ones with their team members and regular team meetings.
One of these initiatives was working with Action Energy, Directors and senior managers regularly visit SJP office in conjunction with the Carbon Trust, to undertake a locations to disseminate key corporate messages and number of office surveys.
The recommendations from obtain valuable feedback.
Our working environments are these surveys enabled improvements to working practices created to satisfy Health and Safety Regulations and in within our locations.
We also use the services of Entech 2006 work will commence on the construction of a new who check, monitor and produce our annual usage figures 17 206697 Report & Accounts Front 20 3 06 7:40 pm Page 18 CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT continued for energy consumption.
This along with other initiatives The Company has for the last three years offered helped us achieve a 10.2% reduction in our electricity and electronic communication for shareholders gas emissions against a target of a 2% reduction.
whereby shareholders can elect to receive Company documentation and to vote on AGM resolution, The Companys fleet management company provide electronically rather than by post, which reduces printing mileage and fuel usage figures, while other travel mileage and distribution costs.
This has recently been enhanced by figures for rail and air are also produced using a standard the eTree Initiative.
For every shareholder that registers formula for calculating CO output.
The Companys to receive their communications electronically, a sapling 2 overall environmental impact from travel reduced by 3% is donated on the shareholders behalf in an area selected against a target of 5% reduction.
for reforestation in the UK via the Woodland Trusts Tree for All campaign.
Further details can be found at In early 2004 the Company decided to move from www.
providing bottled drinking water to mains supplied filtered water which meant we only saw a 2.8% reduction One of our major objectives within the Environmental of mains water usages against a target of a 5% reduction.
policy is to keep stakeholders in St. Jamess Place aware of our policy, initiatives, targets and achievements.
To help us The successful paper-recycling programme first started in achieve this objective we published the 2004 2002, continues to be improved upon and paper recycled Environmental Report on the Company website, increased by 54% against a target of 20% increase.
The 2005 report will be posted later in are other recycling programmes in place covering the the year when all the data is available.
We also are disposal of PCs, mobile phones and toner cartridges that committed to participating in leading environmental generate resale value and the proceeds are donated to surveys, such as the Business in the Environment the St. Jamess Place Foundation.
Our strategy for issuing many of our internal St. Jamess Place continues to be included in the communications by e-mail or via our intranet systems FTSE4Good index which comprises companies that continues to develop, and now a vast amount of meet globally recognised corporate social responsibility information is electronically disseminated throughout the criteria.
That has had a knock on effect of reducing the amount spent on print and other marketing literature: but For those investors particularly interested in investing has also reduced the amount of paper consumed and in environmentally friendly companies and to comply subsequently destroyed.
As this area of communication with the policy on socially responsible investment by continues to expand further improvements can be Trustees of Occupational Pension Schemes, the Group expected, in particular as a result of the roll out of SDI offers ethical funds.
These funds invest in companies Service Delivery Infrastructure software used by the demonstrating sound environmental and social policies.
Partnership for sending their applications via electronic The Investment Committee of the Board meets regularly means.
While it is still early days for this, it is expected to monitor and review the performance of all the funds that in future years the Company should see the benefits under management against a series of defined criteria.
of this process materialise in improvement in paper consumption along with other business issues.
Targets and Initiatives We have implemented a number of programmes that have During the latter part of 2005, all digital photocopiers helped us achieve significant reductions with regard to the within Head Office were converted into multi functional Companys impact on the environment.
In 2006, we will devices with the view to improving efficiency and to focus on involving more stakeholders: particularly staff, reduce the number of individual printers in use.
This in Partners and suppliers.
turn will reduce the amount of toner cartridges being used.
18 206697 Report & Accounts Front 20 3 06 7:40 pm Page 19 CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT continued The 2005 initiatives include implementing a staff In addition to group events, individuals also push awareness programme, appointing environmental themselves to the limit in an effort to raise as much champions, investigating supply of renewable electricity, sponsorship as possible from their contacts and clients.
improving supplier awareness of their environmental The challenges taken up include: the Sahara Marathon, impacts and implementing new technology to further various Triathlons, a 5-Peaks Mountaineering Challenge, reduce paper usage.
3 Marathons in 3 different countries in 3 weeks, and descending from the top of Guys Tower, Warwick Also during the coming year we will start work on our Castle on a rope with the aid of the Royal Marines!.
new headquarters building in Cirencester and we aim to This last event alone raised more than 220,000, with achieve at least a good or very good using BREEAM Company matching.
Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method when the building is complete.
In January 2005, staff and Partners raised a further 90,000 for the Tsunami Appeal.
The various initiatives mentioned above should help us achieve the following targets during 2006: In September 2005, two teams from our Manchester and Cheshire offices swam the English Channel and raised Target 100,000 including Company matching.
This was one of the most challenging events any of our community have Energy 3% Reduction undertaken, involving many months of early morning Water 1% Reduction training in the freezing waters of North Wales.
Travel No target set Driven by business need However, the largest single fund-raising event of 2005 was General Waste 3% Reduction a triathlon organised by a Partner from our City Location.
Paper Usage 3% Reduction 55 teams from all over the country took part and raised over 220,000.
THE ST. JAMESS PLACE FOUNDATION Alongside these ad hoc fundraising initiatives, the The ethos of raising money within the working Foundation has consistently promoted the benefits of Gift environment, for the benefit of the less fortunate Aid supported by deductions from payroll and, in the case members of society, plays an important role in the lives of Partners, deductions from their gross earnings.
This of those associated with St. Jamess Place.
Forming a has had two major benefits.
Firstly, it provides a regular charitable trust The Foundation was included in the monthly income to the Foundation and secondly, the original business plan for the Company in 1992.
Foundation can reclaim the tax relief provided under the Gift Aid regime.
The Foundation has two main activities fundraising and the awarding of grants.
The Company is very proud of the fact that 82% of the St. Jamess Place community of over 1,600 people are Each of the Companys regional offices and departments making regular monthly donations to the Foundation within Head Office organise fundraising events.
This demonstrates the commitment to range from raffles bringing in a few hundred pounds, to the Foundation throughout the Company at every level.
auctions of promises and other social events, which often Over 350,000 of the money raised in 2005 was as a raise several thousand pounds.
Every social event is looked result of these regular monthly donations.
upon as an opportunity to raise funds for the Foundation.
Many of the Companys local and national suppliers are Every pound raised by members of the St. Jamess Place happy to support the Foundation and regularly donate community is matched by the Company and 2005 was cash or goods to aid our fundraising efforts.
another record breaking year, with funds raised exceeding 1,600,000 including matching.
19 206697 Report & Accounts Front 20 3 06 7:40 pm Page 20 CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT continued Supporting the Foundations fundraising activities is a key In 2001 the Foundation entered into an arrangement with corporate objective.
The management team, from the top the Variety Club of Great Britain to fund 21 Sunshine down, focuses on this aspect of the Companys business, in Coaches for children with disabilities at special schools or much the same way as it does on other key objectives.
organisations located near to each of the Companys offices.
This entailed a commitment of nearly 350,000 The Foundations management committee, in consultation and the last coaches were handed over to the recipient with the rest of the community, establish a theme schools during 2005, helping many hundreds of children framework for awarding grants.
For 2005 there have been lead a more active life than they otherwise would.
The first being Cherishing the Children, whereby any charity that has a project in the UK that is for It is hoped that a close and lasting relationship will be the direct benefit of physically disabled children or those formed between the recipient organisations and members suffering from a mental condition or those suffering from of the relevant St. Jamess Place location.
a life threatening or degenerative illness, can apply for a grant from the Foundation.
In total, over 6,320,000 has been given in grants to all causes since the Foundation was established just over 14 The second theme is the Hospice Movement, whereby years ago and the Foundation currently has approximately the Foundation makes grants to hospices in the UK for 1.2 million available for future distribution and work is items such as equipment, the cost of therapy and other underway to find suitable recipients for this money.
2005 was the second year of an 800,000 funding partnership with Help the Hospices with a The Foundation is proud of what has been achieved over programme called Care beyond Cancer.
This three year the past 14 years and aims to continue to raise even more programme is focused on helping patients and their funds in the years ahead so that even more people may families suffering from illnesses other than cancer.
It is benefit from its success.
Specifically, for 2006 the hoped it will not only bring immediate benefits to Foundations target is that 85% of the St. Jamess Place sufferers but also change some of the thinking about community of Partners and employees give regularly by hospice care in this area of need.
way of Gift Aid and that over 1.7m of new funds are raised, including matching by the Company.
In addition to the grants awarded under the themes, and largely as a result of the additional monies available to The Group will continue its focus on the various the Foundation from the Companys matching policy, initiatives described in this update in 2006 and beyond, the Foundation has been able to enter into a seven year and ensure that Corporate and Social Responsibility commitment with Hope & Homes for Children, a UK remains at the forefront of its business.
based charity which provides family homes and other support for children orphaned by war or disaster.
More than 1 million has been paid over to Hope & Homes for Children in the last 5 years.
