Operating and Financial Review Corporate Responsibility We were pleased that Centrica continued to be included in the Dow Jones Sustainability World and European Indexes and the FTSE4Good Indices.
We engage with a wide range of stakeholders so that we can more effectively manage the social, ethical and environmental Climate change SEE impact of our business activities.
We thereby seek to minimise risk, create sustainable value for our shareholders British Gas subsidised more than nine million energy and contribute positively to wider economic development in efficiency measures in 2005 the regions in which we operate.
This section of the report highlights our key corporate As a major producer and supplier of energy, Centrica has a responsibility CR issues and what we are doing to manage responsibility to take measures to tackle the impact of climate them.
Further information will be provided in April in our 2005 change.
We seek to contribute to the creation of a sustainable, CR Report at www.
low-carbon future, while ensuring the security of energy supplies.
CR governance Renewable energy The Board reviews our CR strategy and performance annually During the year, we made good progress with our 750 million and is kept informed of progress in managing key issues as investment in wind farm developments.
In May we generated well as new developments that may affect its duties.
the first electricity from our 26MW Glens of Foudland onshore Our CR strategy is led by a sub-committee of the Executive wind farm in Aberdeenshire.
Construction of our Barrow Committee the Corporate Responsibility Committee CRC offshore wind farm, a joint venture with Danish energy group which is chaired by our General Counsel & Company DONG, continued through 2005 and the wind farm is on track Secretary and is responsible for ensuring that SEE risks are to begin commercial generation in the first half of 2006. identied and managed in line with our business principles and that key stakeholders are consulted.
Carbon emissions trading Centrica has been actively participating in the EU Emissions Stakeholder engagement Trading market for almost two years.
In 2005 we traded Structured engagement with our stakeholders is fundamental 15% of the EU Allowances across Europe.
To date, Centrica to delivering our business objectives.
We manage this process has delivered two significant deals, totalling in excess of one by building strong two-way relationships with employees, million Certied Emission Reductions.
customers, investors, regulators, suppliers, opinion-formers and communities.
Energy efficiency Commitment In 2005 we consulted with our stakeholders to nd In 2005 British Gas installed more than nine million energy out their views on CR, their interpretation of Centricas efficiency measures, such as loft and cavity wall insulation and responsibilities and whether our activities and level of low energy light bulbs, with an equivalent carbon saving of disclosure are fullling their expectations.
The research 1.3 million tonnes, benefiting more than 1.1 million households.
identied environmental issues as the most important for stakeholders and indicated that, although we had highlighted Carbon-saving products our main impacts, more tailored communication was needed.
British Gas announced the trial of two exciting new products to help customers reduce their carbon footprint.
In partnership Corporate responsibility performance indicators with Windsave, we are piloting household wind turbines which could enable customers to generate their own free supply of 2005 2004 % electricity.
We are also working with Ceres Power to develop Climate change the worlds first, mass-market, fuel cell-powered household Customer energy efficiency measures 9.0 6.1 48 subsidised million boiler, which has the potential to reduce household energy Lifetime carbon savings for measures 1.3 1.0 30 bills and cut CO emissions.
2 subsidised million tonnes Health and safety Lost time injuries 1,000 employees 13.2 21.5 39 Vulnerable customers Lost time injuries 100,000 hours worked 0.7 1.1 36 Total injuries 100,000 hours worked 3.1 5.1 39 Vulnerable customers here to HELP Direct Energys $1.5 million support for Neighbor-toHomes signed up 116,823 78,019 n a Neighbor project helped thousands of indebted customers Homes completed measures installed 28,212 48,232 n a Value of unclaimed benets identied m 2.6 3.8 n a Our aim is to make life safe, warm and comfortable for all of Average benefit gain per household 1,542 1,197 n a our customers and particularly for people on low incomes, Employees older people and those with a disability.
At a time of rising Human capital return on investment 2.1 1.9 11 energy costs, our leading edge programmes are delivering Employee engagement score 3.78 3.73 1.3 practical solutions to help vulnerable customers.
Employees from ethnic minority groups % 17.2 16.6 4 Female male employees % 30.9 69.1 33.2 66.8 n a Employees with a disability % 2.5 2.4 4 Fuel poverty Communities The British Gas here to HELP programme is tackling fuel Total community contribution m 8.2 7.4 11 poverty by helping to reduce household poverty and installing % has been used to express percentage change.
htm 16 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Operating and Financial Review continued free energy-efficient products.
To lessen the impact of price increases on vulnerable customers, British Gas also provided Health and safety 6.7 million in winter fuel rebates.
Lost time injuries per 1,000 employees reduced by 39% Debt We continued to support the work of the British Gas Energy Trust an independent fund established with an initial The health and safety of our employees, customers and others 10 million from British Gas.
In addition to making grants to who could be affected by our activities is a top priority for us.
indebted individuals, the Trust provides funding to voluntary sector organisations and registered charities, which assist in Safety the prevention and relief of poverty, with particular emphasis In 2005 we delivered continual improvement in health and on fuel debt.
safety performance across almost all of our businesses, particularly in the reduction of workplace injuries.
This creditable performance is built on proactive accident prevention and the positive engagement of our workforce.
Employees British Gas leads the way in raising awareness about the risk of carbon monoxide CO poisoning and our campaigns in Graduate programme won the Personnel Today Award 2005 targeted students landlords and homeowners.
The for Excellence in Graduate Recruitment in 2005 incidence of CO incidents showed a year-on-year reduction.
The calibre and the conduct of our people are central Occupational health to building winning relationships with our customers, Our approach is to take action through practical support and shareholders, suppliers and the communities we serve.
training and by raising awareness to help prevent work-related health issues.
In 2005 we established a back-care programme Engagement for employees with a history of back problems and those with Our annual engagement survey measures the attitudes physically demanding roles.
We also put in place a managers and opinions of our employees on a range of company issues.
toolkit on mental health issues an increasing cause of In 2005 our overall engagement score increased by 1.3% sickness absence for employees.
which, during a very challenging period for the business, demonstrates the commitment of our people.
Communities Diversity We continued to implement our diversity and inclusion Contributed 8.2 million to community causes through strategy with each business unit delivering tailored action combination of cash, time and in-kind support plans.
Awareness training continued for employees across the Group through an online learning package and we We aim to play an active role in local communities by tackling contributed to a number of policy consultations.
issues of wider social concern, and encouraging and enabling our employees to get involved.
Development British Gas continued to tackle fuel poverty through the 1,200 senior managers took part in our leadership development programme during the year and more than here to HELP programme.
During the year we were able to 1,000 trainees went through the British Gas Engineering connect more than 8,000 people to additional support from Academy.
The Academy won an award from Women into our charity partners and identied over 2.6 million of Science and Engineering for its efforts to attract women.
Reward Employee involvement We continued to extend our exible benets package with In 2005 our Helping Children Shine partnership with NCH 7,712 employees now benefiting from the scheme.
Our annual in the UK raised more than 250,000.
Through employee pay audit showed that the gender pay gap in Centrica is much fundraising and company support we generated more than narrower than published national norms.
We also introduced a 200,000 to support victims of the Asian tsunami.
Direct tax-efficient Home Computing Scheme and childcare Energy employees supported the relief efforts for hurricanes vouchers for all employees.
Katrina and Rita, raising more than $100,000.
We encourage and support employees who want to volunteer in their local community.
In 2005 our people invested more than 15,000 hours in volunteering activities with a range of charities and community organisations.
This in-kind support equates to around 420,000.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 17
