Our commitment to society Corporate social responsibility CSR suppliers.
We engage with these stakeholders in a number Managing social, ethical and environmental issues in a of ways, including consumer liaison panels, an annual way that grows shareholder value and helps BT and our employee survey and a supplier relationship management customers to be more sustainable is a key challenge for us.
The Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes rank companies Our CSR team co-ordinates and monitors CSR for their success in managing social, ethical and performance, identies potential issues and opportunities environmental factors for competitive advantage.
During that might affect the business, and supports BTs the 2005 financial year, BT was ranked as the top commercial activities.
telecommunications company in the Dow Jones As part of our CSR performance measurement, we Sustainability Index for the fourth year in a row.
have 12 non-financial KPIs key performance indicators We also hold the Queens Award for Enterprise in which provide a comprehensive overview of BTs social recognition of our contribution to sustainable and environmental performance.
these is published in our annual Social and Environmental This section of the report, together with the broad report.
statement on social, environmental and ethical matters included in the section on Corporate governance, Social, environmental and ethical risks provides information in response to the Association of During the 2005 financial year, we further increased our British Insurers disclosure guidelines on social understanding of our CSR risks.
identied as an additional risk and we have developed a More detailed disclosures on BTs implementation of set of privacy principles for the business and commissioned research on the topic of privacy in the social, ethical and environmental policies and procedures digital networked economy.
are available online in our independently-veried social and environmental report, which has been prepared in In the context of CSR, our most significant risks are: accordance with the 2002 Global Reporting Initiative & supply chain working conditions: GRI sustainability reporting guidelines.
& health and safety: & climate change: CSR governance & diversity: & The Board reviews our CSR strategy and performance offshoring or the geography of jobs: & annually and is kept informed of our main CSR risks and breach of the code of business ethics: and & opportunities as well as new developments that may privacy.
Each of these risks has a risk owner and mitigation A Board committee the Community Support strategy in place more detail on these can be found in Committee oversees community, charitable and arts our online social and environmental report.
expenditure and the strategy for maximising our contribution to society.
The committee, chaired by CSR business opportunities Sir Christopher Bland, consists of representatives from BT There is a direct link between our CSR activity, corporate businesses, two non-executive directors and two external reputation and customer satisfaction.
A detailed analysis independent members, who have a reputation for in 2001 of customer opinion data based on tens of excellence in this eld.
thousands of interviews showed that a 1% improvement An executive committee, the Corporate Social in the publics perception of our CSR activities resulted in Responsibility Steering Group CSRSG, oversees the a 0.1% increase in our retail customer satisfaction gures.
implementation of our CSR strategy and programme.
This This underlines how important it is not only to protect includes risk assessment, target and objective setting, our reputation through appropriate risk management ISO 14001 certication the international standard for activities, but also to enhance it through our community environmental management systems and public activities.
Long-term sustainability trends are creating market The CSRSG consists of CSR champions nominated by opportunities for us, such as the use of teleconferencing the lines of business and seven support functions human and exible working to reduce the need to travel and resources, corporate governance, health and safety, group provide more exible lifestyles.
property, communications, internal audit and Increasingly, BT has to address social and procurement.
environmental matters when bidding for business.
In the The CSRSG is chaired by BTs CSR champion, Alison 2005 financial year, bids to the value of 2.2 billion Ritchie, Chief Broadband officer and a member of the required us to demonstrate expertise in managing these Operating Committee.
It is supported by advice from an issues.
independent panel of CSR experts.
Embedding CSR into BTs commercial operations is an Environment important part of our CSR strategy, and a key part of our During the 2005 financial year, we retained ISO 14001 work in the 2005 financial year has been extending our accreditation for our UK operations and BT Spain and CSR activity into our global operations.
We have carried extended it to BT Ireland.
out a number of health checks in our commercial BT is one of the largest consumers of industrial and operations to identify specic social, economic and commercial electricity in the UK, and the growth of environmental impacts positive and negative and broadband has, as expected, increased our electricity use.
particular CSR risks and opportunities.
A report is then In the 2005 financial year, our usage increased by 3.1%.
compiled which includes recommended actions.
However, we also signed the worlds largest green energy We have important relationships with a wide range of contract which means that almost all of BTs UK stakeholders, including employees, customers and electricity needs will be met from  44 BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2005 Operating and financial review sources, including wind generation, solar, wave and Community hydroelectric schemes.
In CO emissions savings, this We commit a minimum of 0.5% of our UK pre-tax profits 2 equates to 325,000 tonnes each year, equivalent to that directly to activities which support society.
This has produced by approximately 100,000 cars.
ranged from 10 million in 1987, peaking at 16 million in 2001 and we provided 9.1 million in the 2005 CO emissions financial year.
BT operations also provided a further 2 11.7 million in funding and support in kind over the past 2005 2004 2003 2002 financial year.
In the 2005 financial year, BT made Total UK only: million tonnes 0.76 0.92 0.96 1.03 charitable donations of 2 million.
% below 1996 53% 42% 40% 36% The focus of our community programmes is on big Tonnes per 1m turnover 41 50 51 56 issues where better communication can make a real difference to society.
For example, more than 10,500 schools and over two million young people have taken During the 2005 financial year, we received an income of part in the BT Education Programme a drama-based 3 million from our recycling activities, offset against the campaign helping children to improve their 7 million we spent managing our waste contracts, communication skills.
This activity is supported by our recycling our waste and sending waste to landll.
volunteering programme which has several thousand registered volunteers working with schools.
Waste ChildLine, a UK charity, answers 2,300 calls every day but many hundreds more go unanswered.
We are working 2005 2004 2003 2002 with ChildLine on a campaign to ensure that every childs Total waste tonnes 110,622 107,303 117,688 114,999 call for help is answered.
Total waste recycled In addition, BT people gave 2 million directly to tonnes 37,421 27,626 27,809 24,099 charities during the 2005 financial year through Give as % Recycled 34% 26% 24% 21% you Earn, to which BT added a direct contribution of 1 million.
During the 2005 financial year, we reduced our Tsunami response commercial eet still one of the largest in the UK by BT played a role in the response to the Asian tsunami of 2% and our fuel consumption by 3.5%.
We set up a live call centre at the BT Tower to handle the unprecedented number of calls the Transport Disasters Emergency Committee DEC was experiencing and also ran the online donation facility.
Individual 2005 2004 2003 2002 employees and the lines of business were also involved in Number of vehicles fundraising efforts.
Sixteen BT engineers travelled to the UK only 31,969 32,663 33,979 37,509 affected area to help re-establish the telecommunications Fuel consumption infrastructure.
Disability services Digital inclusion Our Age and Disability Action team promotes equal Digital inclusion is a key public policy issue and we are access to a wide range of products and services.
We work working with the UK Government and the voluntary sector directly with older and disabled people and their to nd effective ways to use communications technology representatives to raise awareness of BTs inclusive to tackle social exclusion.
On 12 October 2004, BT was approach and are continuing to develop our processes to ensure that new products and services are accessible to involved, as a founder member, in the launch of the Alliance for Digital Inclusion.
Our involvement in the EverybodyOnline programme, For people with hearing or speech impairments, for established in partnership with charity campaign group example, our textphone offers easy access to BT Citizens Online, continues to be a key part of our digital TextDirect the service that enables users to dial direct inclusion campaign.
The campaign aims to increase skills to other text or voice users.
Customers with visual or and access to communications technology in deprived mobility impairments benefit from products with large, communities and to increase the understanding of the clear keypads and cordless or hands-free options.
During causes and effects of the digital divide and how they can the 2005 financial year, we also launched Relate 3000, an be addressed at a national level.
inclusively designed phone and our new BT Text service, which includes a speaking SMS facility.
Operating and financial review BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2005 45
