Corporate responsibility We recognise the need to act in a In 2005, recognising that the responsible manner and to demonstrate improvement in group statistics was our corporate responsibility in many probably optimised based on traditional ways: the way in which we trade, develop training and evaluating methods, we new products and manage and restore increased our focus on identifying and our sites and in the way we treat and eliminating unsafe behaviour.
This is respect our employees, neighbours and being implemented through programmes customers.
Corporate responsibility is of training and performance monitoring integral to good business management.
We believe that, working interdependently with our employees, Health and safety we can change their perception and We continue to consider health acceptance of risk.
The message we and safety to be a top priority and have used is that no job is so important a fundamental element of being a for safety to be compromised.
A key tool, supported and led by Alan We are committed to achieving Murray, Chief Executive and the director the highest reasonably practicable responsible for health and safety, and standards of health, safety and welfare the divisional Chief Executives Managing for our employees, contractors, Directors, is a sustained exercise in customers and visitors.
We believe that we will only communicate Hanson companies around the world the importance of creating a safe actively engage with government working environment with visibility on agencies, trade associations and other site of senior managers and Directors.
similar bodies to promote the benefits of a safe and healthy working environment In a safety observation, a manager and develop best practice.
observes employees working and then discusses the safety aspects of their In 2006, the Board will formally endorse work.
In this conversation the manager: its approach to health and safety with a seeks the employees comments on group policy statement.
Our divisional safety in his her own workplace and Chief Executives Managing Directors his her ideas on how to improve this will remain responsible for establishing praises the employee for safe working formal policies and procedures, for practices which have been observed ensuring that arrangements are made ensures that any unsafe acts are Managing the environment is an integral part for the fulfilment of those policies and discussed and action taken to prevent of our business strategy.
for monitoring their implementation and their reoccurrence.
Data is collected on the number, type The divisional Chief Executives and frequency of accidents and of the Managing Directors are supported amount of time which is lost as a result by a network of safety professionals, of workplace accidents.
We analyse this who share information and best practice information to identify where we need to to ensure that lessons learnt from focus particular attention and to assess accident investigations are applied the effectiveness of our management of across the group.
To prevent injuries and other incidents The progress of safety performance from occurring we: throughout our businesses worldwide train our employees to work safely is tracked and reported quarterly to the and to eliminate the causes of Board using standard measures.
unsafe behaviour seek to provide safe systems of work and encourage a safety culture continually strive for improved safety performance look to adopt best practice and to commit to industry improvement initiatives and targets.
Corporate responsibility 49 Corporate responsibility continued Hanson uses the following indicators Our environmental policy provides the to provide a consistent measure of framework for setting and reviewing its performance.
According to best environmental objectives and targets.
international practice the frequency It is applied as the minimum standard measures are per 200,000 hours worked: across our business.
Where businesses Lost time incidence rate: this is the identify a need for additional, more frequency rate of injuries resulting stretching requirements, they actively in an employee being absent for build upon this policy.
Lost day incidence rate: this is Our environmental management in the frequency rate for days lost the UK was developed through the as a result of accidents.
publication, on August 30, 2005, of the Hanson UK biodiversity and The overall safety statistics for the geodiversity action plan.
This was group showed continued improvement in devised in consultation with English 2005 for the sixth consecutive year since Nature and the Countryside Council consolidated records began in 2000. for Wales.
There were no employee work-related fatalities and, although the incidence Additionally, under an earlier of lost time injuries remained the same memorandum of understanding, as for 2004, the number of lost work Hanson committed to work to improve days shifts per lost time incident was standards of conservation management reduced slightly see page 12 for data.
in its quarries with the aim of maintaining Over the past six years, the incidence of and enhancing its sites of special lost time injuries has reduced by 37% scientific interest SSSIs.
We are and the number of lost work days per currently responsible for 60 such sites lost time incident has reduced by 55%.
Our bio and geo-diversity Regrettably, however, there was one plans are a development of this work.
contractor fatality during the year.
Community relations We encourage people to become safety Hanson operates internationally but is representatives from all areas of our focused locally.
They receive training to assist of a high weight to value ratio, do not them in their roles.
We were delighted travel far, so our businesses are closely that Colin Evans, a safety representative connected with the communities in from Penderyn Quarry in South Wales, which they are located.
Many of our sites received a well deserved MBE for his are in rural areas where, often as the contribution to health and safety in the largest commercial enterprise within the quarrying industry.
area, we contribute to the local economy, through the goods and services we The environment purchase and the people we employ.
Hanson understands that its reputation for managing environmental issues Local management teams have carefully and managing the impact overall responsibility for engagement of our activities on the environment is a with the communities in which we are valuable asset.
As such, it is an integral located.
This ensures that we respond part of our business strategy.
appropriately to the differing needs and interests of communities.
We seek continual improvement in environmental performance and We closely identify with our endeavour to make a positive contribution neighbourhoods and our staff often to society through our products and initiate regular meetings with local our land and marine management people.
These meetings provide a forum programmes.
for discussing and resolving any issues and concerns at an early stage.
Significant environmental issues legislative, risk, performance, product We encourage organised school groups development and opportunities to visit our sites and also hold open days are reported quarterly to the Board.
for members of the community, including the families of our employees.
We have developed educational packs and other supporting material for teachers to use in conjunction with a visit to one of our quarries.
Corporate responsibility 50 The workplace Audit and handled with appropriate Employees, franchise workers and concern and attention according to contractors are all key players in Company policies.
delivering our business performance in a safe, efficient and socially Recruiting the right people into the responsible manner.
organisation is an important part of development management.
During We therefore ensure that they 2005, the Hanson careers website was understand their part in achieving developed for e-recruitment as a further the objectives of the business.
means of attracting people to work for Hanson.
To ensure we have an ongoing pipeline of managers capable of taking on larger Group employment policies include job roles, attention is given to the those which cover role and goal clarity, development of employees.
performance management, employee development, succession planning and Communications, training and recruitment.
Hanson requires each of the the development of our business divisions to have an Equal Opportunities management capability through basic Policy which complies with group skills vocational training, in-house expectations and local legislation.
management development and Full consideration is given to applications leadership programmes ensures we have for employment, the continuing a committed and focused work force.
employment, training and career development of disabled persons.
Criggion hard rock quarry, Shropshire, UK.
We have a quarterly employee magazine called Foundation which is available to Remuneration and terms and conditions each employee.
This provides commercial of employment are maintained at a and operational news: information about competitive level in the areas in which our local communities and our health, we operate.
The Company operates safety and environmental management with low levels of employee turnover.
as well as news about our employees Hanson recognises the value of diversity.
Performance management based on our We also use a range of meetings to people having a clear understanding of encourage our employees to contribute their roles and goals has also been a key to improving our business.
These include area of focus for the year.
regular safety groups: works councils: employer union work parties and Euro Charitable donations and sponsorship forum meetings are also held seeking We get involved in fundraising and input and comment from our UK and sponsorship and make donations and Continental European employees.
gifts in kind to the communities in which Additional meetings are held locally we operate.
and regionally to inform employees of company performance and how they Our products are such an essential can improve this.
part of our modern lives that we are often asked to support local projects by Employee surveys have also been donating materials.
We have a general undertaken during the year, covering policy of supporting community projects areas such as communication, safety, in this way, particularly close to our job clarity and satisfaction, customer operations.
service and the understanding of the Hanson guiding principles.
Feedback Along with many people around the was given to the employees and world, we were shocked and dismayed follow-up actions were agreed.
It is by the impact of Hurricane Katrina on our intention to undertake further New Orleans where a number of our employee surveys during 2006. employees were affected.
Hanson donated $100,000 to the Red Cross Additionally, in our aim to create to help support those affected by the a better and safer workplace, an catastrophe.
In addition, employees of anonymous incident reporting system, the Company and suppliers established MySafeWorkplace, provides employees a relief fund for Hanson employees with a confidential, easy-to-use tool affected by the hurricane, with the to report workplace incidents.
All Company matching donations made.
concerns, covering a wide range of issues that can be reported, are brought to the attention of the Head of Internal Corporate responsibility 51
