Operating and financial review Corporate responsibility The group believes that being responsible in the way it conducts its Community operations makes sound business sense.
Active management of its The group has identied three focus areas for community activity key environmental, social and economic impacts helps the group environment, social inclusion, and education and training and has work in a way that is ethical and balances the needs of all of its developed strategic partnerships with organisations active in these stakeholders.
It enables the group to reduce risk, identify business areas Groundwork, the Princes Trust and Young Enterprise opportunities, provide stability in its markets, protect resources, make respectively.
Key topics of community interest for stakeholders savings, improve performance and build trust and understanding.
are environmental education, job creation and unemployment, consideration for neighbours and access and recreation.
During CODE OF ETHICS the year, a three-year partnership was announced with Liverpool The company has adopted a set of business principles which Capital of Culture 2008. comply with the SECs denition of a code of ethics.
The company will continue to develop them in line with best practice.
A free copy Marketplace of the Business Principles booklet is available upon request from Customers and suppliers contractors are two of our key stakeholder the company secretary, United Utilities PLC, Dawson House, Great groups.
The group has 3.1 million customers in north west England Sankey, Warrington, Cheshire, England, WA5 3LW or may and well over 30,000 suppliers.
Key areas of interest for these be viewed on the groups web site at www.
stakeholders are standards of service, charging policy, the capital investment programme and business ethics.
Environmental criteria OUR APPROACH are taken into consideration when appointing suppliers, and payments The Business Principles guide the way the group manages for some major contractors are now linked to environmental and its activities and its relationships with stakeholders and set the health and safety performance.
context for the groups approach to corporate responsibility.
Vertexs partnership with Westminster City Council has helped it win Two complementary strands of this approach corporate social the Council of the Year accolade in the national Local Government responsibility CSR and sustainable development SD are now Chronicle awards in March 2005.
The partnership was also highly integrated within the businesses and managed together.
The groups commended in the category of Public Private Partnership of the Year.
corporate responsibility policies are considered as part of the business planning process and environmental performance is a personal The groups regulated businesses liaise with local authorities objective for each member of the Executive Leadership Team.
and residents groups to ensure that any disruption to local communities during capital improvement works is minimised.
The focus of the groups programmes is determined by identifying and prioritising its impacts and opportunities.
An important part Workplace of the approach is stakeholder consultation.
This provides United Utilities values its employees.
Areas understanding of the interests and priorities of the different groups of interest for employees are work life balance, health and safety, of people who are affected by the groups activities.
Engagement skills and job training and pensions.
with such groups, through various means, provides an appreciation The groups health and safety strategy continues to develop.
of the areas of the groups business that are material to them.
This External recognition was achieved for both performance and the helps the group to target where it should place most emphasis in quality of reporting.
During the year, the group secured a RoSPA its internal programmes and, in turn, drives the reporting process.
Gold Award for its approach to health and safety, and its facilities Formal management systems cover many of the groups impact management and telecommunications companies gained certication areas, including environment, health and safety, and quality.
Days lost through accidents at work fell again appropriate, formal certication of these systems is sought.
This during the year from 2,137 in the previous year to 1,931 in 2004 05. year, United Utilities North Wests business management system More information on the groups stakeholder approach, identication gained ISO 14001 accreditation.
The majority of the groups of key impact areas and detailed information, performance data and infrastructure management operations are now accredited to discussion can be found within the stakeholder report, or on the the ISO 14001 standard.
Benchmark exercises help to track performance, drive continual Performance highlights improvement and seek out best practice.
During the year, United Utilities has made progress in both KEY IMPACT AREAS the Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility and Environment Business in the Environment indices.
It was ranked equal ninth The group continues to manage its impact on the environment in the Corporate Responsibility Index and remains in the Premier and, where possible, enhance it through the implementation of its League of the Environment index.
sustainable development plans and other environmental objectives.
The groups approach is also recognised through its inclusion The groups most significant environmental impact in recent years in the STOXX Sustainability Indices, the FTSE4Good index has been the contribution made to cleaning up the rivers and at global, European and UK levels and by its B2 rating in coastal waters of north west England through sustained investment Morleys Sustainability Matrix.
36 of the regions 37 bathing waters now meet strict EU standards.
The regions rivers are cleaner than at any time in the last century.
Key areas of environmental interest for stakeholders are: drinking water quality: climate change and sustainable energy: compliance with legislation: and waste minimisation recycling.
Although the groups major capital investment programmes bring big environmental benets, projects still have to be managed sensitively to limit any adverse environmental impact during construction.
The group also looks for opportunities to make investments more sustainable.
For example, in upgrading the treatment works at Franklaw, Lancashire, we were able to install a 1MW hydroelectric scheme which offsets carbon emissions.
32 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2005
