Corporate Responsibility Benets, Risks and Controls Resource use Principal risk Sustainable buildings which use resources efficiently in their design, construction and occupation bring obvious business benefits in terms of the Companys cost management.
Energy efficient buildings are also attractive to tenants.
Moreover, with the introduction of energy labelling of buildings to enforce the EU Building Energy Performance Directive in January 2006, the costs associated with the energy performance of buildings will become more transparent.
Principal control Property development British Land launched its Sustainability Brief in November 2004.
The Brief outlines the process for setting sustainability objectives and targets at the design and construction stages of developments.
This process ensures options for sources of energy and minimizing energy use are considered from the outset.
At 51 Lime Street, in the City of London, currently being built, objectives set include designing the building with Corporate responsibility benefits carbon targets 5% better than Part L requirements, and incorporating The British Land Board takes regular account of the significance optimised lighting controls.
of social, environmental and ethical matters to the business of the The Brief can be downloaded from the British Land website, Company.
Corporate Responsibility CR brings real benefits to the www.
It builds relationships with stakeholders, improves the Companys reputation with analysts, the media, investors, lenders, Property management employees, local communities and tenants, and helps to reduce risk.
British Land has been working with the Carbon Trust to establish energy benchmarks for all multi-let properties common areas, with targets being Corporate responsibility risks set to reduce energy consumption.
Managing agents input resource The Board has identified and assessed the significant risks to the consumption data on-line to aid the benchmarking process using the Companys short and long-term value arising from CR matters and is Companys own, in-house created, Resources Website.
ensuring that the Company takes the opportunities to enhance value that arise from appropriate actions.
The Board is informed on these Waste disposal and recycling activities and CR matters are covered in the training of directors.
The Principal risk detailed paragraphs which follow describe effective systems in place for Risks associated with waste include: prosecutions as a result of legal managing significant risks, opportunities, and performance management non-compliance, increased costs of landfill tax and efficient use of systems, more fully reported in the Companys separate Corporate space.
Compacting waste can save space which is often at a premium Responsibility Report 2004.
In reviewing remuneration for individuals in for example shopping centres.
dealing with these matters, their personal CR performance is a factor.
Principal control The Company is in compliance with its current policies and The Company employs reliable contractors and legal waste procedures for managing CR risks and is constantly moving forward by requirements are written into contracts.
The Company has also prepared setting new targets for attainment in the future.
Progress in the past year, waste management plans to encourage recycling initiatives and reduce as reported in the 2004 CR report, has been subjected to independent costs.
At Meadowhall Shopping Centre in Sheffield no waste is now sent professional review by the Ashridge Centre for Business and Society as to landfill.
This type of good practice is shared by Eastgate Shopping the Company felt it appropriate to have an objective, external assessment Centre and Broadgate and is being extended across the portfolio.
The entire spectrum of risks perceived as applying to British Land is subject to regular review by the Board.
Corporate responsibility initiatives play a major role in the way British Land manages risks to its business.
Members of the senior management team and Board take direct responsibility for and manage each area of CR risk.
70 The British Land Company PLC The British Land Company PLC Biodiversity Health and safety Principal risk Principal risk The protection and enhancement of animal and plant habitats Risk of injury to contractors, staff or other individuals on our sites and associated with development projects and investment properties in investment properties.
Principal control Principal control All development contractors and managing agents are required to A biodiversity programme has been developed to increase the provide policy and procedures of health and safety management and to ecological value of sites and guide teams working on development report on incidents to British Land.
Safe working practices are designed projects.
The Sustainability Briefs process ensures that biodiversity is to ensure that employees, tenants and the general public are not fully considered.
Biodiversity Action Plans have been developed for harmed by the Companys activities.
All staff receive a copy of the Teesside Retail Park and Regents Place.
Companys Health and Safety procedures in the Staff Handbook together with training.
Community Principal risk Risk of lack of inadequate consultation or relationship with neighbouring communities can cause delay in the development planning process and affect property values.
Principal control Community consultation is carried out at the early stages of design and continues throughout the project.
As a part of the Lower Don Valley Masterplanning project in Sheffield, early consultations with local groups and residents gave insight into the processes and events that shaped the area, and into identifying its future prospects.
Land contamination Principal risk Risk of inadequate remediation of contaminated land.
Principal control Environmental studies are carried out before buying new properties and before undertaking developments.
At Theale, a former gravel pit, partially backfilled with waste from the railway industry, remediation for appropriate use was achieved on site, by combining soil remediation The nature trail is easy to get to from the Retail Park and is increasingly and groundwater pump and treat methods.
popular with visitors and staff.
Its great to see people enjoying the natural environment as part of their shopping trip or working day.
British Lands latest Corporate Responsibility Report, which has full Mick Clarke Teesside Retail Park Groundwork Trust with Keith Matthews, Stockton Borough Council details of British Lands corporate responsibility activities in 2004, has been widely circulated, and copies are available from: Supply chain and procurement Principal risk Claudine Blamey Unethical acts by suppliers could affect the Companys reputation.
Corporate Responsibility Executive Tel: 44 0 20 7467 3455 Principal control Fax: 44 0 20 7467 2869 A Head Office working group is developing a process for assessing claudine.
com suppliers and working with them to reduce risks.
The working group will be concentrating on first tier suppliers and defining the risk associated The Report is also available on the British Land website with the goods and services which are purchased.
