Corporate social responsibility Over recent months we have taken a fresh look at our approach During the process it has become clear that much is already being to corporate social responsibility CSR.
The work was led by the done.
Examples are shown below: Deputy Chief Executive with input from a non-executive director.
Governance and process The research exercise we undertook confirmed the importance of Annual risk review that includes CSR issues discussed with key the subject: the majority of the 90 studies undertaken over the last managers, Audit Committee and Board.
few years show a clear correlation between effective management of CSR risks and value created by companies.
Fifteen policies in place covering issues such as human resources, health and safety, environment, share dealing.
Accordingly, we appointed Bureau Veritas, a specialist consultancy, to help us to refine and develop our CSR strategy.
We agreed with Marketplace Bureau Veritas a five-stage process: 450 interviews carried out by an independent research organisation interviewing consumers, marketing managers and property directors Stage 1 A benchmarking study involving: on their view of The Junction.
A review of C&Rs peer group of CSR reports and public Environment information: The Mall has reduced its carbon dioxide emissions C02 associated A review of CSR best practice guidance including the Association with energy use by 5% during 2005 and has set a target of a of British Insurers, Association of Chartered Certified Accountants, further 5% reduction during 2006.
This information has been used Global reporting Initiative, Business in the Community and a as part of a property sector benchmarking study.
report from a property survey in which The Mall participated: A review of investment community criteria used for assessing CSR Workplace risks and opportunities, including FTSE4Good, Morley, Hermes, The Mall originally achieved Investor in People in 2002 and was F&C and L&G: and very successfully reassessed in 2005.
The business invests a great Consultation with a number of investors.
deal in people, reflected in the MPower Development Programme which offers training opportunities for all employees in a wide range Stage 2 A series of meetings with key management and staff from of subjects and initiatives.
The MPower Programme is accredited by across the C&R business corporate and from each of the three the Institute of Leadership & Management.
The aim was to understand in greater detail the activities, management systems and reporting processes that address CSR Community issues that were already in place.
The Mall Cares community support programme currently assists 40 charitable causes throughout the UK.
Stage 3 Deducing from this work a framework for a new strategy which is shown in the diagram.
The Mall Edgware supports two charities The Larches Trust that provides a day care opportunities programme for adults who have Stage 4 Preparation of a three-year plan prioritising actions a learning disability.
Also, the North London Hospice, where support to be approved by the Board: is provided to terminally ill patients, their family, friends and carers to ensure they have the help they need.
Stage 5 Preparation and implementation of a monitoring, benchmarking and evaluation process.
Stages 1, 2 and 3 have been completed and we have identified 18 priority actions that reflect expectations and requirements from different stakeholders as well as being in line with the peer sector and best practice standards.
The 18 priority actions have been grouped into five themes that are easy to communicate within and outside the business.
40 Capital & Regional Case studies: and direct and indirect employment.
The majority of developments Workplace health and safety are on brownfield sites and therefore by regenerating this land area Across the Group we observe all statutory obligations in relation through retail-led mixed developments and leisure facilities, they to health and safety, fire safety, disability discrimination, data become focal points for community life.
Swansea football ground We strive to continuously improve our performance in all these areas Capital & Regional worked closely with Swansea City Council to in order to deliver safe, secure environments.
develop a 30 acre site for a mixed use development of retail and leisure but also included an innovative approach to also build a For example, The Mall has within its in-house facilities management 20,000 seat stadium, on adjacent land, to be shared by Swansea team, a dedicated National Compliance Manager, with professional Rugby and Football Clubs that opened in autumn 2005.
Over 250 background in environmental health to review The Malls health and jobs were created during the development period, approximately safety strategy and audit our systems across the business.
600 new jobs in the retail park and further jobs created in the stadium.
The stadium has been a great success for the local We have established health and safety committees at each Mall and community with an average of 10,000 people coming to each Mall Central to ensure this remains an integral part of The Malls football game.
An international football event has been held at the corporate communications culture.
stadium with the potential for qualifying matches for the Euro and World Cups.
The stadium will also be used for many pop concerts.
The Mall has a clearly defined and communicated health and safety policy.
Xscape Castleford The Xscape development in Castleford opened in 2003 as an A prime example is The Malls Fire Safety DVD, produced and extreme sport and leisure facility.
It includes a snow slope, an distributed to all Mall retailers setting out our prevention and outdoor skate park, bowling, cinema, restaurants, games and evacuation procedures as well as assisting the retailer in their nightclubs.
It is built on a former colliery which was left derelict.
individual training and general fire safety requirements.
X-Leisure invested over 60 million in developing and constructing the site.
This has acted as a means to regenerate and attract Further, with the imminent change in the relevant legislation, we are investment into the area and has been a major boost to developing an on-line risk assessment capability to assist our retailers employment in the area.
Over 1,000 permanent staff are now in complying with the new legislation.
estimated to be employed within the Xscape Castleford scheme by the various tenants.
It won Best Regeneration Project in 2004 Marketplace regeneration and employment at the Retail and Leisure Property Awards.
The nature of our business means that we can be the catalyst for reviving the economic vitality of an area by creating new amenities Marketplace Occupiers tenants Customers public Fund shareholders and investors Environment Governance Land use and biodiversity CSR policy Building design Governance and Transport management systems Resource use energy, Transparent reporting climate change, water, Risk management waste Capital & Regional Corporate social responsibility framework Workplace Community Health and safety Town Centre Employee welfare Management Supplier partnerships Support for deserving People development local causes Anti-social Behaviour Management Capital & Regional 41
