CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Hammerson has published a document which describes its philosophy and approach to Corporate Responsibility and its commitment to continuous improvement in this area.
The Companys policies and procedures are supported by appropriate targets and performance measures, which are published on the Companys website www.
co. uk in an annual CR Performance Report.
Hammerson recognises that it has responsibilities towards all those with whom it has dealings, including investors, employees, occupiers, suppliers, local communities and Government.
The Company is also aware of its responsibilities towards the environment.
Hammersons detailed commitments in relation to each of these are encapsulated in the Hammerson Charter our CR policy statement.
The Corporate Responsibility Committee, which comprises senior employees from different disciplines and is chaired by John Bywater, is responsible for formulating and monitoring Corporate Responsibility policies.
Within the Companys risk management programme, the Board approves all policies relating to ethical, social, environmental, health and safety issues and receives regular reports on these matters.
This ensures that internal standards are met and legislation complied with.
The Company undertakes regular independent research to ascertain and monitor the perceptions of key stakeholders, such as investors, customers, staff and business partners.
Such research enables Hammerson to enhance the quality of its working practices and relationships.
Business Ethics Hammerson has made a public commitment, through the Hammerson Charter, to all its business partners and advisers over the way in which it deals with them.
In particular, it aims to be honest, professional and fair and it encourages suppliers and sub-contractors to operate according to similar principles.
All employees receive a copy of the Hammerson Code of Conduct.
This makes clear the standard of behaviour expected from them and their responsibility for maintaining and enhancing the Companys reputation.
Investors The Board believes in the importance of effective communication.
All investor relations activities are undertaken within the guidelines and regulations set by the UK Listing Authority, the London Stock Exchange and Euronext Paris.
Hammerson seeks to improve investors understanding of its objectives, strategy and performance.
The Company implements a comprehensive investor relations programme, making available the Chief Executive, Finance Director and other senior directors, to meet with investors in order to explain Hammersons business and financial performance and to answer questions.
Hammerson subscribes to the London Stock Exchanges Corporate Responsibility Exchange, which is an online platform to meet corporate responsibility information requirements of investors and fund managers.
The Companys approach to corporate governance is set out on pages 4 to 7.
Employees Hammerson provides its employees with clean, healthy and safe working conditions and respects their human rights.
It recognises the need to attract and retain employees of a high calibre and is committed to the principle of equal opportunity, within a framework of clear terms of employment.
The Company invests in its employees, offering training and development to help them maximise their potential and contribute fully to the Companys business objectives.
Individual performance is regularly appraised.
In the United Kingdom, Hammerson has had an accreditation from Investors in People since 1997.
The Company believes in a fair remuneration policy and that employees should have an interest in the Companys financial performance.
Staff in the UK participate in a share incentive plan and certain staff are eligible for grants of options.
Details of the Companys share option scheme and long term incentive plan are set out in the Remuneration Report which follows on pages 13 to 19.
In addition, employees are able to participate in a savings related share option scheme.
Health and Safety Hammerson operates and continually reviews its health and safety policies and practices, monitoring current and proposed legislation to ensure appropriate safety standards are maintained.
All its properties are subject to an external health and safety audit programme.
Employees receive appropriate training and are made aware of health and safety policy and their responsibilities for its implementation.
Local Communities The support of local communities is crucial to the success of Hammersons developments, particularly its city centre, retail-led regeneration schemes.
Attention is paid to ensuring that interested parties have an opportunity to understand the development proposals and voice their opinions.
11 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Property Industry Directors and senior management are encouraged to represent the Companys views and contribute towards the development of the property industry by serving on the boards of industry bodies such as the British Property Federation, the British Council of Shopping Centres, the City Property Association, the European Public Real Estate Association, the National Council of Shopping Centres in France and the Fdration des Socits Immobilires et Foncires.
Environment The Companys environmental policy, which may be viewed on the Companys website, www.
co. uk, sets out the procedures concerning environmental management that Hammerson follows to ensure compliance with environmental legislation in those countries in which it operates.
The policy, which is regularly reviewed, covers environmental matters relating to the management of its investment and development properties and the conduct of its business.
The Company carries out regular maintenance and, where practicable, improvement programmes to ensure the ef cient operation of its buildings and to reduce energy consumption having regard to tenants needs and the age of buildings.
In addition Hammerson encourages tenants to follow environmental procedures compatible with its own.
The environmental impact of developments and building works is managed through careful consideration of design, selection of materials and construction techniques.
Consultants and contractors are required to adhere to the Companys policy and encouraged to suggest improvements.
Prior to any property acquisition, an environmental assessment is undertaken to identify possible contamination or the presence of materials considered environmentally harmful.
Remedial action is taken where appropriate.
In its day to day business, Hammerson follows guidelines aimed at reducing energy consumption, uses appropriate materials and encourages recycling.
It recycles paper, toner cartridges and glass at its own of ces.
Employees are aware of the Companys responsibilities and their duties in implementing environmental management procedures.
The Company has set itself a number of environmental targets and management tasks with clearly allocated responsibilities.
Progress against these targets is reviewed annually and reported on Hammersons website www.
A founding member of the Property Environment Group PEG www.
net, Hammerson was ranked amongst the best performing companies in the March 2005 PEG benchmarking survey of environmental engagement in the property industry.
The Company also participates in the Business in the Environment annual index of the FTSE 350.
