Cobhams Commitment to Corporate Responsibility Cobham apprentices, Jack Prescott and Robin Lane winners of 1st & 3rd place of the EEF Apprentice of the Year Award for SW England To help achieve these and related Group goals, Signatory to a pioneering Cobhams commitment to Corporate Responsibility Cobham has an internal framework of policies Sustainable Aviation initiative was reinforced in June 2005 when it became a and measures to enable companies to operate which establishes the signatory to a pioneering Sustainable Aviation in an economically, environmentally and socially mechanisms for monitoring and initiative sponsored by organisations including the responsible way.
These policies cover the Groups reporting on progress towards a Society of British Aerospace Companies SBAC.
approach to business ethics, fraud, equal range of specific objectives The initiative commits UK companies over a 15 opportunities, health and safety, environment, year period to a joint strategy aimed at enabling community involvement and whistle-blowing.
Reduction in Accident people throughout the world to satisfy their basic needs and to enjoy a better quality of life without incidence rate compromising the quality of life for future Corporate Responsibility Management generations.
It is the first national sustainability All Cobham sites have an environmental, human Improvement in the efficiency strategy ever produced for the aviation industry resource and health and safety representative who of energy, waste and water use and establishes the mechanisms for monitoring reports to the on-site Corporate Responsibility focal.
and reporting on progress towards the eight goals There is a dialogue between site representatives and 29% of waste recycled and 34 detailed commitments it sets out.
Cobhams Corporate Responsibility Co-ordinator, who reports to the Director of Special Projects.
A full Corporate Responsibility The delivery of the goals and commitments The Director of Special Projects, who reports report will be published on the outlined in Sustainable Aviation is a long-term directly to the Chief Executive, has overall Cobham website in May 2006 project to which Cobham is committed, in responsibility for Corporate Responsibility particular with the aim of ensuring that the performance.
Other Group functions including Group makes a positive contribution to the skills, HR, Communications and Insurance and Risk, knowledge and motivation of all employees and support the Director of Special Projects.
The Board provides a safe and healthy work environment.
takes account of Corporate Responsibility issues in its annual risk assessment, and monitors progress In September 2005, as part of its strategic review, throughout the year.
Cobham built on its commitment to Sustainable Aviation announcing that priority was being More information on the management and placed on the development of peoples capabilities development of Cobhams people is in the across the Group and the improvement of Directors Report on pages 24 and 25. operating performance.
The latter including a reduction in waste under an initiative referred to as business lean.
UK Sustainable Aviation initiative Board Chief Executive Group Insurance Director of Special Projects Group HR & Group & Risk Manager Communications Cobham CR Co-ordinator Directors Site CR Focal Environmental HR H&S 14 14 C Cobham plc obham plc Attendees at the first risk management Cobham sponsors the Whale & Dolphin Cobham staff present a cheque to a club seminar in the USA Conservation Societys new research boat in Scotland which provides support to adults in Australia with learning difficulties 2005 Objectives Progress Review Key Performance Indicators KPIs have been revised and aligned with commitments to Sustainable Aviation Greenhouse gas emissions removed as a key indicator, as data analysis proved emissions of green house gases other than CO2 from energy use were insignificant Measures added for absence, training, and diversity at different levels across the organisation More information regarding local community complaints is now collected Internal Verification of CR data Programme of internal, independent verification began in 2005 with over 40% of companies by revenue in UK, Europe and the USA audited CR questionnaires revised to reflect feedback from internal external stakeholders and to improve guidance and definitions Health and Safety Objectives Targets Complete Corporate Review of Review of Health and Safety Policy and processes Health and Safety policy and processes Dissemination of best practice across the Group Environmental Objectives Target Reduce the environmental Improve energy, water and waste efficiency by 10% of 2005 levels by 2010 impact of operations Annual Report & Accounts 2005 15 Cobhams Commitment to Corporate Responsibility continued Employees exercising during a lunch break 2 Contingency and disaster Health and Safety Accident Incident Reportable accidents 1 recovery plans exercised and Nothing comes before safety in Cobham, an ethos Rate improved in the UK and USA, that extends to the many safety-related products 80 800 with safety bunkers established the Group produces.
Cobham requires all by a company in the USA to businesses to maintain Health and Safety systems provide refuge against hurricanes that are both compliant with Cobham policy 600 60 and appropriate to the business, with the overall In Australia new fatigue and objective of providing a safe and healthy work environment.
A Group review of Health and Safety shift work policies were policy and processes, including training, commenced implemented and a safety 40 400 in 2005.
The objective is to help identify forum established to improve opportunities for improvement and promote the communication and involvement adoption of best practice across Cobham.
Cobham held its first USA Risk 200 20 Significant progress has been made across Management Seminar which Cobham in the development of Health and Safety was attended by all major programmes, with audits undertaken by a range companies and covered Safety, of external agencies including retained Health and Loss prevention 0 0 consultants, insurers and related authorities.
topics with external speakers 04 05 04 05 and best practice workshops In terms of key performance indicators, accident 1 incidence rate A steering group made up of reduced from 694 to 677.
2 senior managers is performing The number of reportable accidents remained a Group wide Health and Safety constant with one major injury as defined by the Review of policy and process Health and Safety Executive and one minor fine by Health and Safety authorities, with remedial action taken immediately.
Occupational Health Initiatives Several Cobham companies provide occupational health schemes, aimed at improving the well-being of employees.
One company in the USA achieved a 50% increase in employee participation of its EREDS programme Eat Right.
Dont Smoke by providing an on-site exercise facility.
A walking programme, Step Closer To A Healthy Holiday was set up to help employee awareness of steps they could take to manage their weight and control stress levels as the holidays approached.
1 Accident Incidence rate means the total number of reportable injuries and other occurrences multiplied by 100,000 divided by the average number of employees.
2 Reportable accidents mean work-related accidents, illness or disease resulting in more than three days absence.
16 Cobham plc 694 677 75 75 Wildlife habitat improvements on a test site have helped buzzards breed successfully Environment A further three Cobham Energy efficiency Waste efficiency Water efficiency 3 Cobham is committed to protecting the companies achieved mGJ 1,000 tonnes m m m turnover environment across all aspects of its business accreditation to ISO 14001 6 7 250 operations.
During 2005, a further three Cobham companies had their environmental management Over 3,000 hours of 6 systems accredited to ISO 14001, bringing the environmental training carried 200 total to 11. out across the Group 5 4 Environmental Impacts Energy efficiency improved 150 4 The most significant impacts of Cobhams activities by 5% on the environment have been identified as 3 energy consumption, water consumption and Water efficiency improved 100 waste generation.
by 24% 2 2 There is a variety of energy-intensive processes Waste efficiency improved 50 across Cobham companies including aircraft by 6% 1 operations and the use of furnaces, autoclaves, wave solder plant, and compressed air.
However, many 0 0 0 Group companies have implemented energy saving initiatives, including upgrading lighting fixtures 04 05 04 05 04 05 and improved lighting controls, programmable timers on energy equipment, employee awareness Environmental Initiatives programmes and the commissioning of an energy Training management system which has resulted in energy Over 3,000 hours of environmental training have efficiency in buildings and processes improving been carried out across the Group.
Reducing Hazard As well as domestic office usage, Cobham has Work has been carried out at several Cobham processes that are intensive consumers of water companies on the replacement of hazardous including component cleaning, water-cooled solvents with less hazardous systems.
vacuums, cooling and dilution processes, water jet machines, aircraft cleaning and irrigation.
Water Improving Biodiversity 3 efficiency has improved from 227m One UK company leases and manages 11.5 acres m in 2004 to 3 The ISO 14001 implementation team of heath and grassland that is located inside the 172m m in 2005 through the successful use of at Sargent Fletcher Inc, US boundary of the New Forest National Park, with initiatives including lean engineering process changes, the site bordered on three sides by SSSI flow controls, automatic shut-off equipment, designated Sites of Special Scientific Interest.
commissioning of closed loop recirculation A decision was made to maintain a test range, systems, and increased re-use of waste water.
using the same guidelines as a SSSI with help and advice sought from organisations including The principal wastes produced across Cobham are of a general office nature, with other waste types English Nature and The Hampshire and being packaging materials such as cardboard and Isle Of Wight Wildlife Trust.
wood, and process wastes such as metals, metal treatment solutions and machine oils.
Initiatives Improvements to the wildlife habitat, have seen across the Group have resulted in the volume of an increase in the population of reptiles, plants waste produced reducing from 6.3 tonnes m to and birdlife, with a breeding pair of buzzards 5.9 tonnes m in 2005.
Overall, 29% of waste successfully raising two offspring in 2005. was recycled.
