2.4 Urban Community Development Urban Community Development We continue to invest in activities which we believe will, over time, produce above-average returns for shareholders.
One of these areas is Urban Community Development, where we can benefit from the Groups balance sheet strength and development skills.
The largest of our projects is Kent Thameside, but we also have smaller holdings in Cambridge and at Stansted.
Kent Thameside Our activities in Kent Thameside are currently focused on masterplanning and securing appropriate planning consents.
At Eastern Quarry and Swanscombe Peninsula West, our two planning applications for major residential led mixed-use developments remain undetermined primarily as a result of issues raised by the Highways Agency in relation to the trunk road network.
This issue is not unique to Land Securities and is currently affecting a number of the Governments priority growth areas.
Within our Ebbsfleet landholding, where we have a 48.5% interest, outline consent already exists, and we are moving towards the first phase of residential development.
Countryside Properties has been selected as our preferred development partner for the Springhead Quarter.
Countryside is now working towards the submission of a detailed application later this year for a scheme of over 300 dwellings.
This joint venture arrangement with Countryside will follow on from completion of our first phase of work with them at Waterstone Park where 200 dwellings have been completed and sold.
Work on the construction of the second phase of 450 homes has started following the grant of detailed planning permission in November for the next release of 88 private and 30 affordable dwellings.
We have also had some recent notable successes at Crossways reinforcing its pre-eminence as the largest mixed use business park in the south-east quadrant of the M25.
Following exchange of contracts in December, work is progressing on the construction of a new HQ office building for Moat Housing Group for their freehold owner occupation at the end of the calendar year.
The sale of Building 5065, to Capital & Provident for 17m was completed in March 2005.
Stansted In July we acquired 650 hectares 1,625 acres of land adjacent to Stansted airport for approximately 15.3m.
We believe that this acquisition may provide future opportunities for achieving change in use and other planning consents in the medium-term, although the land is not identified for development in current planning policy statements.
South-east industrial We completed our property swap with Slough Estates and continue to own 72m of industrial property in the south-east.
These properties, which produce 4.0m of income per annum, were retained since they offer medium-term potential for development for alternative uses.
54 Land Securities Annual Report 2005 Developing 700 hectares in Kent, creating communities for the future Eastern Quarry, Kent Thameside Annual Report 2005 55 56 Land Securities Annual Report 2005
