3.1 Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility In the year to 31 March, 2005 we continued to make advances on corporate responsibility CR initiatives across the Group.
A full update of our CR activity is contained in our Corporate Responsibility 2004 Progress Report published recently, which included an update on progress in respect to our 2004 environment targets and the wider CR targets which we set for the first time.
Recognition of our progress comes from our continued inclusion in the FTSE4Good and Dow Jones Sustainability Indices and inclusion in Business in the Communitys Top 100 Companies Which Count listing.
In addition, Upstream, who run the Property Environment Group benchmark, widened the remit of this to include indicators on CR pertinent to the property industry.
We were delighted to learn that we had come second in this revised benchmark overall and first in the quoted property company peer group.
As a result of the senior management changes, we restructured Board responsibility for our key stakeholder groups and our health, safety and environmental activities.
The table below lists these responsibilities and the means by which they are delivered.
The sound management of our activities with our key stakeholder groups and a pro-active approach to our responsibilities for health, safety and the environment underpins the success of Land Securities business.
Key stakeholder group area of responsibility How we deliver Board member Senior executive Occupiers, clients and Customer satisfaction initiatives Chief Executive, their customers Land Securities Trillium Local communities Community initiatives Managing Director, Retail Managing Director, London Portfolio Shareholders and Investor relations programme Group Chief Executive debt investors Group Finance Director Employees HR management Group Chief Executive Suppliers, advisors, Procurement Chief Operating Officer contractors and consultants Government Lobbying and NGO relationship building Group Chief Executive process but no political donations Health and safety Group-wide policies, training, Chief Executive, management systems and audits Land Securities Trillium Environment Group-wide policies, training, Chief Operating Officer management systems and audits Corporate governance, business Processes and audit Entire Board ethics, compliance and verification Investors We have an equity shareholder base of approximately 27,000, of which some 95% by value are institutional investors together with several hundred of investors in our bonds.
Our investor relations IR activity, which includes regular communication with equity, bond and private investors and equity and bond analysts, comprises financial presentations, site visits and one-on-one meetings.
These activities are conducted to provide a clear, honest and accurate picture of the Groups performance and future prospects, while remaining within the constraints imposed to ensure the protection of price sensitive information and avoidance of market abuse.
We seek to achieve a best practice IR programme and in 2005 expanded our activities to include private client broker communication and non-transaction related communication with debt analysts and investors.
We held our second institutional investor conference, our first socially responsible investor meeting which included a site visit to Canterbury and a further presentation to the UK Shareholders Association, a private shareholder investment forum.
60 Land Securities Annual Report 2005 We receive some 300 million customer visits to our retail properties each year, many of whom benefit from our community services, including Shopmobility Designer Outlet, Livingston Annual Report 2005 61 3.1 Corporate Responsibility continued All information provided at Group presentations is posted on the IR section of our website which allows for timely and efficient dissemination of information to all stakeholders and many of these meetings are broadcast live over the internet.
We monitor the effectiveness of this programme directly through feedback to the Group, nominations for IR industry awards and indirectly through third party feedback and perception audits.
Occupiers, clients, customers and the community We provide commercial accommodation to more than 2,000 occupiers and clients across the investment property and property outsourcing businesses and conduct annual customer satisfaction surveys, the results of which we report on in Section Two.
2 With some 10 million m of commercial accommodation across the UK, our activities extend beyond the physical fabric of the buildings and often extend into the surrounding local communities.
This is particularly true of the investment property business where ownership of shopping centres and our development activities enable us to be involved in a wide range of community initiatives across the UK.
Our shopping centres engage in numerous initiatives, examples of which are: schools and education programmes: local truancy initiatives: charitable activities: business improvement districts: disability access programmes: health and environmental activities and community marketing programmes.
We also conduct robust public consultation programmes during the development process to gain public support for our plans and to maintain this support during development we introduce change management initiatives, which include the appointment of local community liaison officers: regular community meetings: publishing newsletters and websites: and job creation and training.
Our people We employ nearly 2,000 people across the UK, responsible for the management of our property portfolio, development and delivery of accommodation and services across our property outsourcing activities.
Our main objective in relation to employees is to become the employer of choice in the quoted property sector with a focus on attracting, developing, retaining and motivating high performance teams and individuals.
We were delighted to receive recognition of our success as an employer when a recently published survey recognised us as the leading UK property investment and development company to work for.
We aim to create an environment where innovation and creativity are rewarded and career paths are clearly defined.
Our reward structure is linked to performance and we provide our people with opportunities for personal and professional development through our training and development initiatives.
Land Securities is committed to providing equal opportunities to all our employees, whether full-time, part-time, temporary, seconded or job applicant regardless of age, gender, disability, marital status, sexual orientation, religion, race, colour, creed, ethnic or national origin.
Land Securities recognises the importance of providing employees with a continual and consistent flow of information.
Our internal communication programme offers employees presentations on business activity and planning, management and team away days and regular news publications including an e-magazine and environmental newsletter.
The intranet, which has enhanced our communication with employees, especially our remote workers, was updated and relaunched in 2004 with specific improvement made to the news function.
62 Land Securities Annual Report 2005 3.1 Corporate Responsibility continued We held our third Group-wide annual employee survey and obtained an excellent response rate of just under 92%.
The feedback received showed that our employees feel positive about Land Securities as an organisation.
In particular, we exceeded the ETSM benchmark in: fair reward for work done: information flow from senior management: being a good employer and satisfaction with benefits and we scored top marks for culture and values.
Our training budget increased in 2004, reflecting the emphasis placed on developing our employees.
This year we have expanded Personal Development Plans across the Group to ensure we have a framework to maximise employee potential to help them achieve their own aims as well as the Groups business objectives.
We also introduced a work shadow programme, to share ideas, knowledge and experience between business units.
It provides individuals with the chance to have hands-on learning with colleagues from other parts of the business and broadens understanding of how the Group functions, including different roles and methods of problem solving.
Business exchange forums are being introduced across the Group in advance of the new regulations being implemented on workplace consultation.
We are committed to becoming a leader in respect to human resource policies on employee engagement.
Health and safety As detailed above Ian Ellis, Chief Executive of Land Securities Trillium, has now assumed responsibility for health and safety and during the year we strengthened and restructured the health and safety H&S team.
This now comprises 16 H&S managers, who deliver services and support across the Group as well as 12 H&S trainers dedicated to the DWP contract.
Our H&S activities are routinely reviewed by the Board on a quarterly basis, which includes a progress report against our stated objectives.
A detailed report is made annually.
The achievements of our H&S activities have been recognised by Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents which presented us with a Gold award for Health and Safety Management.
An important part of our role is to remain fully conversant with new H&S legislation and in the next 12 months we are anticipating H&S legislation in three areas which will directly impact on our activities.
These are the Work At Heights Regulations, the Fire Safety Order and amendments to the Construction, Design and Management Regulations.
We will continue to monitor the progress of these to ensure that we are in a position to conform to the new laws as they come into effect.
We continue to implement a management system compliant with OHSAS: 18001.
Our aim is to achieve certification to this standard for both the DWP and BBC contracts by the end of 2006.
We are refining our asbestos management programme, which operates across the Group, to ensure compliance with legislation.
Given the nature of our business, we need to ensure that the contractors and service providers working on our behalf achieve appropriate standards of health and safety.
In conjunction with our Group Procurement team we are creating a database of relevant H&S information for all our contractors, who number some 3,000.
We have introduced H&S auditing of our service partners and contractors, and this programme is running on schedule.
We also developed and delivered training modules for Land Securities managers and staff in this area.
Land Securities Annual Report 2005 63 3.1 Corporate Responsibility continued We collate and analyse accident statistics monthly and publish key H&S statistics in our CR report.
Accident trends continue to remain fairly static, although we have seen a progressive decrease in RIDDOR reportable accidents on Land Securities Trilliums major contracts.
We continue to deliver H&S risk assessments, inspections, audits and property health checks to take account of both legislative and contractual requirements and conducted a total of 355 of such audits in the year to 31 March 2005.
Environment We were one of the first property companies to recognise the important role we have to manage our environmental impacts.
We are delighted, once again, to have received strong third party endorsement of our environmental activities.
Over the year we received a 82.3% score from Business in the Environment, won seven Green Apple awards for our activities and maintained our UK Wildlife Trust Business and Biodiversity Benchmark, one of only 11 organisations to receive the Benchmark in 2004.
We launched an enhanced Environmental Management System EMS and trained almost 300 members of staff in the basic aspects of the system.
We are seeking the BS 8555 accreditation for this EMS and have our final audit in July 2005 with Lloyds Register.
Following a scheduled review Land Securities Trillium received confirmation that its EMS, which had been expanded to include the 1,000 additional Employment Services buildings, continued to meet the requirements of ISO 14001 standard, making this the largest certification to date under the 2004 revision of ISO 14001.
We participated in the voluntary UK Emissions Trading Scheme once again this year.
We met our target and have reduced emissions associated with our managed office portfolio by more than 9%, representing over 6,300 tonnes of CO, since the scheme began three years ago.
Despite the official 2 closure of the MACC2 scheme, we remain committed to our declared target of a 10% reduction in average CO emissions by 2010.
We continue our work with the Carbon Trust on developing strategies 2 to reduce energy consumption.
We introduced a new internal auditing scheme that enables us to benchmark the environmental management of our shopping centres and continue to run our successful shopping centre recycling league table, which has achieved an increase in recycling rates to an average over 26%, up from 20% in the prior year.
We also significantly increased the amount of waste recycled by Land Securities Trillium for DWP and the BBC.
We introduced voluntary Environmental Impact Assessments for all our development schemes and supply chain auditing for sustainable timber procurement.
We participated in a working group with other leading developers and contractors to pioneer a common approach to addressing CR issues on construction procurement.
We are working with selected suppliers to trial improved procurement routes to increase the proportion of sustainable timber used in our development projects and to provide greater levels of assurance that the products are from genuinely sustainable sources.
64 Land Securities Annual Report 2005 6,300 tonnes Three year reduction in CO emissions from our 2 managed office portfolio Empress State, SW6 Annual Report 2005 65
