Environmental Statement Health & Safety Statement We, the Board and employees of London Merchant Securities plc understand The Groups Health and Safety policy has been actively managed through that our various activities can have an impact on the natural environment, the year not only with a view to minimising and controlling risks but also as and on the people who live and work in the areas in which we operate.
Staff involvement has been encouraged Impacts can arise from the development of land, from the operation of and various strategies for compliance with current legislation, which have buildings which we own and from the activities of companies in which we been developed, are under constant review in order to achieve continuous invest.
improvement in Health & Safety performance.
Regular Health and Safety reports are considered by the Executive Committee and the Board.
We also understand that the way in which we conduct these activities can make a substantial difference to the extent of the environmental impact: Our statement of general policy is: sensitive building design and management can minimise ecological impacts, To provide adequate control of the health and safety risks arising from our transport use, the use of energy, and of water: waste minimisation and work activities.
recycling can be facilitated, and resource inputs minimised and controlled.
Where we invest in other companies, by asking the right questions we can To consult with our employees on matters affecting their health and safety.
have an influence on the environmental performance of our investees.
To provide and maintain safe plant and equipment.
We are aware that we are working within a society which is becoming To ensure safe handling and use of substances.
increasingly concerned about environmental issues, and we wish to assure all those who have an interest in our environmental performance our To provide information, instruction and supervision for employees.
investors, industry regulators, local communities, and society at large that To ensure all employees are competent to do their tasks, and to give them we appreciate their views, and are committed to addressing these issues within adequate training.
To prevent accidents and cases of work-related ill health.
In particular, having considered the scope and nature of our activities and, our current approach to environmental issues, we believe that there are To maintain safe and healthy working conditions.
certain key areas on which we should initially concentrate our efforts.
To review and revise this policy as necessary at regular intervals.
Therefore, we are currently committed to the following: To ensure the safety of visitors to our buildings: and To continue to ensure that environmental issues are considered for property development projects.
To undertake our responsibilities as landlords for communal areas under our control in buildings forming part of the Groups property portfolio.
To consider environmental impact of property management procedures to identify opportunities to improve the environmental standards of building use.
Periodically to revisit our risk assessment and management processes and our due diligence process for acquisitions, divestment and venture capital investment to ensure that due account is taken of environmental issues.
To make associated organisations and tenants, where possible, aware of our environmental requirements and review external communication.
Furthermore, we also commit to report our progress in these initiatives in due course, and to review the policy as appropriate.
