Aegis R&A 2005 Review 1-29 12 4 06 6:55 am Page 26 Aegis Annual Report 2005 Corporate social responsibility As a group, we recognise that we have certain larger markets.
New initiatives include the responsibilities to our employees, our clients, extension of our graduate recruitment our shareholders and the wider world.
programmes and the introduction of buddying We aspire to high professional standards and and mentoring schemes.
Carat UK was listed integrity in all situations: managing our among The Sunday Timess 100 best companies financial performance for the benefit of all our to work for for a fifth successive year.
stakeholders, making a contribution to the In Synovate, we ran our annual employee communities we live in, and avoiding practices commitment survey for the fourth year.
This that, directly or otherwise, have a negative assesses employee commitment across all effect on others or the environment.
Synovates full-time staff over 5,000 in 2005, so We try to carry out these responsibilities we can understand what we do well and what properly, and to improve our performance over we can improve to help staff commitment.
As an organisation of over 12,000 people, Evaluation of certain senior managers we aim to create a supportive framework of performance is directly linked to the surveys consistent principles and policies for our results and each of Synovates operating units individual countries, businesses and people, has developed an action plan to take mirroring the global and local relationships we advantage of the strengths and address areas have with our clients.
for improvement identified by the survey.
We have a formal appraisal system in place, and Our people commit to reviewing each employees progress It is the professional skills and creative talents at least once a year.
We also use a range of of our people in both Aegis Media and internal communications for skills Synovate that keep us in business.
Looking development, to share best practice and to give after them properly is a major priority.
Our our people the recognition they deserve.
We objective is to provide them with satisfying have a quarterly groupwide online publication, professional opportunities, in a safe and covering developments in our businesses and stimulating environment, and to help them markets, and a groupwide awards programme.
develop the skills to advance within our organisation.
We are in the process of a review of our people policies, with a focus on talent development, We have continued to make significant diversity, reward and recognition, to ensure investment in training across the group.
In 2005 they develop in line with the changing needs we ran a number of bespoke groupwide and strategies of our businesses.
One, developed with Implementation of these policies will be Ashridge Management College, concentrates tracked through a focus on key metrics.
on strategic and business issues, with a second on developing leadership skills and behaviours.
In the year we carried out over 30 business continuity planning exercises, designed to The Synovate Academy ran over 200 protect our people and ensure the viability of international global training programmes in the our services to clients in the event of a major year, ranging from practice accreditation and incident.
solutions to sales and business development.
At Carat, we put in place foundations for a 3Cs We are committed to fair employment training programme, which 3,500 of Carats practices, including the prohibition of all forms employees will follow in 2006.
Standing for of illegal discrimination.
We believe in giving Curiosity, Collaboration and Creativity, the 3Cs equal access and fair treatment to all programme is designed to support the employees on the basis of merit: we think this development of the Carat proposition, with is both good business sense and ethically its increasing focus on communications sound.
We are committed to following the planning, internationally.
applicable labour and employment laws wherever we operate.
In 2005, we started to pilot more structured career development in some of Aegis Medias We believe that disabled people have the same 26 Aegis R&A 2005 Review 1-29 12 4 06 6:55 am Page 27 2005 saw a major first for Carat in the Americas and its new client, Procter & Gamble.
Having been appointed for communications planning in the previous year, it got to work on some of P&G's biggest selling brands, including Bounty, Charmin, Pampers and Folgers.
Over 50 Carat people in the Americas are contributing insight, ideas and solutions to our new client - and together client and agency have made some real breakthroughs in communications thinking.
Aegis R&A 2005 Review 1-29 12 4 06 6:55 am Page 28 2005 was a record-breaking year for Carat in the UK.
The business reported its best ever revenue and profit, thanks to work for clients such as Diageo, Disney and Asda.
Carat topped the new business charts, with over 100m of net new billings.
Among these was TV buying to spread the word for the UK governments Central Office of Information: the largest single UK contract awarded in the year.
Aegis R&A 2005 Review 1-29 12 4 06 6:55 am Page 29 Our business and strategy Our board and reports Our accounts Corporate social responsibility rights as non-disabled to be our employees.
partnership approach with shared aims and Wherever possible we provide the same incentives.
opportunities for disabled people as for others.
Our communities If employees become disabled we make every We want our employees to participate in effort to keep them in our employment, with the civic life of their communities.
Where appropriate training where necessary.
appropriate, we allow our people to take time Our clients out of the office to carry out work for charities We are proud of the trust our clients place in us.
and in the community through programmes This is deeply ingrained in our business, such as Carat Cares and CARES Charitable and means we strive to carry out every single Actions Recognised by Employees of Synovate, mandate with the highest possible degree of both in the US.
We think of our We also support a range of charities and clients as our partners in business and our community projects across the group.
goals are mutual: to understand consumers and The majority of this support comes from our to connect with them.
Transparency, integrity, operating companies in their local markets.
accountability and creativity are the key values As a group, Aegis supports a number of local that we strive to deliver to our clients.
and national charities, with an emphasis on children with particular needs.
Our total Our shareholders charitable donations in 2005, excluding We recognise our fiduciary duty to our fund-raising by employees, amounted to 0.4m shareholders and seek to establish constructive 2004: 0.2m.
In line with our policy, and two-way relationships.
Our primary aim in we did not make political donations in the this respect is to create value through year 2004: nil.
continuous improvements in our operating and financial performance.
We conduct an active Our environment investor relations programme throughout the As our business is predominantly in services, year, designed to set out our strategy and our impact on the environment is relatively low prospects with clarity and in detail, and to and indirect.
However, we recognise that we solicit shareholders views in return.
We also have a responsibility to limit those effects we routinely make a range of statutory and have.
At a group level we set out to adhere to additional information available to all best practice in environmental matters, such as shareholders and interested parties via our our premises, equipment and use and disposal website and publications.
Further details of our of resources, and we charge our operating shareholder relations programme can be found businesses to do the same.
We adhere to in the Corporate Governance Report on page guidelines from government and industry 39.
We are a constituent of FTSE4Good, the regulatory bodies, and actively encourage socially responsible investment index, having recycling and conservation of resources across met globally recognised corporate the group.
This annual report, for example, is responsibility standards.
printed on chlorine free paper using pulp from sustainable forests.
We seek to minimise air Our business partners and suppliers and road travel, where possible, through We try to create relationships with our technological alternatives such as videosuppliers and third parties such that they trust conferencing and virtual meetings.
us and want to do business with us.
In selecting external suppliers we use competitive We recognise that standards of acceptable and processes that are fair and transparent, and best practice in corporate responsibility are designed to maximise value and quality of developing rapidly at the moment.
We are service for our clients and ourselves.
With longcommitted to staying abreast of best practice term and major suppliers, we aim to establish in this area, and believe it is the right thing to long-term relationships, often adopting a do for our businesses.
