Shaftesbury BACK 05. qxd 7 12 05 14:51 Page 12 Corporate social responsibility As in 2004, waste management activities were The Board recognises the importance of social, Environmental Strategy environmental and ethical matters in the conduct Investment and Refurbishments monitored but it continued to be difficult to collect data in a form to compare against a recognised of the Groups business.
The Chief Executive is Shaftesburys business involves the reconfiguration responsible for the development and administration performance indicator.
As a result of the small and refurbishment of existing buildings with the scale of most of Shaftesburys refurbishment of policies and practices in matters relating to aim of providing a good standard of efficient Corporate Social Responsibility CSR.
The projects, the volumes of waste are relatively low accommodation to meet the needs of modern and there is often insufficient space to segregate Board receives regular reports on CSR matters.
Its approach is to conserve and extend waste.
This is a continuing problem, which is The Groups Environmental, Social and Community the useful lives of existing buildings thereby avoiding unlikely to be resolved given the unusual nature of Policy is reviewed annually to ensure it continues the environmental impacts of demolition and Shaftesburys portfolio.
In view of this Shaftesbury to reflect the CSR risks and opportunities relevant development of new buildings, which are often will continue to monitor waste production, but to Shaftesbury.
A revised Statement of Policies was prone to greater obsolescence.
considers that an appropriate performance indicator approved by the Board in July 2005.
The policy will not be readily identifiable.
For refurbishment projects it is recognised that the document and regular progress reports are principal issues that require management are available on the Groups website.
As in previous In day-to-day property management, energy minimising local environmental impacts, particularly years, an external review was undertaken in consumption and waste management are the key noise and dust, managing construction waste and August 2005 by RPS Consultants in order to verify environmental issues.
The Group continues to the sourcing of materials.
During the year: working practices against Policy Goals and monitor energy consumption in the common parts achievement of objectives and targets in the Action of its portfolio where it has direct responsibility.
- Eighteen refurbishment schemes of a capital Plan.
The revised Policy, the results of the external Data collected indicates relatively low energy usage value of above 50,000 have been registered with review in this and previous years and the Action at comparable levels to the consumption last year.
Plan are available in full on the Groups website.
The rolling programme of replacing light fittings This represents approximately 86% of such The following report highlights key achievements with long life low energy fittings, use of timer schemes which are subject to external scrutiny during the year.
controls on lights, thermostats on boilers and and audit.
Of these, 89% of those audited have maximising use of insulation and secondary glazing achieved satisfactory scores 2004 80%.
The Group achieved a ranking of 69 out of 500 in continues where appropriate within the portfolio.
this years Business in the Community Corporate - The Groups Environmental, Social and Responsibility Index and was the highest rated Water meters have now been installed throughout Community Policy was included within tender within the Real Estate sector.
The Index is a Carnaby and Covent Garden and consumption is documentation for subcontractors with guidance voluntary self assessment survey that provides an now being monitored.
provided for the specification of materials, waste annual benchmark of how companies manage, management and checklists for legal compliance.
measure and report their corporate responsibility.
Environmental Strategy Property Management - A Contractors Induction leaflet, outlining the The Index is open to all companies in the FTSE 100, key points of Shaftesburys Environmental, In Chinatown, Shaftesbury continues to work FTSE 250 and Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
Social and Community Policy has been issued closely with Westminster City Council to manage The Company is a constituent of the FTSE 4 Good to all subcontractors working on Shaftesburys the issues that are specific to the area such as Index, which is intended as a guide for socially portfolio.
controlling street cleaning and disposal of food responsible investment, and has been awarded waste.
Improved waste collection facilities have - A timber sourcing questionnaire has provided membership of Business in the Communitys been incorporated in the Groups new retail information regarding the chain of custody of PerCent Club, recognising the Companys scheme at Horse and Dolphin Yard.
timber sourced by suppliers and will enable a community investment of in excess of 1% of performance standard to be set for next year.
The recycling and compacting schemes at Carnaby pre-tax profits.
continue to be a success and are well used by tenants.
48 Shaftesbury BACK 05. qxd 7 12 05 14:51 Page 13 The Group recognises that its villages must offer Environmental Strategy Groups Office CSR Objectives for 2005-2006 safe, well-maintained and welcoming environments For 2005-2006 the following key objectives have In the Groups office, environmental impacts are if they are to continue to appeal to tenants, their been set to build on the achievements to date: low risk and relate to energy consumption, resource staff and customers, and local residents.
This is use and waste production.
Energy consumption is particularly challenging in these central locations - Continue to utilise 100% brownfield sites: relatively low but continues to be monitored.
where visitor numbers are high and trading hours - Continue to track the sourcing of materials, A paper recycling scheme continues to be operated.
Shaftesbury continues to work particularly timber, and aim to purchase a closely with Westminster City Council, Camden minimum of 30% from sustainable sources: Council and other bodies to develop practical Health & Safety Issues solutions to local issues, supporting initiatives - Ensure all refurbishment schemes above All refurbishment schemes are subject to a formal such as CCTV, improved street cleaning and waste 50,000 are signed to the Considerate Health and Safety Plan as required by current disposal, and environmental improvements.
Constructors Scheme and aim to exceed a legislation.
One site incident was reported to the satisfactory score: Health and Safety Executive during the year.
During the year, the Group has partnered local No other reportable incidents arose within the Groups authorities and charities to promote and provide - Finalise and issue information leaflets to raise portfolio or in its own offices during the year.
financial support for street and lighting improvement awareness amongst tenants regarding works in Seven Dials and Chinatown which will environmental issues, specifically relating to improve public safety and accessibility.
A number waste management, recycling and energy use: Shaftesbury in the Community of other schemes are being investigated.
- Monitor costs of use of green tariff electricity The Groups policy is to align its charitable support in Carnaby and Covent Garden and set a target and community involvement to its areas of investment Employees for usage: in Londons West End.
Support is provided to a number of organisations involved in the arts, The Group employs 17 staff including executive - Monitor water use in Carnaby and Covent Garden: theatre and music together with support and Directors with 15 based in its head office.
- Review the waste management strategy for involvement with community groups and charities The Environmental, Social and Community Policy Carnaby and Covent Garden in order to identify which are addressing important local issues.
contains policy statements on equal opportunities the best means to maximise recycling by tenants: In addition the Group is working closely with the in employment and procedures for reporting local statutory bodies to maintain and improve the concerns regarding non-adherence to the Groups - Review energy usage in the Groups office and local environment.
Flexible working for staff is identify ways to reduce consumption: accommodated according to individual circumstances.
Shaftesbury has long established relationships with - Continue to support local community groups several organisations which are directly relevant to The welfare, safety and training of employees is a and continue to be proactive in mentoring its business.
The Group also provides financial key priority.
Staff turnover is low and there have charitable and other organisations.
support and advice to the National Campaign for been no reported staff grievances or any reportable the Arts, the Association of British Orchestras, the health and safety incidents in the year ended 30th Orchestra of the Age of Enlightenment and the Donmar September 2005.
Other organisations which the Group has Chief Executive The Group actively encourages staff training and supported during the year include: the London 7th December 2005 skills development and involvement in the branch of the Samaritans located in Carnaby, development of the Companys business, CSR the Hungerford Drugs Rehabilitation Project, policies and targets and community activities.
the Soho Family Centre, the Soho Green Charity, the Chinatown Association, the Chinatown Working Party, the Seven Dials Monument Charity, the Covent Garden Community Association, the Phoenix Garden Project, the Yellow Earth Theatre Company and Streetwise Opera.
