Corporate responsibility Key highlights The extension of the Slough Trading Estate Slough Estates set a total of 40 CR targets at CCTV surveillance system to a further the beginning of 2005.
75 per cent of these three sites via a remote monitoring have been fully achieved and a further five per system.
The scheme has proved to be cent have been substantially progressed.
Just highly cost-effective, as the crime figures three targets remain un-progressed at year on the Trading Estate have dropped end.
Particular achievements to be highlighted dramatically since its installation, and it are listed below, alongside their associated forms a significant aspect of our marketing business benefits.
Initial stages of research to investigate The adaptation of the UK Environmental market demand for green buildings Management System EMS for Belgium, amongst our customer base.
This has led to Our Third Corporate Responsibility and a commitment to roll this out to a further the development of a questionnaire focusing Report which is a summary report two European countries in 2006.
Having on a range of building-related environmental this year has fuller details of Slough been adapted to reflect national differences characteristics and enquiring about the Estates corporate responsibility in the regulatory framework, the EMS will extent of demand for these, both now and activities in 2005 and can be help to ensure greater consistency in the in the future.
Responses to this survey will downloaded from our website environmental standards that are achieved help Slough Estates to refine the design on www.
specifications of new developments and Alternatively, copies are available The establishment of an online property major refurbishments.
management database, which includes Table 1: Progress against Targets 2005 This is a resume of the report.
fields on energy, water and waste No.
This new intranet-based Targets 0% 25% 50% 75% 100% system should enable Slough Estates to Total by monitor environmental performance more number 40 3322 30 effectively and improve management % ot total 100 7.5 7.5 5 5 75 practices accordingly.
In 2006 we shall be investigating the feasibility for extending this system to our international operations.
Table 2: Key Performance Indicators Detailed KPI 2005 2004 Economic Property investment income 257.6m 232.5m Profit before tax and exceptional items 120.4m 133.3m Adjusted basic earnings per share 24.0p 24.7p Social Employees Total UK employee turnover excluding retirees 6.28% New in 2005 % of UK staff that are female 32.6% New in 2005 Customers Overall customer Satisfaction proportion of customers rating 1 good or excellent 64% 57% 2 Health & Safety Accident Incident Rate 2,515 2,128 Community Total donation in cash and in kind to community 3 and civil society 627,914 525,000 Crime, prevention & security Total crime figures on the Slough Trading Estate incidents of crime per person on the Slough Trading Estate 0.008 0.014 Environmental Carbon emissions 2 associated with energy use Kg CO m floor space 206 207 2 3 Water use Total m of water used employee 24 26 Waste Waste tonnes own-office occupation 53.78 47 Renewable energy Renewable Energy Generation Gwh Slough Heat & Power 247 184 Pollution Number and value of notifiable spillages or pollution incidents resulting from the actions of our customers or contractors 0 New in 2005 Land use Area of green space created as a proportion of new developments 11% 15% Nuisance Number of environmental nuisance complaints received 0 New in 2005 1 Overall customer satisfaction figures are weighted according to the number of interviews conducted per property.
Please note, that the figure reported in the 2004 CR report referred to a direct average of the properties studied.
2 The methodology used to calculate the Accident Incident Rate was revised in 2005 to correspond to HSE methodology: the figure reported here is therefore different from that stated in the 2004 CR report, which should now be discounted.
The figure reported relates to the number of accidents during the period divided by the average number of employees multiplied by 100,000.
3 2004 CR report mistakenly reported this figure as cash only donations, whereas it in fact also included in kind donations.
48 Slough Estates plc Annual Report 2005 Report Scope Customers Community All of the data in the summary report covers The regional restructuring undertaken during We continue to recognise our responsibilities Slough Estates activities in the UK.
Some 2005 was designed to improve the quality towards the local community, and believe in data including energy and water use also of service to our customers.
By organising the mutual benefits of improving quality of life includes Slough Estates activities in our activities by region rather than business in communities where we invest.
Due to our continental Europe and US.
All the information activities, there is clear responsibility for strong presence in the Slough area, we are relates to the calendar year ending on understanding customer needs and particularly keen to contribute to projects in 31 December 2005. service delivery.
Our ongoing efforts to support young people in Slough continued with major Headline performance indicators As in previous years, Slough Estates contributions to the Princes Trust and the Our commitment to CR recognises the need commissioned a customer survey during Outward Bound Trust and we also helped for continual improvement to ensure that our 2005.
For those properties that have been a local school, Westgate achieve specialist business processes, procedures and reporting in the portfolio since 2004, there has been status with a donation of 10,000. reflect current best practice.
We have identified an improvement in customer satisfaction a number of performance indicators across all over the past year.
Suppliers stakeholder groups that we feel provide a useful Slough Estates works with a large number of reflection of our progress year on year.
We are Crime Prevention & Security suppliers ranging from property managers to pleased to report that the majority of our KPIs The installation of CCTV cameras across the building contractors, and architects.
All our demonstrate an improvement in performance Slough Trading Estate has had phenomenal dealings with contractors are governed by since 2004.
In those areas where our success, with overall crime figures on the a code of conduct which requires that we performance has not improved, we seek to Estate falling by nearly 50 per cent since 2003. uphold certain minimum standards in our establish the reasons for the trend, and ensure Findings from our annual customer satisfaction business relationships.
that they receive greater attention in future.
survey demonstrate that customers are recognising the improvements in security at In 2005, we continued to engage with our major Economic Performance and the Slough Trading Estate, with the proportion contractors on waste management, providing Corporate Governance of occupiers rating security provision strongly them with site waste management plans, and Slough Estates economic impacts include rising from 50 per cent in 2003 to 75 per cent inviting them to Environmental Workshops held the companys financial interactions with key in the most recent survey.
The financial highlights on positively received and provided mutual benefits.
page 2 of the attached accounts illustrate our The introduction of 24 hour CCTV surveillance performance with regard to our shareholders at Slough Trading Estate has been so Environmental performance and investors.
successful that we have begun introducing In 2005, Slough Estates undertook a remote surveillance systems at our other comprehensive review of the most significant We have recently become a member of the estates including Southampton and environmental impacts associated with its core Institute of Business Ethics and will be taking Winnersh Triangle.
business activities, and the way in which these steps this year to monitor our Code of are measured using key performance Business Conduct.
Our Code is available to Accessibility indicators KPIs.
Full details are available in our all employees via our intranet as well as our During 2005, Slough Estates continued to summary CR report.
implement the high priority recommendations from disability access audits undertaken at all Priorities for 2005 include Social Performance properties in the portfolio during 2003 and Target 1: To trial our Personal Development Employees 2004.
Some of these are paid for by Slough Review Programme in our Paris office with a During 2005 we focused on diversity, exploring Estates directly, and others are included within view to roll it out to other European operations how this differs from equal opportunities and service charges.
during 2006. identifying the benefits a diverse way of thinking Target 2: To demonstrate improvement in can bring to our business.
We created a Health & Safety performance as measured by beginning and bespoke in-house Diversity Programme, with Health & Safety H&S remains a top priority year-end customer satisfaction surveys.
all our UK Head Office employees attending across Slough Estates activities, and we are Target 3: To set up a framework for an a half-day workshop.
Our managers attended pleased to report that, in 2005, no major auditable UK Health and Safety management a full day programme which then linked to a injuries or fatalities occurred on any of our system in line with OHSIS 18001. second full-day of training on selection skills for sites.
We shall be focusing upon ensuring Target 4: To implement a Group responsible recruiting and attracting new people to join our consistency in our approach to H&S across Procurement policy.
The programmes have all been the Group both in the UK and internationally.
Target 5: To review and update the EMS manual successful with post-course evaluation In September 2005 we also achieved a Gold and to promote its use with key personnel.
indicating that 85 per cent of the workforce Standard in the Construction Skills found the diversity programme provided Certification Scheme for our construction A more comprehensive list of our targets valuable experience.
division, due to the registration of at least is listed in our summary CR report.
75 per cent of our employees under the Construction Skills Certification Scheme.
Slough Estates plc Annual Report 2005 49
