Financial Review Alan Stewart Operating activities Following this change in the investment policy, the Board and the Trustees The Groups profitability has recovered signicantly with strong have agreed a new deficit funding agreement.
This agreement provides the performances from all businesses, despite the tough trading climate, Company with greater predictability over the level of future pension deficit particularly in the second half of the year.
High Street Retails profitability payments.
The agreement replaces that reached last year and will result in recovered substantially compared with the prior year.
The focus in High pension deficit funding payments of 15m in 2005 06, 17m in 2006 07, Street Retail has been on good category mix management and tight cost 20m in 2007 08 and increasing by RPI capped at 5 per cent thereafter control.
Travel Retail delivered a strong performance through sales growth, until the deficit as calculated under FRS 17 is repaid.
margin growth and cost control, and News Distribution delivered another solid result.
Group profit and loss account Group sales summary The Group generated a profit before tax, exceptional items and goodwill LFL sales amortisation from continuing businesses of 73m 2004: 46m, an increase m 2005 2004 Growth % growth % of 59 per cent on the prior year.
profit before tax, after exceptional items and Sales goodwill amortisation, was 64m 2004: loss of 135m.
Retail 1,423 1,453 2% 2% News Distribution 1,187 1,182 During the year High Street Retail delivered 18m of the three year cost Sales continuing 2,610 2,635 1% 1% saving programme, 3m more than the announced 15m target for this year.
Internal sales 113 115 2% 2% The business is on track to deliver the total 30m target over three years.
We Total sales 2,497 2,520 1% 1% have identied a further 18m of cost savings, in support areas such as shared The focus in High information systems, logistics and store efficiencies.
We have delivered 2m Discontinued businesses 11 314 of these new savings in 2004 05 and the remainder will be delivered over the Street Retail has been Reported sales 2,508 2,834 12% next three years.
We expect the total cost savings broadly to mitigate on good category mix inationary pressures in 2006 and 2007.
Continuing like for like sales were down 1 per cent year-on-year.
Retail like management and tight for like sales were down 2 per cent in the first half of 2004 05 and were down 1 Headline earnings per share from continuing operations increased by 1 per cent for the second half.
News Distribution sales were at for the full cost control.
Travel 121 per cent to 31.6p 2004: 14.3p with earnings per share from continuing year, with like for like sales up 2 per cent in the first half and down 1 per cent operations of 30.5p 2004: loss per share of 20.5p.
Retail delivered a strong in the second half.
Overall total sales including discontinued businesses were down 12 per cent.
performance through Given the improvement in the Groups trading position, the Board has proposed an increased final dividend of 9.2p per share 2004: 8.0p, sales growth, margin Group trading results making a full year dividend of 13.7p 2004: 12.0p.
profit growth and cost control, m 2005 2004 growth % Cash generation was strong due to the improved trading performance in 3 and News Distribution Operating profit the businesses and good stock and debtor control.
The reduction in net assets to 42m 2004: 256m delivered another News Distribution 37 35 6% reects the return of cash to shareholders and an increase in the pension solid result.
3 deficit as a result of falling bond yields.
Trading profit 106 79 34% Central costs Non-operating activities Support functions 16 15 7% In September 2004, the Group completed the disposal of Hodder Headline Pension service costs 10 14 29% 2 for 224m and returned 205m to shareholders.
Internal rents 1 1 3 Operating profit continuing 81 51 59% Following the disposal, the Group made a 120m cash contribution to the Net finance charges continuing 8 5 60% WHSmith Pension Trust.
This payment was nanced from the Groups own 3 resources and new banking facilities.
profit before taxation continuing 73 46 59% Discontinued businesses 21 In September 2005, the Trustees of the WHSmith Pension Trust adopted 3 profit before taxation 73 67 9% a new investment policy in order to limit the volatility in the underlying 3 Stated before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
investment performance and reduce the risk of a significant increase in the deficit in the fund.
A Liability Driven Investment LDI approach has been Trading profit was up 34 per cent to 106m.
adopted with 94 per cent of the assets now invested in ination and interest rate hedged investments which change in value in line with changes in the Pension service costs were reduced by 4m compared to last year, as a result underlying liabilities.
The balance is in equity options designed to enable of the introduction of employee contributions, a reduction in certain scheme the fund to continue to benefit from any potential higher returns from benets such as early retirement terms and an overall reduction in the equity markets.
pensionable salaries following the organisational review in 2004.
Group operating profit from continuing operations before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation was up 59 per cent to 81m.
1 Headline earnings per share: before exceptional items, goodwill amortisation and FRS 17 pension interest undiluted.
2 210m in cash and assumption of the Hodder Headline net pension deficit of 14m.
18 WH Smith PLC 19 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Financial Review Alan Stewart Operational review Taxation The movement in working capital for continuing businesses was News Distribution Retail The tax charge for the year before tax on exceptional items and 25m favourable to the previous year, principally as a result of Total sales of 1,187m 2004: 1,182m were at for the year.
The effective tax the strong focus on stock levels and improved control of debtors.
Newspapers sales were up 1 per cent, with price increases and LFL sales rate on continuing activities, excluding exceptional items and m 2005 2004 Growth % growth % book promotions offsetting volume declines.
Magazine sales This can be further analysed as follows: goodwill amortisation, was 25 per cent 2004: 30 per cent.
were at, with a steady weeklies market, fuelled by a number Sales m 2005 2004 of new product launches, offsetting a slower monthly market.
High Street Retail 1,112 1,152 3% 3% Stock 6 16 The Group made significant progress in settling prior year The number of part works and one-shots declined by 15 per cent, Travel Retail 311 301 3% 4% Debtors 10 corporation tax liabilities with the Inland Revenue.
We expect our following an exceptionally strong performance last year, Total divisional sales 1,423 1,453 2% 2% Creditors 2 5 effective tax rate to be approximately 25 per cent for some years.
Working capital continuing 14 11 Divisional profit Earnings loss per share Discontinued businesses 10 16 Gross contribution reduced by 1m, due to a shift in relative sales 1 The Group generated headline earnings per share from continuing High Street Retail 43 23 87% from magazines to newspapers.
Working capital movement 4 27 operations of 31.6p 2004: 14.3p while earnings per share from Travel Retail 26 21 24% continuing operations were 30.5p 2004: loss per share of 20.5p.
With a clear focus on tight cost control, profit grew by 2m to Capital expenditure Total divisional profit 69 44 57% 37m.
Net margin improved to 3.1 per cent 2004: 3.0 per cent.
Note: All divisional profit and loss gures in this section are stated before dened benefit pension service m 2005 2004 Dividends costs, exceptional items and goodwill amortisation, interest and taxation.
High Street Retail numbers New stores 4 8 incorporate the results of WHSmith Online, which has been integrated.
The Board is proposing an increased final dividend of 9.2p per Central costs Refurbished stores 14 16 ordinary share 2004: 8.0p.
The final dividend will be paid on Centrally controlled support costs were 16m 2004: 15m Retail sales fell by 2 per cent to 1,423m 2004: 1,453m with like 7 February 2006 to shareholders registered at the close of Systems 23 13 and internal rents on freehold property owned by the Group for like sales down 2 per cent.
Gross margin increased by 240 basis business on 6 January 2006.
This will give a full year dividend remained at the prior year level of 1m.
Retail divisional profit increased 57 per of 13.7p 2004: 12.0p.
The total cost of the dividend is 23m.
Excluding exceptional items and goodwill amortisation, the Pension service costs were reduced by 4m compared with Total 45 49 equity dividend is covered 2.4 times by earnings.
the prior year, as a result of the introduction of employee Within systems expenditure are assets funded by finance leases of 13m 2004: nil which Stationery sales were up 3 per cent in the year, with sales up contributions, a reduction in certain scheme benets such as is a non-cash movement.
4 per cent in the first half and up 1 per cent in the second half, As part of the capital reorganisation in October 2004, the Group early retirement terms and an overall reduction in pensionable as the anniversary of last years initiatives was reached.
Book sales paid a special dividend of 143m.
salaries following the organisational review in 2004.
We have continued to invest in maintaining our retail properties.
for the full year fell by 2 per cent.
Book sales in the first half fell In High Street Retail we have invested 17m in upgrading our by 3 per cent as we did not repeat the previous years unprofitable Fixed charges cover Exceptional items stores and our business systems infrastructure, including installing promotions.
In the second half sales were down by 1 per cent yearFixed charges, comprising operating lease rentals, property taxes, In the first half, the Group booked pre-tax exceptional charges electronic point of sale EPOS systems in all stores.
on-year, with a strong performance from sales of Harry Potter and other property costs and interest, were covered 1.4 times by profit of 8m, which related to discontinued businesses.
Of this the Half-Blood Prince.
News and Impulse sales were up 1 per cent before xed charges, excluding exceptional items and goodwill amount, 7m related to an impairment review of the loan notes Net funds on last year: excluding the decline in sales of phone cards, sales amortisation 2004: 1.3 times cover.
received as deferred consideration in respect of the disposal The movement in the net funds position is as follows: grew 2 per cent.
In Entertainment, sales fell by 12 per cent versus of the Groups USA businesses in the prior year.
The balance m last year as a result of continued intense competition in the Free cash ow and cash balances related to further closure and exit costs.
category and our focus on switching sales from low to high Opening net funds 45 The operating free cash ow amounted to 78m compared with margin categories.
On 25 September 2004, the Group completed the disposal of its Free cash ow 78 publishing business, Hodder Headline Limited.
The business was m 2005 2004 Equity dividends paid 21 Despite difficult trading conditions, profit in the year increased sold to Hachette Livre S. A. for 210m cash and the assumption Cash returned to shareholders 205 profit before tax, exceptional by 25m to 69m with gross contribution increasing by 23m to of the Hodder Headline Limited net pension deficit of 14m.
items and goodwill 73 67 Net purchase of own shares 7 576m.
Gross margin growth of 240 basis points reected the shift Depreciation and amounts written Pension deficit funding 130 from lower margin entertainment products to higher margin Net finance charges off tangible xed assets 42 46 Net disposals 203 stationery products and improved buying terms.
The results include net interest of 8m 2004: 5m.
The increase Cash profit 115 113 Finance leases 13 in the net finance charges from last year is primarily due to the High Street Retail has delivered 18m of the three year cost-saving Working capital 4 27 drawdown of the term debt.
Net finance costs of the pension Financing fees 2 programme during the year, 3m more than the announced Capital expenditure 32 49 fund under FRS 17 were 2m 2004: 4m.
This represents the Premium on issue of shares 2 15m target for this year.
The business is on track to deliver the difference between interest earned on pension scheme assets Tax 4 21 Sale and leaseback proceeds 2 total 30m target over three years.
During the course of the year, and interest charged on pension scheme liabilities.
Net provisions 5 4 Closing net debt 48 we identied a further 18m of cost savings, in support areas such Free cash ow 78 12 as shared information systems, logistics and store efficiencies.
The amount shown for pension deficit funding of 130m We have delivered 2m of these savings in 2004 05 and the represents the difference between the cash contributions to the remainder will be delivered over the next three years.
We dened benefit pension scheme of 142m and the associated expect the total cost savings broadly to mitigate inationary profit and loss charge, which comprised 10m for operating pressures in 2006 and 2007. costs and 2m for nancing.
As a result of these initiatives, net margin for Retail increased by The net disposals of 203m includes gross proceeds of 222m 180 basis points to 4.8 per cent.
from Hodder Headline and WHSmith Aspac disposals, less 10m of disposal transaction costs and 9m of advisory fees in respect The Retail business now operates from 669 stores, which occupy of the bid approach received last year.
3.3 million square feet 2004: 3.3 million square feet.
We opened five new stores in the year and closed nine stores.
20 WH Smith PLC 21 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Financial Review Alan Stewart Group balance sheet Return on capital employed ROCE Return of cash to shareholders Operating leases Total capital employed and ROCE were as follows: On 27 September 2004 the Company undertook a capital The Groups stores are held mainly under operating leases that m m reorganisation whereby existing ordinary shareholders received are not capitalised and therefore are not included as debt for ROCE % Goodwill 14 18 new ordinary shares and 25 new non-cumulative preference accounting purposes.
The High Street Retail leases are on Operating with Fixed assets 231 capital operating shares of nominal value 85p C shares for every 25 existing standard institutional lease terms, typically with a 15 year term employed leases 245 ordinary shares.
The new ordinary shares have a nominal value subject to five year upwards-only rent reviews.
The Travel Retail m ROCE % capitalised 13 Stock 162 of 2 81p each.
This capital reorganisation was effected by a bonus stores operate mainly through turnover-related leases, usually High Street Retail 187 23% 13% Creditors less debtors 192 issue of approximately 78m, using the share premium account with minimum rent guarantees, and generally varying in length Travel Retail 24 108% 32% to pay up fully undesignated shares of 31p each, which were then from five to ten years.
Working capital 30 Retail 211 33% 16% allocated to shareholders on the basis of one undesignated share Deferred tax asset 20 News Distribution 25 for every existing share held.
The existing ordinary shares and The business has an annual minimum net rental commitment Corporation tax 27 undesignated shares were then consolidated and split, resulting of 139m net of 11m of external rent receivable.
The total Central items and property 19 Provisions 31 in the issue of new ordinary shares with a nominal value of 4m future rental commitment at the balance sheet date amounted Operating assets employed Dividends 16 and C shares with a nominal value of 213m.
to 0.9bn with the leases having an average life of seven years.
The continuing operations 167 48% 19% Operating assets employed 161 net present value of these commitments is approximately 0.6bn.
Net debt 48 In accordance with the terms of the capital reorganisation, This is considered to be a satisfactory situation for, although large, For the prior year, comparable average returns were 37 per cent shareholders could elect to sell C shares to the Company at 85p these commitments are characteristic of the retail sector and the Net assets excluding pension liabilities 113 14 per cent after capitalised operating leases.
per share following which all such C shares would be cancelled risks associated with them depend on their liquidity, inuenced Net pension liability 71 by the Company or to receive the initial C share dividend of mainly by the quality and location of the sites.
Total net assets 42 Pensions 85p per C share following which all such C shares would be During the year, the Group made significant cash contributions converted into deferred shares.
On 27 October 2004, as a result Currency of 142m to its pension scheme.
The payments have been funded The movement of net assets over the year is as follows: of these elections, the Company repurchased 73,182,358 C Currency exposures mainly relate to the supply of products from from the Groups own resources and new banking facilities, now m m shares for their nominal value of 85p each, a total repurchase outside the UK.
The effects of uctuations in exchange rates on partially repaid.
The gross deficit has reduced to 94m from amount of 62m and paid an initial C share dividend of 143m operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill Opening net assets 256 205m, a total reduction of 111m, with falling bond yields in respect of 167,686,994 C shares.
amortisation were minimal in the year.
adversely impacting during the year.
Pre-tax profit before exceptional The remaining ten million C shares may be purchased by the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS items and goodwill amortisation 73 In September 2005, the Trustees of the WHSmith Pension Company subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 1985 The Group is required to prepare its financial statements Trust adopted a new investment policy in order to limit the Tax on above 18 or converted into ordinary shares at the Companys option and for the year ended 31 August 2006 and all subsequent periods in volatility in the underlying investment performance and the 55 carry a net non-cumulative dividend set at a rate that is the lower accordance with IFRS.
This will require an opening balance sheet risk of a significant increase in the deficit in the fund.
The assets Return of cash to shareholders 205 of 75 per cent of six month LIBOR and 20 per cent per annum.
as at 1 September 2004 together with the income statement and in the investment fund were restructured in order to adopt this Money returned to ESOP Trust after The C shares have limited voting rights.
balance sheet for the year ended 31 August 2005 to be prepared policy.
This involved the expected liabilities of the scheme being capital reorganisation 5 under IFRS for comparative purposes.
matched by assets that will alter in value as interest and ination rates Financing Dividends 23 change, matching the movements at the same rate as the pension A three year 270m facility agreement was signed on 26 July 2004 The principal adjustments to the Groups financial statements Increase in pension scheme deficit 30 liability changes a Liability Driven Investment LDI policy.
between the Group, Lloyds TSB Bank plc, HSBC Bank plc will arise from changes to share-based remuneration accounting, Purchase of own shares for and Royal Bank of Scotland plc under which up to 120m leases, pension assets, goodwill, accounting for financial instruments employee share schemes 12 The key features of this fund restructuring are as follows: was available by way of a term loan facility and where amounts and the recognition of dividends.
The net impact of the 94 per cent of the funds assets are invested in an LDI Employee share schemes 5 repaid or not drawn down may not be re-borrowed, and 150m adjustments on the restated balance sheet as at 31 August 2004 structure with a leading international institutional fund Net assets before exceptional items 51 is available by way of a multicurrency revolving credit facility.
is expected to be broadly neutral.
manager: and The agreement contains provisions, obligations and certain 6 per cent of the funds assets have been used to purchase Goodwill amortisation 1 financial covenants, which are customary in such an agreement.
We plan to report our 2005 restated results under IFRS in late a portfolio of long-dated equity Call options.
These represent The Group drew down 90m of the term loan facility and repaid November 2005 and we will provide an analysis of accounting Provision for discontinued businesses 8 9 a notional exposure to underlying equities of some 350m.
25m in the year, leaving a balance of 65m drawn down adjustments at that time.
Closing net assets 42 at the end of the year.
The impact of this change in investment policy is to limit the Alan Stewart Following the return of cash to shareholders and the increase in volatility in the fund and the resultant risk of a significant increase Group Finance Director the pension scheme deficit as a result of falling bond yields, the in the overall deficit whilst enabling the fund to continue to 13 October 2005 Groups net assets declined substantially from 256m at the end benefit from any potential higher returns in the equity markets.
The overall expected rate of return from the portfolio under the new arrangements is 5 per cent in the 2005 06 financial year.
Following this change in the investment policy the Board and the Trustees have agreed a new deficit funding agreement that gives the Company signicantly greater predictability over the level of future deficit reduction payments.
This agreement replaces that reached last year and, subject to certain limited conditions, will result in deficit funding payments of 15m in 2005 06, 17m in 2006 07, 20m in 2007 08 and increasing by RPI capped at 5 per cent thereafter until the deficit as calculated under FRS 17 is repaid.
22 WH Smith PLC 23 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Directors Report The directors of WH Smith PLC the Company present Major shareholders The Board believes in creating a culture throughout the Alan Stewart, Group Finance Director, was appointed on their annual report to shareholders together with the audited At 13 October 2005, the Companys share register of substantial Company that is free from discrimination and harassment and 3 March 2005. consolidated accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries for shareholdings showed the following interests in 3 per cent or more will not permit or tolerate discrimination in any form.
The of the Companys ordinary shares: the year ended 31 August 2005.
Company gives proper consideration to applications for Mike Ellis, who is a non-executive director, was appointed employment when these are received from disabled people on 30 March 2005.
Holder Number % Principal activities and employs them whenever suitable vacancies arise.
Should Silchester International The principal activities and future prospects of the Company an employee become disabled when working for the Company, Luke Mayhew, who is a non-executive director, was appointed Investors Limited 32,244,558 17.86 are set out in the Chairmans Statement on page 2, in the Group efforts are made to continue their employment and retraining on 25 July 2005.
Chief Executives Operating Review on pages 4 to 9 inclusive is provided if necessary.
Grantham, Mayo, and in the Financial Review on pages 18 to 23 inclusive.
The Companys Articles of Association require that directors offer Van Otterloo & Co. LLC 6,328,566 3.50 Corporate responsibility themselves for re-election every three years and that new directors Orbis Investment Company results The Board recognises the importance of the social, ethical appointed by the Board offer themselves for election at the next Management Limited 6,014,892 3.33 The Group profit and loss account for the year ended and environmental issues facing the Companys businesses Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
Legal & General Group Plc 5,929,549 3.28 31 August 2005 is shown on page 39. and is committed to achieving a high standard of corporate Co-operative Insurance responsibility.
Further details can be found in the section Mike Ellis was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director Society Limited 5,776,728 3.20 Analyses of turnover and operating profit or loss by activity are on corporate responsibility on pages 11 to 17 inclusive and in March 2005 and pursuant to the Companys Articles of Standard Life Group 5,522,332 3.05 shown in Note 1 to the accounts.
on the Companys website www.
Association retires and, being eligible, offers himself for election at the Annual General Meeting.
Mike Ellis has been appointed Dividends Share capital Political and charitable donations for a xed term and does not have a contract of service.
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend for the The authorised and issued share capital of the Company, together Charitable donations during the year ended 31 August 2005 year of 9.2p per ordinary share on 7 February 2006 to members with details of shares issued during the year, are shown in Note 22 totalled 1,000 2004: 12,000.
Luke Mayhew was appointed to the Board as a non-executive on the Register at the close of business on 6 January 2006. to the accounts.
director in July 2005 and pursuant to the Companys Articles of It is the Companys policy not to make political donations and Association retires and, being eligible, offers himself for election This final dividend, together with the interim dividend of 4.5p per On 27 September 2004, to facilitate the return of cash to no political donations were made in the year 2004: nil.
at the Annual General Meeting.
Luke Mayhew has been appointed ordinary share paid on 23 June 2005, makes a total dividend of shareholders, there was a capital reorganisation.
Details of the for a xed term and does not have a contract of service.
13.7p per ordinary share for the year ended 31 August 2005. return of cash and capital reorganisation are set out below.
Payment policy for suppliers The Companys policy for the payment of suppliers, which Alan Stewart was appointed to the Board in March 2005 and Subsidiaries and businesses On 20 May 2005, following the grant of an order of the High complies with the CBI Code of Practice for Buyers, is to agree pursuant to the Companys Articles of Association retires and, On 25 September 2004, the Company sold its Publishing business Court dated 18 May 2005, the Company cancelled the 169,072 the terms of payment in advance in line with normal trade being eligible, offers himself for election at the Annual General Hodder Headline to Hachette Livre S. A. for 210m in cash and 3 5 4 per cent cumulative preference shares.
Holders of these practice and, provided a supplier performs in accordance Meeting.
Alan Stewart has a contract of service which may be the assumption of the Hodder Headline net pension deficit shares received a capital repayment at par and a final dividend in with the agreement, to abide by such terms.
The Groups trade terminated by giving one years notice.
respect of the period 1 April 2005 to 20 May 2005 on 4 July 2005. creditors gure as at the balance sheet date was equivalent to 36 days 2004: 38 days based on average daily amounts invoiced Details of the interests of the directors and their families in the Further details of this disposal can be found in Note 4 to Return of cash and capital reorganisation by suppliers during the year.
share capital of the Company at 31 August 2005 are shown on the accounts.
At an Extraordinary General Meeting held on 23 September page 36.
2004, shareholders approved the disposal of Hodder Headline Directors Employees and the return of 205m to shareholders by way of a C share The names of the directors as at the date of this report, together Annual General Meeting The Company employs approximately 23,000 people scheme.
In order to provide maximum exibility in terms of tax with biographical details, are set out on page 10.
All the directors The Annual General Meeting will be held at the CBI Conference throughout the United Kingdom and overseas and we are treatment, the C share scheme allowed shareholders to choose served throughout the period except as noted below: Centre, Centre Point, 103 New Oxford Street, London WC1A proud of our long history of being regarded as a responsible whether to receive the return as income by way of the Initial C 1DU on 2 February 2006 at 11.30am.
Share Dividend or capital by way of the Repurchase Offer.
Tim Hely Hutchinson, who served as a director since 1999, resigned on 25 September 2004.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting is set out on pages 78 Employees are kept well informed of the performance and The C share scheme was implemented on 27 September 2004 to 84 inclusive and contains 10 items of special business.
objectives of the Group through personal briengs and email by way of a capital reorganisation under which ordinary Robert Walker was appointed on 1 January 2005 and became Explanatory notes relating to the special business are set and the Companys open management style encourages shareholders received one non-cumulative preference share Chairman on 1 February 2005. out on pages 81 to 84 inclusive.
employees to contribute to the development of the business.
5 of 85p C share for each ordinary share of 55 9p and 18 new 13 ordinary shares of 2 81p each for every 25 ordinary shares Walker Boyd, who served as a non-executive director since 2004, Auditors 5 The Company operates a long established Inland Revenue of 55 9p each held on 24 September 2004. resigned on 27 January 2005.
A resolution to reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors to Approved Save-As-You-Earn share option scheme Sharesave the Company and to authorise the directors to determine their Scheme which provides employees with the opportunity to Andrew Rolfe, who served as a non-executive director since 2003, remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
acquire shares in the Company.
As at 31 August 2005 some resigned on 27 January 2005.
3,000 employees were participating in this Scheme.
This Report was approved by the Board on 13 October 2005.
Richard Handover, who served as a director since 1995, retired on 31 January 2005.
By Order of the Board Ian Houghton John Warren, who served as a director since 2000, resigned Company Secretary on 3 March 2005.
13 October 2005 24 WH Smith PLC 25 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate Governance The Board is committed to high standards of corporate All newly appointed directors receive induction training on In addition to discharging the responsibilities described above, Attendance at Board Committee meetings governance and, except as described at the end of this report, joining the Board which is tailored to meet the needs of the during the year the Committee considered the impact and The following table shows the number of Board and Committee has applied the principles and complied with the provisions set individual.
In August 2005 the Board carried out a formal implementation of International Financial Reporting Standards.
meetings held during the year ended 31 August 2005 and the attendance record of individual directors.
out in Section 1 of the July 2003 FRC Combined Code on Corporate evaluation of its performance.
Each director completed an Governance the Code throughout the financial year.
extensive questionnaire covering Board procedures and Nominations Committee Board Committee meetings effectiveness and their own contribution to discussions and The Nominations Committee, which meets as required, meetings The Board decision making.
The non-executive directors met separately comprises Robert Walker appointed Chairman 1 February Audit NominRemunOn 13 October 2005, the Board comprised the Chairman, to review the Chairmans performance and provided feedback 2005, John Barton Chairman to 31 January 2005 and MT ations eration two executive directors and four independent non-executive to him and the Chairman reviewed the contribution of each Rainey.
Andrew Rolfe was a member of the Committee until his No.
Short biographies of each of the directors, which of the directors in separate individual sessions.
The results of the resignation on 27 January 2005.
Richard Handover 6 illustrate their range of experience, are set out on page 10. evaluation were considered by the Board in September 2005 and retired 31.01.05 There is a clear division of responsibility at the head of the a number of actions agreed.
The Committees terms of reference, which are available on the Robert Walker 7 2 Company: Robert Walker Chairman being responsible for Companys website and from the Company Secretary on request, appointed 01.01.05 running the Board and Kate Swann Group Chief Executive Under the Companys Articles of Association, all directors seek set out the responsibilities of the Committee, which include Tim Hely Hutchinson 1 being responsible for implementing Group strategy.
John Barton election at their first Annual General Meeting AGM following reviewing regularly the structure, size and composition of the resigned 25.09.04 has been nominated by the Board as the Senior Independent appointment by the Board and, thereafter, are required to Board and making recommendations with regard to any changes: Director.
The Board structure ensures that no individual or offer themselves for re-election every three years.
The executive giving full consideration to succession planning: evaluating the Kate Swann 11 group dominates the decision-making process.
directors have contracts of service with one years notice whilst balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board: Alan Stewart 4 non-executive directors are appointed for an initial term of three preparing a description of the role and capabilities required appointed 03.03.05 On 1 February 2005, Robert Walker, who was appointed as a nonyears, subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM after for any particular Board appointment: and, identifying and John Warren 7 executive director on 1 January 2005, replaced Richard Handover their appointment.
The contracts of service of the executive nominating for approval by the Board candidates to ll Board resigned 03.03.05 as Chairman.
Robert Walker is also Chairman of Williams Lea directors and letters of appointment of the non-executive vacancies as they arise.
John Barton 11 3 4 6 Group Limited and a non-executive director of Wolseley plc and directors are available for inspection at the registered ofce Walker Boyd 4 1 2 Signet Group plc and, on appointment as Chairman, met the of the Company during normal business hours on any weekday, The appointments of Robert Walker 1 January 2005, Alan resigned 27.01.05 independence criteria set out in the Code.
There were a number except Saturdays and public holidays, and at the place of the AGM Stewart 3 March 2005, Mike Ellis 30 March 2005 and Luke Mike Ellis 4 2 of other changes to the composition of the Board during the year on 2 February 2006 for 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
Mayhew 25 July 2005 were made following searches conducted appointed 30.03.05 and these are set out in the Directors Report on page 25.
All by external consultants and recommendations made by the Luke Mayhew 1 of the non-executive directors who served during the year meet Board Committees Committee.
The Board, prior to appointing Robert Walker as appointed 25.07.05 the independence criteria set out in the Code.
Audit Committee Chairman, reviewed his other commitments and these are The Audit Committee, which meets at least three times a year, disclosed on page 10.
MT Rainey 11 2 4 6 The Board normally meets 10 times a year and manages the comprises Mike Ellis appointed Chairman 30 March 2005, Andrew Rolfe 1 Company through a formal schedule of matters reserved for Luke Mayhew appointed 25 July 2005 and John Barton, all of Remuneration Committee resigned 27.01.05 its decision.
These include overall management of the Group: whom are independent non-executive directors.
Walker Boyd Details of the composition and terms of reference of the approval of strategic plans including acquisitions and disposals: Chairman to 27 January 2005 and Andrew Rolfe were members Remuneration Committee are contained in the Remuneration approval of the Groups commercial strategy and operating and of the Committee until their resignations on 27 January 2005 Report on pages 30 to 36 inclusive.
capital expenditure budgets: approval of the financial statements, and MT Rainey was a member of the Committee from 27 January material agreements and non-recurring projects: treasury policy: until 25 July 2005. control, audit and risk management: remuneration: and, corporate responsibility.
It also delegates specic responsibilities to the The Committees terms of reference, which are available on the Board Committees detailed below, the role and responsibilities Companys website and from the Company Secretary on request, of each Committee being set out in formal terms of reference set out the responsibilities of the Committee, which include which are available on the Companys website and from the monitoring the integrity and clarity of the financial statements Company Secretary on request.
and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance and reviewing any significant financial All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company reporting issues and judgements which they contain: reviewing Secretary and may take independent professional advice at the the consistency of, and any changes to, accounting policies, the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
The Board application of appropriate accounting standards and the methods receives appropriate and timely information, Board and Committee used to account for significant or unusual transactions: reviewing papers being sent out several days before meetings take place.
the effectiveness of the Companys internal controls and risk management systems: reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function and approving the internal audit plan: making recommendations as to the appointment, terms of engagement and remuneration of the external auditors: assessing the external auditors independence and objectivity: approving the annual external audit plan and reviewing with the external auditors the nature, scope and results of their audit and any issues raised by them: developing and implementing the Companys policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services: and, reviewing the Companys arrangements for its employees to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters whistleblowing.
26 WH Smith PLC 27 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate Governance continued Directors remuneration ii Internal control b Non-financial controls Relations with shareholders Full details of the Companys remuneration policy and individual a Financial controls The Company has established a wide range of non-financial The Company recognises the importance of communicating with directors remuneration are contained in the Remuneration The Company has an established framework of internal financial controls covering areas such as health and safety, environment, its shareholders to ensure that its strategy and performance is Report on pages 30 and 36 inclusive.
control, the effectiveness of which is regularly reviewed by the ethical trading, employment and business continuity.
This is achieved principally through the annual executive management and the Board.
The key elements of this elements are as follows: report and accounts and the AGM.
In addition, a range of Risk and internal control are as follows: a revised corporate responsibility strategy was approved corporate information, including all Company announcements The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system the Board is responsible for overall Company strategy, for by the Board, including objectives and targets to address the and presentations, is available to investors on the Companys of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, whilst the approving revenue and capital budgets and plans, for approving impacts our activities have on the community, marketplace, website www.
role of management is to implement the Boards policies on risk major acquisitions and disposals and for determining the workplace and environment: and control and present assurance on compliance with these financial structure of the Company including treasury and clear accountability for corporate responsibility issues has Formal presentations are made to institutional shareholders policies.
Such a system is, however, designed to manage rather dividend policy.
Monthly results, variances from plan and been dened at Board and operational level: following the announcement of the Companys full year and than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, forecasts are reported to the Board: within WHSmith Retail, the business audit committee has interim results.
The Board recognises that the AGM is the and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance the Audit Committee assists the Board in the discharge responsibility for reviewing performance in delivering principal forum for dialogue with private shareholders.
All against material misstatement or loss.
of its duties regarding the Companys financial statements, corporate responsibility objectives.
WHSmith News has directors normally attend the AGM and are available to answer accounting policies and the maintenance of proper internal appointed a Corporate Responsibility Committee to conduct any questions that shareholders may wish to raise.
The Notice i Risk financial controls.
The Committee provides a direct link similar reviews: of Meeting is contained in the annual report which is sent to Following publication of the Turnbull Guidance Internal between the Board and the external auditors through annual reports are submitted to the Board covering each area shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code regular meetings: of corporate responsibility: Those shareholders who have elected to receive electronic in September 1999, the Board enhanced its risk management the internal audit function advises and assists business the Board is committed to maintaining high standards of communications receive notice of the availability of the annual procedures including establishing a Business Risk Steering management to establish and maintain adequate financial health and safety in all its business activities.
These standards report on the Companys website.
Committee to co-ordinate risk assessment throughout the Group controls and reports to the Board and Audit Committee on are set out in the Companys Health and Safety Policy which and a Group internal audit function.
It can confirm that for the the effectiveness of those controls: is regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Group Risk Shareholders vote on each resolution on a show of hands, unless a year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual routine financial reviews are held between the Finance Management team works with the businesses to assess health poll is validly called, and after each such vote the number of proxy report and accounts there has been an ongoing process for Director and business finance directors and other executives and safety risks and introduce systems to mitigate them.
All votes received for, against, and withheld is announced.
The proxy identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced and their staff.
These are held regularly for all businesses: notied accidents are investigated and targets are set to gures are made available in writing at the end of the meeting, by the Group, that is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords the Board has established an organisation structure with reduce the level of incidence: announced to the London Stock Exchange and published on the with the Turnbull Guidance.
clearly dened lines of responsibility and approval controls the Board has approved an Environmental Policy which sets Companys website.
identifying transactions requiring approval by the Board or out the Companys objectives and specic targets which are The key features of the risk management process are as follows: by the Approvals Committee.
The Finance Director is reviewed annually: The Board as a whole is kept fully informed of the views and each business conducts an annual risk assessment based on responsible for the functional leadership and development the Board is committed to ensuring reasonable standards concerns of major shareholders.
The Group Chief Executive and identied business objectives which are reviewed and agreed of the Companys finance activities: among its suppliers and has approved an Ethical Trading Finance Director update the Board following meetings with major by its management board.
Risks are categorised into strategic, there is a comprehensive system for budgeting and planning Code of Conduct setting out the standards it expects its shareholders and analysts briengs are circulated to the Board.
operational, financial and compliance, and are evaluated in and for monitoring and reporting the performance of the suppliers to adopt.
This policy covers health and safety, child When requested to do so, the Chairman and non-executive respect of their potential impact and likelihood.
These risk Companys businesses to the directors.
Monthly results are labour, working hours, discrimination and the environment: directors attend meetings with major shareholders.
assessments are updated and reviewed quarterly by the risk reported against budget and prior year, and forecasts for the the Company is committed to ensuring that its personnel committees within each business and are reported to the current financial year are regularly revised in the light of meet good standards of integrity and competence.
The Compliance with the Combined Code Business Risk Steering Committee and the Executive and actual performance.
These cover profits, cash ows, capital Companys systems cover the recruitment, training and Throughout the year ended 31 August 2005 the Company has Audit Committees: expenditure and balance sheets: development of personnel, an appropriate division of complied with the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the a Group-wide risk assessment is also undertaken by the Group the Company has established a uniform system of investment responsibilities and the communication of Company policies July 2003 FRC Combined Code on Corporate Governance, internal audit function, which considers all areas of potential appraisal: and procedures throughout the organisation: and except as follows: risk across all systems, functions and key business processes.
executive management has dened the financial controls and Business Recovery Plans exist to enable businesses to This risk assessment together with the business risk assessments procedures with which each business is required to comply.
continue in the event of a disaster with minimum disruption Chairman A.
2.2 form the basis for determining the internal audit plan.
Audit Key controls over major business risks include reviews against to customers.
Richard Handover, who retired as Chairman on 31 January 2005, reports in relation to areas reviewed are discussed and agreed performance indicators and exception reporting and each did not meet the independence criteria set out in the Code as he with the respective business risk committee and Audit business is required to prepare monthly management Auditor independence was formerly Chief Executive of the Group.
Committee: and accounts: and The Board is satisfied that Deloitte & Touche LLP has adequate the Group internal audit team meets annually with senior routine reports are prepared to cover treasury activities and policies and safeguards in place to ensure that auditor objectivity Remuneration Committee B.
2.1 executives in order to complete a formal certication of the risks, for review by senior executives, and annual reports are and independence is maintained.
The Board has also adopted During the period 27 January to 24 July 2005 the effectiveness of internal controls.
These reports are submitted prepared for the Board covering treasury policies, insurance a formal policy on the Companys relationship with its auditor in Remuneration Committee comprised only two independent to the respective business risk committee.
also provided by each business risk committee to the Audit Committee, to assist the Board in conducting its annual review Going concern Audit Committee C. 3.1 of internal controls in compliance with the Turnbull Guidance.
The directors consider that the Company has adequate resources During the period 27 January to 29 March 2005 the Audit Committee to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, comprised only two independent non-executive directors.
they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
28 WH Smith PLC 29 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Remuneration Report This report has been prepared in accordance with the Directors Remuneration policy The fees paid to non-executive directors are determined by the WH Smith 2004 Management Investment Plan Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
Part A of the report, The Companys remuneration policy aims to encourage a Chairman and the executive members of the Board and take into Under this plan, approved by shareholders in September 2004, which is not subject to audit, sets out the Companys remuneration performance-based culture, attract and retain high-calibre account the required time commitment and the fee payments for executive directors and key senior executives have invested their executive directors and align executive directors and shareholders own money to buy ordinary shares in the Company and have policy.
Part B, which has been audited, provides details of the non-executive directors of similar organisations.
Non-executive remuneration, pensions and share incentives of the directors interests.
In forming this policy the Committee has adopted the directors do not participate in any bonus or share schemes.
been granted matching awards in the form of nil cost options for the year ended 31 August 2005. principles set out in Section B of the July 2003 FRC Combined Following a review of non-executive directors fees, with effect from to acquire further ordinary shares in proportion to the amount Code on Corporate Governance.
1 July 2005, the base fee was increased from 31,500 to 38,000 per they have invested.
Executive directors have invested 100 per cent of base salary and other executives up to 75 per cent of base Part A Unaudited annum and the additional fee paid to the Senior Independent Remuneration Committee The aims of the policy are achieved by providing a remuneration Director and the chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration salary.
The extent to which matching awards vest will depend The Remuneration Committee, which met six times during the package, comprising salary and benets, positioned at slightly Committees reduced from 5,000 to 4,000 per annum.
on the satisfaction of Earnings per Share EPS and Total year, comprises three independent non-executive directors, John below the median of a comparator group of 20 peer companies Shareholder Return TSR performance targets, as follows: in retail and related sectors, pension provision and performanceBarton Chairman, Luke Mayhew appointed 25 July 2005 and Salary and benets MT Rainey.
Walker Boyd was a member of the Committee until related benets.
Any payments made to executive directors The salaries of executive directors are reviewed annually in a 50 per cent of the award is dependent on the satisfaction his resignation on 27 January 2005. other than salary are not pensionable.
When conducting this review, the Committee of an EPS performance target.
EPS will be measured over benets, which consist of an annual performance bonus and takes into account a range of factors including the Companys the three years ending 31 August 2007 and will measure growth long term incentives, account for a significant proportion in fully diluted EPS before goodwill amortisation, exceptional The Committees terms of reference, which are available on the performance, market conditions, the prevailing market rates Companys website and from the Company Secretary on request, of total remuneration.
for similar positions in a comparable group of companies, the items and FRS 17 pension interest.
The threshold performance set out the responsibilities of the Committee which include responsibilities, individual performance and experience of each target is EPS growth at a compound rate equal to the growth of determining and agreeing with the Board the broad policy for the Expected relative value of annual remuneration package for executive director and the level of salary increases awarded to RPI plus 20 per cent per annum and the maximum performance executive directors target is EPS growth at a compound rate equal to or exceeding remuneration of the Chairman, executive directors and certain employees throughout the Group.
Following the review in other senior executives: in determining such policy to take into September 2005 the executive directors received basic pay the growth of RPI plus 30 per cent per annum: and Fixed Performance-related account all factors which it deems necessary, the objective of such increases of 2 per cent.
Executive directors also receive taxable b 50 per cent is dependent on the satisfaction of a TSR Annual Long term policy being to ensure that executive management are provided Salary bonus incentives benets including the provision of a company car and private performance target.
The TSR target will compare the TSR on an investment in the Companys ordinary shares with appropriate incentives to encourage enhanced performance medical insurance.
28% 35% 37% and are, in a fair and responsible manner, rewarded for their with the TSR on a notional investment in the FTSE All Share a 125 per cent of salary is payable for maximum performance under the individual contributions to the success of the Company: approving Annual Bonus Plan General Retailers Index the Index over the period between Annual Bonus Plan.
the design of, and targets for, any performance-related pay For the year under review, each executive director had the the date of grant of the award and the announcement of the b The value placed on long term incentives assumes maximum performance and comprises the expected present value of shares awarded under the WH Smith Companys results for the year ending 31 August 2007.
The schemes operated by the Company and approving the total opportunity to receive an annual bonus up to a maximum of 125 2004 L-TIP assuming shareholders approve the proposal as outlined below.
annual payments made under such schemes: reviewing the design per cent of base salary.
The plan is designed so that the level of threshold performance target requires that the Company c The above table does not include the value of other benets and employer of all share incentive plans for approval by the Board and bonus paid is dependent on the achievement of a Group profit delivers value per ordinary share equivalent to that achieved pension contributions.
shareholders: ensuring that contractual terms on termination, and before tax and after interest target and personal performance.
No from a notional investment of 354p in the Index and maximum performance requires that the Company deliver any payments made, are fair to the individual, and the Company, bonus is paid unless the minimum Group profit target is achieved.
During the year under review executive directors were granted that failure is not rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is value per ordinary share equivalent to that achieved from a awards under the WH Smith 2004 Management Investment Plan fully recognised: and in consultation with the Chairman and or The plan will be operated on the same basis in the current notional investment in the Index of 449p.
In addition, the MIP details of the awards granted are shown on page 35, Chief Executive as appropriate, determining the total individual financial year.
Remuneration Committee must also be satisfied that there however, they did not participate in the WH Smith Executive has been an improvement in the Companys underlying remuneration package of each executive director and other Share Option Scheme 1999 ESOS or the WH Smith 2004 senior executives including bonuses and share incentives.
Long term incentives financial performance.
WH Smith Deferred Bonus Plan Following a formal review, on 20 May 2005 the Committee The Deferred Bonus Plan, under which executive directors These two performance conditions will be tested separately.
The Committee undertook a review of senior executive long term appointed Mercer Human Resource Consulting Mercer as its received 30 per cent of their annual bonus in ordinary shares incentive arrangements during 2005 and concluded that its existing external independent adviser.
Prior to that date the Committee of the Company and could invest a further 25 per cent of their For threshold performance, awards will vest in respect of shares policy is no longer appropriate.
In reaching this conclusion, received external advice and services from .
annual bonus in ordinary shares of the Company which would be having a value equivalent by reference to the share price at it took into consideration the need to provide senior executives During the year the Committee also received advice from Linklaters matched on 1:2 basis after three years or on a 1:1 basis after five grant to two times the invested amount for executive directors with long term incentive opportunities that are strongly linked to and one and a half times the invested amount for other and Pinsent Masons in respect of share schemes.
Mercer also years, subject to continued employment, was not operated during ongoing business strategy and competitive with the marketplace.
provided the Company with actuarial advice in respect of the the year ended 31 August 2005.
It is not intended to operate the executives, and for maximum performance awards will vest In addition, it recognised the need to retain key executives Companys pension schemes and  also plan in the current financial year.
in respect of shares having a value equivalent to five times the following expiration of the MIP.
provided the Company with advice on payroll matters including invested amount for executive directors and three times the invested amount for other executives.
Linklaters and Pinsent Masons also provided To meet these goals in the current year, the Committee intends the Company with other legal services.
Tanith Dodge, Group performance and maximum performance awards vest on to make awards to executive directors and other key senior executives Human Resources Director, Julia Davenport, Group Head of a straight-line basis.
After the current year it retains the discretion to Reward, and Ian Houghton, Company Secretary, also materially make awards under both the L-TIP and ESOS provided that, except If the Companys share price at the end of the Performance assisted the Committee in carrying out its duties, except in in exceptional circumstances, it will not make awards under either relation to their own remuneration.
Period is less than 354p, irrespective of the satisfaction of the or both plans that exceed an expected value of 200 per cent of base EPS and TSR performance targets described above, all awards salary in any year.
In order to provide an appropriate long term granted under the plan will lapse.
incentive which will meet the objectives described above, the Committee believes that it is necessary to amend the limit on the The plan will only be operated for the duration of the market value of the shares which may be granted to any individual Performance Period and is closed to new participants.
in any year under the rules of the L-TIP and an ordinary resolution seeking shareholders authority to do this will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Further details are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting on pages 78 to 84 inclusive.
30 WH Smith PLC 31 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Annual Report and Accounts 2005
