4561 DC pp 16-17 13 6 05 10:36 AM Page 16 16 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2005 A responsible company Dairy Crest recognises that our actions and decisions have an impact on the staff we employ, the local communities where we operate, our suppliers, our customers and the environment.
We take our responsibilities to our stakeholders seriously.
Dairy Crests Chief Executive has overall to maintain accreditation to ISO 14001 protection of the environment.
Dairy responsibility for performance for and our national distribution centre at Crest provides a subsidised support Corporate Social Responsibility CSR, Nuneaton has achieved this standard package, through the independent White which is monitored by regular reporting in the last year.
Our sites are Gold Service, to enable direct supplying to the Board.
The Company has independently audited by Lloyds Register farmers to maintain Farm Assurance established a CSR steering group which Quality Assurance.
standards with the minimum of brings together senior managers with Our sites set targets annually to disruption and cost.
specific CSR responsibilities to review improve environmental performance and At Dairy Crest we recognise the our activities and assess the needs of this year we have reduced effluent important relationship between a our stakeholders.
discharged, per litre of milk processed, balanced diet, lifestyle and health.
We In the last financial year we joined by 13%.
All milk processing sites are set fully support the Department of Healths Business in the Community BITC.
to be issued with Integrated Pollution Food & Health Action Plan goals of Membership of BITC is proving Prevention and Control IPPC permits in reducing salt, fat and added sugar in enormously valuable and has provided us the coming year.
products where appropriate, without with a robust CSR framework, which we compromising on food safety, nutrition, are using as a benchmark for evaluating Marketplace quality or taste.
We are also committed Dairy Crests current activities.
This is an Food and its relationship with health is to providing full nutritional information on ongoing exercise but this year for the first an issue which increasingly concerns all of our product labels, which will time we are using BITCs framework to consumers and we are committed to include fat, sugar and salt per portion as report on our policy and practice.
producing food and drink to the highest a percentage of the recommended daily standards of safety, quality and hygiene allowance RDA, where space allows.
Environment in line with our Good Manufacturing We have updated our ethical trading We recognise that food production Practice.
Each manufacturing site is policy in the last year to maintain good potentially has numerous impacts on the audited annually by a third party against working practices in social and ethical environment and attach great the British Retail Consortium Technical matters, meeting the requirements of the importance to protecting the Standard.
This year all sites have once UK Ethical Trading Initiative.
All of our environments local to our sites.
For the again achieved accreditation at the manufacturing sites have been audited first time since 1998, we have been higher level.
We have prosecuted for a breach of environmental We have a short supply chain, also recently published policies relating legislation, after an incident which enabling close relationships with the to food and health, food safety, farmers, occurred at Davidstow in February 2004, 1,400 British dairy farmers who supply customers and our suppliers.
during the construction of our new us directly, as well as supplying dairy cocreamery.
Steps have been taken operatives.
The Dairy Crest Assurance Workplace to prevent a repeat of this relatively Scheme ensures the delivery of top The success of our business is minor incident.
quality milk, produced to high standards underpinned by the 7,000 people who All our manufacturing sites continue of food safety, animal welfare and work for Dairy Crest and our joint 4561 DC pp 16-17 13 6 05 10:39 AM Page 17 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2005 17 venture, Yoplait Dairy Crest, across 23 Community Photographs from left to right: manufacturing and administration sites The majority of our sites are in rural Davidstow and KISSAG teamed up for a and 100 household depots.
We focus on settings or small towns, where Dairy second year to help reduce the financial creating an environment where our Crest is often one of the largest local strain for five talented young Cornish people are safe, valued and motivated to employers.
We recognise that the sportspeople and their families.
Company has a valuable role to play in Health and safety remains a key focus the life of the local community.
We intend Dairy Crest delivers over a million cartons for the Company.
Our accident incidence to work with the BITC on a regional level of fresh milk to schools each week.
rate continues the trend of recent years, during the next year to support the falling by 12% since last year, and is 18% relationships already in place and to Our Esher head office sponsors a local below the dairy industry average.
We encourage new relationships within the school walking bus initiative.
have achieved this result through rigorous wider community.
training and working with third parties Several of our sites are involved with Dairy Crest milkmen in Honiton have formed such as the Health and Safety Executive.
schools in their local areas, giving talks on a crime-fighting partnership with East We continue to augment the Groups food and dairy technology, science and Devon police.
health and safety audit programme with a manufacturing.
We also take in students programme of external accreditation by as part of their work experience and give In the last two years our staff have raised an the British Safety Council.
This year all of donations in kind to local causes.
impressive 465,000 through a variety of our sites have achieved 4 or 5, the Our household business plays an fundraising activities for Leukaemia highest ratings.
important role at the heart of the local Research.
In the last year the Company has community.
We deliver over 350 million continued to place particular importance bottles of milk from 100 depots in on improving employee relations southern England and Wales to one through a constructive partnership with million customers every year, as well as a our staff and their representatives.
range of other products including staples Training programmes are focussed on such as bread, eggs, fruit and developing our people to ensure they vegetables and juices.
have the knowledge and skills for now Our thanks go to our sites and and the future.
depots which have supported Dairy Our commitment to our people also Crests corporate charity, Leukaemia includes seeking Investors in People Research, and raised a total of 465,000 accreditation for all our manufacturing in the last two years through a variety of sites and household depots, the majority fundraising activities.
We will continue to For more information and our position on of which have achieved this standard.
support the UKs leading blood cancer a range of CSR issues, please visit our charity for a third year.
