DMGT AND CORPORATE DMGT IS CHARGED WITH A RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO MINIMISE THE IMPACTS OF BUSINESS ON THE ENVIRONMENT AND TO ENSURE PROPER SUPPORT FOR THE PEOPLE WHO ARE CENTRAL TO THE SUCCESS OF THE COMPANY.
How DMGT manages Corporate Responsibility CR Highlights of the year DMGTs activities are diverse, with each of its businesses providing important channels of communication and media focus to different sections of society throughout the world.
The DMGT Board reviews its performance in this area through the Risk Committee which is the forum at which CR risks are discussed.
Overall responsibility for CR at 880,000 Board level lies with the Finance Director.
The Board has adopted policies on equal opportunities, whistle blowing, health and safety and the environment.
The amount donated DMGT owes much of its success to the entrepreneurial ability of the management teams to charity in the year.
These businesses have thrived by allowing local management to take local decisions in a local context, whilst benefiting from the global outlook and financial resources of the wider Group.
98% This approach has delivered benefits to a wide range of stakeholders.
The success of many of the Groups businesses is inextricably linked to understanding and engaging of virgin fibre products with the communities that they serve, and this allows them to identify needs and to campaign effectively on the issues relevant to their customer base.
are sourced from managed forests.
The following report provides more detail of divisional activities focused around our key impact areas: the environment: our readers and listeners: the community: our employees.
Reported here is a summary of our disclosure in this area.
DMGT produced a separate Corporate Responsibility Report in 2005 and it has a dedicated section on its website with further information available at www.
co. uk which is updated regularly.
Please send any comments to: investor.
DMGT and the environment The direct environmental impacts from most of our divisions are relatively low.
They arise mainly in our printing divisions.
In the FTSE4Good index in which DMGT is a constituent, Media is ranked as low impact: printing and newspaper publishing is ranked as medium impact: and, as a B in Morleys sustainability matrix defined as business that has low impacts and some benefits and may contribute to enabling a more sustainable future.
DMGT has a Since our non-printing operations are primarily office-based, their environmental impact is Corporate Responsibility section on its considered low.
Our offices around the world practise paper recycling and more than half website which provides more detailed of office paper waste at DMGT headquarters is recycled.
There are also some schemes in information about our environmental place for the recycling of plastic cups, toner cartridges, mobile phones and IT equipment.
and community activities than is contained in this report.
21 Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED changes.
Actual waste volumes are Our report therefore focuses on how compared against budgeted levels, with we manage the impacts in the printing the results provided for monthly review businesses.
In addition, we acknowledge at the appropriate Board level.
Newsprint our responsibility in ensuring that production waste efficiency remained our paper supplies come from paper relatively consistent in relation to last year.
manufacturers that manage their The trend to increase numbers of colour environmental impacts, including the pages printed resulted in more waste sustainable sourcing of virgin fibres.
production as a result of greater numbers These two elements are the focus of Hobsons, part of the careers division of runs required to achieve the appropriate our environmental reporting.
of DMG Information, is implementing print quality.
This makes overall gains in a carbon dioxide compensation plan In our printing operations, key newsprint waste reductions difficult to whereby the company contributes to a scheme that plants trees to soak environmental impacts are waste achieve.
One hundred per cent of the up the carbon dioxide generated by generation, particularly waste newsprint: production paper waste is recycled.
energy use: ink use and paper purchasing.
Improvements were made in water DMGT has two divisions which include efficiency in the Group during the year printing operations: Associated with Northcliffe making further strides to Newspapers owns the Groups largest cut water use in its printing operations printing works, Harmsworth Quays: and following a study undertaken in 2004.
Northcliffe Newspapers owns ten printing centres around the U. K. and two in Newsprint supply and the environment Hungary.
All printing centres have DMGT is aware of the responsibility it has environmental management practices.
along the supply chain, in particular for The use of energy, newsprint, ink and one of its largest purchases, newsprint.
plates and waste disposal have cost The Group has a central Newsprint 100% implications for the businesses and are, Committee and paper is purchased for therefore, managed for reasons of good all the Groups newspaper operations, of production paper business sense as well as to reduce our allowing co-ordinated review of the environmental impacts.
Waste newsprint environmental credentials of paper waste is recycled.
and ink use is measured and reported to suppliers and the sourcing of their divisional board meetings on a monthly products.
Where virgin fibres are used in basis.
Eighty-five per cent of the printing the paper manufacture, DMGT requires presses are Computer to Plate processes, that the forests are certified either by the which offer environmental benefits such Forest Stewardship Council, or the Pan as improved efficiencies in the use of ink, European Forestry Commission, both of plates and paper and a reduction in the which run schemes that provide credible chemicals used during photographic guarantees that the product comes from processes.
Digital photography is used well managed forests.
DMGT sources in an increasing number of the printing its paper from European mills, most centres.
In addition the IT equipment at of which hold the environmental Northcliffe printing centres is either management standard ISO 14001. collected and recycled if re-useable, or is collected and disposed of by licensed Ninety-eight per cent of virgin fibre products waste management companies.
Absolute energy consumption remained Our readers and listeners relatively consistent with last year.
Overall Editorial standards efficiency has improved, reflecting the There are a number of standard setting The Western Daily Press responded good practices in energy reduction efforts bodies that have established codes to community concerns and a local tragedy by raising 115,000 for rescue at a number of printing centres.
to which DMGTs divisions adhere.
services along the Somerset coastline.
Compliance with these codes ensures that After a young girl drowned in 2002, while Targets for waste paper are set for each our published and broadcast material trapped in mud on Berrow Beach near product printed.
This percentage varies reaches the editorial standards expected Burnham, Somerset, the Northcliffe title according to certain criteria such as the and agreed by the industry and by other began a fundraising campaign to buy, numbers of copies required and edition stakeholders.
The main code for the equip and run a hovercraft that could skim over the mud to save people in danger.
In its first 18 months in operation, the hovercraft has rescued nearly 100 people.
22 Daily Mail and General Trust plc their families.
Associated Newspapers Groups U. K. newspapers is established operates an online Payroll Giving scheme, and monitored by the Press Complaints working in partnership with Workplace Commission.
Teletext works to the Giving U. K. which enables staff to make standards set by the Independent more tax efficient personal donations to Television Commission, OfCom, the their preferred charities.
In addition, Broadcasting Standards Commission recipient charities save the administration and Channel 4s own codes.
DMG costs of applying for Gift Aid on the Radio complies with the Australian donations.
Communications and Media Authority In the wake of the tsunami in the Codes of Conduct.
Indian Ocean, Daily Mail readers A few examples of our involvement during raised 16 million to help Responding to reader and listener needs the year are shown above.
reconstruction in the devastated region.
A portion of the money raised Within the established editorial framework, is being used to rebuild a school in editors and journalists have the freedom to DMGT and our employees the city of Galle, Sri Lanka, that was operate as appropriate.
The media industry DMGT Group is an equal opportunities completely destroyed by the waves.
is highly competitive: therefore remaining in employer.
In addition to a Group policy, touch with and reflecting and championing each division has its own policies and the interests of the diverse groups who practices across a range of employee make up our communities is critical to issues.
Training is taken seriously across DMGTs success.
Reader and listener the Group.
satisfaction is monitored through a number of mechanisms, such as timely responses to Staff communication complaints, regular in-house programming A variety of approaches to staff and sales research, readership surveys and communications exist within the Group, other processes actively to receive feedback including the use of the intranet, a new from customers.
Group extranet, regular communication 16m events, face-to-face communications with Compliance with editorial standards management and programmes related was raised by Daily is strictly monitored within the divisions to specific key events, such as major through various mechanisms which changes in operations or equipment.
Mail readers for include compliance committees, editorial tsunami victims.
responsibility, compliance audits and Health and safety training.
The Groups health and safety policy applies across DMGT.
It sets out to DMGT and the community ensure the health, safety and welfare of Community involvement is integral to its employees and all others who could our business as well as to the personal be affected by the activities of the Group.
We donate Whilst the Chief Executive has overall money, time and in-kind donations such responsibility at Board level for health as air time and Teletext pages, as well and safety matters throughout the Group, as staff actively giving time to areas such day-to-day responsibility is devolved to as fundraising and trusteeships.
The use the managing directors of each division.
264,000 of our media channels and activities for The Group has had no fines or prosecutions fund raising is driven through participation for health and safety failures over the last in the communities we serve and the year.
There are many examples of good was given to the London concerns and contributions of our readers practice across the Group, in terms of Bombings Relief Fund.
Charitable donations are health and safety management systems, allocated by a Charities Committee at the use of independent consultants DMGT, as well as being made on a smaller and initiatives focused on businessscale by divisional and local managements.
specific health and safety risk areas.
Charities involving the media and relevant Health and safety is particularly critical to the communities within which the in all printing press facilities, which have Group operates are favoured.
In 2005, appropriate policies and management the Group donated 880,000 to charity and monitoring programmes.
including 264,000 to the London Bombings Relief Fund for the victims and 23 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
