Corporate social responsibility Introduction In Spring 2005 we opened our own sourcing and after-sales service staff and their current Kesa believes that commercial success must be operation based in Hong Kong.
Our strategy will expenditure on training is 3.5% of all employee matched by the need to be responsible citizens be to proactively identify and certify factories which expenses, well above the legal requirement.
in the communities we serve.
meet the standards we require, and to source exclusively through this approved network.
Elsewhere, BUTs new charter includes a code Darty and Comet already have excellent of practice on labour rights, working conditions track records in addressing the social and Comet already has a strong tradition for inand health and safety matters.
environmental risks associated with our house testing of all its own-label brands.
Our business, and on many occasions they have new Hong Kong organisation will enable this All the businesses implement workers councils pre-empted or exceeded measures that existing best practice to be spread throughout the where key and sensitive issues are discussed legislation requires.
Just as we share best Group so that no product will go on sale in with elected representatives from across the commercial practice, we are equally determined any of our stores without having passed our organisation.
that BUT, BCC, Datart and Vanden Borre should stringent safety tests.
also make progress in these important areas.
Environment Employees Kesa understands that making electrical goods Supply chain management We aim to be recognised as good employers involves potentially harmful substances and Kesa is committed to providing its customers who provide fair remuneration and equal materials.
We also acknowledge that appliances with safe, reliable and responsibly-sourced opportunities.
We also encourage personal use energy and that their eventual disposal is products.
That is why we are concerned with development and training in a safe, healthy and a growing concern.
every aspect of our supply chain operation.
diverse workplace that respects human rights.
Darty is continuing its partnership with Envie in BUT has drawn up a Charter of Social and Comet holds regular consultation forums collecting and recycling unwanted goods.
Comet Environmental Responsibility to which all their with representation from all areas of senior operates in a similar way through Renew and suppliers and service providers must comply, management to reflect colleagues concerns.
Vanden Borre is involved with a series of re-use and Vanden Borre now confines its sourcing to There is also an independent annual survey centres in Belgium.
either leading suppliers or directly through Kesa.
that provides a benchmark for comparing Comets levels of employee satisfaction with Darty also has a collection scheme in its stores There are a relatively small number of other organisations.
and warehouses for recycling batteries and internationally recognised brands in the accumulators and Comet encourages customers electricals products market and we source the Over a third of Comet employees now work to recycle their mobile phones.
All companies majority of our products from these household on flexi-time and the company is committed collect packaging when delivering goods unless names.
The supply chain is therefore less open to family-friendly policies.
They are a leading otherwise requested by the customer.
to influence by the retailer as power lies mainly member of Opportunity Now, an organisation with the manufacturing brands.
of employers committed to women and are Throughout France, Darty stores and warehouses sponsors of the working families Employer return their waste to the companys distribution A growing proportion of our product sales are of the Year awards.
centre to be sorted for recycling.
Vanden Borre from own-label brands, many of which are complies with EU waste regulations via two sourced in Asia.
Since demerger, we continued At Darty each regional company produces its separate schemes, one for household packaging to work closely with KAL, Kingfishers Hong own employee survey and an annual survey on and another for industrial waste.
Kong-based sourcing operation, in a region equal opportunities.
They have also introduced where supply chain issues are particularly acute.
quality and motivation programmes for sales staff 20 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2004 05 Kesa is committed to the promotion of energy Since 1985 Darty has been in partnership with efficient products that minimise emissions of the Envie programme.
Envie runs a network of CO and over 90 per cent of the fridges Comet centres that train unemployed people to repair 2 sells are A rated.
The Company also produces unwanted appliances which are then re-sold.
guides on saving energy in the home and works Comet runs a similar operation in the UK known with the Energy Saving Trust.
Both Comet and as Renew and Vanden Borre also has its own Darty have introduced fridge and freezer takeversion of this socially beneficial scheme.
Darty supports fundraising initiatives in the WEEE medical research and social area, including the During 2005 the EU Waste Electrical and Fondation Pasteur, Weissmann, and Ares which Electronic Equipment WEEE Directive comes works with the long-term unemployed.
This sets out criteria for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of electrical Darty and Vanden Borre also raise money for appliances.
Because of our proactive stance on charity by selling small-scale models of their these issues, we are already well placed to comply home service vans.
BUT continues to donate with the new requirements across the Group.
kitchen appliances to Boutiques Solidarite and Comet supports numerous charities through Darty has been working with a number of a range of sponsored events.
In 2004 Comet national retailing and electrical associations to raised 250,000 for its chosen charity, National create a joint organisation of which they will Childrens Homes.
BUT has a project team in place to establish a programme that works across all owned stores and franchisees and will be working closely with Darty to explore possible synergies and joint facilities.
Comet has joined a consortium of retailers, logistics specialists and others to establish practical solutions for recycling electrical goods.
A trial has been conducted in nearly 40 stores in which customers could bring back items they no longer require.
Vanden Borre is also working with producers, importers and retailers in Belgium to create a collective scheme called Recupel.
Communities and charities Kesa values our relationships with the communities around us and we believe that successful communities mean successful businesses too.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2004 05 21
