STATEMENT ON CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The Board takes account of the importance Areas where our performance improved on Incentives of social, ethical and environmental last year include: A balanced scorecard measuring a number matters to the business as part of the risk of key performance indicators is central management process.
In particular, the Leadership and team direction.
to the Companys approach to business.
Clarity of strategy and communication.
Board identifies and assesses whether there Alongside profit delivery, other key measures are any significant risks to the Groups short Relationships with Senior Managers.
used are sales growth, customer satisfaction, Employee communication.
and long-term value arising from social, employee engagement and retention and environmental and ethical matters as well as Overall employee engagement.
Reward plans for managers are linked to Particular strengths highlighted this year were: these measures.
The workplace Group policies and practices are focused Pride in the company and belief in its goals Local business units also operate a range of and objectives.
on creating an open culture throughout incentives for customer facing employees to the organisation where employees are Learning and development.
reward their delivery of high standards of Leadership from Senior Management team encouraged to reach their full potential.
The customer service and special experiences to Group has clear organisational values which and immediate manager.
are reinforced by leadership skills that build teams of capable and energetic people.
key focus for all employees, customer facing The Company offers pension provision for all and backstage, is around providing special During the year the Company commenced employees through a defined contribution an organisation wide change programme experiences for guests and customers.
In addition, a number of longcalled Shine!
which focuses every employee standing employees are members of a final on the Companys vision special people Values salary scheme.
The Company values were devised after creating special experiences.
The initial events concentrated on the Companys consultation with employees at all levels Equal opportunities from across the organisation.
This process values and customer care in particular.
The Company is a strong supporter of looked at the behaviours people valued most equal opportunities in all aspects of at work and identified the current strengths Performance management employment, including recruitment and the This year the performance management of our business.
encouragement of employees to develop process has been strengthened, to include all their full potential regardless of gender, the hotels and leisure clubs.
All employees The values are: marital status, social class, age, colour, have a Performance Contract outlining national or ethnic origin, religious belief, W e set our sights high and deliver great their personal objectives as well as their sexual orientation or disability.
It is also an W ere one team, pulling together.
important tool for succession planning for Health & safety W ere straight-forward and have respect key roles across the business.
The health & safety of guests and staff for each other.
continues to be of fundamental importance W e do the right thing for our customers Development to the Group and the Groups safety risk to show them we care.
Developing and retaining high performing management processes remain central managers is a vital process for the Company.
to, and an integral part of, everyday work These values give each employee a Over the past year the Executive Team have activity throughout the business.
framework for behaviour and actions that undergone a series of personal and team will help provide special experiences for development activities.
A flexible modular The Group has commissioned external health customers and the desired results for the tool kit has also been launched to assist & safety audits and, based on the results of business.
managers in diagnosing and delivering these, the Group has formulated action plans development for their teams and this has to reduce the areas of risk identified.
Six key Employee opinion survey been well received.
Added to the Companys processes were implemented.
An annual An employee survey is used twice yearly to comprehensive induction and on-job safety planner, a monthly self-inspection obtain feedback and measure employee training, this approach ensures all employees for each department, focussed safety engagement.
This year thousands of are fully equipped and motivated to deliver meetings bimonthly, enhancement of the risk employees took part in the sixth survey and special experiences for hotel guests and club assessment process, a self-certificated audit one of the highest overall response rates was members.
process and training targeted at operations achieved with 86% of employees expressing managers.
During the year these have been their views.
The results benchmarked implemented in all sites across the Group.
extremely favourably against a comparative group of high performing companies.
18 I fide VERE GROUP PLC I STATEMENT ON CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY A system has also been developed to national and international charities including The Group is pleased to have qualified for monitor each of these processes and work Macmillan Nurses, British Heart Foundation the Kempen SNS Smaller Europe SRI Index is under way to develop this further.
The and Save the Children as well as local and for successive years.
Inclusion in this index self-audit process in particular, and a further independent charities such as hospices and demonstrates the Groups commitment development to introduce self-improvement hospitals.
to its social responsibilities towards the plans, has helped to enhance local community, the environment and employees.
ownership and risk management control at In addition to the nominated charities, unit level across the Group.
many hotels and clubs provide use of their The Group is also proud to be included facilities to support community activities.
in the FTSE4good index and has many At corporate level, a core team of Directors This includes free use of swimming pools, activities designed to enhance its corporate and senior managers has been established to help teach under-privileged children to responsibility to the environment.
to steer the risk management function swim: offering the use of kitchens to teach and to provide direction on Group wide teenagers from local youth centres how to Energy and waste risk improvement initiatives.
This has been prepare healthy food and the use of function The Group has set itself a target of reducing particularly successful by demonstrating the rooms to arrange gala charity balls.
waste and energy at each of its business commitment to safety from the most senior units by 2% cumulatively year-on-year and levels of management and in raising the Employees also support the community has established a Group wide energy risk profile of safety throughout the business.
in their own time giving career talks to management policy in order to achieve this teenagers who are about to leave school target.
Energy and waste saving targets are During the year the Group has invested in college, acting as mentors for local children set each year for each hotel and club and making physical improvements to address and conducting studio classes as part of progress is reported monthly.
Additionally specific identified hazards, in particular, local health weeks.
Some hotels and clubs the Group sponsored individual surveys specialist fire protection measures to run schemes to allow qualifying employees to highlight practices that need to be kitchens.
An improvement plan to further paid time off to support chosen charities or implemented in each business unit and has enhance emergency procedures, business community events.
invested in replacing all standard bulbs with continuity plans and fire risk assessments are low energy lamps and bulbs throughout.
The Company is also a keen supporter of Arrangements are in place with various developing young people in the workplace partners, which allow waste streams to be Group wide training to engage staff at and provides training and work experience monitored with the objective of continually all levels to take ownership for the safety under several recognised programmes.
decreasing the amount of packaging used function has also been successful in raising and improving recycling targets on the waste awareness and in building momentum.
This Many employees combine their passion for that is produced.
has been supported by providing health & sports with the passion to help others and safety information to staff via dedicated links they regularly attain some great results.
An energy team was established during on our intranet site.
In the past year, these colleagues have the year which has written energy saving organised short fun runs and participated policies and procedures which have been In the forthcoming year audits are planned in marathons including the New York and incorporated into an Energy Operations to monitor the status of safety performance London marathons, coast to coast charitable Manual.
The manual identifies practices that of all Hotels and Clubs in the Group.
The bike rides and even an 80km sponsored must be followed and other best practice results of these will provide the basis for bike ride on stationary bikes in hotel foyers.
For example, any low setting targets to further improve health & In addition to these more visible activities, cost, short payback practices low energy safety performance in the following year.
many employees also donate a monthly sum light bulbs are mandatory wherever feasible.
to a charity of their choice via the Give As Each business unit monitors consumption The community You Earn scheme.
This year employees have on a monthly basis and the data is The Group operates nationally from fifty proudly donated to and supported more consolidated centrally.
The team has also separate locations.
Typically each of its than 30 different charities.
undertaken feasibility studies in relation to hotels and fitness clubs occupies a unique higher investment areas such as combined role within the local community in which it Charitable donations totalled 55,000 2004: heat & power plants and swimming pool operates.
Accordingly the Groups strategy 50,000 during the year.
Wherever possible the energy teams is to encourage each business unit to made to any political organisation, nor was recommendations are being incorporated in develop social responsibility policies which any political expenditure incurred.
are sensitive to that community.
This has resulted in a large number of individual The environment During the year the Group exceeded its initiatives.
Many employees are involved in The Group recognises the responsibility its targeted saving for electricity consumption, charity and community events within their businesses have towards the environment reducing consumption by 1.5 million local areas.
Managers encourage employees and is committed to good environmental kilowatt hours.
Gas savings were more to support charities that are personal to management of all sites where it operates.
The Company reduced consumption them and their families.
The Groups hotels Environment risks are identified as part by 0.3% saving 33,000 cubic metres.
and fitness clubs support more than 30 of the Boards system of internal control.
STATEMENT ON CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY I ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 I 19 STATEMENT ON CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED The reduction in energy use is directly related Since their launch in November 2004 the to reduced CO emissions.
During the year organisation has collected over 80,000 2 CO2 emissions reduced by 500,000kg.
individual customer responses and this data is now being proactively used across all areas Management of waste in the Group has of the business, both to sharpen our day to been outsourced to a third party specialist.
day operations and to provide vital customer The objectives for the coming year are input into decision making on potential new to ensure the Group minimises waste to initiatives and product development.
landfill by recycling wherever possible.
Glass, cardboard and waste oil have been As part of our project to enhance and segregated for a number of years.
Following develop our brands, the Company has the introduction of The Hazardous Waste briefed team members in every unit over the Regulations this year, fluorescent tubes past 12 months on the key findings from recycling is now being implemented where our customer research to enhance front line required.
In the forthcoming year the Group understanding of consumer requirements plans to review the feasibility of recycling across all three brands.
plastics and other materials to further reduce the volume of material sent for landfill.
The purchasing policy details the Groups ethics policy stating that business will be The fide Vere Belfry continues to participate tendered with no bias or conflict of interest in the Committed to Green initiative, and all suppliers will be treated fairly and the long-term European Environmental without prejudice.
Management Programme that is designed to mitigate the impact of our activities on the The Group negotiates terms and conditions, environment.
including payment terms, with all its principal suppliers.
Payments to these The marketplace suppliers, other than in the case of a Placing our customers at the very heart of dispute, are made in accordance with such the Groups cultural values and operating negotiated arrangements, which are set out procedures is a key part of the business plan.
Last year the Group introduced new The number of days purchases outstanding customer feedback processes to obtain to creditors at 25 September 2005 was 45 detailed customer feedback from guests 2004: 47 for the Group and 53 2004: 45 and leisure members.
Surveys are placed in for the Company.
hotel bedrooms and leisure members and conference organisers are surveyed via e-mail.
The surveys are centrally collated and the results and customer comments are available to view via an internet based portal by unit managers as well as the central support functions.
20 I fide VERE GROUP PLC I STATEMENT ON CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
