ANNUAL REPORT 2005 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Heads, Hearts and Hands Corporate Social Investment Dimension Datas Corporate Social Responsibility Initiative in Australia At Dimension Data, Community Social Investment CSI is an The Heads, Hearts and Hands HHH programme was initiated following input from employees in Australia, who selected children, education and important business priority and integral to the achievement of our the environment as the three key focus areas for local Corporate Social Responsibility programmes.
HHH has multiple opportunities for participation for all employees including: volunteering, workplace giving, a community advisor programme, and an We are committed to being a responsible corporate citizen by environmental module.
utilising our existing assets and core competencies, as well as Employees in all Australian states are able to volunteer their time and skills for enabling our employees to volunteer their time and skills through a number of regional activities that range from Fun Runs for a variety of causes and participation in Planet Arks Tree Day.
In New South Wales, as just one a structured and managed CSI process.
This provides mutually example, employees are volunteering their time to create a childrens learning beneficial results, with employees being given the opportunity to room at the Marian Centre a refuge providing care, safety and support for women and children escaping domestic violence, complete with computers, a uphold and demonstrate the Group values, as well as providing book collection, a lounge area and other facilities.
Volunteers from Dimension personal development and enrichment: the community gaining Data are participating in the refurbishment with redecorating, painting, connecting equipment, and ongoing involvement by providing training and upliftment and advancement through Dimension Datas investments educational sessions for the children.
and support: and thus, sustained success for Dimension Data.
Workplace giving provides employees with an opportunity to donate to the non-profit organisations of their choice, with Dimension Data matching 50% of all donations to the non-profit organisations of our employees choice.
Through local partnerships with communities by way of donations, sponsorships, employee involvement and support, we seek to A mentoring and advisory programme Community Advisor Programme CAP through a partnership with Social Ventures Australia SVA, has linked senior assist communities and individuals, with a focus on projects relating and emerging leaders within Dimension Data with social entrepreneurs from to skills development and education, community reconstruction a variety of emerging non-profit organisations including Youthworx, School Aid and Kids with Promise.
The programme focuses on combining career projects, conservation and disability.
and community experiences to achieve personal and professional potential sharing technology, expertise and human resources.
Employee involvement On the environmental front, in both New South Wales and Victoria, Dimension Data employees participated in Australias biggest community tree planting Throughout the 2005 fiscal year, employees across the Group event run by Planet Ark.
Dimension Data is working with OZ GREEN, a nonvolunteered their time and skills for a number of initiatives.
Just a profit organisation dedicated to addressing critical water issues by enabling informed and active community participation.
Dimension Data employees are few of these activities are: being trained in practical and sustainable ways of living and working and reTeaching at Dimension Datas Saturday School in South Africa thinking ways in which activities at work and home can be done to help the environment.
Improving the environment at Diepsloot Combined Schools in South Africa Refurbishing the childrens learning block at the Marian Centre in Australia Revitalising the St James Recreation Centre in New York Participation in Moon Walk for Breast Cancer in the United Kingdom.
035 ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Saturday School in South Africa Donations and sponsorships The Dimension Data Saturday School was opened in 1995 to introduce Dimension Data provides funding and sponsorship for a number youngsters from disadvantaged backgrounds to computers and to help them improve their school grades.
Run from Dimension Data South Africas head of initiatives throughout the world in line with our commitment to office in Johannesburg, the Saturday School provides an environment in which Grade 11 and 12 learners are exposed to a broad academic and corporate projects relating to community reconstruction, disability and skills background.
development and education: Initially focusing on computer skills, the School now offers tutoring in Sponsorship of the National Paralympic Committee of South Mathematics, Science, Biology, English, Computer Studies and Guidance.
Africa Each year, 40 students from schools in Alexandra, Diepsloot and Tembisa are selected on the basis of academic and leadership potential.
Students are Donation to UNICEF for the Tsunami Relief Fund all seven taught by volunteers, many of them Dimension Data employees who give their free time and expertise in helping learners to prepare for tertiary education Dimension Data regions, with funds raised by employees and the working environment.
matched by Dimension Data The programme follows the national curriculum and aims to improve students Donation to Red Cross and Salvation Army in support of the Grade 12 results.
Dimension Data is also mindful of the holistic development Hurricane Katrina Relief Fund of each individual, offering life skill components such as job shadowing and career guidance.
Workplace giving in Australia Dimension Data matches 50% of all employee donations Now celebrating its ten year anniversary, the Saturday School has accomplished a 100 percent pass rate every year.
Monetary support to Starfish in the United Kingdom Dimension Data has recently expanded the Saturday School programme, and Give-as-you-earn schemes adopted in the United Kingdom now accommodates Grade 10 learners as well, with an additional 20 places on enabling employees to donate directly to their charity of choice offer.
The project now reaches eight schools in Tembisa, two in Diepsloot and one in Alexandra.
via payroll Donation to All Womens Action Society in Malaysia.
036 ANNUAL REPORT 2005 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Supporting Local Initiatives in North America Support Dimension Data in North America is committed to helping the local communities Dimension Data supports a number or organisations, forums and where the Group has offices and specifically targets initiatives that support women and children.
Each year, Dimension Data employees support the educational facilities that contribute significantly to improving the Toys for Tots community initiative during the holiday season.
Employees in Dimension Datas Boston office held a food drive for Thanksgiving, whilst communities and the environment.
Some initiatives include: in New York employees worked with City Year to revitalise the St James CIDA City Campus in South Africa sponsorship of the COOs Recreation Centre in New York.
Employees were also active in raising funds for the victims of Hurricane Katrina that were matched by Dimension Data annual salary and generously made donations to the global initiative regarding the Tsunami Member of the National Business Initiative and supporter of Relief Initiative.
Dimension Data in North America has recently formed a Corporate Social Responsibility committee and is expanding their community The Nations Trust involvement initiatives for the coming year.
Support of the Toys for Tots initiative at Christmas in North America Community Advisor Programme in partnership with Social Ventures Australia in Australia Support of Australias biggest community tree planting event run by Planet Ark Participating in Kiwanis Treasure Hunt in Malaysia, providing gifts for children with Downs Syndrome.
Environment Dimension Data is mindful of its duty to contribute via responsible actions to a clean environment.
To ensure this, the Groups environmental policy insists that where possible the statutory environmental requirements of each country in which the Group operates are exceeded.
In addition to recycling initiatives with regards to paper, boxes, toner cartridges and the environmentally safe disposal of computer equipment, Dimension Data has also introduced the following initiatives, to name a few: Electricity and water conservation programmes at The Campus, South Africa On-site, self-run refuse re-cycling at The Campus, South Africa Living Green programme for Dimension Data employees run by OZ GREEN Energy saving intelligent building system implemented at Waterfront Business Park in the United Kingdom.
