ANNUAL REPORT 2005 EMPLOYEES One of the cornerstones of our strategy of becoming a world leader It is Group policy to adhere to local labour standards and globally in the provision of specialist IT infrastructure solutions has been to accepted human rights practices.
Freedom of association is also attract, engage, develop and retain the right people.
To this end, Group policy on a global basis, with works councils existing in key projects have included: some countries, where appropriate to local law and practice.
A global employee survey - the Group conducted a global employee survey during March 2005 to ascertain the opinions Group companies aim to maintain health and safety policies of Dimension Data employees.
The results of the survey in accordance with best practice and adhere to the regulatory provided us with valuable input for areas of improvement.
This requirements of the regions in which they operate.
Local labour survey will be conducted on an annual basis.
standards are adhered to, with most employees working 40 hour Attracting Talent - a focus for the period has been on weeks unless contractually agreed otherwise because of the nature recruitment training.
In addition, certain regions are moving of their employment.
to a centralised recruitment model with dedicated in-house recruitment specialists.
The Groups policy is that all employees are entitled to equal Retaining Talent and Driving High Performance Reward and opportunities.
Disabled persons applying for employment are Performance Management - during the year we continued to given fair consideration.
Employees who become disabled whilst execute our strategy through the Performance Management employed will be retrained wherever possible so that they can Process.
This process ensures alignment of all employees and remain employed within the Group.
ensures that they receive ongoing constructive performance feedback.
The bonus scheme is also linked to the Performance Details of the average number of employees are contained in Note Management Process, in terms of performance both at the 6 to the annual financial statements on page 67. business and individual level, therefore linking reward with performance.
Career Development - increased focus has been given to career development with the integration of a Personal Development Plan in the Performance Management Process.
Training and DDU - training at Dimension Data focuses on the development of key competencies in line with the business strategy, ensuring that we have the right skills to support our vision.
Focus this year has been on the areas of business and leadership, sales and technical delivery skills.
Our primary delivery mechanism is our corporate university DDU which makes it possible for employees to engage in learning in a continuous and self directed way.
Group Induction e-learning Programme - during the course of 2005 we designed a Group induction programme aimed at introducing new employees to Dimension Data.
