CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW STRUCTURE AND ACCOUNTABILITY The Board has completed its annual review of progress on Corporate Responsibility CR matters.
The Group Human Resources Director is the Executive Director with responsibility for these matters and is a member of the CR Committee, chaired by the Company Secretary.
Issues discussed by the Board included management of risk and performance, opportunities for innovation and improvement and the delivery of set objectives.
It was announced last year that key indicators would be measured and published as a means of monitoring CR performance.
The structures for delivering CR accountability are unchanged from last year.
However, CR Committee now the CR Committee had its remit expanded and its membership enhanced to add further more international seniority and increased international and operational perspectives.
The Committee met five times during the year.
The process of continuous review of CR related functions is well into its second cycle since the Committee was established in 2003.
Policy development on core issues has led to innovations both in operational matters and in the Groups ethical framework.
The Group does not consider the production of a separate CR report necessary or desirable since this provides only a snapshot view of activities and achievements in an area where policy and practice regularly change.
Therefore the Groups website, which can adapt more quickly to changed information, should be viewed as the primary source of CR information.
The summary presented on these pages is of matters that the Board considers most material and relevant to the Groups corporate responsibility position.
UNDERSTANDING STAKEHOLDERS All UK store employees Procedures are in place to engage with all identied key stakeholder groups colleagues, given disability training customers, local communities, investors, business partners and suppliers, legislators and enforcement authorities and those interested in environmental affairs.
The Group continues to hold the view that such procedures must align closely with business objectives to minimise bureaucracy and cost, promote efficiency and quality, and maximise shareholder value and service to customers.
The Groups statement of business principles Being The Best underpins these objectives.
The Group measures its success in delivering the principles of Being The Best with an annual survey of customers and employees.
Initiatives have been introduced to all chains to improve the customer experience, pre and post sale.
The Disability Working Group has continued to promote disability awareness and best practice and to monitor compliance with the Groups legal obligations.
All UK employees were given training using the Employers Forum on Disability Pathnder CD Rom.
David Longbottom Group Human Resources Director 28 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 The Groups Charity of the Year campaign for 2003 04 was Action4Disability, and raised more than 470,000 for the Parkinsons Disease Society, Headway the Brain Injury Association, the Downs Syndrome Association and Action for Blind People.
The current campaign is Young Futures, and UK employees are raising funds for NCH, Childline and the Teenage Cancer Trust.
Colleagues at all levels of the Group are encouraged to participate in charitable and voluntary activities, which are, on occasions, incorporated in team building exercises and personal development plans.
In 2004, the Group awarded its first Volunteering Awards to organisations benefiting from employee involvement, with around 90 colleagues nominating local groups in which they played an active role.
The Volunteering Below: Battery bins in UK stores Awards are to be expanded this year as part of the 2005 Year of the Volunteer.
collect used batteries for recycling.
During the year, the Group continued to develop and test local community plans to manage its impact on areas in the UK where it is a major employer.
These plans included targeting charitable donations to local good causes, supporting outreach activities from Group sites and assisting in the development and regeneration of local facilities.
Analysis of the impact of activities to date will help ne tune our plans for the future.
This year, for the first time, members of the CR Committee made a presentation on CR topics of current interest to a group of specialist CR analysts who together represented a substantial number of investors.
The Group continues to participate in a very limited number of welltargeted, relevant and widely-acknowledged research surveys which assist in benchmarking and assessing progress.
The Group is again a constituent member of the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes and FTSE4GOOD.
Business partners and suppliers form important elements of the Groups CR performance.
The Group maintains a relationship with CREATE and Remploy in the UK.
These charities provide supported employment, training, recycling and refurbishment services for their local communities and benefited from the donation of around 200,000 used appliances in 2004 05.
Many business partners are now sharing information on their own CR performance with the Group, enabling joint working on standards and procedures.
It is the Groups policy to agree terms of payment with its suppliers.
Payments are made in accordance with these terms provided that the supplier has complied with all relevant contractual obligations.
Trade creditors at 30 April 2005 represented 40 days of annual purchases made during the period 1 May 2004, 35 days.
Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 29 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CONTINUED The Groups work with legislators and enforcement authorities has continued.
The Group is broadly represented on Government bodies, trade associations and business networks at country and European level.
The Company Secretary is actively involved in the development of consumer policy through the CBI, the BRC and as a member of various ofcial groups.
The Groups UK Building Bridges programme continues to engage with Trading Standards authorities and other regulators and enforcers across the UK, and has delivered a number of successful outcomes.
On environmental affairs, the Group continues to innovate.
A research project has been initiated with the Carbon Trust to examine and consider proposals for energy reduction programmes across the UK store network.
The Group is piloting new ways of dealing with used batteries, well in advance of legislative requirements to do so.
A research project Sales of energy efficient appliances remain an important part of the business.
has been initiated The Fridgesavers scheme to replace old appliances is a successful example of this.
with the Carbon Trust 50,000 low cost A rated fridges and fridge freezers were sold to disadvantaged customers in a project to take older appliances out of circulation run in conjunction with Powergen.
The Group estimates that 90 per cent of all own-brand products in the large white goods categories where the energy label is applied are minimum B rated, with an A target for all such products in the coming year.
The Group is working on implementation of the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment WEEE and Restriction of the use of certain Hazardous Substances RoHS Directives across most of its countries of operation.
The Group continues to take an active part in the development of processes for handling used products which offer best environmental advantage and ease of service for customers.
The Group already No material operational runs efficient take-back services for many products, and the introduction of the impact is expected from Directives is not expected to have a material impact on operations.
the introduction of the WEEE and RoHS Directives ETHICAL CONDUCT The Group is making available on its website www.
co. uk copies of all the main CR related policies it now pursues.
The policy folder is distributed to senior management and will form part of their annual declaration of adherence to ethical business practices.
All colleagues, wherever they are based in the Group, are bound by these policies.
Any employee of the Group may contact an independent body to register concerns about any aspect of business practice under the Groups whistleblowing procedures.
01 Energy efficient washing machines at Currys.
02 The Group supports CREATE, which trains unemployed people to refurbish appliances and so gain skills.
03 Every employee who raises 01 money for charity is a hero.
02 03 30 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 EMPLOYMENT INDICATOR THE NEW INDICATORS The Group continues to operate exible working arrangements and to provide equal This year sees the opportunities to all its employees regardless of age, sex, colour, race, religion, ethnic publication of an initial origin or disability.
It recruits and trains people so that they can achieve their full indicator set which potential, and promotes on merit.
will form the basis of future performance Employees are increasingly involved in the implementation of changes to the Groups measurements.
Next operations and working practices.
This is achieved through a structure of consultative years Annual Report forums with elected representatives from local business operations as well as a European and Accounts will give Forum chaired by the Group Chief Executive.
comparable data and Feedback is obtained through focus groups and employee engagement surveys in the Board will set addition to the recently introduced whistle blowing procedure.
significant communications objectives for future are delivered through a cascading system of management briengs and in the employee years thereafter.
The independent Employee Assistance Programme gives free advice and support on practical, financial, legal and personal matters.
Age, gender and ethnicity of employees Number % Total employees 40,450 Female employees 32 Male employees 68 Full time employees 58 Part time employees 42 Ethnic minority non national employees 14 Employees aged over 50 8 Value of cash, staff time, COMMUNITY INDICATOR and goods donated by the business One of the Groups key projects is active involvement.
In addition to its 875,000 to good causes donation to The Dixons Foundation, a registered charitable trust, the Group supported 04 05 1,718,086 more than 400 local community and charitable organisations in 2004 05.
Some of 03 04 1,494,146 this support was in the form of small grants, but additionally many employees gave 02 03 1,206,088 up their time and skills to help community activities.
Projects varied from getting UK gures only involved with fundraising, to decorating local charity ofces, to hosting school visits.
01 Mohammed Mukhtar was one of the first from Dixons to graduate as a ShopWatch special officer.
02 Volunteering is now recognised with awards within the Group.
03 The Groups fully recycled 02 carrier bags are made from waste plastics that would otherwise have been disposed of in landll sites.
01 03 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 31 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CONTINUED HEALTH AND SAFETY INDICATOR The Group is committed to maintaining high standards of health and safety.
Risks are identied, assessed and highlighted to management teams with the aim of reducing or eliminating them where possible.
The Groups CR Committee oversees policy development and compliance and reviews performance.
Operating procedures are reviewed regularly by local committees.
Accidents and injuries Number of working days Number of accidents or lost as a result of accidents injuries to staff to staff in the last year PC World 466 207 The Link 153 32 Currys 1,056 539 Dixons 349 273 PC World Business and Genesis 66 16 Service 227 278 Distribution 841 961 Head ofce 31 10 Ireland 29 132 PC City 98 1,128 Elkjp 1 0 Electro World 2 8 UniEuro 54 1,482 Kotsovolos 1 0 Total 3,374 5,066 Workplaces are designed and equipped to minimise risks to customers and employees, and the Groups risk awareness and education programmes highlight the benets of good housekeeping.
There were no prosecutions for health and safety matters in 2004 05.
01 Colourful buggies make shopping easier at Electro World.
02 The Group is the largest mobile phone recycler in the UK.
01 02 32 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 Average CO emissions from eet 2 ENVIRONMENT INDICATOR vehicles grammes The Group recognises its responsibility to manage its environmental impacts.
The 04 05 141.46 management of waste production is a major part of the Groups environmental 03 04 144.00 practice, and recycling and waste-reduction initiatives in ofces and stores include -1.8 per cent UK gures only the recycling of paper, cardboard, batteries and printer cartridges.
This is the Groups fifth consecutive year of improved recycled waste volumes.
Volume of recycled waste UK & PC City & Electro Ireland UniEuro Elkjp World Kotsovolos Waste recycled tonnes 1,819 5,514 15,500 152 unavailable ETHICAL STANDARDS INDICATOR The Group has an Ethical Purchasing Policy available to download from www.
co. uk which is designed to ensure that the Group buys its own brand products from factories that demonstrate a measurable commitment to high social and ethical standards.
The Group buys from almost 100 suppliers throughout Asia and audits these against criteria which, for example, exclude child labour, guarantee acceptable working hours and a safe and healthy workplace.
To reach the green compliance level, a supplier must pass all requirements.
Yellow is where small changes were agreed and a re-audit is pending.
Suppliers who fail to meet the requirements are given a red mark, and follow up work must be done before a re-audit is arranged.
An escalated supplier is one who has failed and will not be re-audited.
Performance on ethical supply chain standards code Number audited % of total audit Green 39 43.0 Yellow 30 33.0 Red15 16.4 Escalated 7 7.6 Total 91 100 Overall, the Group made good progress in CR matters during the year.
In publishing these indicators, we set the challenge to improve our performance in the future.
David Longbottom Group Human Resources Director Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 33
