ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 28 29 Remuneration report The remuneration committee reviews the fees of the Approval chairman.
Based on the advice from Eversheds LLP, This remuneration report has been approved by the taking into account the additional responsibilities the board and signed on its behalf by: chairman has agreed to undertake, the committee made a recommendation to the board to increase P W G Tom the chairmans fee by 10% with effect from 1st Chairman of the remuneration committee October 2005.
Solihull, 17th March 2006 Corporate social responsibility Introduction in conjunction with stakeholder consultations and other The board recognises the importance of and takes benchmarks to help identify key priorities and to drive responsibility for corporate social responsibility CSR, progress.
which is reviewed as part of the ongoing risk management process.
As a supplier of premium Customer and product initiatives cooking and refrigeration equipment to the consumer The Group continues to increase its emphasis on the and commercial foodservice markets, the Group can development and marketing of products which help contribute to healthier eating, improved food quality customers to enhance their CSR related performance and hygiene, and energy efficiency.
In addition to as well as satisfying their business requirements.
These embedding CSR within its own operations, the Group products address increasing concerns over the use of therefore sees a key part of its CSR programme as the energy and the emissions in commercial kitchens as development of products which address these issues.
well as improving working conditions for staff.
The In order to raise the profile and awareness of CSR emphasis is also on the manufacturing of equipment to across the business, the board has introduced two produce healthy food for the quick service restaurant awards: the chairmans award for environmental sector and other markets such as in-store bakeries.
improvement, and new for 2005, an award for the business with the most significant CSR initiative or The Groups high efficiency refrigerators, innovative progress during the year.
fryers, steamers, combi-steamers and premium bakery ranges directly address these developments.
For Statement of core principles example, the Falcon Infinity Fryer, launched in 2004, is The board is commited to ensuring that all its business steadily gaining recognition from the foodservice activities operate with the highest standards of industry, winning the prestigious 2005 FCSI Europe business ethics and integrity as summarised in its Award for Distinguished Development.
It was also Statement of Core Principles.
This was first issued by awarded the Catering Update Excellence in Catering the chief executive in December 2001 and was Equipment & Supplies Award Best new item of updated during the year.
It is available on the corporate prime cooking equipment and Overall Catering website.
The statement is supported by appropriate Excellence awards.
policies in each area and translated into the appropriate languages for use in Group facilities The fryers revolutionary technology offers the potential worldwide.
The board has overall responsibility for for fried food which has less saturated fat and lower these CSR policies and the chief operating officer is levels of potentially harmful acrylamides.
In May 2005, responsible for their implementation.
the Group organised the Clean Up Frying summit to raise awareness of these health and performance CSR reporting and benchmarking related issues and to encourage debate on the The Groups annual CSR Report is published on the application of Government regulations on frying and corporate website in April each year.
The report cooking oil usage.
Further information on this and other includes further details of policies, procedures and aspects of food standards is available at performance, with case study examples describing www.
their implementation across the Group.
The Group is a member of the FTSE4Good index and uses this index With the rapid escalation of energy prices, and FOODSERVICE GROUP Corporate social responsibility increasing environmental awareness, saving energy is supervisors and a pilot project has been successfully becoming critical in commercial foodservice implemented.
This will now be rolled out to all UK operations.
Many commercial kitchens contain old and operations and consideration is being given to inefficient appliances that produce high levels of requirements in the rest of Europe and North America.
carbon dioxide emissions, consume large amounts of The average number of employees, including directors energy and are costly to run per unit of output.
and staff costs are detailed in note 4 to the Group Investment in new commercial kitchen technology can accounts.
Further information on employees will be bring better efficiency by reducing carbon dioxide provided in the annual CSR Report.
emissions and by reducing fuel consumption and thus energy bills further details are included in our booklet Employee Communications Improve Energy Efficiency in the Commercial Kitchen Employees are kept informed of developments across available from the Groups website the Group by a variety of means.
Group newsletter, The Aga Times, which is updated online and is distributed regularly to employees.
In In commercial refrigeration, Victorys focus on energy addition, a number of the Group companies have their efficiency has been recognised, and it has been own newsletters.
Business unit management also hold awarded Energy Star Partner of the Year for Product briefing sessions and employees are encouraged to Manufacturers under the US Governments energy access the Groups websites and the local intranet.
We continue to press the One North American business has undertaken an case that customers should specify Energy Star employee survey during the year and as a result issued listed products.
a new employee handbook covering benefits, safety and good conduct policies.
One UK business is piloting The Group is focusing on leading edge food quality a similar survey, with its focus on establishing issues the Infinity Fryer helps to maintain oil and employee feedback on long-term objectives, values, keeps process contamination to a minimum.
bakery ovens based on radiated heat technology like the Aga they enable our customers to provide best The Groups Code of Conduct for employees outlines quality breads.
At Eloma we manufacture world leading the standards of integrity and honest conduct combi-ovens, which combine convection and steaming, expected, and explains that breaches of Company and like our Stellar Steam ovens are boilerless and policy may result in disciplinary action and dismissal.
therefore dramatically reduce water usage.
The Groups whistle-blowing policy is posted on the Groups website in the Code of Conduct and enables Further details of the Groups initiatives in these areas employees to report in confidence any breaches of the are available in the annual CSR Report which is to be Code of Conduct, fraud or any other criminal acts.
The published on the Group website in April.
external whistle-blowing service provision now covers all UK and North American operations and Employees consideration is being given to extending this provision The Group requires its operating units to comply with to operations in other countries.
All calls received are its equal opportunities policy and it does not tolerate logged and monitored by the audit & risk committee harassment in any form.
The equal opportunities policy and appropriate action taken.
stipulates that operating units throughout the Group must ensure that the procedure is implemented and The Group has an established UK Human Resources that there is equal opportunity of employment, HR Forum, attended by representatives of the retention, promotion and training regardless of race, operating businesses and there are equivalent HR ethnic or national origin, gender, marital status, sexual structures in our key businesses in the US and other orientation, religion, trade union membership or EU countries.
The forum monitors absence, staff disability and that appropriate consideration is given to turnover, diversity in the workplace and flexible disabled applicants in terms of employment.
During the year, Paul Tonks was appointed Group HR director, and is responsible for During the year, senior management attended a global HR policies and practices in addition to seminar on diversity in the workplace.
One business retaining responsibility for health, safety and has since developed training for managers and environmental matters.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 30 31 Corporate social responsibility Training and development improvement targets.
All UK businesses are now The Group encourages its employees to gain members of the British Safety Council and the Group appropriate qualifications to enhance their career benchmarks its UK accident statistics against industry prospects.
The Group particularly encourages young standards.
In 2005, the Group targeted a 10% engineers and operates apprenticeship, work reduction in accidents.
Reportable accidents involving experience and placement schemes.
three or more days lost time were down by 5%: total accident numbers were down by 21% and lost time In 2005, the Aga Training and Assessment Centre, due to accidents reduced by 2% per 1000 employees which provides courses for some 800 Group taking into account acquired businesses.
Further employees and external candidates each year, received details regarding accident and lost time statistics will the OFTEC National Training Centre of the Year Award be available in the annual CSR Report.
The Group and Gareth Hunt from Agas Research & Development continues to target a reduction in all types of accidents department received the inaugural OFTEC Trainee of in the workplace.
During 2006 the Group will focus on the Year Award.
manual handling related incidents and on reducing absence from work, to ensure the momentum in Health, safety and environmental improving accident and absence statistics is The Group recognises environmental and health and maintained.
safety matters as being of key importance for its stakeholders and is committed to the continuous Environmental targets and performance improvement of its performance in these areas.
The Groups environmental policy sets out the principles for enhancing environmental performance, Underpinning the Group environmental and health and minimising impact and for maximising efficiency.
This safety policies, detailed procedures have been adopted framework forms the basis of detailed policies that are within each of the Groups operations, with business adopted by and are appropriate to the activities of unit managers responsible for their implementation and individual businesses.
for keeping all concerned aware of best practice and the statutory frameworks.
Policies and practices are The Groups environmental impacts cover a range of reviewed and updated for changes in legislation and areas, such as energy use, water consumption, employees are made aware of the policies and their transport, waste and recycling arising from our responsibility to ensure that these are effectively manufacturing processes and general business applied.
A designated senior manager at each business operations.
unit is responsible for issues at a local level and reports directly to the chief operating officer on these matters.
The Group monitors key environmental indicators and specific improvement targets are being developed to To help leverage best practice and to drive progress, help minimise the environmental impact of the Groups the Group has a European health, safety and operations.
The focus in 2005 was to ensure efficient environmental committee which is chaired by the Group consumption of utilities and raw materials in view of HR director, with a separate co-ordinator responsible cost increases.
The Group had targeted a 9% for the US business operations.
These committees reduction in all areas over a three year period.
These meet regularly to review standards, set targets for targets and the progress in meeting them will be improvement and to promote best practice.
Further reported in the annual CSR Report.
details will be included in the annual CSR Report.
The Group supports the adoption and implementation The health, safety and environmental committees of environmental management systems at its operating have developed a system of internal audits using health businesses where this is considered to provide added and safety specialists to benchmark between value.
The Rangemaster sites at Leamington Spa and operations.
External consultants are utilised when Long Eaton were accredited to ISO 14001 in 2003 and specific needs arise.
during the year were audited against the new ISO 14001 2004 standard and achieved formal Health and safety targets and performance accreditation.
Employees at Falcon Foodservice are The Group monitors reportable and non-reportable receiving appropriate training to enable them to work accidents at all operating units and sets annual towards accreditation.
FOODSERVICE GROUP Corporate social responsibility During the year, to partially mitigate the effects of the where appropriate.
The Group is upgrading and increasing cost of utilities and to monitor usage, the implementing a new monitoring questionnaire for Group has undertaken a review of its raw materials and regular suppliers to help ensure they conform to utilities procurement policies.
All UK manufacturing standards set by the Group.
operations and some of the other businesses are now participating in a Group deal to procure utilities Community involvement centrally and there are worldwide initiatives for sourcing Each operating company and its employees are raw materials and some components.
The review is onencouraged to become involved with and to support going and likely to include the retail shops and other local community projects, educational establishments, service businesses.
This support may be via donations, fundraising or personal time and In addition to its efforts to reduce the environmental commitment.
Our retail businesses have organised impact of its day-to-day activities, the Group also events and allowed charities to hold meetings in the seeks to minimise the risk of environmental pollution Groups outlets.
Charitable initiatives can include incidents.
If such incidents occur, the Group has in financial and product donations, equipment place a policy for prompt corrective action to be taken, maintenance and employee involvement.
During 2005, and where appropriate provides notification to the Aga and its retail operations supported the CLICregulatory authorities.
Sargent Appeal with the Chocolate Aga Campaign.
AFE Divertimenti and Fired Earth worked with CRISIS During the year, there were no fines or prosecutions as supplying catering equipment to the Skylight Caf a result of health and safety or environmental incidents.
project and with CRASH providing catering equipment and paint which was distributed to homelessness The 2005 chairmans environmental award and the charities around the UK.
Liaison on community issues Group CSR award is encouraged and comments are logged, responded Following the success of the chairmans environmental to and reviewed at Group level.
award to encourage employees to suggest environmental improvements, in 2005 the Group Verification introduced a CSR award for the business unit making The Group has instituted a regular review of its CSR the most progress in the year.
The 2005 CSR award policies, and since March 2002 has been advised by was presented to Millers Vanguard for overall CSR Consulting Ltd, who assist the Company in improvement across the spectrum of health, safety and evaluating its current policies and procedures and environmental issues, policy development, employee reinforce the Groups commitment to corporate social and local community initiatives.
At present the board does not believe environmental award was presented jointly to that an overall external CSR audit would be appropriate Northland Marvel and Williams Refrigeration for the but where significant issues are identified utilises development of systems to eliminate methylene external specialists as necessary.
chloride from their manufacturing processes.
Supply chain ethical trading policy The board recognises the importance of managing its supply chain to ensure, so far as is practicable, that its direct and indirect suppliers adopt the same core principles as the Group.
The Group monitors quality, design and availability of all sourced components and products, to ensure high standards are maintained.
The Group introduced an ethical trading policy in 2002 which encompasses a set of global sourcing principles covering fair terms of employment, human rights, health and safety, equal opportunities and good environmental practice.
All operating companies are required to review supplier compliance with this policy, monitor any areas of non-conformance and take action
