22 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 Corporate Social Responsibility Review The Board ensures that effective policies and systems for managing the Groups social, environmental and ethical risks are in place.
by more detailed policies on health and Board, executive committee and divisional DS Smith is committed to safety, the environment and other relevant review meetings.
Regrettably, one UK providing good sustainable topics.
The Group has a workplace employee died in August 2004 as a result of returns for its investors while malpractice policy, under which employees injuries sustained while operating machinery maintaining high standards at one of our corrugated packaging plants.
may report in confidence any concerns they Action was taken immediately to prevent a have over dangers to health, safety or the of ethical and social behaviour recurrence of this accident and to raise further environment, breaches of company policies in all its business dealings.
In or potential unethical business practices or 2004 05, our focus on safety was reflected conduct.
This policy is being reinforced with The shortand long-term risks to the Group in a 13% reduction to 10.25 in the Groups the introduction of a confidential Employee arising from social, environmental and ethical accident frequency rate all accidents per Concern Helpline.
Any concerns reported are SEE matters are considered by the Board in 100,000 hours worked and a 16% reduction appropriately investigated.
its regular review of key risks affecting the to 0.26% in the severity rate hours lost as a In September 2004, DS Smith was selected Groups operations.
The Board ensures that percent of hours worked.
as a constituent of the FTSE4Good UK effective policies and systems for managing During the year, all divisions implemented Index of companies deemed to meet globally the Groups SEE risks are in place and programmes to reduce accidents, focusing recognised corporate responsibility standards.
receives regular reports on performance.
on the particular causes of accidents and DS Smith is also a constituent of the The Group Chief Executive is the Director circumstances in their operations.
Recent Kempen SNS Smaller Europe SRI Index responsible for SEE matters and he reports surveys at three major DS Smith Packaging for smaller companies selected for their high to the Board on these.
It is the responsibility sites about employees attitudes to safety are social responsibility standards and practice.
of the Divisional Chief Executives and being followed up with training workshops General Managers of the individual The Groups highest corporate social aimed at changing peoples behaviour in businesses to communicate and apply the responsibility priorities are to ensure relation to safety.
While the Group made policies, to ensure compliance and to review that all activities are conducted safely by progress in 2004 05, there is scope to procedures, taking account of local legislation qualified and well-trained employees and reduce accidents still further and the divisions and potential risks.
Divisional Chief to minimise the impact on the environment are continuing their safety training and Executives are required annually to attest that of the Groups businesses.
the companies for which they are responsible Health and Safety Environment have complied with relevant Group and A safe working environment and safe working During 2004 05, DS Smith continued to divisional human resources, health and safety practices are essential elements in the Groups develop its substantial recycling activities and environmental policies.
drive to raise operational performance: they and made further progress in strengthening The Groups Key Corporate Values statement are key factors in attracting and retaining a the environmental management of its may be viewed on the Companys website.
high quality and well-motivated workforce manufacturing and distribution operations.
It requires all employees at all times to act and in carrying out our operations productively Environmental performance and activities ethically and with integrity: to treat their and cost-effectively.
Information on safety of the divisions are reviewed at the Group colleagues fairly, equitably and with respect: performance is reported to the Board quarterly Environment Committee, which meets three to work safely: and to protect the and the importance of safety is reflected in it times a year and is chaired by the Group environment.
These values are underpinned being the first fixed agenda item at all main Chief Executive.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 23 Safety A Stop card system for identifying and Environment Severnside provides collection and Training Many Spicers UK employees have communicating potential hazards is one of many recycling services for a wide range of businesses successfully completed national vocational qualications safety awareness procedures used across the Group.
NVQs : the NVQ programme is now being extended.
82% of Group sites now have an appropriate Data for the Groups paper mills, which protective transit packaging and the display environmental management system EMS account for over 80% of the Groups packaging in store reduces the total quantity in place.
Of the 31 Group sites identified as environmental impact, and for which data of packaging used for some products.
having higher potential environmental impact has been monitored for many years, are The Groups operations make a major reported below.
due to their size or type of operations, 24 contribution to the corrugated packaging are now accredited under the internationally The Group had a number of minor recycling process.
Corrugated board is recognised ISO 14001 EMS: eight plants environmental incidents during the year, produced predominantly from recycled paper obtained certification during 2004 05: DS following which prompt corrective action and is a cost-effective and fully recyclable Smith Packaging Belper, Fordham, Louth, and steps to prevent re-occurrence were packaging material.
Severnside Recycling Neath and PSM: DS Smith Kaypac: St Regis taken, and, where necessary, the appropriate is the UKs largest collector of recovered Higher Kings Mill and Severnside Recycling.
DS Smith Packaging paper: it works closely with a number of The remaining seven higher potential impact Clay Cross was prosecuted and fined 1,000 major supermarket chains to raise recycling sites are targeted to achieve ISO 14001 for failing to ensure that waste chemicals levels and, in 2004 05, it invested further in accreditation during 2005 06.
Of the Groups from its site were disposed of correctly after its collection infrastructure.
St Regis is the 71 other sites, 60 have a simplified EMS in an independent contractor they had employed UKs leading recycler of packaging waste place, appropriate to their lower level of was found to have been operating illegally.
and largest producer of recycled paper, potential environmental impact, and the The circumstances surrounding all while DS Smith Kaysersberg is a significant remainder are targeted to implement a environmental incidents are investigated recycler of recovered paper in France: in simplified EMS during 2005 06.
As part of immediately and the findings and lessons total the Group recycled 1.1 million tonnes their EMSs, many Group businesses have learnt are communicated throughout the of paper in 2004 05. procedures in place for assessing their Group as part of our drive to reduce suppliers environmental policies and The Groups paper collection and recycling such incidents.
operations also play an important role in Packaging and the environment meeting the EU and UK government All Group businesses are required to monitor Packaging is often perceived as an objectives for recycling of packaging waste and report on the carbon dioxide CO 2 unnecessary use of resources.
However, as prescribed in the EU Packaging and emissions from their direct operations, water most packaging, and especially corrugated Packaging Waste Directive and the UK usage, waste disposed of to landfill and waste packaging, performs the valuable functions of Packaging Waste Regulations.
CO emissions from the Groups 2 limiting damage to products, enabling more Directive, the UK is required to recycle at main transport operations are monitored and efficient handling and transportation, reducing least 60% of all paper packaging by 2008: other transport activities will be incorporated waste and lowering the environmental impact it is already ahead of this target, with 65% into the monitoring process in future.
The of the supply of the goods.
The Groups of paper packaging being recycled in 2004, coverage and quality of the Groups data packaging operations contribute to and DS Smith is the largest contributor to this continues to improve as the number of sites minimising the use of resources by working reprocessing.
Whereas corrugated packaging with EMSs increases: this will in time enable is generally used once and can then be even fuller reporting of our environmental with their customers to develop packaging of performance.
Environmental management the optimum specification for the required recycled in what is essentially a loop system, and reporting of sites is audited through the end-use.
Increased use of packaging that the Groups plastic returnable transit Groups routine internal audit processes.
performs the dual functions of being both the packaging is designed to be re-used, often 24 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 Corporate Social Responsibility Review continued Community John Dickinsons 2004 cause-related marketing campaign to promote Plus Fabric envelopes raised 58,000 for the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children.
many times, where customers require multiterms of the UK scheme, our UK mills recycling of water: Higher Kings Mill trip packaging.
Several of our businesses have applied to opt out of the first phase of upgraded its effluent plant: and Sudbrook Mill continued its programme to reduce the recycle worn or damaged plastic packaging, the Emissions Trading scheme and remain impact of its effluent discharge.
The paper such as bottle crates or layer pads, to produce within the UK paper sector CCL Agreement.
mills increased their recycling of reject new crates or plastic sheet.
St Regis is currently working with the Carbon material, such as plastic and polystyrene, Trust to identify further ways to reduce its Environmental management which enters their process mixed in with the carbon emissions.
paper manufacturing recovered paper and is separated out during Paper manufacturing has the largest potential In 2004 05, CO emissions from the Groups 2 paper manufacture, by 6%, thus enabling a environmental impact of all the Groups paper mills, which accounted for 83% of the 6% reduction in waste disposed of to landfill.
operations, particularly because the process Groups total CO emissions, increased by 2 Environmental management requires large quantities of energy and water.
4%: the majority of this rise was attributable other operations Seven of the Groups nine paper mills have to a 3% increase in paper production, but CO 2 Although the environmental impact of the ISO 14001 certification and the other two emissions per tonne of paper produced were Groups other operations is substantially are progressing towards certification.
The 1% higher, compared with a 4% reduction lower than that of paper manufacturing, UK mills are regulated through Pollution in the previous year.
The small increase in our Corrugated and Plastic Packaging and Prevention and Control PPC permits under emissions per tonne was due to the failure Office Products businesses undertook a which they each have specific improvement of generating equipment at the combined variety of initiatives aimed at minimising programmes and targets: St Regis overall heat and power CHP plant operated by an their environmental impact.
In 2004 05, CO 2 compliance with its PPC emission limits independent energy company at the Groups emissions and water usage of our non-Paper was 99.0% in 2004 05.
St Regis is a key largest paper mill, Kemsley.
Although the operations were unchanged year-on-year but participant in the UK paper sector Climate mill reduced its energy consumption per their total waste generated and disposed of Change Levy CCL Agreement with the tonne, this resulted in the importation from to landfill was reduced through improved Department of Environment Food and the national grid of a substantial quantity of process control and increased recycling of Rural Affairs under which the industry has electricity, which is generated and transported waste, particularly in Spicers.
The DS Smith undertaken to achieve energy consumption at a significantly lower efficiency, and Kaysersberg St Just corrugated plant reduction targets.
St Regis met its target therefore produces higher CO emissions per 2 converted its boilers from oil to gas during for the year to September 2004 and is kilowatt hour used than when the electricity the year, which is expected to reduce CO 2 comfortably on course to meet its next is produced at the CHP plant on site.
DS Smith opikas in target for the year to September 2005.
Turkey commissioned a new water treatment Water usage at the paper mills, which The Groups UK and French paper operations plant at its Corlu corrugated packaging plant accounted for 98% of total Group water are now subject to the terms of their usage, increased marginally but the usage which has improved the quality of the effluent respective national schemes for implementing per tonne of paper produced was 3% lower as discharged into the local river.
A number of the EU Emissions Trading Directive.
As a a result of investment at our French mills.
In the UK businesses are working with the result of the energy reduction actions taken the UK, Hollins Mill received the Lancashire Carbon Trust and energy management in recent years, the financial impact on our Business Environment Association Water consultants to identify opportunities to lower operations during the first phase to 2007 is Wise award, sponsored by the Environment energy usage and carbon emissions.
In not expected to be significant.
Under the Agency, in recognition of its increased addition to many local energy reduction DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 25 Material collected by Severnside Recycling Paper Mills Environmental Performance 000 Tonnes Index 2002 100 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2002 2003 2004 2005 Corrugated Packaging CO2 emissions excluding transport per tonne of paper produced Total Paper and Plastic Water usage per tonne of paper produced projects carried out within DS Smith employee communication and consultation and legislation requirements in each of the Packaging, a newly developed divisional by establishing divisional Employee Forums countries in which it operates: in practice energy policy is being supported by an energy for UK employees: these will meet for the the Group often exceeds the local and first time during the summer of 2005 and will management training programme.
As DS Smiths complement the Groups existing European operations are almost entirely located in In addition to the Groups primary focus on Works Council and the businesses established member counties of the Organisation for safety and the environment, the Group places briefing and consultation structures.
Employee Economic Co-operation and Development, considerable importance on its dealings with feedback surveys carried out recently human rights matters are not perceived as its employees and local communities.
amongst all, or parts, of St Regis, DS Smith a significant Group risk.
Packaging, Spicers and John Dickinson have Employees Community Involvement been used to develop action plans for The Group recognises the value that its The Group regards it as important to develop improving communication, increasing interemployees generate and aims to create a and maintain good relations and a positive departmental or inter-location co-operation, working environment in which people meet reputation in the communities in which it training and performance reviews.
the Groups objectives while feeling that they operates.
Our individual businesses support their are well managed, treated with respect and Training and development are carried out local communities through a range of activities able to fulfill their own potential.
It ensures by the divisions and businesses to meet such as sponsorship of community projects or that the divisions have in place appropriate their specific needs for raising operational sports teams: helping local schools with project structures, procedures and resources to performance and career development.
work or provision of work experience implement the employee-related aspects Several UK sites have obtained Investors in opportunities: and provision of adult training of the Groups Key Corporate Values.
St Regis and DS Smith skills or facilities.
At sites where our operations Packaging continue to benefit from their The recruitment and retention of high-quality may inconvenience neighbours through traffic joint management development programme, and well-motivated people is key to the movements, odour or noise, liaison groups accredited by the University of Derby, for Groups future success.
The annual turnover meet to consult with local residents and team leaders, supervisors, and operational rate in the Groups workforce is below 10% review ways to minimise any impact.
DS Smith in most of our operations and less than 5% The Group supports charitable fund-raising Plastics has established a new development at many locations.
In common with other activities through cash contributions and in programme for graduates and managers.
companies which have similar operations, the form of product and services or staff time.
The divisions operate a variety of schemes to turnover is highest at some of our Spicers The majority of the modest amount of money encourage and support employees in studying distribution centres and in our transport donated by the Group is given by individual for National Vocational Qualifications, operations.
Action is ongoing in both these operating units, principally to causes in their areas to achieve a higher rate of retention.
e-learning, Open University courses, local communities.
Donations by the Group acquiring computer skills and other forms An extensive communication programme headquarters are focused on a small number of further education.
of educational, training and support causes contributed significantly to the successful The Group is committed to applying equal integration of the operations and workforce that help young people become involved in of Linpac Containers with DS Smith opportunities in all recruitment and business and working life.
The Group is a Packagings existing operations.
It is also committed, member of Business in the Community and has further strengthened its processes for as a minimum, to meeting the labour rights donates to The Princes Trust.
