Corporate Social Responsibility Introduction Health & Safety This report describes the policies and procedures that Aggreko puts health and safety at the very heart the Board has put in place to ensure that Aggreko of its operations.
Most of our equipment is heavy, operates in a safe, ethical and responsible manner, electro-mechanical equipment which is moved around which protects the environment as well as frequently.
Compressors and generators respectively safeguarding the health and safety of its employees, its produce high-pressure compressed air and high customers, and the communities in which it operates.
voltages, either of which can be harmful to people The process for identifying, evaluating and managing if mishandled.
the risks that are considered significant is summarised under the heading of Internal Control on page 43.
Aggrekos policy is to implement common health and safety operating procedures worldwide.
The nature of our business is that we work in many Whether operating in the Australian bush, the different countries, often in remote and difficult Saudi Arabian desert or in downtown Manhattan, environments, with equipment and substances, which our operating procedures are the same high standard.
if improperly handled, are potentially dangerous to people and harmful to property and the environment.
Among the key features of Aggrekos worldwide We frequently operate in response to natural or Health and Safety Policy are: man-made disasters, where the infrastructure has been badly damaged and where operating conditions Ensuring that health and safety issues are at the are far from ideal.
Over time, therefore, we have fore-front of considerations when we design our developed a comprehensive range of operating equipment procedures and processes to ensure that we minimise any risk of harm to people or to the environment.
Ensuring that our equipment is built and maintained to the highest standards Equal Opportunities Aggreko is committed to promoting equal Training and educating our staff worldwide opportunities for all, irrespective of disability, in the safe operation of our equipment ethnic origin, gender or any other considerations that do not affect a persons ability to perform their Ensuring that health and safety issues have job.
The Groups policies for recruitment, training, the appropriate level of focus throughout the career development and promotion of employees management chain.
are based on the suitability of the individual.
Aggreko has created its own Global Environmental Health and Safety Management System GEMS which has been implemented throughout the business.
At the core of GEMS is a Best Operating Practice document that is published in 8 languages English, French, German, Dutch, Spanish, Italian, Norwegian and Singhalese and made available to every Aggreko employee worldwide.
The Best Operating Practice is updated in the light of experience and incidents.
30 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 GEMS incorporates a comprehensive reporting system Technical Terms which is designed to ensure that the Company knows of every incident, and can learn from it.
A uniform NOx accident and incident data collection procedure is Oxides of Nitrogen.
implemented worldwide, and from these we can Particulate measure our performance and benchmark our In general this term relates to visible smoke.
Performance measures are reported Tier 1, tier 2, tier 3, tier 4 at business unit level on a monthly basis.
Any serious US Federal Government target emission reduction incident is immediately reported to the Executive levels.
Director responsible for the business unit concerned.
g bhp-hr Emissions in grams per brake-horsepower hour.
Meetings of the senior management of each region CO2 are held regularly: at each of these an Executive Carbon Dioxide.
Director will normally chair the meeting, and LWA incidents reported under GEMS are discussed.
Sound power level at source.
On a quarterly basis, the Executive Director MW responsible for Health and Safety, George Walker, A million watts.
We measure our safety performance using a metric called Frequency Accident Rating FAR, which The Environment is a measurement of lost-time accidents in relation Environmental Policy to the number of hours worked.
The usefulness of this Aggrekos equipment is designed to function in measure is that we can benchmark our performance all continents and all types of terrain.
By careful against other businesses.
It is calculated as the number design and use of the most suitable technology, we of lost-time accidents multiplied by 200,000 hours, also aim to minimise the environmental impact of that divided by the number of man-hours worked.
Aggreko makes available to its customers benchmark is the 2004 level reported for US rental equipment and solutions that are designed to comply and leasing industries by the US Department of Labor with applicable laws, regulations and industry of 1.4.
Aggrekos FAR performance over the past standards wherever we operate in the world.
In effect, three years has been signicantly better than this this means they comply with the laws, regulations and benchmark, being 0.98 in 2005, 1.09 in 2004 and standards of some of the most stringent jurisdictions 0.97 in 2003.
A FAR score of less than 0.9 has in which we operate and, therefore, far exceed the been set by the Group as a target for 2006. levels required in many others.
The two major environmental issues we deal with in our business are emissions-to-air from our equipment the vast majority of which is diesel powered, and the safe handling and disposal of fuel and oil.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 31 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Our Environmental Policies are managed in a similar Diesel Generator Emission Development way to safety.
They comprise: 16 1995 Unregulated Ensuring that environmental issues are at the fore- 14 front of considerations when we design our eet: 12 Ensuring that our equipment is built and 10 maintained to the highest standards: 8 Training and educating our staff worldwide Tier 1 in the safe operation of our equipment: 6 Tier 2 4 Ensuring that environmental issues have the Tier 3 appropriate level of focus throughout the 2 management chain.
Tier 4A Tier 4B 0 2014 Emissions-to-air: exhaust gases and particulates 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 1.2 Emissions-to-air are an inevitable by-product of Particulate [g bhp-hr ] hydrocarbon fuelled engines.
Over the years, as engines have become more efficient and legislation to Our strong presence in markets which are particularly limit emissions around the world has become stricter, sensitive to emissions, such as California, means that emissions have reduced sharply.
Aggreko works in the control of emissions is at the fore-front of our co-operation with the manufacturers of diesel engines design considerations and decisions on engine choice.
in order to meet new emission requirements at the earliest opportunity.
Aggreko natural gas generator development We are constantly exploring new ways of reducing The principle contribution we can make to reducing emissions, and have completed the development of emissions to air is in maintaining our equipment in a new gas-fuelled temporary power solution, which good order, and introducing engines into the eet has signicantly lower levels of emissions see below.
Reduction in emissions Tier 1 Gas Reduction The chart below shows a summarised account of the Engine engine % requirement to meet new emission guidelines for NOX 6.9 g bhp-hr 1.0 g bhp-hr 87 Oxides of Nitrogen NOx and Particulate as set out Particulate 0.4 g bhp-hr 0.1 g bhp-hr 75 by the US Federal Government.
Most of Aggrekos eet is powered by Tier 1 engines: we have so far Natural gas presents a competitive advantage over introduced over 800 Tier 2 engines into the eet other energy sources.
It is seen as economically and will be adopting Tier 3 compliant engines as more efficient because only about ten per cent of the the engines are made available by suppliers.
natural gas produced is wasted before it gets to final consumption.
In addition, technological advances are constantly improving efficiencies in extraction, transportation and storage techniques as well as in equipment that uses natural gas.
32 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 NOx[g bhp-hr ] Natural gas is considered as an  spills and the safe disposal of friendly clean fuel, offering important environmental waste uids benets when compared to other fossil fuels.
The Aggreko and its customers handle a considerable superior environmental qualities over coal or oil are quantity of diesel fuel and the occurrence of fuel spills that emissions of sulphur dioxide are negligible or that is an area that the Group monitors very closely.
The the level of nitrous oxide and carbon dioxide emissions measure used by management to measure the is signicantly lower.
This helps to reduce problems of performance of the Group in handling fuel is the acid rain, ozone layer or greenhouse gases.
This is calculated as litres released to ground, divided by the cumulative In many of Aggrekos target markets natural gas is average MW on rent.
The PRR performance over the effectively a stranded resource which dictates that the past three years has been: 2005 a rating of 0.48, gas is ared to the atmosphere as opposed to used for 2004 a rating of 1.39 and in 2003 a rating of beneficial services.
This practice is being increasingly 0.97.
Our equipment has been specically designed regulated and Aggrekos service allows for generation to minimise the risk of uid spillage through features of power from this valuable resource on a more such as a save-all base, double-walled storage tanks exible and scaleable basis than existing solutions.
A PRR score of less than 0.85 has been set by the Group as a target for 2006.
Emissions-to-air: carbon dioxide CO 2 All of Aggrekos core activities release CO into the 2 atmosphere to a greater or lesser extent.
The most significant impact arises from power generation in Aggreko International due to the intensiveness of our activities in providing temporary power stations.
Any generation of electricity using hydrocarbon fuels inevitably causes the release of CO and the 2 performance of Aggrekos equipment is comparable to other equivalent power sources.
Aggreko is actively researching the availability of alternative mobile power sources that will reduce the level of CO 2 emissions: until an economically viable alternative becomes available, the level of emissions will mirror the level of our business activity.
The actual amount of CO released by our engines is driven by the usage 2 our customers make of our equipment on rent: an engine running 24 hours day will emit much more CO than an engine used for a few hours a day.
2 These patterns of usage can vary widely from country to country and from year to year.
We estimate that customers using Aggreko engines produced, an average CO emission rate of 0.65 tonnes of CO 2 2 per megawatt hour.
This compares with a modern coal-red power station which will produce in the region of 0.85 tonnes of CO per megawatt hour.
2 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 33 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Another potential source of environmental damage Business Ethics is in the disposal of consumables such as engine oil Ethics Policy and lters.
In our Local business, these are normally Aggreko has a reputation for delivering innovation, returned to our service centres where they are safely performance and solutions.
Also at the heart of our disposed of.
In our International Power Projects long-term success is something less tangible and less business, site-specic arrangements are made to easily illustrated with gures or case studies.
This ensure the safe handling of these items.
key element is integrity and honesty in our business dealings, a factor that contributes to our long-term Reporting of fuel spills is handled in a similar way to relationships with customers.
All Aggreko employees safety incidents, with monthly reporting at regional are expected to behave ethically in their work, and level, and quarterly reporting to the Board.
our expectations of them are set out in a Corporate Ethics Policy.
The objective of the policy is to make Noise Aggreko a good company to work for: to maintain Aggreko has built a competitive advantage through our reputation for exceptional customer service and an equipment eet that minimises external noise.
This ethical business dealings, to compete ethically, and is done by the use of custom-built acoustic enclosures to ensure the business is managed to a consistently as well as high performance isolation and attenuation high standard.
Aggreko continues to work closely with its suppliers and local university research departments Employees who suspect any breaches of the Corporate in order to develop its expertise in this eld.
As a Ethics Policy are encouraged to speak up, and their result, our equipment is able to achieve the following condentiality and position is protected if they do so.
performance standards that are well below the maximum levels permitted by current European See our Corporate Responsibility Website.
information and copies of the Environmental, Health and Safety Policy and Corporate Ethics Policy are Certied Noise Level Sound Power LWA available at www.
asp Maximum Standard Premium Size of Generator EU Limit Product Product 30 kVA 98.3 93.3 78.0 60 kVA 98.6 89.9 80.0 125 kVA 99.0 90.0 83.0 200 kVA 99.1 95.0 91.0 320 kVA 99.4 94.0 90.0 Note: A reduction of 3 LWA in the certied noise level equates to an audible noise level that is approximately 50% lower.
34 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 GOVERNANCE Governance Board of Directors 36 Directors Report 38 Directors Responsibilities 41 Corporate Governance 42 Audit Committee Report 45 Nomination Committee Report 47 Remuneration Report 48 Independent Auditors Report Group 58
