plc 95 05 Social, environmental and ethical report easyJet believes in the goal of excellence of achievement in all its functions and activities.
We see the striving for excellence in environmental, social and ethical activities as a key behaviour for a successful and sustainable business: positive for our shareholders, people and suppliers, and considerate to our neighbours whilst we deliver value to our customers.
Environment We are the largest intra-United Kingdom and fourth largest intra-European airline in terms of passengers carried.
With this level of activity, we recognise that we affect the environment in a number of ways: l Emission of greenhouse gases l Noise l Usage of chemicals in the airport environment l Use of paper and packaging l Creating demand for new infrastructure l Airport congestion Emission of greenhouse gases As a product of operating its aircraft, easyJet emits greenhouse gases notably carbon dioxide, nitrous oxides, sulphur oxides and water vapour.
Our business model contributes to minimising our effect on the environment through the following: l Our use of point-to-point services means that the distance of customer trips is reduced, especially when compared to the flag carrier hub and spoke concept, whereby many passengers will travel on more flights and therefore an additional distance to get to their destination: l Our load factors, which are amongst the highest in the industry, mean that unit output of greenhouse gases will be lower than for most airlines.
As a result, easyJet ensures that unnecessary flights are eliminated: and l The use of new aircraft.
Our policy is to grow our fleet using new aircraft, whilst retiring older aircraft usually within seven years of delivery.
As newer aircraft are more fuel efficient than older ones, their environmental impact is less.
At 30 September 2005, our fleet had an average age of 3.0 years, an improvement of 1.5 years from 30 September 2004.
After committed deliveries have been taken into account, the average fleet age is expected to reduce to 2.3 years by 30 September 2006.
Noise easyJet generates noise as part of its aircraft operations.
Our business model however ensures that the impact of this on the environment is less than for many other carriers.
Our new aircraft are amongst the quietest in the industry.
We have very few operations at night 2300 hrs 0600 hrs when noise is of the greatest concern.
Usage of chemicals in the airport environment easyJet is aware of its responsibilities to the environment, within our operation the risk from the use of fluids for fide-icing and the transfer and shipment of oils is maintained to a level as low as is practicable.
In the area of fide-icing and oils easyJet uses process which reclaim harmful emissions where available and, where this is not possible, processes must be shown to ensure that harmful fluids do not enter water courses or leach into the water table.
Use of paper and packaging We have a policy of operating a near paperless office, where the majority of hardcopy documents are scanned into electronic format.
Our head office does not contain a photocopier.
All paper is disposed of through our recycling programme.
This programme principally covers papers, including a special secure disposal for commercially sensitive waste and printer toner cartridges.
Our onboard product business policy of supplying food that does not rapidly perish and our charging for these products has the effect of minimising such waste.
By not offering inclusive food, we eliminate meals that people do not want.
To reduce the effect on waste processing we seek to use packaging materials that are either biodegradable or can be readily recycled.
Creating demand for new infrastructure The demand for low-cost air services has driven the huge expansion of easyJet.
This potentially creates demand for additional land facilities, such as airport terminals and runways.
The construction and development of these may have negative effects on the environment.
40 Annual report and accounts 05 We prefer efficient use of existing infrastructure rather than new build.
easyJet is one of the most efficient users of existing regional airport capacity in and across Europe.
This means that previously under-utilised facilities are being used rather than having to build new capacity at existing congested hubs.
In addition, we are committed to reducing the costs of the airport environment.
One of these projects is to use self check-in terminals, which have been successfully introduced at Geneva, Basel, Berlin Schoenefeld and Nottingham East Midlands.
One of the advantages of self check-in is that airport terminal space can be used more efficiently.
This will reduce the amount of terminal development required in the future.
Airport congestion Passengers travelling to and from easyJet airports have the potential to create congestion.
We have engaged with other transport suppliers and negotiated incentive pricing offers that encourage our people and customers to use more environmentally efficient methods of airport access.
Notable of these in London is reduced price tickets on selected train and bus services when purchased though our website.
Further actions to reduce the environmental impact of operations Whilst our business model and processes mean that easyJet is already more environmentally efficient than other airlines, we recognise that more needs to be done.
To further these aims, we are pursuing a number of measures.
We have joined the UK Sustainable Aviation Coalition, and have given our support to the concept of emissions trading.
This would incentivise a change in the behaviour of airlines to focus on the cleanest and most modern aircraft.
We see emissions trading as a mechanism to reduce the relative contribution of airlines.
We are lobbying to make taxes more closely meet the challenges of the environment.
We are in favour of changing the basis of the calculation of Air Passenger Duty APD and its equivalent in other European countries.
APD does not encourage airlines to be more environmentally aware.
We would support the tax being charged in relation to environmental impact.
All we would ask is that all transport industries would be treated in the same way in terms of environmental taxation and infrastructure cost.
We are lobbying to improve the effectiveness of European air traffic control.
At present the industry is fragmented and aligned along international boundaries.
This means that aircraft have to travel further than they would otherwise need to.
We have calculated that our aircraft travel on average 5% further than they need to, therefore burning more fuel.
We support the introduction of the European Single Sky initiative.
Through our shareholding in The Airline Group Limited, we have encouraged the UK air traffic control provider, NATS, to pursue opportunities with other European providers to drive efficiency.
We are pleased to note that some success has already been achieved.
We have continued to encourage the EU to allow consolidation within the European airline industry, allowing old inefficient flag carriers to cease trading.
This would reduce the number of flights within Europe.
Social Equality and diversity easyJet is a committed equal opportunities employer.
Our policy aims to ensure that no job applicant or employee receives less favourable treatment on the basis of their age, colour, creed, disability, fullor part-time status, gender, marital status, nationality or ethnic origin, race, religion or sexual orientation.
At 30 September 2005, we employed 4,152 persons as set out below: Location of employees at 30 September 2005 2004 Age of employees at 30 September 2005 2004 UK 3,131 2,966 Under 20 147 123 Switzerland 506 385 21 30 1,833 1,654 Germany 355 247 31 40 1,360 1,229 France 158 127 41 50 612 537 Other 2 2 Over 50 200 184 4,152 3,727 4,152 3,727 Annual report and accounts 05 41 plc 95 05 Social, environmental and ethical report continued With our growth across Europe, our workforce is becoming increasingly multinational.
We are building a workforce that has a balanced age profile and intends to maintain opportunities for younger and older people alike.
A visible industry-leading example of this is that we now have no age limit for the employment of cabin crew.
Safety Safety is the number one priority for the business.
We aim to provide a safe and efficient work environment for all our people.
Beyond those engaged in office-based work, the large majority of our people are aircrew.
They have been one of the mainstays to our success, giving a great deal of effort to their role.
The rapid expansion of the airline has from time to time created extra load from events such as service disruption and this coupled with the effect on fatigue, subsequent rest and lifestyle, proved challenging for them all.
To improve this situation we are continuing to invest substantial effort and money into rostering practice and systems.
We have continued to study the effect of fatigue on our flight crew to both minimise fatigue and improve the lifestyle opportunities of our aircrew.
Training and development We are committed to providing high-quality training to support the safe operation of the business, and the cultural and personal development of our people.
During the year we have opened the easyJet Academy, a 30,000 square foot training facility, which will contribute towards achieving these objectives.
Consultation with employees easyJet is committed to providing open information to its people, and to consulting over key issues.
We have a number of forums at which each area of the business can raise issues that are of concern.
During the year, we created the Business Forum, to consult at a high level with both unions and other staff groups.
We have a good relationship with our recognised trade unions, Amicus, BALPA and the TGWU.
We have lost no days to industrial action during the year.
We have developed our previous Culture Committee activity into the new Culture Network, which recognises our European personality and location of our people.
This Network gives everyone an opportunity to get involved in communicating issues and ideas to management.
The goals of the Network are to create an environment where people are happy to come to work: to nurture pride in the Company and peoples individual efforts: to deliver outstanding performance to our internal and external customers and to promote our low-cost model.
Staff recognition We introduced the GoMAD rewards scheme to give social and financial recognition, on a monthly basis, to those of our people who so often go beyond their normal duties to assist others.
During the year, we have given 194 such awards.
Structure of management and communication The process of designing efficiency into our core business extends to our flat management structure, where we have few organisational layers between the Chief Executive and our operational and customer-facing people.
Our head office facility is also low cost and consists only of what is functionally necessary to conduct our business.
We have an open office policy to encourage the interaction between any people, with break-out meeting rooms having full access to all the computer-based applications and electronic information, displayed on energy-saving screens.
The Company, from its inception, subscribed to a policy of open information access.
This is only limited to comply with our public Company obligations, ensure commercial confidentiality of key information from other parties such as our suppliers or maintain security of business knowledge and personal data.
We have a number of means to keep our people informed of the business both for internal and external news.
Key amongst these is our intranet, which is the official portal to a wide range of Company information which is actively updated and expanding in subject coverage.
This is a proven, successful communications medium and events ranging from daily operational performance to long term plans are posted here.
42 Annual report and accounts 05 Using the intranet, access is provided to both common policies and procedures, such as in the People Handbook, or specific activities related to one of the business groups e. g. aircraft technical discussions.
Our people also publish their views on any topic via open discussion forums covering technical, employment, cost issues and more: in fact anything our people wish to debate.
As measurement of travel delivery achievement to our customers is a key performance indicator.
We report to our people on the end result of their effort by publishing the preceding days on time performance on our intranet front page each weekday morning.
A wide range of topical news from inside and outside the business, management announcements and general social activities, is also available.
To connect the management with any person in the business, Directors have instituted a monthly on-line chat forum, which draws a wide audience with lively discussion.
To supplement the general intranet information, a range of magazines and newsletters are published.
These include the business development focused Plane Times, in electronic form every three weeks, the quarterly Plane People, containing articles on a wide range of subjects and which is delivered to the home address of each of our people.
Individual business groups produce specialist publications such as The Stable Approach for pilots, Cabin Fever for cabin crew and Crew Safety for the operations team.
Charitable donations Our charity policy is to recognise and devote efforts to a single charity each year.
The charity chosen this year was the National Society for Epilepsy.
We have worked with the National Society for Epilepsy to help promote them, with activities including on-board collections, a click and give campaign from our website, being featured in our in-flight magazine and other public relations activities.
Over 262,360 was raised to 30 September 2005 and the National Society for Epilepsy received coverage in major national, regional press and television.
We will shortly select our chosen charity for the next year.
A tender and selection process has already been undertaken, with the final choice being made by way of open staff vote.
Also during this year we gave a one-off donation of 50,000 to the Disasters Emergency Committee following the Boxing Day tsunami and a two-week on-board collection raised in excess of 300,000.
In Geneva, our base staff raised a further 33,000 for the Swiss solidarity organisation, Bonheur.
As part of our support to local communities, we also donate free flights to deserving causes.
During the year, we have given away 123 return flights to a large number of local organisations.
Organisations that have benefited include NIPPA the Early Years organisation, which works to promote the development of high-quality care, education and play facilities for children aged up to 14 and their families in Northern Ireland.
We also encourage staff involvement in charitable activities.
A scheme involving donations through deductions from payroll has resulted in several different charities benefiting.
Ethical easyJet is committed to the highest standards of corporate behaviour from its Directors and employees.
We require all of our people to perform their duties with efficiency and diligence and to always behave to customers and other people alike with courtesy and decorum.
Our procurement process has strong controls to ensure that our dealings with others are open and transparent, and avoids any suspicion of conflicts of interest.
In particular, we have specific clauses in each employees contract of employment which sets tight rules in respect of accepting gifts or gratuities.
