operating & financial review continued 2005 06 Outlook Elsewhere, ECMs Fanzine Awards offer prizes Breakdown of staff by age Emaps UK consumer magazine and b2b to gifted enthusiasts who produce magazines businesses have both started the year well Under 30 33% in their spare time another way of catching 30 45 53% and are expected to continue to perform talent that might not otherwise be discovered.
Over 45 14% strongly, well equipped to weather a more uncertain economic outlook and continuing Developing our people high competitive intensity.
Although the radio As with recruitment, each division has its market is experiencing some volatility, Emap own approach to developing its people in line Radio has the advantage of continuing with its own priorities.
strong audience performances in London, the West Midlands and on digital radio.
In Emap Communications EC, for example, has France, the economic outlook has not been Given that people are our biggest competitive introduced personal development plans for its encouraging, but the competitive situation advantage, its vital we invest time and effort in leadership team.
These work by clarifying the appears to have stabilised.
attracting, developing, engaging and rewarding qualities that people need to demonstrate, the skills we need to take the business forward.
helping individuals to understand where they, Although the economic outlook is uncertain, We aim to nd the best talent and create an personally, need to grow and tailoring their the Group is in line to deliver against its full environment in which it can ourish.
In a separate initiative, year expectations.
people are with us for two years or 20, we some of ECs Managing Directors are honing want them to feel valued, motivated and free their strategic skills by working with peers in to develop, both professionally and personally.
other large organisations to investigate the our people strategic challenges facing each company.
At Emap, were nothing without the skills and Attracting talent passion of our people.
In turn, were All our businesses are competing for talent Recognising that most learning takes place passionate about nding the best and making in a relatively small pool.
So as well as using on the job, we also develop our people sure they develop and grow.
Nurturing our conventional channels such as the press and by stretching and challenging them and people is a real business priority and vital to internet, they need to be creative in reaching giving them as much responsibility as possible.
Each division has its own approach At Emaps radio division, for example, all to attracting the skills and expertise it needs, employees have a personal agreement that Emap is all about creating market-leading in line with its own strategy and requirements.
outlines the scope of their job and the kind brands that appeal to a wide spread of At the same time, theyre all looking for people of development that both they and the audiences from readers of Nursing Times to who will t well with the values of the Group business think is needed.
And the only way we can do see page 27 for Emaps values.
it effectively is by attracting and retaining the Changes to processes and technology right talent people with a passion for their In its search for editorial skills, Emap Consumer are sometimes the catalyst for new skills.
eld of interest, a feel for the market and the Media ECM offers annual scholarships to In 2004, 100 magazines previously produced ability to think exibly and respond creatively a number of internal and external candidates on Apple Macintoshes were upgraded to the to market opportunities.
and aims to develop them as journalists or very different Mac OSX operating system designers through the programme.
These and new design software.
More than 600 Theres no typical Emap person.
We value highly-prized awards have proved an excellent editorial staff had to be retrained with every our diversity and believe it makes for better way of turning talented newcomers into designer and sub-editor getting two full days business if employees can be themselves.
With its base partly tuition.
Its a credit to the systems and the So we embrace debate and differences of in Peterborough, ECM is also working hard training that the magazines could be view and assess people purely on their ability to raise its prole as a local employer through switched at the rate of one a week with and contribution.
The result is a young initiatives such as sponsoring a local beer no disruption to normal workow.
workforce with many people holding highly festival and providing work placements for responsible positions early in their careers.
emap plc annual report & accounts 2005 12 I first started at Emap as a junior writer on Bliss magazine.
It was my first job out of University and the opportunity was right up my street.
It was a strong title in an exciting market and Emap was a famous and reputable Company, so I knew the job could really make my career.
So far its given me amazing opportunities.
My managers here have championed me, helped me learn and grow, promoted me and encouraged me to move around the Company from Bliss to New Woman to Editor of Smash Hits and back to Bliss.
Its great to work for a Company with such a fantastic portfolio of titles and a wealth of experience and knowledge.
Whats really exciting is that Emap itself is truly passionate about the magazine industry.
Lisa Smosarski Editor, Bliss Magazine Michelle Surrell Project Director, Emap Radio After working in radio for 15 years, 9 of them with Emap, I decided to do something just for me.
For those 12 weeks I took art and yoga classes, lots of holidays and generally re-acquainted myself with my family!
The break left me feeling completely rested and as if I had wiped my brain clean, ready for it to start afresh!
I have taken on a new role and am thoroughly enjoying being back.
The joy of working for a company like Emap is that there can be exibility when circumstances permit, and when it happens, there is no doubt that both the individual and the Company benefit.
Paul Graham Managing Director, Glenigan When I came to work as a manager at Emap I wasnt expecting to be wearing a hair net and making sandwiches at 7am on a Tuesday morning!
It is, however, all part of an innovative development programme called The Circle, putting together managers from Pret a Manger hence the sandwiches!
Disney, Yahoo, Hasbro, WL Gore and Emap.
Spread over 12 months, The Circle is giving us all in-depth insights into successful companies from different industries with the aim of working together to provide solutions to real business problems unique challenges that are providing me with unique experience.
Peter Murphy Creative Production Manager, Emap Advertising The advertising production role has traditionally meant long days, and high levels of stress.
We have deadlines to meet, we deal with millions of pounds worth of advertising, and the slightest error can be costly.
Production felt overworked and under appreciated.
Work-life balance has helped and a major benefit is the exible start and nish times.
We can start between 8-10am and nish between 4.30-6.30pm providing we work a seven and a half hour day.
It is a real benefit to me, as I have a young daughter, Hannah, so I can spend more time with her.
An added bonus is that any additional hours worked can be used towards a day off a month.
This is a real highlight of the scheme as it rewards and recognises the team for our hard work.
I believe work-life balance is the most employee friendly initiative Emap has launched and EA should be applauded for it.
emap plc annual report & accounts 2005 13
