As one of the UKs largest purchasers of magazine papers, Emap has developed strong relationships with its key paper suppliers.
Through rm but fair negotiation, the Company achieves competitive, predictable prices in a volatile market.
Our purchasing volume, combined with our own commitment to our suppliers, also ensures continuity of supply and excellent service.
Our responsiblities the management First of all, we owe it to our readers and corporate social The plc Board of Emap is responsible for shareholders to buy our paper competitively setting the Groups strategy, values and and to guard against interruptions in supply.
As responsibility standards regarding social, environmental and one of the worlds largest buyers of magazine ethical issues.
It delegates the responsibility papers, weve built up strong relationships with In last years Annual Report and Accounts, of these to the Executive Board.
The Executive four major suppliers and been able to negotiate we reported that we had formed an internal Board and the Divisional Boards each include competitive, predictable prices in what can be steering group whose purpose is: social, environmental and ethical issues in their a volatile market.
As a further safeguard on formal risk assessment processes.
This supplies, we also keep our own stockpiles.
To galvanise awareness, understanding and enables the plc Board to ensure that any action around Emaps social and environmental potential problems are identied and Our paper comes from 38 mills in northern responsibilities through our energy and contingency strategies are in place.
Europe that take their timber from wellenthusiasm, engagement, innovation and managed sources and encourage high support, challenge and expertise.
Our values environmental standards on the part of forest Emaps values create a vision of the kind owners.
Last year, 49% of our paper came This group, known as the CSR Working of company we aspire to be, stating our from forest certication schemes.
This year Party, has met regularly over the course principles and standards and giving a sense the gure was 58% and we hope to reach of the year and has made some progress of what is important to Emap.
Ultimately we would like to in researching and discussing Emaps have been in place for many years and are reach 100% but we await developments approach to its responsibilities.
an inherent part of the Emap culture.
They within the forest industry that will enable us seek to set a framework for the way we to do this.
Currently there are not enough We are currently agreeing specic policies and conduct our relationships with colleagues: forests with certication schemes to provide practices which can be adopted by divisions to the environment we wish to work within us with the volume of paper that we require.
We will report back and the relationships we have with our However, for every tree felled for our paper, on progress on our website www.
com customers, suppliers and stakeholders.
we know that new trees are planted.
throughout the course of the year and will, of course, further update you in next years Emap and the environment All these mills manufacture to internationally Annual Report and Accounts.
The FTSE4Good Index classies Emap recognised standards including EMAS as a printing and newspaper company and European Eco-Management and Audit In the meantime, information about our therefore rates its environmental impact as Scheme, ISO 14001 or both.
approach to Emap people can be found medium.
In common with most businesses, on pages 1214. we affect the environment in the way we After manufacture, the 1.2 tonne reels are dispose of waste and the amount of water shipped by a combination of sea, road and The following pages focus on our and energy we consume.
Programmes are in rail to 30 or more printing sites around the environmental responsibilities and an example place to minimise these effects and together world.
This stage is managed by our suppliers of our work with one particular charity.
with the information in this Report, further who are expected to observe all national and Further information about transport and our details are on our website.
health and safety record can be found on www.
From forest to front room The huge presses used by our printers are More specic to our sector is our use of paper.
capable, in some cases, of turning out We remain committed to the principles With over 180 magazines in production, we 70,000 copies of a 64-page magazine every of corporate social responsibility and will need a lot of it about 175,000 metric tonnes hour.
Were currently reviewing our choice continue to ensure the Group adopts them a year.
Throughout the cycle, from the tree in of printers in the UK with particular focus on more fully in the year ahead.
the forest to the disposal of unsold magazines, their environmental credentials.
Whilst each of we go to great lengths to make our supply our printers has environmental standards and chain as environmentally sound as possible.
policies in place, we intend that all those in emap plc annual report & accounts 2005 27 operating & financial review continued Emap sees its key responsibilities as being to its people, the environment and the wider community.
the UK should be EMAS ISO 14001 Energy consumption 2005 compliant by March 2007 and that others Electricity Gas Water CO 2 should have appropriate certication.
Country KwH KwH M3 Tonnes UK 9,052,018 3,338,530 24,273 3,001 The binding process that follows the France 1,549,891 0 0 1,550 printing often involves cover mounts items such as CDs or sachets that are glued These gures represent approximately 77% of Emaps occupied property for a 12-month period.
or otherwise attached to the magazine.
These gures represent approximately 50% of Emaps occupied property for a 12-month period.
These mainly come from the Far East and Out of 29 sites, 11 sites are landlord supplied so cost is charged through service charge, data is are exclusively supplied by TCS Europe, not available for three sites so information is reported for 15 sites.
chosen because were satisfied they These gures represent approximately 51% of Emaps occupied property for a 12-month period.
source their products in an ethical way.
These gures represent the CO equivalent of the electricity consumed for the period.
2 Their responsibilities include monitoring conditions in the factories, assessing safety standards and checking the hours, pay and ages of the workers.
In addition, the Group has recycled In 2004 they decided to do without the 1,020 toners.
exotic location and offer something different After distribution and sale, the final link in something that would meet the same the chain is disposing of returned magazines.
Emap and the community objectives but also emphasise the values of These are collected by our wholesalers and Emap is committed to playing an active the Group and get people working in teams taken for reprocessing.
Different materials role in the communities it serves, whether towards a common goal.
such as paper and plastic lm are separated it is through its local radio stations out and recycled.
Paper, for example, is or its cluster communities of business The focus of the new-style conference, now converted into recycled bre for newspaper to business readers.
At Emaps core is held in the UK, was to raise money for the production.
Under a scheme run by the active engagement with its audiences.
Rainbow Trust an organisation that supports Periodical Publishers Association, Emap children with life-threatening or terminal also encourages its readers to recycle old Emaps divisions operate their own community illnesses and provides respite for their magazines by printing the Recycle logo programmes and the Group supports this by families.
Through its family support service on all its publications.
running a matching scheme where staff and two respite centres, all provided free, fundraising is matched up to 500. the Trust offers practical and emotional support Emaps Green Ofce Initiative to sick children and their parents and siblings.
Emaps Green Ofce Initiative was launched Just one example of Emaps community earlier this year to encourage all staff in the involvement is Emap Advertisings activity EA first got involved with the Trust four years UK to recycle paper, cans, toner cartridges, with the Rainbow Trust.
ago when employees voted to donate the plastic cups, light bulbs, mobile phones money normally spent on Christmas cards and computers.
A corporate conference to the charity instead.
At the time the but not as we know it donation amounted to about 2,500.
In addition, a campaign was run throughout For a number of years, Emap Advertising In 2004, the target was to raise 20,000. all offices encouraging staff to turn off EA has held an annual conference for its electrical items and not to leave taps running staff, usually somewhere like Paris or Nice.
On the day itself, 250 EA staff were split to save energy and water consumption.
The aim has been to celebrate successes, into teams of ten with people from different reward people for their efforts, motivate levels and departments.
This meant they During the month of March 2005, 1.7 tonnes sales staff and explain the business strategy quickly had to gel with colleagues they of ofce waste paper and cardboard was for the coming year.
The aim was to raise as collected.
Encouragingly, this gure doubled much money as possible by doing something for the month of April 2005 to 3.2 tonnes.
risky and people responded with a range emap plc annual report & accounts 2005 28 Emaps mens consumer magazines have a collective readership of over five million and the teams that produce them are constantly discussing the issues affecting men in Britain today.
This led to new research on this target audience a move also prompted by the launch of ZOO and Emaps culture of regularly and radically re-inventing its magazines.
The results of this research Revealing the Hidden Man were launched by Emap Advertising EA at a seminar that highlighted key trends and ways of communicating with the modern man.
The initiative has been well received as an opportunity for clients to get closer to their male consumers.
As a result, EA is working with a number of potential clients, many of whom have not previously advertised in magazines.
of surprising activities from driving blindfold Many other fundraising events have taken to abseiling down Cheddar Gorge.
place across the Group this year.
By encouraging people to try new things always important at Emap the day produced a great sense of achievement and fun.
It also helped to inuence the culture of the business as people learned the value of trust, teamwork and taking on new experiences.
Its a sign of progress that Tom Moloney Chief Executive such an event could not even have been contemplated just a few years ago, but has now been embraced with such enthusiasm.
To cap it all, EA shattered its target with a final total of 65,000.
30,000 of EAs contribution paid for 78 sick children and their families to take a Ian Grifths Acting Group Finance Director break at Rainbow House in Surrey, away from the endless visits to hospital.
The other 35,000 has paid the salary and costs of one Rainbow Trust family support worker for a whole year.
We are incredibly grateful to you for the huge amount of time and effort that everyone at Emap put in to support us, wrote the Trusts Head of Fundraising Development after the event.
Having had such a well respected brand name as Emap support us has really helped us leverage further corporate support.
According to the feedback, EAs people thought the 2004 conference was the best ever.
EA is continuing its relationship with The Trust and is raising money in 2005.
Other fundraising In total Emaps radio stations have raised approximately 1m this year.
In addition, Emap played a major role in Radio Aid, a day in January 2005 when every commercial radio station in the UK broadcast the same content, raising 3m for the tsunami.
emap plc annual report & accounts 2005 29
