Corporate Responsibility The Groups approach to the management of corporate responsibility is to balance the long-term interests of stakeholders by focusing on those matters which are relevant to long-term success and the environment in which the business operates.
The Board is committed to act in a responsible manner.
This report sets out the key areas we have focused on during the period under review.
Our approach to corporate responsibility includes: analysing and managing risk maintaining a continuing dialogue with stakeholders managing the environmental and social impact of the business on employees and the community.
Social, Ethical and Environmental Risk Management The identification, management and monitoring of key risks is undertaken as part of the Groups system of internal control as described on page 26.
In addition, we work with employees, licensees and suppliers as appropriate to ensure we understand any issues which may impact on the workplace, the community or the environment.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the development and implementation of the approach to social responsibility matters.
All executive directors are responsible for the promotion of good practice in environmental matters and report to the Board as necessary on significant risks.
The most significant corporate responsibility issues for the Group are considered below and the Group has put in place policies to ensure: compliance with relevant laws, regulations and codes of practice employees are provided with a safe working environment ongoing training needs of employees are met.
The Workplace The Directors Report sets out employment policies and explains the way we communicate with employees.
The key risk area in our working environment is the health, safety and well being of employees.
Employees work in a low risk environment.
There has been no material health and safety issue, incident or fine for noncompliance during the period under review.
The Groups Health & Safety Policy the H&S Policy clearly states its intention to provide and maintain a healthy and safe working environment.
In order to deliver this policy, the Group has established an internal Health & Safety Management Group the H&S Group with responsibility for advising, reviewing and delivering the agreed management systems employed by the business to satisfy its health and safety responsibilities.
The H&S Group reports to the Company Secretary who is responsible for regular reporting to the Board.
The H&S Groups remit is carried out in accordance with the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974 and all other relevant health & safety statutory provisions and approved codes of practice.
"The H&S Group has adopted the principles contained in the Health and Safety Executive guidance HSG65 ""Managing Health and Safety"", which includes the following specific requirements: the establishment of a formal written policy Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2005 17 Corporate Responsibility the establishment of a communication system with staff the ongoing identification of risks and required responses the ongoing measurement of performance and the continual improvement of process and procedure to address changing risks."
The H&S Group monitors accidents affecting staff, licensees and contractors, audits the understanding and application of the H&S policy and procedure by staff and contractors and provides an annual report and risk assessment to the Board.
The Environment The Group recognises its responsibility to achieve good environmental practice and to continue to strive for improvement in areas of environmental impact.
Our approach is to work towards continuous improvement through education, communication and direct action where applicable.
The direct environmental impact in areas such as CO emissions, waste and energy consumption is negligible.
2 The primary direct impact of the Group arises as a result of its head office working environment and as such policies and procedures are largely focused on: compliance with environmental laws and regulations minimising waste and the use of recycling facilities wherever possible the efficient use and monitoring of energy consumption.
At head office, efficient facilities management aims to reduce the costs of energy consumption.
In addition, materials are recycled where possible.
Upon acquiring the building in 2002, the Group complied with the local planning authoritys environmental policy relating to the construction, occupation and utilisation of office facilities.
This included the provision of a transport policy aimed at reducing the demand for car parking and promoting employee behaviour consistent with local planning, environment and social policy.
In respect of building projects undertaken across the pubs estate, the Group has established a series of objectives that aim, over time, to: i ensure that the installation of all new mechanical plant carries the green flag efficiency mark to reduce wasted energy use ii ensure that the majority of construction materials used are from sustainable renewable sources iii reduce the energy consumption of buildings through improved thermal insulation.
The Group has promoted a utilities management service to licensees and provides advice in the efficient usage of energy.
Through its membership of the British Beer and Pub Association, the Group has participated in the Governments consultation period seeking to clarify and implement glass recycling targets under the EU Waste Directive.
The Community and Social Issues The Group believes that the interests of responsible, entrepreneurial pub businesses are substantially aligned with the interests of local communities and consumers.
In this regard, the Group seeks to ensure that its pubs 18 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2005 Corporate Responsibility provide a friendly, safe and controlled environment, and promote the positive contributions that pubs make to their local communities.
The Group has prepared for the implementation of the Licensing Act 2003 and has worked with licensees over the last year to ensure that appropriate opportunities for licensees and consumers are realised whilst meeting the four principal licensing objectives: i the prevention of crime and disorder ii public safety iii the prevention of public nuisance iv the protection of children from harm.
Since the recent publication of the Governments White Paper on Health, the Group has played a leading role in the development, publication and implementation of industry proposals to reduce the incidence of smoking in pubs so that: By the end of 2005, smoking is not permitted at the bar or back-of-house areas and a minimum of 50% of restaurant dining area floor space is to be designated as non-smoking.
There is a reduction of trading floor space area for customers who smoke from a maximum of 65% by December 2005 to a maximum of 20% by December 2009.
The Group is committed to continue to promote and implement these proposals with licensees and, through its membership of the British Beer and Pub Association, the Group will continue to play an active part during the continuing period of consultation with the Department of Health.
The Group is also committed to high standards of customer service to its licensees and gives serious consideration to complaints from the local community.
Procedures are in place to ensure disputes are monitored and dealt with quickly.
Finally, the Group has communicated details of the Disability Discrimination Act 2004 to all licensees and seeks to ensure that appropriate and reasonable actions have been implemented across the pub estate.
Responsible Drinking The irresponsible consumption of alcohol can have detrimental effects on the social structures of local communities.
The Group recognises that pub licensees, retailers, the Government and the consumer all have responsibilities as regards the promotion of a responsible drinking environment.
We seek to be responsible by the following means: The Company is an associate member of the Portman Group, the industry-funded body established to encourage sensible drinking, help prevent misuse of alcohol, encourage responsible marketing and foster a balanced understanding of alcohol-related issues.
The Portman Group has launched the responsible drinking website www.
co. uk to promote and communicate the key messages relating to alcohol consumption.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2005 19 Corporate Responsibility The Company is a signatory to the Portman Groups Code of Practice, and works proactively with drinks suppliers to ensure that they adhere to a responsible advertising, pricing and packaging regime.
The Group actively promotes the Portman Groups Proof of Age Card Scheme to all licensees and provides materials to all new licensees to enable them to operate the scheme in their premises.
Through its membership of the British Beer and Pub Association, the Company has actively participated in discussions with Government in the preparation of its National Alcohol Harm Reduction Strategy.
The Group also participates in a number of partnerships with local authorities to develop and implement local policies and strategies which are designed to address the potential consequences of alcohol misuse whilst not penalising the majority of responsible licensees and their customers.
A number of the Groups suppliers have introduced sensible drinking messages on their products.
Future Corporate Responsibility Requirements The Board is committed to continuous improvement in its corporate responsibility practices where relevant to its operations and to build appropriate measures and procedures into its existing risk management and governance systems.
20 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2005
