37 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
com Corporate Social Responsibility Report Filtrona values As a responsible corporate citizen, Filtrona aims to act in a socially responsible manner at all times.
The Companys organisational structure is highly decentralised, and as such its businesses devise procedures appropriate to and compliant with local laws, culture and operating conditions but within the overall context of the Company values and the application of the following principles: Employee rights The Company recognises that its employees are its most vital resource and supports the principle of human rights as set down in the UN Declaration on Human Rights and its applicable International Labour Organisation conventions.
Filtrona is committed to offering equal opportunities to all people without discrimination as to race, sex, language, religion or disability.
The Company does not tolerate harassment in the workplace in any form and remunerates fairly with respect to skills, performance, competitors and local market conditions.
Recruitment procedures throughout the Group avoid the employment of under-age staff.
Filtrona encourages an open and honest culture in all its dealings with employees and people with whom it comes into contact.
Channels of communication appropriate to Filtronas local businesses have been established to allow employees to voice their views and concerns and the Company briefs employees and their representatives on all relevant matters on an on-going basis.
For example, the Company has established the Filtrona European Information and Consultation Forum in respect of its operations in the European Union and this met in 2005 and discussed, inter alia, the consequences of the establishment of Filtrona as an independent public company in its own right.
Ethical business practices The Company has established a Standards of Business Conduct Policy applicable to all its businesses around the world.
This policy covers many areas including free and fair competition, the confidentiality of information, the prohibition of bribery and political donations and general guidance on dealing with suppliers and local and national authorities.
The Company seeks to be honest and fair in its relationships with its suppliers, applying the principles set down in the Filtrona Ethical Trading Policy.
Specifically, Filtrona is committed to working with its suppliers to ensure the welfare of workers and employment conditions within its supply chain meet or exceed internationally recognised standards.
Filtrona plc is a member of the FTSE4Good Index as a demerged business from Bunzl plc and the Company is currently working with that organisation to ensure that its participation continues through 2006.
The Company has also established the Filtrona Whistleblowing Policy which sets out guidelines under which employees can raise certain issues regarding ethical behaviour or legal compliance with their own business or directly with Filtrona plc in confidence.
Under this policy, employees may come forward without fear for their position.
Health, safety and environment Filtrona considers health, safety and environment HS&E matters to be equally as important as any other responsibility within the Group and provides appropriate training and guidance to managers and employees in each business.
The Company has established the Filtrona HS&E Council under the chairmanship of the Director of Group Human Resources and with representatives from its operating businesses.
This body is responsible for reviewing HS&E performance, developing appropriate standards and procedures and overseeing the Companys internal HS&E auditing process.
The internal audit process has been thoroughly redeveloped in 2005 and it provides for each Filtrona site to be audited by appropriately trained internal staff every two years.
To support HS&E activities the Company has developed the Filtrona Group System for HS&E, which was formally launched at the beginning of 2006.
This computerised system ensures the efficient and timely collation of HS&E information across all of the Companys businesses, enabling the accurate comparison and presentation of data and results.
38 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
com Corporate Social Responsibility Report Health, safety and environment continued Filtrona has established policies on HS&E matters and complies with current applicable legislation in the countries in which it operates.
However, the Company intends to raise its standards on a global basis by adopting and meeting the requirements of internationally recognised standards which are subject to external audit.
For example, currently all of Filtronas major manufacturing sites around the world are accredited to the ISO 14001 Environmental Standard with the exception of the new Fibre Technologies sites in Monterrey, Mexico and Ningbo, China.
These sites are expected to achieve the standard during 2006.
In addition, three of the Companys businesses are accredited to the international standard for Occupational Health & Safety Management Systems, OHSAS 18001 two in the US and one in India.
Details of the Companys health and safety performance statistics for 2005 can be viewed at the Companys website at www.
The wider community Filtrona is committed to being a responsible corporate citizen through support for appropriate non-political and non-sectarian projects across a range of organisations and charities.
The Company encourages all of its businesses to engage with the local community in their areas of operation.
For example, in India, in recent years Filtrona has: donated computer equipment to local schools, and trained teachers in IT, so that they can in turn impart this knowledge to their pupils: sponsored village school prizes for academic and sporting achievement: organised a health camp for residents in nearby villages to provide free advice and support on a range of medical issues: and run environmental awareness activities with local children, including tree planting.
Applying Filtronas principles The business principles reported above are underpinned by a series of Filtrona policies which can be viewed via the Corporate Social Responsibility page on our website www.
The Chief Executive is the Director with primary responsibility for this area of activity, whilst business managers are responsible for ensuring the underlying policy commitments are applied.
The Director of Group Human Resources, supported by the Company Secretary, is responsible for co-ordinating the operation of the policies and reporting on them to the Chief Executive.
