Corporate Social Responsibility The group fully recognises the importance of this in the conduct of the company, its employers and its suppliers.
Both legislation and investor interest increases each year and we are determined to remain both compliant and involved.
Overall responsibility for all corporate social responsibility matters lies with Dr I J Bolton as Findel company secretary.
Dr Bolton is then supported by a review body chaired by the director of health & safety.
This review body meets to set strategy and targets and to review progress.
It comprises senior purchasing and facilities managers from within the groups operating companies.
The review body now has gures from up to three years worth of data to consider progress, trends and help set targets for the future.
Policy The group has identied that with minimal manufacturing facilities, the environmental policy concentration needs to be on product sourcing, energy consumption and waste disposal.
Within this, we aim to reduce our effect on the environment year on year as measured against sales growth.
In particular, the policy is to: Comply with and, where possible, improve our performance against all environmental legislation: Monitor and achieve our set targets on environmental performance: Consider and implement relevant recommendations to improve environment performance: Continue to work with key suppliers to improve their compliance and performance.
The key areas on which we are concentrating are: Reduction of all energy usage: Reducing our consumption of materials, especially paper and packaging: Improvements in the efficiency of our transport eet: Waste reduction and increases in recycling of all types.
Energy Concentration here is on conserving energy by minimising consumption in heating, lighting and powered equipment.
Energy is measured and monitored across all major sites and regularly compared against previous years and targets.
The groups vehicle eets CO emission levels are measured monthly and we are working to reduce this by 2 progressive moves to a more diesel oriented eet.
Material Consumption and Waste Management Increasing amounts of waste materials are now recycled by tighter controls on waste management.
Packaging continues to have a dedicated team focused on reducing weights and volumes wherever possible.
Considerable progress has been made recently by replacing boxes by recyclable bags for smaller parcels.
co. uk 25 Ethical Trading Findels ethical trading policy document remains as the key to our supplier relationships and contracts, particularly in India and the Far East.
This concentrates on ensuring that all our suppliers meet our clearly dened contractual standards on both United Nations and local laws on employment, pay rates, holidays, working conditions, etc.
These are rigorously applied by our resident staff in our ofces in the main overseas sourcing areas of China Hong Kong and India.
Full supplier documentation on initial tenders, contracts and unannounced staff inspection visits is maintained.
Human Resources Our objective and mission is to run a fair equal opportunities employment culture that embraces the very multi cultural environment in which many of our sites are located.
We are committed to advertising job opportunities in-house and to promotion on merit.
Community Support We remain committed to supporting local communities in the areas in which we operate.
The group also donates products from our home shopping and educational supplies catalogues to schools, good causes and other worthy establishments both in the UK and abroad.
