Corporate social responsibility review FKI is a responsible citizen in the corporate world.
The Group strives FKI is committed to being a for continuous improvement in all areas relating to corporate and social responsibility.
This report contains a summary of the CSR activities of the good corporate citizen and Group during 2004 05 and is divided into the following three areas: strives to achieve an effective Social and Ethical Health and Safety standard of corporate and Environmental social responsibility CSR in FKIs performance, practices and strategies in these three areas are set out all of its companies worldwide.
together with insights into business unit level CSR activities.
In addition to this annual review, a more comprehensive CSR report is FKI believes that high ethical available either from the Company Secretary or on the company website standards of CSR are essential www.
Risk review to the long term success of FKI businesses include CSR issues as part of the routine risk management the businesses, societies and of the Group.
This process operates as a part of FKIs established, structured approach to risk management as set out in the Finance local communities in which Directors report.
Annual Group reporting Paul Heiden Chief Executive The annual CSR reporting process at FKI is built upon a feedback system involving every global business unit.
This is achieved through carefully structured questionnaires and surveys containing quantitative and qualitative data covering all of the identified areas of interest.
This data forms the basis of the CSR report and is available to the Board and senior management to use in business decision making.
The Group is included in both the FTSE4Good independent CSR index and the Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
The Group also corresponds openly with a number of organisations associated with CSR practice including the Ethical Investment Research Service EIRIS and the Corporate Register www.
FKI believes that good CSR practice makes good business sense and wishes its stakeholders to recognise it as a Group that: Has clear strategy and performance targets.
Continually seeks out better ways of doing things.
Strives to improve its service to customers by developing innovative products, systems and solutions.
Displays the highest standards of trust and integrity.
Stakeholders are regarded as including investors, customers, employees, suppliers, government agencies and all of the businesses and communities that have interaction with the FKI Group.
CSR objectives are met by the collective efforts of all company members worldwide and the Group believes that positive actions with regard to CSR are not only desirable in their own right but are of economic and commercial benefit to all stakeholders.
FKI recognises CSR at the highest level.
Responsibility for the Groups CSR policies and their implementation and monitoring rests with the Chief Executive and is co-ordinated by the Director of Group Human Resources.
This responsibility is delegated to the President or Managing Director of each division and in turn to the senior management team of each operating business.
16 FKI plc 75% of Operating units have a designated person responsible for social and ethical matters Social and ethical policy and practice These Group policies are in operation throughout FKI and, in addition, 63% of businesses have their own complementary policies.
Policies are FKI recognises that the practice of sound social and ethical responsibility updated by management on a regular basis and are shaped to cover will deliver competitive advantage and contribute to the Groups long-term the needs of individual businesses.
Many companies address social and success.
The greatest contribution that the Group makes in this area comes ethical issues at employee induction supported by employee handbooks from the wealth created by maintaining employment, both within the Group and nearly 75% of businesses have a member of staff responsible for and through its supply network.
Social and ethical policy Community support The FKI social and ethical policy is applied in all businesses worldwide and FKI businesses are encouraged to support the local communities in acts as a reference point to guide employees and other stakeholders on the which they operate.
This was highlighted by the update of FKIs corporate aspects that drive the conduct of FKIs business relationships.
The policy donations policy in 2004 to include the potential for funds raised by contains detailed provisions covering the following aspects.
employees towards charitable causes to be matched by donations from Standard of conduct to be followed in dealing with employees and the Group.
everyone with whom the Group has relationships.
Compliance Compliance with the law and applicable regulations.
During the year, there have been three allegations of malpractice against Sound employment policies, which take account of labour rights and businesses within the Group Ten allegations were made in 2003 04. conventions, prohibit discrimination and include recruitment, employment Two of these were concluded by withdrawal of the allegation after and promotion on fair and legal grounds.
investigations, and an amicable non-financial settlement was achieved with respect to the third allegation.
There were three disciplinary actions Commitments to customers, partners and suppliers.
during the year resulting in two employees being dismissed for breach Safeguarding of shareholders interests including applying good corporate of social and ethical policy, and one written warning.
In order to minimise governance and prohibiting insider dealing.
malpractice, companies continually investigate and monitor social and ethical issues enabling them to improve current policies and to implement Utmost integrity in business dealings and absolute probity in business initiatives to reduce future risk.
Auditing for compliance Avoidance of conflicts of interest by employees.
FKI implemented a policy of peer auditing in 2004 to facilitate accelerated Community involvement and charitable assistance.
continuous improvement in social and ethical policy and practice.
In order Engagement with government and other organisations to promote and to establish compliance with the FKI policy, businesses are audited by their peers to assess the effectiveness of the Group policy at operating business defend FKIs business interests.
Following positive results from a pilot scheme in 2004, peer auditing Continuous improvements in managing its environmental impact.
will now be introduced worldwide.
Full compliance with health and safety regulations.
The FKI HR network Safeguarding and maximising the use of Group property.
A Group-wide network of FKI people involved in human resource operations was established during 2004 05.
This network is used as a Protection of confidential information.
vehicle for more effective and consistent implementation of Group policies Communication of policies to appropriate stakeholders.
and underpins FKIs commitment to CSR.
Members of our management team are involved on the Board of Our company participated in a Day of Caring where employees Directors for NEPIRC, the North Eastern Pennsylvania Industrial volunteered to provide their time and skills in assistance to community Resource Center.
In addition to this we have management involvement development schemes.
Employees widely participate in United Way on the Board of Directors for the County Rail Board, which promotes activities which benefit hundreds of local charities and community use, expansion, and improvement of local railroads.
Some employees are active fire department and emergency medical volunteers.
Some employees participate on Boards Bridon America of the American Red Cross, Big Brothers and Sisters, March of Dimes, Hospice, and other civic organisations.
Memorial donations are made in We had a Health improvement campaign for a week in May 2004, employee names to community service agencies.
where all employees were offered a Health Screening.
In December FKI Logistex W D North America 2004 all smokers were offered a course to help them stop, and at the same time all employees with problems or pain in their necks, shoulders We offer placements to young people as part of the UK school work and backs were offered help from a physiotherapist including a training experience programme and provide sponsorship in line with FKIs programme in our new fitness centre.
donations policy which involves them matching any monies raised.
FKI Logistex AP P Europe Froude Consine UK 17 FKI plc Corporate and social responsibility review Corporate social responsibility review 84% continued of Operating units have their own complementary health and safety policy in addition to the FKI policy Health and safety FKI Health and Safety Vision FKI has implemented a global initiative which commits to Group progression towards an accident free health and safety culture.
This ambitious effort is Accident Free Culture based upon the belief that almost all accidents are preventable.
This belief drives the Group to create a culture in which the commitment of every employee becomes vital in the prevention of accidents.
FKIs health and safety commitments start at the highest level of management and structures have been put into place during the year to drive improvement throughout the Groups worldwide operations.
The table opposite summarises the cascade of health and safety responsibilities through the Group.
The Guardians FKI Board of Directors Strategic control.
FKI is committed to full compliance with health and safety regulations in Managing the external interface and providing resources.
the workplace for all of its employees worldwide.
Businesses record all unsafe acts, near misses and injuries during operations and these are analysed to enable continuous improvement through new initiatives and improved working practices designed to move the Group towards an accident free culture.
The Champions Health and safety policy Group Health and Safety and Environmental Committee Operational control.
In order to ensure that its workplaces are safe and to provide a sustainable Prioritising areas for improvement.
Integrating best practice and healthy working environment, FKI is committed to the following policies: reviewing for compliance.
Consider health and safety in all transactions.
Meet or exceed current health and safety legislation.
The Experts Health and safety and Environmental Network Introduce and maintain good working practices.
Analysing data integrity and its interpretation.
Disseminating policy Develop effective health and safety procedures including responsibilities.
Identifying and sharing best practice.
Influencing Make employees aware of potential risks, hazards, safe systems regulatory compliance and dissemination of new regulations.
of working, operating procedures and their responsibilities and statutory obligations.
The Enforcers Operational Line Managers Provide appropriate training.
Ensuring compliance with local policy and practice.
Continually improve systems for recording, reporting and analysing Eradicating root causes.
Set and publish objectives and targets.
Monitor progress and assess performance.
The Agents of Change Each Employee The FKI health and safety policy is in operation in all FKI companies globally.
Complying with and endorsing all local Health and safety rules and In addition to this the number of companies within the Group operating regulations.
Challenging current under their own complementary policy has been increasing in recent years.
practice through identifying to colleagues any ways in which hazards This year 84% of businesses now have their own complementary policy and risks can be reduced or removed.
which is communicated locally through various methods including being given to individual employees, displayed on notice boards or posted on the intranet.
FKI seeks to identify and adopt best practice across its businesses.
By providing structured training and education, employees are encouraged to take responsibility for health and safety in their working environments.
Competent people responsible for overseeing the handling and reporting of accidents and safety committees in many operations constantly review ways of making the environment safer, thereby minimising the risk of accidents.
18 FKI plc Corporate and social responsibility review 95% of Operating units have a designated person responsible for health and safety matters Number of incidences No.
400 1.59 1.40 300 1.26 200 200 0 2002 2003 2004 2005 Major incident Dangerous occurrence Work related incident Other reportable incident Frequency rate reportable incidents 100,000 man hours Major Dangerous Work related Other reportable Accident incidents occurrence illness incident frequency rate 2002 38 26 77 324 - 2003 39 24 68 313 1.59 2004 37 15 52 250 1.40 2005 30 7 48 225 1.26 Health and safety analysis worked in the Group.
This gives an indication of how many reportable incidents occur per unit of manufacturing time.
FKIs accident frequency FKI follows the UK classification of incidents for Group reporting.
Health rate was 1.59 in 2003, 1.40 in 2004 and 1.26 in 2005. and safety reporting guidelines are communicated to every company to assist them in reporting their performances each year.
All businesses are Regrettably, there was a fatality during normal operations at Bridon also aware of local legislation and reporting mechanisms, and often report International in December 2004.
Bridon have co-operated fully with the under both sets of procedures.
HSE during their investigations which are ongoing.
A revised health and safety management system is in the process of being deployed across There were five fines relating to health and safety performance within the Bridon group.
the Group during the year and no convictions.
The fines were for various breaches of health and safety law, none of which resulted in any injuries.
Relative performance standards Each incident resulting in a fine was appropriately investigated by the To incorporate improved benchmarking, businesses have been required business at which it occurred and in all cases both policy and practice to identify an external target within a comparative business sector against have been adjusted to prevent recurrence.
which they may audit themselves quantitatively.
Data from 2004 05 shows Nearly 95% of operating units have a designated person responsible that 36% of business units in operation in May 2005 have identified a target for health and safety matters and 75% of units have a health and and begun the external auditing process.
Of those who have begun this safety committee.
process, 40% have a better accident incident rate than their comparator.
Over 78% of operating units give formal health and safety training as a Expansion of the external comparative target project will continue in the standard procedure during all new recruitments, and nearly 55% of units coming year.
It is intended that this new initiative will provide FKI Group provide product specific health and safety training to customers.
companies with a relevant external perspective and will help facilitate accelerated continuous improvement.
The graph above shows the total number of reportable incidents occurring in the Group during the year.
Major incidents have reduced by 21% between 2002 and 2005.
The other categories are considered as reportable incidents and are used to create the accident frequency number which is produced by most FTSE companies.
FKIs accident frequency is shown as the line on the third axis in the graph above.
This represents the number of reportable incidents in total in the year divided by the total man hours 19 FKI plc Corporate and social responsibility review Corporate social responsibility review 3.2% continued reduction in Group energy consumption The environment There were six complaints relating to environmental matters during the year, none of which resulted in prosecution.
One complaint arose due to the FKI remains committed to controlling the impact of its businesses on the noise levels in the vicinity of one European factory.
The noise level was not environment in all Group operations.
Local business management are in breach of any local law.
Nevertheless the business involved took action responsible for enforcing standards in line with legal responsibilities and and installed mufflers onto the equipment responsible.
obligations and managing risks associated with environmental matters.
Energy consumption The Groups main areas of impact on the environment are in the use of energy and water and the production of solid and liquid waste.
Where FKIs energy consumption is converted from figures such as electricity appropriate, companies have been encouraged to implement environmental usage and petrol usage to a figure representing kg of CO2 in order to management systems compatible with ISO14001.
Continuous improvement allow comparison across businesses.
The term CO2 emissions therefore in environmental performance is facilitated through implementation of the represents FKIs best estimate of an overall energy consumption figure.
Group environmental policy, monitoring of environmental performance and Emissions have reduced year on year from 2002 272,269,161 kg CO2 internal and external auditing.
Initiatives within the Group which promote the conservation of energy and the drive for sustainability include timers Environmental policy on heating apparatus to avoid losses and increasing machinery efficiencies FKI is committed to the protection and conservation of the environment including modification and upgrading to modern efficient designs.
One FKI in all of its operations.
The Groups environmental policy involves the business uses renewable energy for 20% of its total energy requirements.
implementation of an operational management system within each business The Groups energy consumption between 2002 and 2005 has reduced unit enforcing standards in line with legal responsibilities and obligations.
The Group has met its quantitative targets for CO2 reductions which have been set at 1% reductions each year from 2002 - 2005.
The Group has a detailed policy, which aims to: The target for the next financial year is a further 1% reduction.
Develop, install and maintain environmental management systems.
Meet or exceed current environmental legal requirements.
Analysis of the Groups energy consumption Measured C02 Target C02 Target Focus on product stewardship, identifying ways of improving Emissions Emissions met?
efficiency throughout the supply chain and manufacturing processes %% to reduce consumption.
2002 -6.2 -1 Yes Use environmentally responsible suppliers and subcontractors.
2003 -5.4 -1 Yes Give preference to alternatives for scarce and non-renewable resources.
2004 -3.3 -1 Yes Develop and market products and services meeting environmental 2005 -3.2 -1 Yes standards and target each product to be produced more efficiently than its predecessors.
Maintain control on discharges and emissions.
Water consumption Raise awareness of environmental issues.
Group water consumption reduced by 11% between 2002 and 2003, reduced by 1% between 2003 and 2004, and reduced by 6% in 2005.
Identify and communicate best practice throughout the Group.
Businesses manage their water consumption through various waste cutting Set and revise environmental targets and policies.
measures including re-circulating cooling water in heat treatment and welding operations.
The Groups fresh water consumption is considered Pursue sustainability in all operations.
by FKI to have a great impact on the environment.
Waste control measures All FKI businesses have adopted the corporate environmental policy.
and reviews are therefore in constant effect in the day to day operation of Complementary local environmental policies are in effect in more than businesses globally.
Waste disposal Environmental performance FKI produces waste liquid mainly from water used for cooling purposes, surface treatments, washing down products during the production Assessment of environmental risks occurs during day to day business operations as part of FKIs risk management process.
In addition to this process and sanitary purposes.
Some FKI businesses which produce practice, 21% of businesses reported local completion of a dedicated relatively large quantities of wastewater and liquid as a result of environmental risk analysis in 2004 05.
The number of businesses involved manufacturing processes have water treatment plants that are monitored regularly by local water authorities.
Where water meets strict standards, in this initiative is expected to increase in the future.
One company is discharge into rivers is permitted.
Permitted discharge into sewers is also involved in completing cyclical environmental accident scenario assessments as a process of environmental risk management.
regulated and occurs only with approval.
Liquid waste may also be removed by registered disposal companies.
Where petroleum, bulk hazardous chemicals or acid wastes are required to be stored on site, appropriate permits are held by the relevant businesses.
Where companies cannot treat liquid waste they have permits in place for the removal and treatment of the waste off site.
Consistent and suitable monitoring and reporting of liquid waste processing procedure is in place in all FKI businesses.
No permits were revoked in 2004 05.
20 FKI plc Corporate and social responsibility review 6.0% reduction in Group water consumption Liquid waste disposal Carbon dioxide emissions kg Turnover m Each unit which produces solid or liquid waste is responsible for disposing 300,000,000 1800 of that waste through cost effective and environmentally acceptable methods.
Liquid waste disposal costs reduced by 9% from 2002 2003, reduced by 17% from 2003 2004, and then increased by 20% last year.
1200 250,000,000 Solid waste disposal 600 The Groups expenditure on processing solid waste reduced by 13% from 2002 2003, reduced by 39% from 2003 2004, and then increased by 200,000,000 0 14% last year.
The increases from 2004 2005 in both solid and liquid 2002 2003 2004 2005 waste are largely attributable to one Lifting Products and Services company experiencing high waste processing costs in 2005.
This was due to an improvement in their reporting mechanism through the establishment of Water consumption cubic metres Turnover m an environmental database for their UK operations.
The same company recorded an income of 0.5m from the sale of solid waste material during 3,000,000 1800 the year.
There is often a market for the waste produced by businesses.
One companys income from re-cycling their solid waste was 15 times 1200 greater than their expenditure on processing of solid waste, and another 2,000,000 company reduced their solid waste disposal costs to zero, instead re-cycling 600 all solid waste and producing an income of 11,000.
Hazardous waste 0 0 Half of the Groups businesses produce hazardous solid waste and 30% 2002 2003 2004 2005 produce hazardous air emissions.
In all cases the appropriate permits and licenses are in place.
Management and reduction of the output is ongoing.
Liquid waste disposal cost 000 Turnover m The reduction of volatile organic compounds, trichloroethylene and particulates discharged into the atmosphere has been targeted as an area 1,000 1800 for improvement by the Group.
Businesses adopt many different initiatives 800 to bring about reductions including the replacement of solvent based 1200 paint with water or powder based paints.
600 Summary 400 600 FKI is committed to continuous improvement in all areas relating to 200 the Groups CSR performance.
In a diversified group such as FKI there 0 0 is a balance to be maintained between application of policy by the 2002 2003 2004 2005 corporate centre and delegation of responsibility to the local businesses.
The continuing growth of Group wide communications will have a Solid waste disposal cost 000 Turnover m positive influence on CSR performance in the future as businesses share best practice examples and communicate their local strategies 800 1800 and performances.
