Corporate Social Responsibility We aim to contribute to the development of sustainable communities by encouraging transport of goods via water and by investment in regeneration.
The Company has been a member of the Kempen SNS Smaller Health and Safety Europe Index since October 2003, membership being available only Safety Management Systems to companies with the very highest standards and practice in the three The Groups commitment to Health and Safety is embedded within areas of business ethics, human resources and the environment.
Company is also a constituent member of the FTSE 4 Good UK Index.
{ During 2005 there have been a number of initiatives to improve further Employees the safety of our operations: the contribution of our pro-active safety Industrial Relations and Manpower committee has been important.
One example of this is the Scottish The Group values the contribution its employees make and enjoys Operations annual safety away day attended by the majority of the safety good industrial relations.
Since 1989 no days have been lost to industrial committee members and members of senior management including the dispute.
The Group successfully completed wage agreements at the Group Chief Executive and the Scottish Ports Director.
Presentations Port of Dundee for a further period of three years.
The remaining ports made at the away day during 2005 emphasised the importance of are in the second year of a three year deal.
personal responsibility in relation to health and safety issues and included a presentation from the Health and Safety Executive on workplace We have a stable labour force with relatively low turnover.
Over half of our transport and management and employee responsibilities.
Topics to be workforce have worked for the Group for over 10 years and almost a third covered this year will include manual handling and working at height.
of the workforce for over 20 years.
During the year the Group recruited 179 employees representing approximately 15% of the existing Perry Glading, Managing Director, Port of Tilbury, sits on the Board of Port workforce principally in Tilbury and Grangemouth.
Skills and Safety Limited PSSL.
PSSL is the trade association for the Port industry which has a wide remit to work with its subscribers and other Employee Involvement stakeholders to encourage and promote high standards of health and The Group believes that it obtains great benefits from the Group Wide safety in the port industry and a highly skilled workforce.
Information and Consultation Forums which continue to be run on a two-tier basis at Group and local levels.
In addition, regular meetings Since joining the property department in October 2005 as Project Director, take place with the recognised Trade Unions where matters of common Douglas Coleman has worked with the Property Project Managers to interest are discussed.
review and update the Health and Safety procedures.
In addition, a set of site Health and Safety protocols has been produced which all Project Training and Development Managers use as the basis for their site audits of contractors activities Training of staff at all levels continues to be a priority for the Group.
In 2005 training was focused on the Enterprise Distribution Centre and Grangemouth Container Terminal to complement the Groups Audits substantial investment.
A number of new policies were introduced The Group continues to use a hierarchy of external and internal audits as including a Stress Policy and Alcohol and Substance Misuse Policy a means of measuring progress to improve our health and safety systems.
which required substantial additional training for all employees with managerial responsibilities.
The Group Company Secretary presents Tilbury was awarded a maximum 5 star safety rating in 2005 following its regular updates to the Board and other Senior Management on legal first audit by the British Safety Council.
The Scottish ports target in 2006 and regulatory issues.
is to improve the current three star rating to a four star rating.
In the Scottish Ports there were 260 internal courses 2004 265 run Both the Scottish operations and Tilbury produce an annual Safety for 814 employees 2004 620 and in Tilbury there were 783 internal Continual Improvement Plan which includes any recommendations courses 2004 563 for 2,508 employees 2004 1,442. highlighted in the audits.
In Scotland this level of training represents 1,728 man days 2004 1,154 and in Tilbury represents 4,309 man days 2004 2,986.
The Group continues to support the attainment of National Vocational Qualifications particularly Level 2 for Stevedoring.
The Port of Tilbury won the Essex in Boom 2005 award for spirit of enterprise in training and development for existing employees and attraction of new employees to the business.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 19 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Safety Environmental Issues Forth Ports contributes to The Safer Ports Initiative SPI, a partnership The main potential environmental impact from our Group operations comprising government and private industry bodies and unions are those associated with noise, dust, water pollution and air quality http: www.
The timescales set by the SPI for and conservation.
The Group is committed to managing both its achieving the rates of reduction in accidents are half those which are ports and regeneration activities so as to limit any adverse effects recommended in the Governments Revitalising Health and Safety to the environment.
The voluntary targets set by the SPI are: Each port liaises with tenants, customers, regulators and other To reduce the incidence rate of reportable fatal and major injury key stakeholders.
These meetings communicate information on accidents from the level they were at in 2000 by 10% by the end environmental issues, initiatives and many legislative changes.
of 2005: The LDDF contains a number of targets for delivering sustainable To reduce the incidence rate of all other reportable over 3 day development.
Some examples are highlighted below: accidents from the level they were at in 2000 by 20% by the end of 2005.
LDDF Sustainability Targets Environmental The Group consistently exceeds these targets.
Development of brownfield land Enhancement of the local heritage Design quality Accidents 2005 2004 Change % Sustainable Construction Total number of accidents 189 185 2.2 Use of recycled materials Total number of reportable accidents 34 47 -27.7 Minimising movement of construction materials by road Number of 3 day lost time accidents 32 42 -23.8 Number of major injuries 2 3 -33.3 Energy Use Site designed to achieve BREEAM BREs Environmental Assessment This improvement builds on the substantial accident reductions Method excellent rating already achieved during 2004, which included a 70% reduction Investigation of renewable energy generation on site in major injuries.
Social and Economic Improvement of the local environment Providing opportunities for local employment The Board set the target of reducing reportable accidents of greater than Provision of high quality recreational, educational and community 3 days lost time and major injuries by 5% during 2005.
This target has facilities been exceeded.
Transport We continue to promote the movement of goods via shipping.
For goods entering or leaving our ports from the land side, where rail facilities are available, we encourage their use.
Examples of this are the movement of containers to and from Grangemouth and the movement of coal from Leith to Cockenzie for Scottish Power.
In the latter case, half a million tonnes of coal was moved by rail in 2005, saving twenty thousand lorry movements.
Public transport plays a key role in our property regeneration activities.
Sustainable development in transport terms seeks to minimise the reliance on the private car.
We are therefore proud to be a major supporter and contributor, through our donations of land, to the Councils tram proposals.
20 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 Energy Volumes of dredged spoil are reported in our Statutory Harbour Authority We are working on a number of on-going projects to minimise resource Environmental Report which is available upon request.
use in our ports and property activities.
These include reviewing the options for renewable energy and minimising CO2 emissions.
Our property division is committed to working with the Council with a view to our developments achieving agreed targets for recycling and recovery All of the diesel trucks at the Enterprise Distribution Centre have been of municipal waste and reducing disposal to landfill.
fitted with diesel catalysts which treat the carbon monoxide and hydrocarbon emissions of the exhaust fumes by converting them into In addition, as part of the LDDF we are committed to working with the carbon dioxide and water.
The catalysts are capable of reducing carbon Council to develop a Waste Management Strategy which will include monoxide and hydrocarbon emissions by up to 95% and this creates a prioritisation in managing and disposal of waste: healthier working environment for our employees working within the EDC.
Waste Reduction Our current supplier of electricity is British Energy.
Reuse resulting from their generation of electricity is approximately a quarter 3.
Recycling and composting of the UK average at 103g kWh.
Part of the reason for this is that their 4.
Disposal with energy recovery generation mix is strongly biased towards nuclear power 86%.
Disposal to landfill More information on the British Energy fuel mix and its impact on the environment can be found at www.
Environmental Management The Finnish Terminal at the Port of Tilbury was the first of the Groups During 2005 we utilised funding from the Carbon Trust operations to receive ISO 14001 accreditation.
In 2005 it was upgraded http: www.
uk carbontrust to appoint a consultant to to ISO 14001: 2004, ten months ahead of schedule and the UPM Wood undertake energy efficiency surveys at two of our ports, Rosyth and Shed and Short Sea Container Terminal also obtained this accreditation.
These surveys highlighted a number of areas where minor The Enterprise Distribution Centre is the next asset scheduled for capital investment, or ongoing maintenance, can have a substantial certification, with a target date of October 2006. impact on our energy use.
The actions following these surveys included increasing efficiencies in lighting and heating and the results will be During 2005, the Scottish operations participated in the Ecoports Self reviewed during the course of 2006.
ESDM is a port industry audit of how a port deals with environmental issues from the corporate level to Waste operations.
It consists of a questionnaire, which is then assessed by Each port has a waste management plan which has been approved by the Ecoports Foundation.
Following the completion of the analysis by the MCA.
As part of our waste strategy, we monitor all waste removed Ecoports, proposals are being developed for a consistent approach to from our ports and we comply with all port waste management an environmental management system across the Scottish operations.
regulations which require ships to report the volumes of waste that they intend to deposit at the port and then confirm volumes of waste actually Pollution Avoidance and Control deposited.
Annual waste figures are supplied to the MCA and all records At our ports we handle many different types of cargo, some of which are maintained to allow for MCA inspection.
have the potential to cause damage to the environment if care is not taken.
Oil is handled at most of our ports and as a result each relevant Substantial volumes of wood and metal waste are recycled across the port has an oil spill contingency plan.
In the Forth Estuary, all of the ports through wood merchants and scrap metal companies: oily wastes individual oil spill plans each facility has its own are linked through a and oil filters are recovered at each of the workshops in the ports.
strategic framework plan called Clearwater Forth CF.
Regular exercises In Tilbury a new recycling scheme has been initiated throughout the are undertaken in the Forth Estuary to ensure that each of the parties port separating waste into a number of recyclable or non-recyclable which has emergency response obligations under CF is fully aware of its categories.
We have received confirmation from the company which responsibilities and will be able to respond rapidly and effectively should manages our confidential waste paper shredding that in 2005 we saved the need arise.
Further recycling initiatives will be examined across the Group in 2006.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 21 Employees We are committed to ensuring our employees are fully aware of their responsibilities to themselves, their colleagues and their customers.
This is 01 achieved through staff training to ensure our staff are fully competent and aware of their personal responsibilities.
During 2005 there was additional training for staff at all supervisory and management levels associated with the introduction of the alcohol and substance misuse policy and the stress policy throughout our operations.
01 SAFETY FIRST OUR HEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE REQUIRES CONSTANT VIGILANCE, CONTINUOUS TRAINING AND GOOD STAFF RELATIONS.
THERE IS NO ROOM FOR COMPLACENCY IN A BUSINESS AS DEMANDING AND POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS AS OURS.
02 CLEARING THE AIR OUR GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE CHARLES HAMMOND HAS TAKEN A LEADING ROLE IN THE DEBATE ABOUT OUR HEALTH AND SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITIES.
03 JUNIOR JOG OUR FORTHSIDE FUN RUN EXERCISED 02 SOME OF THE OLYMPIC HOPEFULS OF THE FUTURE.
Safety 04 CAREFREE SHOPPING THE NEW CRCHE AT OCEAN One of the particularly successful TERMINAL LETS CHILDREN HAVE FUN safety initiatives is the annual Scottish WHILST PARENTS HAVE A FREE HAND FOR A LITTLE RETAIL THERAPY.
Operation safety away day, where the safety committee members from each port and the marine department attend and present their achievements over the past year to their peer group and the senior management team.
Charles Hammond, the Group Chief Executive attended the Scottish Operation Safety Day in January and emphasised his personal view of the way forward and his commitment to improving the safety culture of the company.
RESPONSIBILITY A responsible attitude is a given in our } BUSINESS 22 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 Carrying out our business functions responsibly is a high priority for Forth Ports.
Ports and regeneration activities both have the potential for a serious Communities impact on employees, surrounding communities and the environment if not carefully managed.
There are many levels to community For this reason we strive for continual improvement responsibility.
The Ocean Terminal in safety and environmental management.
Shopping Centre has recently opened a new play zone for children.
This helps to build with the existing facilities to enhance the experience of a visit to Ocean Terminal particularly for family use.
From a different perspective, we understand that the emergency services need to be able to prepare for the worst, which is why we often work with and assist in the training of emergency personnel, with recent events being hosted for the Police and Fire Brigade.
03 Port Marine Safety Code 04 During 2005 substantial effort has been allocated to strengthening our Port Marine Safety Code, in particular the Marine Risk Assessment section for the Scottish Operations.
Our Oil response plans are reviewed regularly.
Environment Forth Ports is very aware of the potential environmental sensitivities of the wider environment surrounding our ports.
There are European sites of conservation importance close to all of our ports in Britain, whether Special Areas of Conservation under the Habitats Directive or Special Protection Areas under the Birds Directive.
These are sites which are given protection by European and domestic law.
At an operational level, the Port of Tilbury is continuing to expand its accredited business environmental management system to port assets.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 23 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Our purpose built Marine Emergency Centre MEC in the Forth Estuary The Port of Tilbury continues to be the only business partner in the allows trained pollution control staff to work in a state of the art facility Academy of Logistics and Transport, assisting with the development allowing them to control the response to any incident, whilst monitoring of new courses and qualifications.
This theme is continued through the marine VHF and viewing the vessel traffic in the Estuary.
involvement in the Thurrock Learning Partnership and involvement in the Young Enterprise scheme for local schools.
Tilbury also accepts In 2005 the major exercise was called Black Deep and was a tier 2 school and college students on 1-3 week placements for work exercise.
The MEC was fully operational and the exercise included experience.
Tilbury in particular has strong links with local schools, representatives from Forth Ports, BP, Scottish Environmental Protection in particular for careers days and CV and interview sessions.
All of the Agency, Scottish Natural Heritage and other agencies.
Regular liaison ports also have connections to universities locally and internationally.
took place by telephone with Local Authorities, environmental organisations and people role-playing community members and local Dealing with Emergencies businesses.
Following the exercise there was a mock-media briefing, Port authorities are second tier responders under the Civil Contingencies which included both real and role-playing journalists from newspapers, Act.
As a result, we must be able to deal with the types of emergency radio and television.
After each exercise a report is produced and incidents that may occur in a port environment.
All of our ports have circulated to all participants highlighting lessons learnt.
Emergency Plans which are written in consultation with local authorities and the emergency services and which are regularly updated.
Similarly, As a responsible landlord, we seek to facilitate long-term customer all of our ports have port facility security plans.
These are required by relationships by leasing surplus port property assets to key port users.
legislation and detail the ways in which the port will react to various We take a firm and pro-active approach towards ensuring that our tenants security threats.
Regular exercises to test the robustness of these plans undertake comprehensive site investigations and, if necessary, address are undertaken, often with the involvement of the Police, HM Revenue any consequent land remediation works required prior to vacating the and Customs and HM Immigration.
property in order to comply with environmental protection legislation.
Assisting in Police Search Training Community Responsibility During 2005, the Port of Grangemouth hosted four two-day training Community Involvement courses for Central Scotland Police.
The courses were designed by As Competent Harbour Authority in the Forth and Tay and as a Police Search Advisors and staff at the port with the aim of giving major port operator on the Thames, we believe that it is important Police Officers the opportunity to undertake search training in a live that we are members of, and remain committed to, the Forth Estuary operational environment.
co. uk, the Tay Estuary Forum www.
uk crsem TEF and the Thames Estuary Partnership www.
The aim of these organisations is to promote the wise and sustainable use of the Forth, Tay and Thames.
Our commitment includes the provision of membership fees and support through the donation of management time and office accommodation.
The Company is the second largest contributor to the core costs of the Forth Estuary Forum.
24 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 Aims of the Group It is the aim of the Group to ensure that all When equipment, plant, stores and supplies When hiring contractors, the following must operations consider their impact upon and are purchased, the following are considered: be checked: interface with: the health, wellbeing and safety of the contractor is suitably qualified the health, wellbeing and safety employees who may use or be exposed to undertake the works of employees to the product the contractor has been through the local environment their potential to impact upon the local all appropriate induction processes the global environment environment through usage whether to work on the site and has the the local community appropriate or inappropriate appropriate permits the business environment whether the product has to be stored in the contractor holds appropriate particular circumstances and if so how insurance cover In fulfilling the above, all activities should be, at safely is it stored a minimum, fully compliant with all relevant laws whether usage or storage of the product This sets the corporate ethos towards in the operating country.
requires extra training for employees compliance and corporate social responsibility for all Group activities for the future.
Regeneration Projects Various business units have hosted charitable events or other activities As a major land owner, we wish to continue to build on the regeneration which have led to local charities receiving donations.
These include projects which we have already successfully completed in Leith.
Our Childrens Hospice Association Scotland and the British Heart long-term goal is to transform Leith into an outstanding sustainable Foundation.
waterfront environment which will add to and complement the historic heritage of both Leith and the City of Edinburgh as a whole.
We see the Management Involvement involvement of the community as key to the success of our regeneration Members of the management team hold a variety of posts in activities and we are actively involved in a number of initiatives which aim organisations whose aim is to improve the community and the to improve the environment, involve the local community and help create environmental and economic health of the areas in which our business a sense of place in Leith.
Some examples of these include: operates: Provision of financial support to a new community initiative in Leith Charles Hammond the Group Chief Executive is also the Chairman called The Junction which was launched this year.
The Junction is of Scottish Enterprise, Edinburgh and Lothians SEEL.
SEEL is an a health and wellbeing centre for young people living in Leith and organisation which promotes sustainable economic development North East Edinburgh and provides advice, information and support in the Edinburgh and Lothians area.
on a wide range of health and social issues.
Terry Smith, the Property Director, is a Trustee of Leith Civic Trust, Voluntary Maintenance of Water of Leith: the Company makes a Trustee of The Royal Yacht Britannia Trust, and a member of Steering contribution towards maintaining the cleanliness of the Water of Groups for: Leith Ahead, Leith Gems, Leith Theatre Preservation and Leith by meeting the cost of removal of debris which accumulates Arts Strategy for the Waterfront.
Derek McGlashan, the Security and Environment Manager, is a In November 2005, the Company agreed to sponsor the Edinburgh Director of both the Forth Estuary Forum and CoastNET a UK charity Forthside Half Marathon and the Edinburgh Forthside Family Fun which promotes sustainable coastal management.
Run which will take place on 26th March 2006.
Forth Ports are the title sponsors of the event and as such are entitled to nominate two Perry Glading, the Managing Director, Port of Tilbury, is the Chairman of the five named charities for the Half Marathon the Fun Run is of the Academy of Transport and Logistics for Thurrock and Thames being organised in conjunction with the British Heart Foundation.
Forth Ports nominated charities are Childrens Hospice Association Scotland and The Junction, Leith.
By Order of the Board The management of the Ocean Terminal Shopping Centre in Leith continue to work with local community groups, providing space for events and hosting a number of community initiatives and promoting local artists and the local area.
One of the initiatives, designed to raise awareness of the Leith community and raise money for various Morag McNeill charities was the production of Leith Persevere Wristbands.
Group Company Secretary These were sold to raise money for the Leith Festival, Duncan Place 20th March 2006 Resource Centre, Bethany Christian Trust and St Columbas Hospice.
Ocean Terminal also provided a venue for the Leith Festival, hosting the Leith Debate and displaying work produced by 10-15 year olds from the Duncan Place Resource Centre.
Ocean Terminal also has a representative on the Board of Leith Initiatives for Tourism, http: www.
