28 Corporate Citizenship GROUP 4 SECURICOR IS COMMITTED TO BEING A GOOD CORPORATE CITIZEN.
With operations in more than 100 countries representing diverse cultures, we believe that there is no single solution which suits every market.
The group has therefore developed an approach which sets minimum standards which our various business units can develop further in line with local regulation and the economic and social environments in which they operate.
Policies We endeavour to ensure that we work with business partners The group has a number of important policies which clarify who conduct their business in a way which is compatible with the way that the group and its subsidiaries interact with their our policies of respect for human rights and ethical conduct.
These policies allow some geographical We work with customers to ensure that contractual variation due to local legislation and business practice, but they requirements do not infringe human rights.
set minimum standards to which all Group 4 Securicor business units should operate.
Equal Opportunities & Diversity Group 4 Securicor values all employees for their contribution to The areas covered by these policies include: the business and opportunities for advancement are equal and Business Ethics not influenced by considerations other than performance, ability Whistle-blowing and aptitude.
The group respects diversity and cultural Human Rights differences and understands that these differences are a Health & Safety strength within the organisation.
The group does not tolerate Equal Opportunities & Diversity discrimination on the basis of gender, ethnicity, colour, culture, Employee Rights religion, sexual orientation or disability.
Employee Relations & Involvement Harassment & Dignity Employee Relations With such a large and diverse workforce, maintaining good These policies are issued to all senior managers within the group, published on the global intranet and incorporated into employee relations is an extremely important part of the groups strategy.
new senior management employment contracts.
Compliance with these policies is monitored as part of the groups overall Employers obligations to employees under labour or social internal audit programme.
Group policies are reviewed annually.
security laws and regulations are respected throughout the group.
Business units and their employees work towards Human Rights creating long-term relationships and a working environment in Group 4 Securicor supports the principles of the United which team spirit and commitment to our goals is maintained.
Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and is The group ensures that individual employees are treated fairly committed to upholding them in its policies, procedures and and with dignity and respect and are provided with the practices.
Respect for human rights is and will remain integral opportunity to develop to their full potential and to further to the groups operations.
The group treats its employees in their careers with the group.
accordance with accepted international human rights conventions.
In order to protect the interests of customers and employees, We take measures to ensure that the work of our employees and because of the nature of our business, we apply rigorous does not compromise internationally accepted human rights pre-employment screening and selection techniques.
conventions, whilst recognising and respecting the diversity in Our employment policies comply with relevant national values and cultures across the different continents in which regulatory requirements throughout our markets and we we operate.
respect our obligations under labour and social security laws and regulations.
Employment within the group is freely chosen with no use of forced, bonded or child labour.
Group 4 Securicor Annual Report & Accounts 2005 29 CHANGING ENVIRONMENT CONSTANT COMMITMENT Employee Participation & Representation Paper Products Where possible, the group makes use of Group 4 Securicor and its subsidiaries respect freedom environmentally friendly products and services.
At the group of association and the right to collective bargaining and level, any major printing projects such as the annual report representation in accordance with local legislation and practice.
and accounts, interim reports and customer magazines are all printed on paper which is produced in accordance with The group and its business units work with employees and their ISO1400 environmental certification and is elementary representatives on various issues with the aim of continuously chlorine free.
Business units throughout the organisation are improving standards, developing operational practices and encouraged to consider the use of environmentally friendly training initiatives and making representations on behalf of the products where possible.
industry and its workers to key influencing groups.
We foster strong, long-term relationships with employees and their Community Support representatives.
Employees are encouraged to get involved with their local Globally we have agreements with over 60 trades unions and community by offering their own time to projects and issues over half of the global workforce is covered by collective in the local area in which they work.
Examples of this include bargaining agreements a number which grows annually.
becoming a governor of a local school and providing mentoring for children in the local community.
Environmental Impact The main business activity of the group involves the provision Sponsorship & Charitable Donations of skilled security personnel to our customers and therefore the Employee Trust Fund The group operates an employee trust organisation does not have a significant direct impact on the which makes awards, at the discretion of the trustees, to environment.
However, there are a number of areas in which employees and former employees of the group who are in the group focuses on reducing its environmental impact.
particular need of financial assistance, for example for urgent medical treatment.
Energy Usage We aim to maximise our energy conservation through adoption of best practices.
Where practicable, Sponsorship Matching Programme We have introduced computerised heating, lighting and ventilation controls are a sponsorship matching programme for local projects in installed in buildings.
which business units are involved around the world.
The programme allows any business unit providing funds Recycling & Waste Management We are committed to either corporately or raised by employees for local recycling of materials where possible and where the means community projects to seek matching funding from Group 4 to recycle materials exist, for example: Securicor plc.
The scheme is subject to some simple criteria We use a significant number of containers for the purpose which ensure that the programme is focused on local of carrying cash each year.
Where it is possible countries community projects.
such as the UK, the Netherlands and Germany these containers are recycled on behalf of our customers Recognising Community Spirit and re-used to make new cash carrying containers.
A community award was launched during 2005 which The group has an international fleet of 35,000 vehicles.
recognises those businesses and individuals which have made Cash carrying vehicles are unique to the industry and are a contribution to the community in which their company equipped with a variety of security measures.
This encourages further involvement from other therefore, appropriate for re-use in other areas once their employees and businesses and provides examples of best life cycle has expired.
However, G4S Cash Services UK practice ideas for those businesses which have not yet donates expired vehicles to an organisation which makes developed a community programme.
use of any spare parts and then recycles the remaining shell of the vehicle for future industrial use.
Other Business Unit Initiatives Business units throughout the organisation are encouraged to Use of environmentally friendly products We comply with become involved in other local projects, which are not linked to the relevant standards on vehicle emissions and encourage the group schemes, in order to contribute to the communities business units to use diesel or unleaded petrol to fuel vehicles.
Fuel conservation is achieved through enhanced vehicle design and regular maintenance to minimise any impact on the environment through inefficient fuel management and emissions.
