metres Operating and Financial Review Corporate Social Responsibility Sustainability The Staiths South Bank is a George Wimpey North development of 777 homes on the site of a former gas works on the banks of the River Tyne.
There are expected to be six phases of development and we are currently building 100 homes as part of phase two, having completed 158 homes in phase one.
We are working in partnership with HemingwayDesign.
Home Zones Home Zones give pedestrians priority over cars and most home owners use parking courts rather than having their own parking space.
To help reduce car dependency alternative modes of transport are encouraged, all residents live within 400 metres of a bus stop and the development is linked to cycle routes.
All houses have cycle sheds and residents are given a 50 contribution towards a new bicycle.
Waste management Play areas Communal waste management facilities are within Communal parkland and play areas for 1 2 3 30 metres of each home to encourage recycling and children have been integrated throughout to prevent wheelie bins cluttering up the streets they the development.
45 6 are hidden behind willow screens.
30 THE DISTANCE OF RECYCLING FACILITIES FROM EACH HOME 1 Refuse st3 ore 2 45 6 2005 Awards Awards received by George Wimpey during 2005 include: Building for Life Silver Award Large Housebuilder Winner in the Housing Design Awards Best Housing-led Project Regeneration Award 22 George Wimpey Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Operating and Financial Review Staiths South Bank section of phase 1 shown below Map Key Homes Gardens Home Zones Car Parking Cars allowed Meeting places 1 2 3 All courtyards have 45 6 a brick built barbeque and seating area.
1 2 3 1 2 3 45 6 45 6 1 2 3 45 6 1 2 3 45 6 1 2 3 Recycling site waste 45 6 Local craftspeople have made Communal areas features for the development from reclaimed timber and Innovative design is a key aspect of the 1 2 3 recycled railway sleepers.
Communal design features have seating area provides a great been used to encourage neighbours to get to know 45 6 community space.
one another, these include pocket parks, courtyards 1 2 3 and play areas.
co. uk 23 Operating and Financial Review Corporate Social Responsibility Meeting the CSR challenge We are committed to corporate responsibility and building sustainable communities.
We have published The CSR Committee Christine Cross Chair, pictured Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Reports annually since 2002 and this years report is our fourth.
The report above: Baroness Dean of covers our Groups operations during the 12 month period ended 31 December 2005 and our major targets Thornton-le-Fylde: Steve Parker for 2006.
It describes our approach to and performance on CSR issues as well as providing measurements and Peter Redfern.
James Jordan for 26 key performance indicators KPIs.
also attends meetings of the Committee.
Our CSR practices are our response to the global challenge of sustainable development.
In 2005, we developed a Sustainability Policy to clarify our approach and intentions.
The policy is available on our website.
CSR and business ethics are essential elements of good governance and help to secure the long term sustainability of our business.
They also make sound business sense, particularly given the UK Governments increasing emphasis on building sustainable communities.
2005 achievements Major developments for George Wimpey during 2005 included becoming the first publicly listed UK housebuilder to achieve certication of its entire UK operations to the ISO 14001:2004 environment standard.
This certication provides external validation of the rigour of our environmental management system.
CSR management system Following implementation, our We were also awarded one of 10 sites in the UK Governments Design for Manufacture competition, which CSR policies are monitored and challenged our industry to build high quality homes for a construction cost of 60,000.
George Wimpeys reviewed in order to continuously success in this competition demonstrates our commitment to working with the Government on their improve our approach to CSR strategy and performance.
priority areas of sustainability, design excellence, modern methods of construction and affordability.
Develop strategies A sustainability survey of UK housebuilders by Insight Investment and WWF described us as one of three and policies clear leaders who stand out because they take an increasingly comprehensive, strategic and systematic approach.
We achieved third place with a score of 83% overall just short of the two survey leaders scores Implement of 84% and were ranked first in terms of environmental performance.
Measure and monitor CSR management Ultimate responsibility for CSR within our Group rests with the CSR Committee and the Board.
Chaired by Report Non Executive Director Christine Cross, our high-level CSR Committee meets at least three times per year Seek internal and and is responsible for strategy, policies, reporting, performance and monitoring.
It is tasked with ensuring external feedback that CSR activity is adequately resourced, has appropriate standing within the Group and is aligned to the needs of the business.
The composition of our CSR Committee shows how seriously we take these issues.
Identify risks and opportunities Identifying and tackling non financial risk is a key aspect of the business case for CSR.
Our comprehensive Review approach systems, processes and procedures help us to fully understand the social, environmental and ethical risks and performance to our business.
Our CSR Report provides more information on our management of non financial risks.
24 George Wimpey Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Operating and Financial Review UK browneld land use We strive to be a responsive company and enter into dialogue with our stakeholders on a wide range % of business and sustainability issues.
We participate actively in industry developments and work closely 75 with industry bodies, regulators and Government.
We try to stay informed about developments in CSR and learn from the experience of organisations such as English Partnerships, WWF and Business in the 60 Community.
We have systems in place to ensure engagement with our primary stakeholders.
This report and our CSR Report provide details of current stakeholder engagement practices.
45 2005 CSR Report highlights Ethics, values and governance underpin everything George Wimpey does and determines the Groups 30 approach to all aspects of the business.
Our CSR framework focuses on six key areas.
Detailed below are highlights of the year from each of these six key areas.
15 Health and Safety We undertook a major survey of UK trades and contractors views of on-site safety and will use the results 0 to develop awareness campaigns.
03 04 05 Government target Morrison Homes introduced an annual safety audit of all communities as well as a company-wide safety The government has set a target of 60% by 2008. award scheme.
Environment In the UK, we achieved ISO 14001:2004 certication for our entire operations and developed a Green Procurement Policy.
UK tonnage of waste per unit of housing completed t The Dallas Division of Morrison Homes won the mid-volume housebuilder category of the 2005 Excellence in Energy Performance Awards in Texas.
10 Building Sustainable Communities We were selected as one of the preferred developers in the UK Design for Manufacture competition.
8 George Wimpey was named a Project Winner and the Large Volume Housebuilder Winner of the Housing 6 Design Awards.
The awards promote excellence and sustainability in home design.
Employees 4 1,366 of our UK employees received the Construction Skills Certication Scheme qualication during 2005.
As members of the Major Home Builders Group, we have committed to all site employees being qualied 2 by 2010.
We set up employee consultation committees in all UK companies as a result of feedback from our most 0 recent employee survey.
03 04 05 Customer Care 89% of UK customers and 85% of US customers would recommend us to friends and family.
US incident rate including employees and contractors We won 50 Quality Awards and six Seals of Excellence in the NHBC Pride in the Job Awards that judge housebuilders on quality and service.
7.5 Supply Chain Management Our 2005 CSR Report introduces supply chain management as a new section.
6.0 We introduced an internet based vendor portal to provide up to date information for US trade partners.
4.5 Going forward George Wimpey Plc continues to be committed to monitoring, reviewing, reporting on and improving 3.0 performance.
We believe that our emphasis on CSR continues to make us a stronger and better Company.
We strive to be a responsive company and we are keen to receive feedback on our CSR Report and on 1.5 issues of sustainable business practice.
Our CSR Report and other information including the text of our Sustainability Policy is available at www.
If you would like to comment on 0 any aspect of our approach to CSR, please email us at csr.
03 04 05 Our Sustainability Policy and other CSR information is available at www.
