12 GKN plc Annual Report 2005 Corporate social responsibility Last year I reported that we had carried out a global survey of our social responsibility behaviour and practice which would enable us to rene and improve the way we interact with employees, customers, suppliers and communities.
As a result we are introducing The GKN Code which is supported by a number of policies, some of which are new and some of which are updates of existing policies.
The Code is common to all parts of the Group and sets out a clear and unambiguous framework of conduct and behaviour.
The future GKN made good progress in 2005 in building a strong platform for the future.
Our balance sheet remains strong and well able to support our growth ambitions.
Roy Brown 27 February 2006 Chief Executives statement A year of progress 2005 has been an exciting year in the development of GKN and we made excellent progress across all of our major businesses.
We achieved a solid financial performance and continued to deliver on the strategic actions which will re-establish the Group on a long-term growth path.
In a year of mixed automotive markets and escalating raw material and energy costs our Automotive businesses in total increased sales and produced a very respectable level of profits.
Programme wins and successful new product launches confirmed Drivelines market and technology leadership and a soundly based improvement in Sinter Metals performance underpinned our continued confidence in this sector.
OffHighway increased both sales and market share and the proportion of its revenues derived from the global construction equipment market.
The successful transformation of Aerospace is confirmed by our results and we further strengthened our position on the worlds latest aircraft and engine programmes.
As a result of our new technologies, new programme wins and new investments, our progress in 2005 will make a major contribution to the future success of GKN.
Changing our global footprint In 2004 we informed shareholders of our plans to build on our long-established presence in high-growth, low-cost economies.
By rebalancing our global manufacturing assets we will better exploit opportunities offered by the emerging, growth economies of Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe.
By 2008 our Driveline business plans to have approximately 50% of its constant velocity joint production capacity in these regions compared with 30% in 2003.
During 2005 we made rapid advances towards this goal.
Taking full ownership of our joint venture in Mexico was an important step and we are investing to double our capacity there.
Driveline is also increasing capacity in Brazil, Poland and Slovenia.
Powder Metallurgy, Other Automotive and OffHighway have moved to establish new capacity in markets such as Brazil, India and China, all of which will be in place during 2006.
Meanwhile we are implementing the closure of a number of Driveline and Powder Metallurgy plants in North America and Western Europe.
The contribution of technology Three years ago we stated that GKN was determined to become a technology led company.
Our progress in achieving this ambition has been rapid.
GKN plc 13 Annual Report 2005 In Driveline our engineers launched two new constant velocity joint technologies which are exciting the interest of vehicle manufacturers.
These new technologies represent the first breakthrough in constant velocity joint design since the product was invented 70 years ago.
In 2005 we commissioned our Advanced Composite Facility on the Isle of Wight in the UK to accelerate the development of new material and process technologies for aerospace.
We are grateful for funding support from the UK Department of Trade & Industry and the South East Development Agency.
The Facility was opened by Alun Michael MP, Minister of State for Industry.
GKNs technology status in aerospace was confirmed by our selection by Northrop Grumman to join the team responsible for development and production of the X-47B unmanned combat aircraft.
Prototype production work on this programme began in 2005.
We also embarked on a major extension of our facility in Alabama, USA, to produce the worlds first all-composite fan case for the new General Electric GEnx jet engine for airliners such as the Boeing 787 and 747-8 and the Airbus A350.
Managing GKN As a result of the Board changes described by the Chairman we have enlarged the Executive Committee of the Board which now also includes the chief executives of our operating divisions Driveline Driveshafts, Sinter Metals, Diversied Businesses Group, OffHighway and Aerospace.
These changes to the Executive Committee were with effect from 1 January 2006.
I am confident that through this team of experienced and talented executives we will be able to continue to drive forward our strategic development with maximum vigour.
Credit for our successes in 2005 is spread widely throughout the global GKN organisation.
People at all levels have been challenged by the execution of our strategic plan and have shown exceptional skill and dedication.
I thank them all for their contribution to what has been a memorable year of progress in the development of GKN.
Outlook There is a broadly stable outlook for major automotive markets whilst aerospace markets look set to remain strong.
In Automotive, industry forecasts for North American and Western European markets are for little change in production volumes, although there remains some risk of disruption to the former following recent supplier insolvencies.
However, developing markets, especially in Asia Pacic, are expected to show continuing strong growth.
Prices for steel and other automotive raw materials appear to have stabilised although energy costs are still showing some increase.
With its presence in emerging markets and strategic restructuring programme nearing completion, Driveline should have another solid year.
Powder Metallurgy expects to show further recovery and growth.
Results for our other smaller Automotive businesses will be impacted by redundancy costs.
OffHighways agricultural markets softened slightly during 2005 but are expected to remain around current levels throughout 2006, with continuing strong demand in construction markets.
We expect our business to continue to make good progress.
Aerospace markets will remain strong and we expect to continue to improve performance albeit at a lower rate of growth than the exceptional rate seen in 2005.
Interest costs on borrowings will rise in 2006 as increases in US interest rates will impact foreign currency borrowings by around 9 million.
Overall we expect to continue the progress seen last year into 2006, with the further benets of restructuring together with the strength of our order book accelerating growth from 2007 onwards.
Kevin Smith 27 February 2006 14 GKN plc Annual Report 2005 GKN people and their achievements in 2005 Encouraging achievement by individuals and teams is at the heart of GKNs global drive for excellence.
GKN looks for excellence in how we perform as a business, excellence in how we serve customers and shareholders and excellence in how we manage our impact on the environment and how we interact with the wider community of which we are a part.
On the next four pages we highlight a small selection of GKN people and their success in striving for excellence.
16 GKN plc Annual Report 2005 GKN people and their achievements in 2005 Karen Whitbread, Technical Manager and Mike McKee, Technical Lead, work for GKN Aerospace in Alabama, USA.
During 2005 they were deeply involved in a breakthrough in the use of composites in aircraft structures.
General Electric has awarded GKN a contract to produce the worlds first composite fan containment case for a large turbofan.
The new engine, the GEnx, will power the Boeing 787 and 747-8 as well as the Airbus A350.
Production of the GEnx containment case is now underway at GKNs plant in Tallassee, Alabama.
A major expansion of the plant was initiated in 2005 to handle this addition to GKNs output.
GKN Aerospaces engineering team won the GKN Group Technology Innovation Award in 2005 for their work on this project.
Mike is holding an aluminium bond tool used on the first full-scale case to be produced.
Roy Parton, Materials Manager, Ken Lane, Operator and Lynne Woodcock, Customer Liaison, are members of the GKN Wheels team at Telford in the UK.
In 2005 the Telford team received an Excellence Award for Customer Focus from the Institute of Mechanical Engineers.
GKN Wheels has become known for its rapid response to customer emergencies.
Roy, Ken and Lynne were involved in a typical emergency exercise when a major customer had been let down by another supplier.
An urgent request for a batch of wheels was received on a Friday and delivered to a plant in Germany on the Monday morning.
GKN plc 17 Annual Report 2005 New technologies are at the heart of GKNs ambition to expand the global market for powder metallurgy based products.
Peter Moelgg, GKN Sinter Metals Senior Vice President Engineering and Bernhard Teroth, Development Manager, Hydraulics, discuss their new Planetary Hydraulic pump.
The unique characteristics of the new pump for example very high pressure, dual ow and very low energy absorption are enabling automotive customers to either eliminate multiple pumps or downsize products to improve vehicle packaging in areas such as transmission and steering systems.
There is a small shing village on the West Coast of Thailand whose livelihood was devastated by the Asian tsunami.
Boonnarong Petchsongkram, SCIL and EMS Manager at GKN Drivelines plant in Rayong in Thailand, decided to bring hope back into the lives of the villagers.
He mobilised a GKN team who drove 1,000 kilometres with more than a ton of food as well as cash.
Three months later the GKN volunteers returned to build new houses and help the villagers acquire new boats.
Thanks to Boonnarong and his colleagues the villagers of Kampoun have returned to the life they knew before the tsunami.
In 2005 Boonnarong received a special GKN Award for Outstanding Contribution to the Community.
Workplace safety is of paramount concern for GKN people and we are proud of our record of improvement.
In 1999 our accident frequency rate per 1,000 employees was 24.8.
David Craig, Vice President and his team from GKN Aerospace in St Louis, Missouri, USA, developed a meticulous, behaviour-based approach to safety using trend analysis and risk proling.
Their achievements won them GKNs top safety award for 2005.
