GKN plc 29 Annual Report 2005 Trading profit of 54 million was 16 million above 2004.
Excluding the impact Bank borrowings are principally in the form of five-year committed multiof currency, the increase was 15 million 39% which reected not only the currency bilateral revolving credit facilities with a group of relationship banks.
higher sales level but also improved operational performance, productivity There were no borrowings against these facilities as at 31 December 2005. and continued cost reduction initiatives and the absence of asset write-downs Capital markets borrowing of 705 million includes unsecured issues of which had impacted 2004.
350 million 6.75% bonds maturing in 2019 and 325 million 7% bonds During the year the Advanced Composite Development Centre was opened on maturing in 2012, together with 30 million debenture stock of Westland the Isle of Wight in the UK.
The immediate goal of the Centre will be to reduce Group plc which is secured on assets of that company and certain of its the current cost of carbon bre composite structures from todays values, subsidiaries.
through a combination of qualication of new raw products and automated At the year end the Group had committed borrowing facilities of manufacturing methods and techniques.
1,087 million, of which 737 million was drawn.
The weighted average Major development milestones were successfully achieved on a number of maturity prole of the Groups committed borrowings was 9.9 years.
This new programmes including the manufacture of the first GEnx composite leaves the Group well placed to fund its strategic growth plans and to engine fan casing and important components for the Joint Strike Fighter.
withstand any sudden changes in liquidity in the financial markets.
Although no new major aircraft programmes were launched during the year, The Group also has access to significant lines of uncommitted funds which are the division was still able to secure additional incremental business across a used principally to manage day-to-day liquidity.
Wherever practicable, pooling, range of existing programmes with an estimated value of over $500 million.
netting or concentration techniques are employed to minimise gross debt.
Other financial matters At the year end the Group had 542 million on deposit in the UK mainly held Treasury management in money market funds or with banks at maturities of three months or less.
GKN co-ordinates all treasury activities through a central function, the purpose of which is to manage the financial risks of the Group as described below and Risk management to secure short and long-term funding at the minimum cost to the Group.
The The Group is exposed to a variety of market risks, including the effects of central treasury function operates within a framework of clearly dened Board changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.
In the normal approved policies and procedures, including permissible funding and hedging course of business, the Group also faces risks that are either non-financial or instruments, exposure limits and a system of authorities for the approval and non-quantiable, including country and credit risk.
It operates on a cost centre basis and is not The Group uses interest rate swaps, swaptions, forward rate agreements, permitted to make use of financial instruments or other derivatives other than netting techniques and forward exchange contracts as required to manage to hedge identied exposures of the Group.
Speculative use of such the primary market exposures associated with its underlying assets, liabilities instruments or derivatives is not permitted.
The central treasury function prepares a formal twice-yearly report to the Board, Counterparty credit risk as well as formal monthly reports for the Finance Director and other senior The Group is exposed to credit-related losses in the event of non-performance executives of the Group.
In addition, the gross and net indebtedness of the by counterparties to financial instruments.
Credit risk is mitigated by the Group is reported on a weekly basis to the Chief Executive and the Finance Groups policy of only selecting counterparties with a strong investment Director, whilst liquidity, interest rate, currency and other financial risk graded long-term credit rating, normally at least AA or equivalent, and exposures are monitored daily.
The central treasury function is subject to an assigning financial limits to individual counterparties.
annual internal and external review of controls.
Interest rate risk Funding and liquidity The Group operates an interest rate policy designed to optimise interest cost The Group funds its operations through a mixture of retained earnings and and reduce volatility in reported earnings.
This policy is achieved by borrowing facilities, including bank and capital markets borrowings and maintaining a target range of xed and oating rate debt for discrete annual leasing.
The relative proportions of equity and borrowings are governed by periods, over a dened time horizon.
This is achieved partly through the xed specic Board approved parameters.
These are designed to preserve prudent rate character of the underlying debt instrument, and partly through the use financial ratios, including interest, dividend and cash ow cover, whilst also of straightforward derivatives forward rate agreements, interest rate swaps minimising the overall weighted average cost of capital to the Group.
The Groups normal policy is to require interest rates to be All the Groups borrowing facilities are arranged by the central treasury function xed for 30% to 70% of the level of underlying borrowings forecast to arise and the funds raised are then lent to operating subsidiaries on commercial over a 12-month horizon.
However, this policy was suspended in December arms-length terms.
In some cases operating subsidiaries have external 2004 as it was deemed inappropriate given the absence of oating rate bank borrowings, but these are supervised and controlled centrally.
The Groups debt following the receipt of the sale proceeds of GKNs share in objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and exibility AgustaWestland.
Consequently, as at 31 December 2005, 89% of the Groups through borrowing at a range of maturities from both capital markets and gross financial liabilities were at xed rates of interest, whilst the weighted bank sources.
average period in respect of which interest has been xed was 9.9 years.
30 GKN plc Annual Report 2005 Business review continued Currency risk Overseas pensions The Group has transactional currency exposures arising from sales or The principal regions involved are the Americas, continental Europe and the purchases by operating subsidiaries in currencies other than the subsidiaries Rest of the World.
Under the Groups foreign exchange policy, such The charge to trading profit relating to overseas post-employment obligations transaction exposures are hedged once they are known, mainly through the in respect of current and past service costs was 19 million 2004 use of forward foreign exchange contracts.
The Group has a significant 18 million, whilst other net nancing charges included in net nancing costs investment in overseas operations, particularly in continental Europe and the were 17 million 2004 17 million.
As a result, the sterling value of the Groups balance sheet can be affected by movements in exchange rates.
The Group therefore seeks to The increase in the deficit of 20 million to 419 million 2004 399 million mitigate the effect of these translational currency exposures by matching the was largely as a result of the higher net present value of liabilities from net investment in overseas operations with borrowings denominated in their reductions in discount rates and revised mortality assumptions.
functional currencies, except where significant adverse interest differentials Summary or other factors would render the cost of such hedging activity uneconomic.
In total, at 31 December 2005 the deficit was 885 million 2004 This is achieved by borrowing either directly in either the local domestic or 854 million for the reasons stated earlier.
euro-currency markets, or indirectly through the use of rolling annual forward foreign exchange contracts.
Borrowings created through the use of such Financial resources and going concern contracts amounted to 631 million at 31 December 2005 and were At 31 December 2005 the Group had net borrowings of 65 million.
In addition denominated in US dollars 36%, euro 50% and Japanese yen 14%.
it had available, but undrawn, committed borrowing facilities totalling 350 million.
Pensions and post-employment obligations GKN operates a number of dened benefit and dened contribution schemes Having assessed the future funding requirements of the Group and the across the Group.
The total charge to trading profit in respect of current and Company, the Directors are of the opinion that it is appropriate for the accounts past service costs was 35 million 2004 32 million, whilst other net to be prepared on a going concern basis.
nancing charges included in net nancing costs were 22 million 2004 Cautionary statement 29 million.
The business review and certain other sections of this annual report contain The decrease in other net nancing charges reects the higher expected return forward looking statements that are subject to risk factors associated with, on pension scheme assets from the increased level of assets at the start of amongst other things, the economic and business circumstances occurring 2005.
This resulted in part from the 100 million prepayment made by the from time to time in the countries and sectors in which the Group operates.
It Group to the UK pension scheme in December 2004.
The higher expected is believed that the expectations reected in these statements are reasonable return was partially offset by an increase in the notional interest charge on but they may be affected by a wide range of variables which could cause actual higher pension scheme liabilities.
Further information including asset, liability results to differ materially from those currently anticipated.
and mortality assumptions used is provided in note 31 to the financial statements.
UK pensions The UK dened benefit scheme is considered to be relatively mature as only 5,000 of its 56,600 members are currently in service.
As a UK dened benefit scheme, this is run on a funded basis with funds set aside in trust to cover future liabilities to members.
A 100 million prepayment towards the UK deficit was made in December 2004.
The Group has also announced its intention to make a further payment of 200 million in 2006.
No further deficit payments are planned in 2006.
The charge relating to UK post-employment benets reected in trading profit in respect of current and past service costs was 16 million 2004 14 million, whilst other net nancing charges included in net nancing costs were 5 million 2004 12 million.
The deficit at 449 million 2004 455 million was largely unchanged from the end of 2004 as the increase in asset values from higher actual returns was largely offset by the higher net present value of liabilities from the 55 basis point reduction in the discount rate.
GKN plc 31 Annual Report 2005 Corporate social responsibility review Policies during 2005.
It is chaired by Grey Denham, Company Secretary: other Living our Values GKNs approach to Corporate Social Responsibility CSR is underpinned by a members include business leaders from different divisions and geographical locations, together with specialists in governance, risk, financial control, set of enduring values focused on customers and quality, enterprise and innovation, people and the community, the environment and business ethics.
human resources and corporate communications.
The Sub-Committee reports regularly to the Executive Committee of the Board and a formal presentation These have guided our behaviour for almost 250 years.
is made annually to the Board.
Our commitment to continuous improvement in everything we do led us to The Sub-Committee works closely with the Group Risk Management Council reappraise, in early 2005, how the Values are applied throughout the Group.
GRMC, the policy advisory and steering group on accidental risk and Whilst the Values remain central to the way in which GKN operates, we decided sustainable development.
The GRMC provides oversight and direction on the to reinforce them by developing The GKN Code.
The Code provides a framework management of accidental risk across GKN.
It also develops strategy for and for the behaviour of all employees whatever their job, wherever they are reports on the progress of key elements of sustainable development within located.
It is supported by a number of policies, some of which update existing GKN.
It is supported in its role by Divisional Risk Management Councils which policies and some of which are new.
The Code and Policies are progressively ensure that best practice processes are embedded within the Groups being implemented throughout all of our businesses and will be available in operations.
The GKN Code and Policies Maureen Constantine, Group Human Resources Director, has responsibility for ensuring that appropriate health, safety and environmental programmes are The GKN Code is designed to ensure that our business in all its aspects continues to be run in an ethical, socially responsible and sustainable in place throughout the Group and that performance is reviewed regularly.
Grey Denham, together with the internal audit department and the Audit manner by: Committee, oversees compliance with Group Policies.
complying with all relevant laws and regulations wherever we operate and Governance and risk conducting our business with integrity and in such a manner as to reinforce The management of social responsibility issues is an integral part of the our reputation: Groups overall corporate governance procedures and therefore this review maximising shareholder value whilst safeguarding shareholders investment should be read in conjunction with the corporate governance statement on by combining high standards of business performance with high standards pages 90 to 94.
The management of risks associated with CSR issues is of corporate governance and risk management: encompassed within the internal control procedures described in that section.
From 2006, as part of these procedures, Group companies will be required to providing excellent products and services to our customers and seeking to confirm twice-yearly that they operate in compliance with The GKN Code and win new business through fair competition: the Policies.
dealing honestly and fairly with our suppliers and sub-contractors: The most significant risks that we have identied in relation to social treating our employees justly and with respect, recognising their abilities responsibility issues are loss of reputation resulting from the manner of and differences, rewarding them for their achievements and providing them operation of our businesses and safety issues arising from quality or design with a healthy and safe working environment: of our products.
Both of these could, potentially, impact shareholder value signicantly as well as our employees and the communities in which we playing our part in the protection of the environment both in the operation of our facilities and the design of our products: and operate.
In environmental terms, our manufacturing processes are not inherently high risk, nevertheless great care is taken to prevent any adverse contributing positively to the communities in which we operate.
These principles are underpinned by policies relating to ethical standards Assurance including a specic policy on the appointment of agents and consultants, The Group operates globally and it is therefore appropriate that our approach employment, health and safety, business continuity, competition law, supplier to social responsibility is global.
Accordingly, this review covers all of our management, environment including a specic policy on energy, community, subsidiary operations worldwide.
It also embraces our joint venture companies data protection and employee disclosure whistleblowing.
through an open exchange of information and ideas.
Where practicable performance data is collected from those companies.
The performance data It is the responsibility of all companies in the Group and all employees to presented in this review has been the subject of self-certication together ensure that The GKN Code is followed and that we comply with the Policies.
with some independent verication of data or data collection processes as CSR framework described below.
The Governance and Risk Sub-Committee has responsibility for developing GKN supports the terms of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the strategy for and providing oversight and direction on all matters relating to governance, risk management and CSR with a view to ensuring that all GKN OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and continues to work towards ensuring that there is no breach of these within its businesses.
Our ultimate businesses act as good corporate citizens and in accordance with GKNs Values.
As part of its remit the Sub-Committee developed The GKN Code and aim is to ensure that similar standards operate throughout our supply chains.
32 GKN plc Annual Report 2005 Corporate social responsibility review continued To full our vision of growth and the creation of shareholder value, we must How we operate Over the past five years we have developed a set of tools and enablers that have knowledgeable, skilled and competent people.
Development plans and opportunities are in place at all levels in the organisation.
We continue to embed continuous improvement in all aspects of the way we do business.
Through the progressive use of a Business Excellence Model as a strategic operate apprenticeship schemes and a graduate development programme the International Leadership Development Programme to provide analysis tool we prioritise strategic actions, conduct gap analysis, apply consistent measurements, and focus on proactive improvement and engineering and leadership capability for the future.
Our training programmes encourage learning and sharing of technical know-how across companies and knowledge sharing, which collectively drive change through the organisation and across all business processes.
CSR is a key element within the Business divisions.
Our programme of employee international assignments helps to promote cross-cultural awareness as well as providing excellent development Excellence Model.
All divisions have undertaken high level assessments and 150 assessments at regional and plant level have also been completed.
There are currently almost 100 assignees in 20 countries across the Group with an average length of assignment of some three years.
Within the Group there are 170 trained assessors who provide momentum to the process.
We collaborate with a number of external bodies associated with sector skills development as well as professional and educational institutions.
Work The three Sub-Committees of the Executive Committee the Technology experience opportunities are provided for schools and colleges local to our Sub-Committee, the Lean Enterprise Sub-Committee, and the Governance and facilities and in some cases we contribute to curriculum development.
Risk Sub-Committee have made a significant contribution during 2005.
Through their work, we ensure that we establish clear leadership accountability, Our organisational capability is reviewed through a rigorous Organisational continue to operate as a global entity with common processes and ways of and Management Development Review conducted at regional, divisional and working where appropriate, carry out process measurement and improvement Group level on an annual basis.
The effectiveness of our development and activities, and share knowledge and best practice to ensure we deliver against succession plans is reviewed annually by the Board.
For GKN a key component of our Business Excellence Model is We conduct training programmes and technical events, some of which also Lean Enterprise, a specic set of enablers and measures that drive benefit other stakeholders.
A number of technical forums have been held with continuous improvement of our production, business and people processes.
global customers and, as part of the deployment of Lean Enterprise training, Under the oversight of the Lean Enterprise Sub-Committee three councils have supply chain management training which commenced in 2005 will been established, the People Excellence Council, the Production Excellence become a focal point in 2006, some elements of which will cascade into the Council and the Business Process Excellence Council.
Whilst all three Councils supply chain.
have an important role to play in achieving excellence, the People Excellence Council has a particularly pivotal role.
People excellence provides the Employee feedback We welcome feedback from our employees and believe employee surveys are foundation on which production excellence and business process excellence are built.
Its major objective is the establishment and deployment of an effective means of soliciting employee opinion.
All companies are required to conduct an employee survey every two years.
the principle of Development for All, ensuring that the Group has the right skills and competence at all levels in the organisation to achieve its As a precursor to the 2005 International Leadership Conference, a Leadership strategic objectives.
Survey of the 210 delegates was conducted to assess the extent to which leadership behaviours are aligned with GKNs Values.
The results suggested Enabling our people to meet their full potential strong alignment but with a need for more focus on involvement with the In building a sustainable business, GKNs people are of paramount communities in which we operate.
The new Community Policy will identify importance.
Operating in over 30 countries, with almost 40,000 employees, ways of contributing more positively to the community including, for example, we recognise the importance of respecting local and national cultures and of greater use of work placements, involvement in local environmental projects, enabling our people to understand and deal with the impact of economic and readiness to respond in local or national emergencies, and governorships on business changes in their working lives.
We embrace diversity in all aspects school and college boards and similar bodies.
of our business and work consistently to build an inclusive culture.
Employees by business Employees by region as at 31 December 2005 as at 31 December 2005 Automotive Subsidiaries 28,000 UK 5,400 Joint ventures 3,400 Continental Europe 14,600 OffHighway Americas 11,600 Subsidiaries 2,600 Rest of the World 8,300 Aerospace Subsidiaries 5,900 including subsidiaries and joint ventures GKN plc 33 Annual Report 2005 As part of our aim to contribute positively to the communities in which we Our commitment to the community During 2005, GKNs businesses and employees again made a significant operate, wherever possible we employ local labour in our businesses.
We invest in local community projects both by way of financial donations and contribution to the communities in which we operate.
Cash donations were made to many local, national and international projects including the through the volunteer work of our employees, particularly in less developed countries.
international relief funds established for victims of the Asian tsunami in December 2004 and for those affected by the Kashmiri earthquake and by Over the last few years, a number of meetings have been held with major Hurricane Katrina in the US.
Those organisations to which cash contributions shareholders and NGOs to discuss the Groups performance with regard to were made are listed on the GKN website at www.
corporate social responsibility and it is our intention to continue to seek dialogue with major stakeholders.
Total community support during the year amounted to some 902,200.
The tremendous achievements of our employees at GKN Driveline Rayong, We are aware that there are some investment organisations and individuals Thailand, in providing support to victims of the tsunami are referred to on who are concerned by companies involvement in the defence industry.
Other examples of community support include: Following the sale of our helicopter joint venture, AgustaWestland, GKNs Asia Pacic Amongst the many community activities in which GKN Driveline primary interest in defence equipment is through GKN Aerospace which is a first tier supplier of aerospace structures, propulsion systems and special India is actively involved is a project to provide a basic infrastructure to disabled children with special learning needs.
The company provides funding products for US and European military aircraft programmes.
All sales outside domestic markets are strictly in accordance with the relevant government and assistance to a local day care centre which provides specialist educational services for the children in areas such as sensory training, personal export approval procedures.
independence, speech therapy, physiotherapy and elementary craft training.
In addition to the impact of our own activities, the impact of our supply partners and the products we manufacture both during their life and in their The Americas GKN Driveline in Brazil continued its successful Renascer end of life phase are of increasing importance.
We continue to seek to identify Project, initiated in 1994, to provide young people from low income families ways in which we can support our key suppliers in this regard to our mutual with opportunities for personal and professional development.
As a component supplier, the impact of our products has to be partnership with local schools the company offers three-year placements to addressed also in partnership with our customers as well as our suppliers.
This students to give them experience of manufacturing.
In recognition of this and continues to be an important focus of attention and is addressed in our new the many other community projects in which it is involved, the company won Supplier Management Policy which is being introduced, as part of The GKN a national award for social accountability in 2005.
South Africa GKN Sinter Metals Cape Town has taken a proactive approach GKN plays a substantive role in a number of key industrial organisations.
We to AIDS education for employees since 1999 and activities were dramatically stepped up in December 2004 to coincide with World AIDS Day.
A system of are founder members of the Industry and Parliament Trust, the UK Per Cent Club and the UK Emission Trading Scheme.
We are active members of the Peer Group Educators was established to encourage employees to have HIV screening and counselling and also to make positive lifestyle choices.
They Engineering Employers Federation and Confederation of British Industry in the UK and the German Employers Federation.
We are also active members engaged in a range of activities, also involving employees from neighbouring companies, including role play and training videos.
The company is committed of the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders SMMT in the UK, CLEPA the European Association of Automotive Suppliers, the Society of British to nding further innovative ways in which to help employees address this extremely important issue.
Aerospace Companies, the US Organisation for International Investment and the British Occupational Health Research Foundation.
In addition, we are Europe GKN Driveline Bruneck in Italy involved more than 800 children in represented on the boards of the Automotive Academy, Skills4Auto and on the local elementary schools in a project entitled Step by Step which, through Engineering Training Board.
various initiatives including workshops, competitions and discussions, GKN Driveline was one of 11 founding signatories to the SMMTs sustainability increased their awareness of the environmental impact of mobility and of the strategy Towards Sustainability which outlines the automotive industrys kind of behaviour that could have a more positive impact on the environment.
commitment to balance economic progress with environmental care and social In a related project, local children built a model car giving them basic technical responsibility.
The sixth Annual Sustainability Report published towards the knowledge and increasing their enthusiasm for teamworking.
end of the year demonstrated the increasingly prudent use of resources within Working with our stakeholders the automotive industry.
We define stakeholder as any person or organisation who is affected by, or Managing health and safety in GKN whose actions impact upon, our business.
These include customers, local communities, shareholders, suppliers, employees, business partners, local Whilst expert advisers are available centrally and within divisions, we continue to focus on strong, committed, visible and supportive leadership, together authorities, government agencies and non-governmental organisations NGOs.
We engage with these stakeholders in a variety of ways.
with appropriate employee behaviours as the main drivers of health and safety improvement throughout the Group towards a goal of zero preventable accidents.
34 GKN plc Annual Report 2005 Corporate social responsibility review continued The deployment of Business Excellence within GKN continues to provide a Over the last five years AFR performance has improved by 74% and ASR by framework for achieving excellence in safety.
A key part of our strategy is to 60%.
Our serious injury rate SIR also improved in 2005 and shows a 71% encourage every employee to take ownership of their own health and safety reduction over the last five years.
Further improvements have been made to and that of their immediate colleagues.
Health and safety performance is processes and systems for the management of serious accident risk.
During reported to the Board and the Executive Committee as part of the regular CSR 2005, nine enforcement actions five of which carried no penalty with fines reports.
In addition, significant incidents are reported to Executive Committee totalling 2,630 occurred in plants in Australia, Italy and the US.
members within 24 hours and reviewed at the next meeting of that Committee.
Targets In conjunction with our management of safety, there is a parallel set of Objectives and targets continue to be applied primarily at plant level where provisions for safeguarding employees health with the focus clearly on the they can best reect a plants specic needs, risks, priorities and opportunities avoidance of work-related ill health through the completion of workplace for improvement.
In addition, divisional targets are established for the three based risk assessments, occupational health management intervention, the key performance indicators i. e. AFR, ASR and SIR.
Performance targets are promotion of wellness programmes and active data collection and monitoring.
Every part of GKN must target an overall, clear and positive In the introduction of lean manufacturing, issues of health and safety, improvement trend leading to and maintaining a best in class performance.
ergonomics and the health hazards of any chemicals involved in production Where considerable improvement is needed, plants have specic, often are all considered when dening Standard Work the correct way of doing aggressive, targets.
In 2005, 66% of plants improved or maintained their each job.
excellent AFR performance and 53% of plants achieved their AFR targets.
For ASR 61% of plants maintained or improved their performance and 48% met Many GKN businesses now incorporate in their operations features from the their targets.
Divisional targets were met in 75% of cases.
health and safety management system OHSAS 18001 and 17 GKN companies have now achieved certication to this standard.
In addition to performance targets for AFR, ASR and SIR we also apply targets to and measure performance against key enablers including health and safety Performance training and the publication of health and safety objectives and plans.
These Our performance in 2005 again shows an improvement against the key enablers and associated targets are subject to change as part of a dynamic performance indicators of accident frequency rate AFR and accident severity approach which addresses developing needs and priorities and drives rate ASR.
Whilst ASR continues to improve, the element attributable to continuous improvement.
They consistently operate at an achievement level occupational ill health has been fairly constant over the years and is of 75% or above.
comparable with benchmark companies and with the non-industrial workforce in the countries in which we operate, reecting the background level of health Benchmarking results place our accident rates well below industry averages issues in the general population.
in the UK, Germany and the US.
Against those of our peer companies in the UK and the US where comparative data is available, our performance We also focus on the types of health issues which could be problematic in the compares very favourably.
In particular, data is collected on dermatitis, occupational asthma and vibration white nger hand-arm vibration Verication syndrome where there is no lost time.
The virtual absence of cases is We recognise the importance placed by stakeholders on verication to ensure reassuring.
that the data which is reported on in this review is robust.
A previous external review of processes and procedures used in the collection and reporting of We were deeply saddened by the death in November of an independent health and safety data revealed no significant deficiencies.
Verication and contractor as a result of an accident during roong work being carried out by assurance of the effectiveness of data collection systems is demonstrated his rm on GKN premises in Romania.
No GKN personnel were involved in through the achievement of certication to international standards and, in carrying out the work and appropriate safeguards were in place.
The accident many countries, compliance with local legal requirements.
We will review how was the subject of detailed internal and external investigations.
best to develop this process going forward.
Accident frequency Accident severity 20 350 rate AFR rate ASR 300 Number of lost time Number of days shifts 15 accidents per lost due to accidents 250 1,000 employees and occupational 200 ill health per 10 1,000 employees 150 100 5 50 01 02 03 04 05 0 01 02 03 04 05 0
