CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT We recognise the importance of promotions nor heavily discounted prices.
We operate a proof-ofcorporate social responsibility and aim to age scheme and track attempts by under-age drinkers to order act in a way that respects the social, alcoholic drinks.
Our soft drinks are reasonably priced in order to economic and environmental wellbeing offer alternatives to alcohol.
Our actions take into account our stakeholders - customers, Our Beer To Dine For campaign, encouraging the consumption of consumers, employees, suppliers, beer as an accompaniment to food, promotes drinking in a distributors and local communities as civilised, convivial environment.
It is the antithesis of binge-drinking.
Smoking Alcohol advertising and promotions In the Choosing Health White Paper, launched in June this year, the In the current environment, issues such as binge drinking, underGovernment set out its proposals for smoke-free public places and age drinking and the promotion of alcohol are very much in the workplaces by the end of 2008.
Consultation for these proposals public arena.
As producers and retailers of alcohol, we are continues until September but in the meantime, our planning is already committed to acting responsibly at all times.
Pubs provide an at an advanced stage.
excellent leisure opportunity and our aim is to ensure that whether our customers are eating in one of our restaurants, drinking in one We are preparing for the anticipated ban by increasing the amount of our bars or sleeping in one of our hotel beds, they have a safe, of no-smoking floor space in our pubs and investing in out-door comfortable and enjoyable experience.
areas that smokers will be able to use.
In the meantime, we continue to provide customers, smoking and non-smoking, with Our company has signed up to the Portman Groups code of choice, as well as ensuring a healthy working environment for our practice on advertising and packaging of alcoholic drinks, and the staff.
Our estate is weighted towards food-led and familyBritish Beer and Pub Associations code on drinks promotions.
orientated pubs and these are perceived to be at less risk from the None of our brand advertising focuses on the alcoholic strength of ban, and further details are contained in the chief executives the beer, suggests any association with bravado or aggressive report.
behaviour nor implies that consumption can lead to social or sexual success.
There is no encouragement for binge drinking Anti  measures and drunkenness.
Advertisements are not designed to appeal to We believe in equal opportunities for disabled customers - as well as under 18s.
for disabled employees - and are working to improve our facilities in pubs.
Independent audits have been carried out across the pub Drinks promotions in Pub Company feature a responsible drinking estate to determine action on access and other issues.
Our managed pubs do not offer all you can drink ramps are not practical, our pubs will have signs indicating that staff 22 GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 04 05 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT will help people with disabilities to gain entry.
Doorbells are being Employees installed accordingly.
We have a loyal, hardworking and motivated workforce, a dynamic mixture of new and long-serving employees.
89% enjoy Pub managers are being trained on inclusion, to help improve the their jobs and 83%, including retail staff, are proud to say they hospitality we provide to people with disabilities.
Managers and work for the company.
tenants have been provided with all the information needed to comply with the Disability Discrimination Act and have put in place Our aim is to treat people fairly, to provide them with the training, some positive measures for the benefit of disabled customers.
support and equipment they need to do their jobs well and to expect high standards of behaviour and commitment in return.
Pub Staff We involve them in every way possible in our activities and our We take the safety of our staff very seriously and have installed business, providing information on the companys performance as appropriate security systems, including CCTV, across the Pub well as its activities.
We communicate through regular team Company estate.
Staff awareness programmes train our meetings, specific briefings, conferences, e-mail, intranet, notice employees on how to deal with aggressive behaviour.
All pub boards and in-house magazines.
We conduct employee attitude managers are required to participate in the local Pub Watch surveys, and use the results to benchmark and improve our scheme and security training is an integral part of our management.
comprehensive induction programme for new managers.
We are one of the first operators to offer our licensees a training scheme Our sharesave scheme is open to all, and everyone who has approved by the Security Industry Authority.
participated in recent years has benefited from the increase in value of the shares.
The profit-sharing scheme is open to employees with Tenants the requisite qualifying service.
All are offered access to a As landlords we are committed to helping our licensees with a  defined contribution pension scheme and broad spectrum of programmes, including training, marketing there is a scheme for additional voluntary contributions for those and commercial initiatives.
We offer one of the best if not the who wish to contribute.
best support packages in the industry.
There is no business sense in charging rents so high that they leave no profit for Training and development help create a professional, highly licensees so we charge commercial market rents, raised annually motivated workforce and ensure that we continually up-grade our in line with RPI and with rent reviews carried out every five years.
skills and are fully equipped for the challenges of a fast-changing Our longer lease agreements include provisions for the market and environment.
There are opportunities for all calculation of rent on a fair maintainable turnover basis.
The employees at head office and in pubs, ranging from bar skills to code of practice we follow ensures that any agreements with our personal development training.
A comprehensive induction licensees are transparent to them.
programme is in place for new bar staff.
GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 04 05 23 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT We are also committed to the principle of equal opportunities for We benchmark ourselves for energy consumption under the climate all.
The rationale for recruitment and selection is the ability and change levy agreement for the brewery sector and target ways to aptitude of applicants.
Employees who become disabled are reduce consumption.
We work closely with groups such as the retained and retrained wherever possible.
Brewery Engineers Association to share and implement best practice ideas.
The recent installation of a new refrigeration plant on Environment site in the brewery not only replaced our ageing systems, but was Our aim is not only to comply with relevant environmental laws, also responsible for the removal of CFC gases.
The new plant was but also to actively limit any adverse effect our business may have chosen for its ability to deliver a more energy efficient system, on the environment and to promote continuous improvement in including significant electrical savings and improved insulation.
We accordance with best practice.
The adoption of responsible are currently working closely with a local company on an initiative standards is an integral part of our business operations and which has reduced steam usage by 50% on various applications includes contractors often being locally sourced to reduce within the brewing process.
The overall responsibility for environmental policy rests with the board, but the managing The site in Bury St Edmunds includes flood meadows, for which we directors of the divisions are responsible for the sound won a national conservation award in 2003, and which we continue environmental management of their particular divisions.
to manage for the benefit of wildlife, flora and fauna.
We have applied for a licence under the Integrated Pollution, Health and safety Prevention and Control IPPC legislation operated by the The health and safety of our employees and customers is Environment Agency.
The licence is given to manufacturing sites paramount.
Safety management is conducted in accordance with that introduce an integrated approach to controlling pollution from models suggested by the Health and Safety Executive and industrial sources, based on the use of best available technologies.
includes the use of detailed risk assessments, which are audited The aim of the IPPC is to reduce emissions and waste and, where to ensure compliance.
Brewing Company won the RoSPA Gold possible, prevent them entirely.
Award for Health and Safety for the 3rd year running.
The food safety programme in Pub Company has been advocated by the We have recently introduced more rigorous controls on the use of Food Standards Agency as a template that the whole catering water in the brewing process and have as a result significantly trade should adopt.
Waste brewing materials - brewers grains and yeast - are recycled wherever possible for use as safe and wholesome animal feed.
Other solid waste materials are disposed of through reputable disposal companies.
