Corporate Social Responsibility Greggs plc believes that as a major employer, a provider of food products to the public, In addition to the schemes listed above, Greggs plc staff throughout the country and a plc with obligations to its shareholders, the Company has a responsibility to participate voluntarily in a wide range of charity fund raising, which makes an conduct its business with integrity, to act responsibly, to address the impacts of our additional meaningful contribution to the wider communities in which we operate.
business on the environment, and to give something back to the wider communities By their dedication and devotion, our employees are a true credit to the Greggs in which we operate.
and Bakers Oven name, and the real benefits of what they achieve are inestimable.
It is thanks to these employees and their efforts that as a Company we are able to This responsibility is delivered through the following: make a significant contribution to the communities in which we operate.
Customers, People and Suppliers The Environment Our Values are embraced by the Board and expected of all colleagues: The Company recognises the importance of protecting our environment for future generations and is committed to carrying out its activities with due consideration for We will be enthusiastic and supportive in all that we do, open, honest and the environmental impacts of its operations and in line with Our Values.
appreciative, treating everyone with fairness, consideration and respect.
Environment Policy Our Values are a basis for all of our activities.
Our employees are expected to use Greggs plc has identified the key environmental impacts of its activities.
We are them in their relationships with each other and with customers and suppliers.
Our committed to an ongoing programme of continual reduction of any adverse impacts Values are our code of conduct and are the framework within which the business and prevention of pollution consistent with our long term business objectives.
To manages its activities and operates.
manage this, the Company is progressively introducing an Environmental Food Safety and Health & Safety are at the forefront of how we operate.
We insist Management System EMS in each Division, which will seek the following: on providing our customers with good quality food products and assurances of Compliance with all relevant environmental legislation, regulation and other food safety.
Our robust systems also seek to protect the health & safety of Greggs requirements applicable to the Company or to which the Company subscribes: customers and its employees.
Reduction of waste at source via the efficient use of resources and encourage Wider Communities re-use and recycling of waste: In 2005, Greggs plc directly donated 1.2% of pre-tax profit to charity.
Working towards increasing energy efficiency at all its sites: Greggs Trust is a registered charity, founded by Ian Gregg in 1987.
Its main objective is the alleviation of the effects of poverty and social deprivation in the Monitoring and improving the performance of vehicles owned by Greggs plc: areas where the Company trades.
Its income in 2005 was 909,757, derived from the Greggs plc donation, from employees under the Give As You Earn Working towards ensuring that policies and procedures are in place so that Scheme and staff fund raising activities.
The balance was received in the form of accidents incidents with potential adverse environmental impact are controlled donations from major shareholders and income from investments including are far as is reasonably practicable: shares in Greggs plc held by the Trust.
Funds are distributed by the Trustees Progressively making employees aware of the environmental issues relevant to and via staff Charity Committees operating across the country, offering support their role within Greggs plc: to good causes within our trading areas.
Taking into account the adverse impact on the environment of any capital The Greggs Breakfast Club scheme is designed to get children in selected primary expenditure project.
schools off to a better start by providing them with free breakfasts.
Greggs funds a nutritious breakfast, including provision of fresh bread from local Greggs or During 2005, progress has been made as follows: Bakers Oven shops, together with the necessary equipment.
Greggs and Bakers Continuation of environmental audits of all divisions.
Oven staff work with school teachers to encourage parents, grandparents and other volunteers to run the clubs, including serving the breakfasts, thereby helping Introduction of a waste management initiative: them to help others in their own communities.
In 2005, the number of Breakfast Club schemes increased from 82 to 113.
The concept has been validated by - Reduce the amount of food waste generated by our shops and bakeries: external independent research which has shown that Breakfast Club attendance - Looking at alternatives to landfill disposal of food waste that is generated: encourages children to get to school on time and increases attentiveness in class.
The scheme received the Business in the Community Big Tick award for - Using the Greggs productivity system to help reduce waste at source.
Excellence in 2003, which ran for 2 years.
Certified environmental training being carried out with divisional representatives.
The Greggs Cancer Run is an annual event which has raised over 3 million EMS review at Balliol to bring it in line with revised environmental standard since its inception in 1983.
The Cancer Run originated in Greggs North East, ISO14001.
organised each year by a group of dedicated staff.
In 2005 Cancer Runs took place at Greggs North East: Greggs North West: Greggs of Scotland and Greggs Second central savouries plant is being built IPPC compliant from commission, South East.
The event is growing and will take place in 6 divisions in 2006. hence will become a low environmental risk plant.
2005 was Year 5 of the Companys investment of 500,000 in the 5-year Newcastle Introduction of Greggs building standards meaning risk reduction measures Employment Bond, which is secured as to repayment by Northern Rock plc.
The investment is at zero rate interest, with the interest foregone to be used to help tackle long-term unemployment in the Newcastle upon Tyne area.
Continuation of the SEBA Save Energy Be Aware initiative in all shops and factories to reduce energy consumption by the Company, to meet the On a nationwide basis, Greggs made charitable donations of 609,000 in 2005, Company targets for reduction set out in the plc Business Plan.
the bulk of which was directed through the Greggs Trust.
Working to introduce a packaging environmental impact measurement into the Greggs plc has employed a full-time dedicated Community Initiatives Manager since business, reducing packaging at source.
This role oversees our work in the wider communities, in particular to accelerate further roll-out of the Greggs Breakfast Clubs.
This appointment is In 2005, the Company has taken steps towards meeting its environmental testament to Greggs ongoing commitment to the communities in which we operate.
commitments and will continue to grow this commitment during 2006.
GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 72 73
