Environmental policy at Gyrus CORPORATE Gyrus believes in protecting the environment.
When AND SOCIAL developing products and manufacturing processes, every effort is made to try to ensure that any adverse RESPONSIBILITY effects on the environment are minimised.
We endeavour to use renewable resources wherever possible.
Gyruss objective is to achieve ISO 14001 certification with respect to environmental policy.
Gyruss policy is to: Comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations wherever it operates: Encourage understanding of environmental issues in general, and particularly as they relate to the medical device and healthcare industry: Identify, encourage awareness of, and include wherever relevant, environmental issues in all aspects of decision making within the Group: Set relevant environmental targets and develop an ethos of continuous improvement in each operation to reduce the environmental impact of Gyruss products and processes on the external environment: Work with our suppliers to try to improve their environmental management as it relates to products and services they provide to Gyrus: Develop specific standard operating procedures for each operation within Gyrus with regular audits to monitor compliance: Be aware of and consider environmental issues in the communities where our operations are located: Encourage employee participation in environmental projects, such as recycling, waste reduction, energy and water conservation: and Monitor progress and provide reports to the Board regarding environmental performance across the Group.
We routinely monitor, assess and amend this policy to ensure it is relevant and appropriate to the environment within which we live and work.
Health & Safety Policy Gyrus regards the promotion of health and safety as an essential part of management and employer responsibilities.
It believes in continuous improvement as a basis for its approach to these areas.
Gyrus is committed to complying with applicable health and safety laws and regulations wherever it operates.
Environmental, Health & Safety Committees Each Gyrus location has an Environmental, Health & Safety Committee with representatives from across the business participating in ensuring that good practices are adopted and implemented.
Gyrus Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 26 Business Ethics The Gyrus Group is committed to, and expects all of its employees at all times to maintain, the highest standards of business and personal integrity in all aspects of its operations.
We respect the law in the countries and communities where we operate and accept and uphold the principles contained in the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Social Responsibility The Gyrus Group is committed to conducting all aspects of its business in a socially responsible way.
We adopt this ethos in all interactions with our key stakeholders our customers, shareholders, our employees, our business partners, the communities in which we operate and society in general.
Specifically: For our CUSTOMERS: We are committed to providing innovative, cost-effective, procedure-enabling products that help physicians around the world improve the quality of life for their patients.
To deliver this we maintain a significant investment in research and development.
Gyrus products are designed to be safe and reliable for their intended use, and to comply with all legal and regulatory requirements.
For our SHAREHOLDERS: We are committed to reporting in a timely, reliable and regular way, providing clear information on our business and its performance.
We conduct our operations in accordance with generally accepted principles and rules of good corporate governance and specifically in accordance with the listing rules of the Financial Services Authority.
For our PATIENTS: Gyrus products improve the quality of life for patients around the world by reducing hospital stays and allowing a quicker return to normal activities.
For our EMPLOYEES: Gyrus believes its greatest asset is its employees and is committed to attracting, developing and retaining outstanding people.
Gyruss employment policies are designed to provide equal opportunities irrespective of colour, national or ethnic origin, religion, sex, and marital or disabled status.
We believe that it is a persons ability to perform the essential functions and tasks of the position that is important.
For our BUSINESS PARTNERS: Gyrus believes that working with our suppliers in a spirit of partnership is the best way to meet our objectives and we encourage open and ethical relationships with our suppliers.
For our COMMUNITY AND SOCIETY: Gyrus sees contribution to the communities in which we work as a fundamental part of our social responsibility to the communities in which we are located and to society in general.
We strive to be a good corporate citizen by being an active member of each community in which a Group Company is located and by encouraging and supporting employees who undertake community work.
com is one method of communicating relevant and timely information to our stakeholders and investors.
Gyrus Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 27
