Corporate Social Responsibility Halfords has an ongoing corporate 2.
In the Workplace In areas of family safety Halfords is social responsibility programme, Engaging with our employees has the major sponsor of the Mother and which is designed to promote been one of our main objectives.
Baby campaign, which raises understanding amongst our One of our greatest achievements awareness of child seat fitting in stakeholders of the important regarding employee engagement has cars, run by the leading parenting issues for our business and to been our ability to reward our people magazine, Mother and Baby.
Around facilitate appropriate management following flotation and let them share eight out of ten child seats in the UK approaches.
It is our aim to in our future success as a listed are wrongly fitted in cars, sometimes continually improve our management company.
To do this we successfully leading to injury or death of young of social, environmental and launched a Company share option babies and toddlers.
As one of the economic issues throughout the scheme that invited employees to UKs leading retailers of child seats, business and our global supply accept a grant of options through the Halfords has invested in training network.
In doing this, we will develop scheme.
The most innovative aspect around 1,000 store staff in their shared business objectives with our of this scheme was the decision to demonstration and fitting.
include all of our people, subject to run roadshows at Halfords stores, eligibility criteria, irrespective of their working with road safety officers to A summary of our challenges and seniority.
We are particularly proud of give free advice and fitting services achievements over the past year is this achievement, as similar schemes to parents and guardians.
A full copy of our are usually designed for the executive our own national child seat fitting Corporate Social Responsibility or senior management population.
week at all superstores, to raise report for 2005 can be found awareness of the issue.
on the Companys website, Employee engagement and support www.
com are vitally important to the Company 4.
In the Environment and several initiatives are in place Our commitment is to understand 1.
In the Marketplace to achieve this.
In addition, training and improve the performance and Our policy is to meet or exceed the and development programmes are management of our environmental requirements of legislation, industry in place throughout the business impact throughout the Halfords standards, international conventions to maximise peoples skills and supply chain.
We aim to achieve a and codes of practice.
high standard of responsible care for the exploitation of children and people and the environment, whilst young people, and the exploitation 3.
In the Community maximising business efficiency and of workers generally, and we support The Company is the technical growth.
To this end, we will review our fair and reasonable rewards and sponsor of the BHF British Heart policy regularly and update conditions for workers.
To this end, Foundation, London to Brighton it accordingly.
we conduct factory, warehouse and cycle ride, providing 100 cycle tied accommodation inspections and specialists from our stores to keep Our key areas of concern cover audits to ensure that our standards the fund-raisers on the road.
Our ethical sourcing, our use of natural are being implemented.
cycle mechanics provide help and resources, pollution prevention, waste service to the estimated 50,000 management, supplier and contractor The health and safety of our workers riders who take part.
The BHF is the relationships and the impact of our is paramount.
We require all activities UKs leading charity on heart disease products and services.
Our policy to be carried out under conditions and its prevention and this is the commitments will be translated that have proper and adequate second year of sponsorship for into actions, using quantifiable regard for the health and safety Halfords, as part of a three year objectives, targets and key of those involved.
performance indicators, which will be reviewed and updated annually.
Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2005 19
