HALMA Corporate Responsibility Report Socially responsible Investing in Halma shares meets the criteria of many professional and private investment investors who base their decisions on environmental, ethical and social considerations.
The Group is a world leader in several key environmental technologies and has a reputation for honesty and integrity in its relationships with employees, customers and business partners.
Social conditions can be improved for all through the creation of wealth.
Halma creates wealth responsibly allowing our employees, customers, business partners and shareholders to determine where this wealth is best distributed.
In each of the following areas, the regulatory demands upon us vary considerably around the world, so Halma establishes the core structure to ensure that Group companies fully comply with regulatory requirements while permitting them to tailor the solutions to their particular needs.
The environment Within Halma, we have an excellent long-term record and a clear strategy for addressing environmental issues that affect our businesses and for developing In response to the December products that protect the environment and improve safety at work and in public 2004 South East Asian places.
tsunami, Hanovia directed its efforts into converting existing Our products technology designed for fixed installations into a standalone Many of our innovative products play a very positive role in monitoring and UV water disinfection system.
Halma brands lead the world in a number of UV water disinfection systems technologies which help to minimise environmental damage.
are particularly effective in killing cholera and typhoid Our principal environmental technologies are water leakage detection, gas bacteria and other wateremissions monitoring, water and effluent analysis, UV water treatment and fibre borne bacteria and viruses optic spectrometers.
We tirelessly promote the use of UV water sterilisation which that may be immune to chlorine.
The system is fully eliminates the need to use dangerous chemicals, as well as products that minimise portable and can be used to the waste of clean water.
provide primary disinfection of contaminated water or be Our commitment to the development of equipment for measuring environmental used as a point-of-use changes and controlling the damaging impact of industrial activities is long term.
disinfection barrier from storage tanks.
It can produce up to 6 tonnes per hour of low We make safety equipment for use at work, in public places and in transportation quality filtered drinking water.
systems that contribute to increased personal safety by ensuring safe practice at It may also be combined with work, protecting people from fire and making elevators and automatic doors safe chemical treatment to provide and effective.
We are the major world supplier in several of these areas.
The first system was donated to Environmental policy Mercy Malaysia for use at an The Groups policy on environmental issues is published on our website and has Internally Displaced Person camp in Banda Aceh province.
been distributed and explained to all Halma business units.
A senior executive in each of our business units is responsible for implementing Across the Group we continue the environmental policy at local level.
The Group Finance Director, Mr K J to operate programmes, where commercially viable, to ensure Thompson, has principal responsibility for coordinating and monitoring the policy.
the responsible disposal of packaging, including the Environmental management system re-use and recycling of all We are committed to developing and implementing an environmental packaging types and, where management system EMS throughout the Group to measure, control and, necessary, the use of licensed where practical, reduce our environmental impacts.
We are developing contractors to dispose of non-recyclable waste performance indicators that will assist local management in implementing the packaging safely.
policy and developing an EMS.
The requirement for an EMS and the related Halma p. l. c. 2005 31 HALMA Corporate Responsibility Report continued The BEA group of companies reporting has been rolled out to all UK business units which represent over 50% has always sought to minimise of Group production facilities in terms of external turnover.
All Group companies the environmental impact of are encouraged to undertake ISO 14001, the international environmental their buildings.
This objective standard, accreditation where warranted.
During the year, Fortress Interlocks was designed into BEA SAs obtained ISO 14001 approval.
The requirement to implement an EMS will be main facility in Lige, which extended to the rest of the Group in the medium term.
already uses collected rainwater for everything other than drinking water, and heat Our impacts exchangers to minimise the We support the concept of sustainability and recognise that, in common with all energy needed to heat and cool businesses, our activities have an environmental impact.
Our products do not the building.
During this year require capital-intensive manufacturing processes, so the environmental effect of the technologies used in the our operations is relatively low compared to manufacturers in other sectors.
heating and lighting systems of the building have been further upgraded to improve their During the year, the Group successfully introduced an Innovation Initiative which energy efficiency.
These kinds encourages the research and development teams at each Group company to reof initiatives to reduce energy examine their product designs with a view to being more efficient and effective use, applied across the Group, using components which are more environmentally acceptable.
The winning team lead to the double benefits of in 2004 comprised Roger Copeland, Duncan Johnson and Stan Ramage from lower environmental impact and lower costs.
Volumatic whose Compact Counter Cache product development was voted, by a peer group, as the most successful product innovation of the year.
Group companies are encouraged to improve energy efficiency, reduce waste and emissions and to reduce the use of materials in order to reduce their Demonstrating the Groups environmental impact.
The Group carried out an exercise in 2004 05 to establish commitment to ensure all baseline data on emissions to air and water, water and energy consumption and companies comply with waste production.
The data collected will enable the Group to set objectives for applicable regulations, Apollo reducing its environmental impacts in those areas and to look at setting targets Fire Detectors is now well for reduction in key areas.
The Group plans to publish the results of this exercise advanced in its compliance on its website in July 2005. plan for the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment WEEE Directive that comes The baseline data has confirmed that the main areas of impact on the environment into force in August 2005. are energy consumption and waste disposal.
The Group does not operate a fleet Apollo will be introducing new of distribution vehicles although we do own a number of company cars.
Few of our product labelling this year to assembly processes require water, so there are not large quantities of waste water meet its immediate obligations to manage.
under the WEEE Directive and is arranging to join a collaborative compliance After the results of the 2004 05 exercise are analysed and targets have been set scheme early next year by in key areas of environmental impact, the Group is committed to examining the which Apollo can offer its establishment of green procurement policies.
customers a simple product return service.
The Groups environmental performance will continue to be reported in both the Annual Report and on our website.
Health and safety The Group recognises the necessity of safeguarding the health and safety of our own employees whilst at work and operates so as to provide a safe and comfortable working environment for employees, visitors and the public.
The Group has a health and safety policy, which is set out on the Companys website.
It is the Groups policy to manage its activities to avoid causing any unnecessary or unacceptable risks to health and safety.
The policy is understood by all Group companies.
Given the autonomous structure of the Group, operational responsibility for compliance with relevant local health and safety regulations is delegated to the board of directors of each Group company.
Health and safety training is carried out within companies as appropriate.
Adequate internal 32 Halma p. l. c. 2005 HALMA Corporate Responsibility Report continued reporting exists in order that the Group Finance Director may monitor each companys compliance with this policy.
The Group has collected details of its worldwide reported health and safety incidents which will be available on its website in July 2005.
Ethics Halma encourages its employees to act fairly in their dealings with fellow employees, customers, suppliers and business partners.
We aim to have suppliers of high quality and operate to acceptable international standards.
Halma operates a confidential whistleblowing policy, which enables all Group employees to raise any concerns they may have.
FTSE4Good index Halma was designated a member of the FTSE4Good UK index on its establishment in July 2001.
The FTSE4Good index measures and benchmarks the performance of companies with good records of corporate social responsibility and aids investors who use socially responsible investment criteria.
The FTSE4Good Selection Criteria cover three areas: working towards environmental sustainability: developing positive relationships with stakeholders: and upholding and supporting universal human rights.
Business in the Halma participated in the 2004 Environment Index for the first time signalling the community Groups commitment to integrating environmental considerations into the way that the Group is operated.
