34 Alliance UniChem Plc Operating and financial review Corporate social responsibility our business and the community As a leading European healthcare group we must be trusted and responsible.
Historically corporate responsibility issues have been managed at a local level by each of our businesses.
In 2005 we started to take a more coordinated approach establishing new management structures, gathering data and setting targets in a number of key areas.
We are committed to reporting annually on our progress and this is our first corporate responsibility report in which we provide baseline data and targets on key issues.
How we manage corporate responsibility Serving the community Scope of our report At Board level overall accountability for Improving the quality of life in the communities corporate responsibility rests with Ornella Barra, Our corporate responsibility report covers 2005. we serve is our business.
Throughout the year Executive Director.
In 2005 we set up a new We have reported consolidated data for the we have worked closely with health authorities, Group Corporate Responsibility Committee to Group, excluding businesses acquired or charities and other organisations in order to coordinate the way we manage and report on disposed of during the year and all associates.
meet the needs of local communities.
Our UK environmental and social issues.
This is made retail pharmacy business, for example, has up of representatives from key corporate partnered with Primary Care Trusts PCTs and departments.
other organisations to introduce a range of Our core values are: new services such as pharmacy blood pressure Whilst the Managing Directors of each testing and heart assessments.
It also works of our businesses are responsible for the Partnership with healthcare charities to provide information implementation of Group policies, each and advice to customers on a range of issues business has nominated an individual to Service including distributing leaflets produced by oversee corporate responsibility and these Macmillan Cancer Relief during Lung Cancer representatives work with the Group Corporate Excellence Awareness Week.
Responsibility Committee to drive forward improvements.
We seek to make a difference in our Innovation local communities through our charitable In 2005 we introduced Standards of Business contributions and in 2005 we introduced Conduct to ensure adoption of a consistent a new Charity Policy.
This sets out our approach across the Group on ethical and FTSE4Good commitment to support healthcare and local other corporate responsibility issues.
We also community organisations and to develop Alliance UniChem is included in the introduced a new Community Policy as well long-term strategic partnerships with a select FTSE4Good, an index of companies that meet as Environment, Health and Safety Standards number of charities.
which sit alongside our Environment Policy and Health and Safety Policy.
A Charity Committee has been set up to manage our charity partnerships.
The committee includes representatives from our corporate office, UK retail and wholesale businesses.
We have selected two partner charities Macmillan Cancer Relief and the disability charity Leonard Cheshire.
The Group has given an initial 50,000 to each of these charities and has worked closely with them to determine how the money is spent.
35 Alliance UniChem Plc Operating and financial review Our business and the community Community giving by type 2005 Cash given by cause 2005 D C C B B A A A.
Developing countries health the community 75,000 social welfare emergency relief 90,000 C. Employee volunteering 9,000 C. Other local community projects 30,000 D. Gifts in kind 37,000 Total 295,000 Total 341,000 This includes cash donations and commercial initiatives in the community.
Top: Leonard Cheshire communications Our UK retail business has set up a new Community targets project.
volunteering scheme for pharmacy graduates Continue to strengthen relationships with who, working in teams, plan and carry out Middle: UK pharmacy graduates volunteering.
our two partner charities Macmillan and community projects.
By the year end five teams Leonard Cheshire, in ways that are involving a total of 68 graduates had Bottom: Mensen in Nood vaccination mutually beneficial.
Activities included cleaning programme in the Congo.
up a conservation area at a local school in the Set up payroll giving schemes in our corporate Midlands, decorating a Leonard Cheshire home office, UK retail and wholesale businesses.
for the disabled in Peckham and helping to renovate a night refuge centre in Chichester.
Our total community investment during In addition to the graduate scheme around the year cash, gifts in kind and employee 40 employees volunteered to run educational volunteering was 341,000. sessions for children on Safety of medicines in the home, as part of a junior citizenship In addition, our UK employees raised over scheme coordinated by the police.
100,000 for Diabetes UK and a further 70,000 for other recognised healthcare In The Netherlands our wholesale and retail charities.
Fundraising initiatives included businesses have donated 10,000 to the organised events, sales of charity pin badges development charity Mensen in Nood.
and collection tins in pharmacies and This money has helped provide vaccinations warehouses.
for children from the province of Kananga in the Congo.
The Group has also matched this Examples of community giving: donation by giving 10,000 to the charity for The Group has given an initial 50,000 to a project to improve healthcare in small villages Macmillan in the UK to sponsor a Mobile in Navrongo Bolgatangaonze, Ghana.
This tours the country providing advice and support to people living with cancer.
The Group has donated an initial 50,000 to the disability charity Leonard Cheshire in the UK to help fund a communications project.
This is enabling disabled people who cannot speak to communicate more effectively through the use of pictures and symbols.
Lindsey Steward shown in the photo above indicates her likes and dislikes by choosing from a range of images from a personally tailored communication book.
36 Alliance UniChem Plc Operating and financial review Our business and the community Energy 2005 Energy GWh 142 2 Energy efficiency KWh m floor space 233 CO from energy tonnes 29,700 2 Below: Bioforce Development Institute training for development workers.
Below right: Medicines donated to help victims of the Pakistan earthquake.
In France our wholesale business donated emissions by improving energy efficiency as Environmental targets 8,000 to the Bioforce Development Institute well as switching to renewable sources of Source 40% of electricity used by our existing which provides training and advice for electricity where this is cost effective.
businesses from renewable sources by humanitarian and development workers At a number of depots across Europe our 31 December 2006.
This would help cut our in order to improve the delivery and warehouse Best Practice programme has led total CO emissions from energy by effectiveness of international aid.
2 to improvements in energy efficiency through 1 approximately one third.
In the UK our wholesale business donated the upgrading of electrical equipment and the Improve fleet efficiency units delivered per antibiotics and other pain relief medicines installation of new heating cooling systems.
tonne of CO by 5% over a three-year period to help victims of the Pakistan earthquake.
2 In addition, improvements in operational 2 by 31 December 2008.
The products, with a wholesale value of productivity such as reduced picking times have around 7,000, were distributed by also resulted in energy savings.
For example, Increase the proportion of general waste International Health Partners to emergency at our depot in Livingston, UK, energy recycled at our warehouses by 5% over a relief organisations in Pakistan.
Almus also efficiency increased by around 20% in 2005 1 three-year period by 31 December 2008. donates medicines for doctors travel packs, following implementation of the programme in 1 Target applicable to Group businesses as at providing essential medicines for British doctors 2004.
As part of our Best Practice programme, 31 December 2005. involved in humanitarian work in developing upgrades were carried out at a total of six depots 2 Target applicable to our own delivery vehicle fleet countries.
in 2005 in addition to six carried out in 2004. in the UK, France and The Netherlands wholesale businesses.
In the UK our wholesale business has set out to improve energy efficiency, working Caring for the environment in partnership with The Carbon Trust, a Our key environmental concerns are energy, government funded organisation.
Audits were transport, waste and water.
The Groups carried out at its head office and at two of the Environmental Policy sets out our commitment eleven wholesale depots in order to identify to minimising our impact on the environment.
In response, posters have been put up at each location to raise awareness In 2005 we gathered data for the first time on of energy conservation.
An energy key environmental impacts and set quantitative management system has also been installed targets to drive forward improvements across at its head office in Chessington which the Group.
tracks energy use on a half hourly basis.
As well as tackling our direct impacts, in the UK The management system will be extended we have also started to engage with suppliers to the wholesale depots in 2006.
Our UK on environmental and social issues.
retail business has also started to work with The Carbon Trust and energy audits are Energy planned for 2006.
In 2005 the Group used 142 GWh of energy equivalent to the annual energy use of We purchased renewable energy in our UK around 6,000 UK households.
This resulted in retail, UK wholesale and Dutch wholesale emissions of 29,700 tonnes of carbon dioxide businesses.
The UK businesses switched to a CO, a greenhouse gas which contributes to 2 renewable contract in October 2005, which climate change.
Our overall energy efficiency supplies electricity from large-scale hydropower 2 was 233 KWh per square metre m of plants in Scotland.
In The Netherlands we floor space.
We are working to reduce CO 2 purchased electricity generated from a mix of 37 Alliance UniChem Plc Operating and financial review Our business and the community Transport 2005 Water 2005 3 Transport fuel 000 litres 9,600 Water m 181,600 Distance travelled 000 km 83,600 CO from fuel use tonnes 25,200 2 Transport efficiency km per litre 8.6 Transport efficiency units delivered per tonne of CO 31,700 2 Data covers our own product delivery fleet only.
It does not include third party distribution or business travel.
Waste 2005 General waste disposal tonnes 6,500 General waste recycled tonnes 8,200 General waste recycled % 56 Pharmaceutical and hazardous waste disposed tonnes 600 Data on general waste and recycling is not currently available for our retail business.
Data on pharmaceutical and hazardous waste does not include unwanted pharmaceuticals returned by customers.
biomass and wind power throughout the year.
UK business re-evaluated all van routes using customers, in line with legal requirements, and Our businesses in Norway also receive all a new computer routing system.
The initial ensure these are disposed of safely.
We have electricity from hydropower.
In 2005 23% of results show some significant savings, with procedures in place to prevent spillage or our total electricity consumption was from some depots achieving up to a 15% reduction leakage of hazardous materials into the renewable sources.
In The Netherlands our surrounding environment.
wholesale business has also reduced kilometres Transport Water on certain routes by integrating deliveries at 3 Our businesses manage the handling and In 2005 we used an estimated 181,600 m our warehouses.
distribution of pharmaceutical products in of water equivalent to the annual water use seven European countries.
In the UK and The Waste of around 1,400 UK households.
Water is Netherlands our own vehicle fleets carry out In 2005 our wholesale businesses generated mainly used for general purposes, some of the majority of our product delivery.
In France 14,700 tonnes of general waste equivalent our wholesale depots also using water for the around half of our deliveries are conducted by to the annual household waste produced by controlled washing of vehicles.
Water use is third party contractors and in the Czech around 12,000 UK households.
A total of monitored to identify potential leaks and ways Republic, Norway, Italy and Spain most of our 8,200 tonnes 56% was recycled, including of improving efficiency.
7,900 tonnes of cardboard and 250 tonnes of plastic.
Global 100 In 2005 we owned or leased approximately 1,400 product delivery vehicles.
The majority The majority of our waste is packaging and we Alliance UniChem is included in are vans which deliver products from our work to reduce this by using reusable plastic the 2006 list of the Global 100 wholesale depots to customers.
Larger containers for the majority of our deliveries.
Most Sustainable Corporations trucks and lorries make deliveries from our Although nearly all our wholesale depots in the World, researched by central distribution centres to our depots.
send waste for recycling, there is currently a Innovest Strategic Value Advisors Over 90% of our vehicles meet the EURO III considerable variation in the proportion of waste Inc and published by Corporate or higher standards on emissions.
In 2005 recycled across our sites which we are seeking to Knights Inc. the fleet produced emissions of 25,200 address.
Our UK wholesale business is planning tonnes of carbon dioxide CO.
In our to increase recycling by switching to a single 2 wholesale businesses in the UK, France and waste and recycling contractor for all depots and The Netherlands the fleet efficiency was by getting dedicated managers at each site to 8.6 kilometres per litre of fuel and monitor recycling rates and practices.
31,700 units delivered per tonne of CO. 2 We also seek to reuse unwanted retail products Fuel efficiency is a key consideration in our including discontinued stock items or damaged fleet purchasing decisions.
For example, our UK retail business business has selected a new standard van donated 17,000 worth of discontinued for its fleet that is 8% more fuel efficient than reading glasses to charity.
In 2005 the Group disposed of around 600 We also seek to optimise efficiency through tonnes of pharmaceutical and hazardous waste logistical planning such as increasing vehicle from our own operations.
This included out of loads and plotting the most efficient routes.
date or damaged pharmaceutical stock as well In the last 18 months our UK wholesale as other medical and special waste including business installed a telematics unit in all vans needles from blood tests and chemicals used which monitors vehicle movements and in photo processing.
Our pharmacies also enables better route planning.
In addition the take back unwanted pharmaceuticals from 38 Alliance UniChem Plc Operating and financial review Our business and the community Accident rate 2005 2005 2004 Lost-time accidents number 450 464 Lost-time accident rate number per 100,000 hours worked 1.32 1.42 Three-day lost time accidents number 346 350 Three-day lost time accident rate number per 100,000 hours worked 1.01 1.07 The accident data covers all businesses including new acquisitions that were purchased during 2005.
The data for 2004 has been revised to exclude associate businesses.
In our wholesale depots one of the main health Customer safety Health and safety targets and safety risks is strains and muscular injuries Our UK retail business has comprehensive Reduce our three-day lost time accident rate incurred from lifting and moving boxes.
Our operating procedures to ensure safe processes within the existing Group by 30% over the wholesale businesses carry out regular training for the dispensing of prescriptions.
These are next five years by 31 December 2010. on manual handling and are working to reviewed regularly to reflect our culture of minimise risks and manual handling injuries continual improvement and delivery of best Target applicable to Group businesses as at 31 December 2005. in the future.
In our wholesale business in practice.
Dispensing errors are recorded and The Netherlands regular training of employees investigated in order to learn how to avoid Promoting health and safety has contributed to zero manual handling them.
In Norway, dispensing errors are also Workplace health and safety injuries in 2005. recorded and there are processes in place The health and safety of our employees, to promote ongoing improvement.
In The Road safety is also a key priority for our drivers.
contractors and the general public is of Netherlands, all major incidents are reported In our wholesale business in The Netherlands a paramount importance to the Group.
to the National Inspector of Healthcare, pilot project was carried out during the year on We have a Group Health and Safety Policy as required by regulations.
A third of our safe driving techniques and ways to control and we introduced new Environment, pharmacies in The Netherlands are certified vehicles in difficult circumstances.
This will be Health and Safety Standards in 2005 covering to the HKZ national quality management extended during 2006.
In our UK wholesale 20 key areas.
Our businesses are working to standard for the healthcare sector which sets business training for drivers is planned in implement these standards and we monitor out procedures for recording dispensing errors accordance with the Safe and Fuel Efficient compliance through an assessment process.
Certification will be extended to Driving SAFED standard.
all our pharmacies in The Netherlands by the Each of our businesses is required to report lostOur businesses also promote awareness of end of 2006. time accidents to the Group on a monthly basis health and safety issues.
For example, the and to fully investigate all accidents and near Our Almus range of generic medicines features internal magazine of our UK wholesale misses to prevent similar incidents.
In 2005 the innovative colour differentiated packaging, business, Team Talk, includes regular tips on lost-time accident rate was 1.32, 7.0% lower specifically designed to enhance safety in health and safety.
Our UK retail business is than in 2004.
The three-day lost-time accident dispensing.
In 2005 Almus sponsored a new developing an online training tool on health rate was 1.01, 5.6% lower than in 2004.
Patient Safety Award for UK pharmacies which and safety which will be rolled out to all its The three-day lost-time accidents resulted in recognises the expertise of pharmacists and pharmacies in 2006.
Our businesses in Italy and 3,883 calendar days lost an average of technicians in creating practical solutions to Spain also have online training programmes on 11 days off work for each of these accidents.
The award is open to all UK health and safety.
Jonathan Burton, superintendent As a healthcare group the health and pharmacist at the independent Danderhall wellbeing of our employees is important to us.
Pharmacy, Danderhall, Scotland and a customer For example, our UK wholesale business has of our UK wholesale business, won the award introduced free diabetes and blood pressure for his initiative 'Making Patient Safety a testing for employees at its head office and Priority', which included posters, monthly depot in Chessington.
newsletters and a training safety pack.
39 Alliance UniChem Plc Operating and financial review Our business and the community Causes of three-day lost time accidents 2005 E D C A B A.
Slips trips falls 39% B. Manual handling 36% C. Equipment warehousing 13% D. Vehicle accidents 6% E. Other 6% Respecting ethics As a wholesaler of pharmaceutical products Pharmacy ethics Product testing and operator of pharmacies we recognise that Pharmacists are highly skilled healthcare No animal testing is commissioned or carried many of the branded products we stock will professionals and complete rigorous academic out by the Group.
have been tested on animals as part of their and practical training.
Community pharmacists product licensing procedures.
As a Group are not only responsible for dispensing Alliance UniChem does all that it can to source we have an obligation on professional and medicines but also provide professional advice products that have not been tested on animals legislative grounds to ensure the provision of to customers on safe and effective use of and believes that alternative methods of testing licensed medicines to patients.
In addition they provide guidance on should always be sought first.
choice of products to be used, we consider healthy living.
Pharmacists have a duty to act We work closely with our suppliers of our own the methods of testing before deciding on in their patients' best interests and deliver brand non-prescription healthcare products to which products to stock.
We fully acknowledge the highest standards of care available.
ensure they do not use animal testing unless that we have an ethical and legal obligation Professional regulators set out strict ethical and it is legally required.
No animal testing is carried to do so but as a secondary factor to moral guidelines for pharmacy practitioners.
out by Almus or our other own brand generics patient wellbeing.
For example, pharmacists in the UK must suppliers, although it may have been comply with the Code of Ethics drafted by the Standards of business conduct undertaken by the developers of the original Royal Pharmaceutical Society of Great Britain.
In 2005 we introduced standards of business patented drugs in order to obtain product Our UK retail business acknowledges the conduct to ensure a consistent approach across licences.
fundamental importance of these legal and the Group on a range of ethical and corporate ethical parameters and employs designated It is our policy that no animal testing should be responsibility issues.
These standards provide pharmacists to conduct regular branch audits carried out on our own brand personal care detailed guidance for employees to help them in order to monitor and support ongoing products such as soap and shampoo.
In 2005 make appropriate judgements and decisions in compliance.
we have contacted all our suppliers to check the course of their work.
Our UK retail business compliance with our policy.
None of our own is planning workshops about the Standards for brand personal care products are tested on its managers during 2006. animals and the raw materials within them We strive to be honest and fair in all our have not been tested since at least 30 June business dealings and the Standards explicitly 2000, in line with EU regulations.
prohibit the giving or receiving of any bribes.
We do not make any donations to political parties.
40 Alliance UniChem Plc Operating and financial review Our business and the community Gender diversity 2005 Senior Executive managers UK directors Group employees Total employees 5 77 11,794 Male employees % 80 91 27 Female employees % 20 9 73 Workplace Within our UK retail business, the operations Communication and consultation Our business success depends on the hard and human resources departments are Our businesses maintain an on-going dialogue work, skills and expertise of the people who accredited and there are plans to roll this out with employees in a range of ways including work for us.
We aim to provide excellent across all pharmacies by the end of 2007. regular staff briefings, internal newsletters and career development opportunities and to be employee surveys.
Our UK retail business has Equal opportunities an employer that people aspire to work for.
employee consultation panels that meet on a We recognise the importance of reflecting regular basis and it also carries out an annual Our Standards of Business Conduct set out our within our workforce the diversity of employee survey.
approach on a range of employment issues communities we serve.
Our Standards of including equal opportunities, diversity, trade Business Conduct set out our commitment We recognise the right of all employees to unions, health and safety and ethics.
to equal opportunities and to providing a join trade unions.
In 2005 around 50% of workplace that is free from any form of employees were represented by trade unions At the end of 2005 78% of our employees had discrimination on the grounds of gender, age, or other collective bargaining arrangements.
been working for the Group for over one year religion, nationality, marital status, disability or Our European Works Council, set up in 2002, and 49% over five years.
We have collected data on briefs and consults with elected employee Training and development gender diversity for senior managers and UK representatives on pan-European issues and We invest in training programmes to help employees.
met twice in 2005. employees enhance their skills and reach their Our UK retail business has started a series Human rights full potential.
In 2005 we spent 4.3 million of diversity training workshops for senior Our Standards of Business Conduct set out a on training.
These focus commitment to upholding human rights in the During 2005 we operated a two-week on the value that diversity can bring to the workplace and to avoiding any form of child or management development programme for business.
In 2005 three one-day workshops forced labour.
our 77 Senior Managers at the INSEAD were held for 30 senior managers and In the UK we have also started to engage with business school in France.
additional workshops are planned for 2006. our suppliers to ensure there are no human Our UK wholesale and retail businesses use the Pay and benefits rights abuses in our supply chain.
Investors in People Standard, demonstrating We seek to attract and retain experienced and the importance we attach to employee skilled employees through competitive rates of development.
UniChem, our UK wholesale pay and benefits.
Salaries are determined by business, is accredited to the Standard.
each of our businesses, taking into account remuneration levels in comparable businesses.
41 Alliance UniChem Plc Operating and financial review Our business and the community Customer service Supply chain targets We strive to provide high levels of service for Introduce a Group ethics policy for suppliers of both our retail and wholesale customers.
own brand products by 31 December 2006.
For example, our UK retail business has developed a range of new services to give Supply chain customers better access to healthcare, in We have started to manage the environmental line with new government regulations.
and social risks in the supply chain of own Private consultation areas were available in over brand products, which include non-prescription half our 738 pharmacies in England and Wales.
healthcare products and personal care items.
Services on offer at a range of pharmacies In the UK we developed a draft Statement include healthy heart assessments, cholesterol of Social and Ethical Practices which sets out testing, blood pressure measurement, smoking minimum standards on issues such as wages, cessation programmes, travel advice and working hours, discrimination, child labour and pregnancy tests.
Mystery shopper surveys are environment.
This will be formally adopted also regularly carried out in the UK to monitor and incorporated into all new and renewable the quality of customer service and advice.
supplier agreements for own brand products Our UK wholesale business has continued to supplied to our UK wholesale and retail enhance customer service through its Customer businesses in 2006.
In 2005 a range of new Our UK wholesale and retail businesses have initiatives were launched including a Customer also developed a self-assessment questionnaire Care Card providing details of key contacts, a to monitor social and ethical practices in the bulletin on out of stock items and customer supply chain, and to date all their own-brand presentations to help employees understand suppliers have been asked to complete it.
the importance of their individual roles in The UK quality assurance manager has started delivering healthcare solutions.
The business to follow up any issues or concerns arising also maintains dialogue with customers from the self-assessment.
Our UK retail through its Customer Forum meetings.
business has also sent the questionnaire to suppliers of branded products for its 2005 Christmas gifts range and plans to extend the monitoring in 2006 to cover all high-risk suppliers of branded products.
