Hays plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 12 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY In addition, audits have been conducted on several client sites.
The incident reporting system continues to identify accidents that occur to our staff, and the Company Secretary reports significant events to the Executive Committee.
The statistics are compiled and shared across the Group enabling management to take a proactive approach to Health and Safety for their staff.
The majority of incidents in 2004 05 have been trips and falls and striking xed objects.
The frequency of these incidents has been low and the severity minor.
Environment We believe that the Groups operations FINDING PEOPLE JOBS IS AN IMPORTANT have a low impact on the environment and we continue to work to reduce the TASK IN SOCIETY, THAT CARRIES WITH IT impact further.
We have implemented DUTIES OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
various initiatives to achieve this aim.
All Hays offices have recycle Denis Waxman, Chief Executive bins for waste paper.
Toner and printer cartridges are recycled with the proceeds being donated to the As a Specialist Recruitment business, Lighthouse Club, one of the Companys Hays plays an important role in placing chosen charities.
The recycling of people in jobs, allowing individuals to old mobile phones also benefits make the best use of their talents and this charity.
skills and helping them to maintain To reduce the number of company their work life balance in the manner vehicles, ofces have pool cars for that they wish.
Hays also Temporary stafng provides encourages company car owners exible working arrangements enabling to choose fuel efficient vehicles to all sections of society access to reduce emissions.
Throughout the business most Finding people jobs is an important staff operate from open plan ofces, task in society, that carries with it duties minimising total oor space and of social responsibility.
Our layouts are designed to make Ethics operations efficient and encourage At Hays we expect our staff to strong team development.
communicate honestly and directly We believe that these and with our clients and candidates.
We are driven to achieve superior results other initiatives make good for our customers through exceptional commercial sense as well as service delivery.
To do this we recruit, being environmentally sound.
train, develop and retain the best talent We are aware of the initiative in our industry.
to make companies Carbon Neutral, We work hard and promote and we are working with The Carbon on merit.
We aim to be the very best in Neutral Company on our E Shareholder our specialist areas and in our industry.
A tree will be dedicated for We apply our energy and passion as a every shareholder who signs up, via team to achieve results.
co. uk, to receive all their future communications from Health & Safety Hays electronically.
This includes We provide safe and healthy working future annual report and accounts conditions for our employees and and notices of meetings.
The Health & Safety Manager reduce the environmental impact, has a responsibility not only for policy as well as reducing costs.
development and implementation, but also the collation and dissemination of information and performance reports.
OUR BELIEFS Policies are clear and simple, they are regularly reviewed and updated, and Talk straight refresher training is provided for health Expect excellence & safety ofcers in the business units.
Work with passion The Health & Safety Manager has Lead from the front visited 30% of all ofces during the year as part of an ongoing programme.
Celebrate success Hays plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 13 Hays is keen to improve its expand that region and give valuable guidance to work colleagues.
operational efficiency and enhance We have an employee forum where customer service whilst introducing 40,000 staff representatives can meet with processes that are environmentally the Chief Executive, and raise issues friendly.
We have recently introduced Of 2 year target of 60,000 raised they would like considered directly.
The digital scanning of time sheets along for NSPCC forum also provides an opportunity for with web-based time sheet entry.
We management to discuss new initiatives digitally store candidate records for with staff.
use across the whole business and are investigating electronic billing Charity of clients where possible.
Our present corporate charity, chosen 19,000 by employees, is the National Society Employees Raised for the Lighthouse Club for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children Our desire to attract and retain NSPCC and its sister charity in a talented and diverse workforce is Scotland, Children 1st.
Employees supported by our equal opportunities have raised 40,000 of our two-year policy, which details our legal requirements and our employee policies target of 60,000 through fundraising that aim to encourage people from activities, such as five-a-side football 40,000 a variety of backgrounds to join and and dress-down days, and via donations remain with the Group.
Donated to the tsunami appeal At Hays, Diversity means Sponsorship is available to Hays understanding and reecting the employees who participate in charity community in which we operate, and events.
This year we had 12 runners building loyalty with our colleagues, in the London Marathon and also candidates and clients.
Differences sponsored employees completing in age, gender, ethnicity, sexuality, a Great Wall of China Trek and the physical appearance, religion, Three Peaks Challenge.
education and beliefs are respected Our German business cancelled and everyone has the opportunity its long-standing Christmas gifts to contribute to the Group and full for clients programme and instead their potential.
made a 21,120 donation to the Our aim is to create an open, German Foundation for Childrens honest and unprejudiced working Cancer.
environment and to ensure that all 19,000 was raised for the our colleagues feel part of Hays Lighthouse Club, the construction and are respected as individuals.
industry charity, by Hays employees We gather equal opportunities recycling toners and mobile phones, data from candidates and our arranging ofce race nights and being workforce, and compare this data sponsored to compete in a run from with census information to identify John O Groats to Lands End.
under-represented groups and take Hays also donated 40,000 action to address this imbalance to match its employees donations to whilst ensuring that we recruit and the Disasters Emergency Committee, retain the best people for the job.
to help the areas affected by the Employees are our most important tsunami in December 2004. asset and we are keen to develop their skills and abilities by offering training and development programmes.
This helps to retain and develop our staff.
Employees can participate in a variety of courses and on the job training including IT training, time management, interviewing, project management, legal and compliance, team building and management development.
We also offer 16-17 year olds the chance to train through modern apprenticeships.
Hays is an international business and we have an International Academy to develop recruitment consultants from our overseas operations who attend a structured six month programme in the United Kingdom.
Following in-house and external training and on-the-job work experience with mentors and managers, the trainees will graduate and be placed back into a Hays ofce in their home country to
