Corporate and social responsibility Group CSR Policy and Strategy Other activities in the Groups UK operating businesses During the year, substantial progress was made towards included: developing a Group-wide Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Policy and Strategy for implementation by our HMV UK & Ireland businesses in ways meaningful to their operations.
Working with specialist external consultants, we: Health and Safety: reviewed the social and environmental activities of a new accident reporting system was introduced, HMV UK and Waterstones: allowing stores to submit electronic accident-report identified the main CSR risks and opportunities: forms.
This enabled us to target training and in-store developed a draft Group CSR Policy.
briefing sessions: total reported accidents reduced by 28%, despite an During the new financial year, we plan to take this work increase of 23 stores: forward and develop our first Group CSR Report.
RIDDOR reportable accidents increased from eight to 11 37% due to improved reporting.
None resulted in Operating business performance follow-up action by enforcement officers: We have established some Group-wide programmes that are 139 staff trained in the one-day CIEH health and relevant to our CSR performance, focusing initially on our safety course: businesses in the UK and Ireland.
monthly health and safety self-inspection checklist completion rates were 83%.
Training, Learning and Development Since the Groups IPO in 2002, considerable investment has Environment: been made in these areas.
Within HMV UK & Ireland and the Environment Committee was relaunched with Waterstones, for example, the following have been staff-elected environment representatives in all stores, introduced: whose role is to help implement environment initiatives Continuous Development Programme CDP for branch across the business: managers in Waterstones and all levels in HMV : development and implementation of extended head Fast Track System for assistant managers for branch office recycling scheme for paper, plastic and cans, and managers and assistant managers in Waterstones and roll out of a paper and cardboard recycling scheme: all levels of management in HMV : an Environment Month held in stores to raise awareness three-day management programme: of environmental issues and to outline the Committees Management Diploma, run in conjunction with Ashridge plans for 2005 06.
Plans are advanced for an Business School 30 HMV store and head office environment awareness programme to educate staff managers attended during 2004 05. and help implement environmental best practice across the Company.
Universal access in response to the UK Disability Discrimination Act, Community Relations: all HMV UK and Waterstones stores underwent a full over 600,000 raised for the Nordoff-Robbins access audit.
During 2004 05, store facilities were Music Therapy Centre, through the tenth annual amended in ways appropriate to the store, including: HMV Football Extravaganza: signage, drop-down counters for wheelchair users, sale in-store of over 500,000 units of an exclusive HMV lighting, portable hearing loops and access ramps: Little Britain DVD raised over 1.7m for Comic Reliefs staff received training, and stores are included in the 2005 Red Nose Day: Direct Enquiries website, providing customers with over 50,000 in kind donated through product disabilities with information on the facilities provided in distribution to a range of causes.
Human Resources: resulting from the Your Shout Employee Survey carried out in August 2004, working parties were formed, and department store pledges taken to establish actions against national issues identified: a training and awareness initiative called Fair Play at Work, in the form of a theatre-style workshop, was run for all store and head office managers with a working party established to implement outcomes: all policies are being reviewed and updated where required, with new policies introduced where applicable.
During the year, a new policy introducing time off for Fertility Treatment was implemented.
43 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Corporate and social responsibility continued Waterstones HMV Canada Health and Safety: Community involvement: at least one full internal health and safety audit received employee fund-raising events held to support The Kidney by each branch during the year: Foundation of Canada, Princess Margaret Hospital Company exceeded internal target of 85% compliance Foundation, the Toronto Humane Society and the Yonge with health and safety law.
Corporate donations also made to the Canadian Music Therapy organisation: the practice of employing people with special needs in Environment: stores continued during the year, enabling people to commenced introduction in stores of biodegradable store receive relevant and practical employment experience.
carrier bags, complementing previous version which contained a high proportion of recycled plastic: where possible, all light fittings converted to long-life, Environment: low-energy type fittings, which, together with the a head office renovation during the year enabled, where established system of daily energy readings, will further possible, the replacement of appliances with energyreduce consumption: efficient products.
Unwanted furniture was donated formation of Waterstones environmental committee.
These actions complement existing head office and in-store recycling programmes for cardboard, paper, glass, newspapers and plastic and some wet Community Relations: compost items.
over 50,000 raised for the Dyslexia Institute through promotion of short story book, charity Christmas cards, in-store collections and employee participation in the Human Resources: 2005 London Marathon.
introduction of HMV Canadas first staff opinion survey: Independent Learning Workbooks a version of HMV UK & Irelands Continuous Development programme Human Resources: introduced, with the focus on learning modules for part staff opinion survey recorded an improvement in and full time sales staff.
employee engagement levels, employee pride in Waterstones as an employer, and in employees feeling valued: HMV Japan launch of a new Employee Handbook and HR Guide, containing comprehensive policies, including, bullying Community involvement: and harassment, whistle blowing, family friendly policies, sponsorship of environmentally friendly plates and cups business and purchasing ethics, and time off for used at the countrys biggest outdoor Rock festival, Fuji community activities and for religious reasons.
Made of material which, when disposed, is used as livestock feed.
With this CSR Report, we are commencing inclusion of CSR performance information from HMV Canada and HMV Japan.
44 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005
