Corporate and Social Responsibility It is recognised that part of Homeserves future All employees are offered membership of a success will depend on taking into account pension scheme with staff presentations being the interests of all of the stakeholders in our used where operationally possible to encourage business including employees, customers, full discussion of this important issue.
Access is shareholders and the wider community.
also provided to independent financial advice Homeserve is committed to improving its where required.
corporate responsibility activities and will continue to report on them.
The majority of employees have regular performance and development reviews.
Training continues to be of great importance Employees to ensure that all employees have the right skills to perform to their maximum ability.
We Our employees are key to our success.
aim to attract, develop, retain and motivate the Homeserve has a policy of equal opportunities best people to ensure we meet our business and non-discrimination.
is made to provide disabled people with equal opportunities for employment, training and Homeserve GB featured for the fourth year in promotion, taking into account their particular a row in the Sunday Times 100 Best Companies aptitudes and abilities.
They ranked 57th this year which is an excellent result in a business where a Communication is extremely important, high proportion of staff work in a call-centre particularly as Homeserve grows.
Team environment which traditionally has a poor brie ngs are held monthly in the majority of reputation for employee satisfaction.
70% of Homeserves businesses to keep employees the marks awarded came from anonymous informed about new developments.
Newsletters staff responses to a survey and the feedback and special publications are also used to collected is used to improve the working communicate within the businesses and across experience in the business.
Homeserve, these were particularly important in communicating the important messages arising from the demerger and the rebranding of the businesses under the Homeserve brand.
A Savings Related Share Option Scheme is operated across Homeserve and is highly successful in involving employees in the Groups performance.
As a further means of involving employees in share ownership, a Share Incentive Plan was launched in the year under which employees had the opportunity to apply for 250 worth of free shares.
Homeserve plc 25 HS Report P ges 1-33. indd 25 1 6 05 4:46:49 pm Corporate and Social Responsibility Health & Safety Health and safety management Risk assessment and control Homeserve remains committed to high Plant and equipment standards of health and safety across all its Employee information and consultation business activities.
A good safety record is achieved through strong leadership at board Use of hazardous substances level, robust health and safety management Personal protective equipment systems, the active involvement of employees, Fire and security and the routine monitoring and audit of safety Incidents and injuries performance.
The positive bene ts to the business from reduced risks and liabilities and Monitoring and reporting fewer lost time injuries are self-evident.
Welfare and the working environment Training and competence Safety of the public and special risks Corporate objectives and standards Homeserves full time Health and Safety Occupational health Adviser provides support in setting corporate Working time objectives and formulating Group policy Control of contractors and minimum standards, assisting directors and senior managers with the development This ongoing programme of comprehensive and implementation of health and safety health and safety audits at Group level helps management systems to protect the health and ensure minimum standards of compliance are safety of employees and ensure consistency with met, and identi es areas where improvement is statutory requirements.
Agreed priority action programmes are developed for each business, against which Homeserves subsidiaries operate autonomously progress is monitored and reported to individual with their own local health and safety policies boards for implementation.
Each business has appointed a board member to act as champion for Good health and safety performance requires health and safety at board level, overseeing both the commitment and competence of arrangements for the effective co-ordination managers and the responsible engagement of and implementation of consistent practices employees.
There has continued to be good which meet or exceed minimum statutory progress in training operational managers in requirements.
Andrew Belk is the nominated health and safety management systems and Main Board director for reporting on health techniques, with the programme set to continue and safety.
Compliance throughout the whole for the coming year.
The establishment of Group is monitored against minimum corporate local health and safety committees to prompt standards through routine internal health and employee involvement and buy-in has helped safety audits, which assess business performance raise the pro le and commitment to health and in 15 key areas: safety throughout Homeserve.
26 Report & Accounts 2005 HS Report P ges 1-33. indd 26 1 6 05 4:46:50 pm Homeserve plc Performance The disposal of Homeserves remaining Homeserve has continued to maintain a good Commercial Outsourcing businesses at the end health and safety record.
During the year, there of the year has reduced its exposure to their were 159 recorded incidents requiring first aid, inherently higher risk activities but the increasing hospital treatment or time lost from work, most use of sub-contractors and franchisees will involving cuts, bruises or muscular strains.
Of this continue to be a risk.
The re nement of existing total, 51 were formally reported to HSE under management systems and the development of the statutory RIDDOR requirements, with none local health and safety expertise within each resulting in life-threatening or disabling injuries.
business remain priorities, to ensure that the No formal health and safety enforcement action current high standards are maintained.
was taken, and no statutory notices were served against any of Homeserves businesses during Health and safety is fundamental to the the year.
The development and promotion of good working In total, 656 working days were lost through practices consistent with cost-effective absence, slightly up on the previous year but measures to ensure compliance with statutory down as a rate per employee at 0.07% of requirements remains a key focus for future working days available.
Reportable Incident Rate compares favourably with an aggregated statistical average from the relevant industry sectors see chart.
Reportable Incidents per 1,000 employees over the past 10 years 20 15 10 5 0 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 Notes to chart: Aggregated Industry Sector Average based on statistical data from the service, utility and construction sectors aggregated in proportions similar to those represented across the range of Homeserve business activities.
Homeserve statistics for the years prior to the demerger in April 2004 include Commercial Outsourcing which remained part of Homeserve until March 2005.
Homeserve plc 27 HS Report P ges 1-33. indd 27 1 6 05 4:46:50 pm Corporate and Social Responsibility Customers Environment Excellent customer service is key to Homeserve and its businesses are committed Homeserves success.
We aim to ensure that to environmental sustainability.
The demerger all customers enjoy a high quality service.
of the water supply operation and the sale Homeserve GB, for example, attempts to call of the commercial businesses means that all customers within 48 hours of the use of the environmental impact of Homeserve has the service to ensure they were fully satis ed.
changed signi cantly over the year.
Satisfaction rates consistently run at above 90% and any dissatisfaction expressed on these calls The continuing businesses within Homeserve is followed up with both the customer and the are largely service based and therefore engineer where appropriate.
A noteworthy their exposure to environmental risk is low.
measure of satisfaction is that customer However, we recognise that Homeserve has a retention, already high, is higher amongst those responsibility to act in a way that respects the customers who have recently made a claim environment and as such, all our businesses than those who have not.
We recognise that are encouraged to incorporate an awareness our customers have diverse needs and are of environmental issues into decision-making committed to developing procedures to meet processes.
One initiative is the development of documentation in alternative formats, such as Recycling of of ce materials is encouraged in braille and large print.
We are committed to Homeserves businesses and local initiatives are maintaining and improving customer service devised to help staff take a more responsible levels across Homeserve and procedures are view of resources such as the recycling of toner constantly reviewed and re ned.
Where the business is not exclusively of ce based for example at Homeserve We use a variety of channels to sell our Emergency Services, efforts are undertaken to products and services and seek to apply the manage and recycle waste such as PVC and same high standard of care to all of them.
Particular care is taken in outbound sales to ensure that customers gain a full understanding of the service being provided and all outbound calls are recorded and the recordings retained.
28 Report & Accounts 2005 HS Report P ges 1-33. indd 28 1 6 05 4:46:50 pm Homeserve plc Community & Charitable Giving As a large employer, Homeserves businesses can offer a great contribution to the efforts of Homeserve is committed to assisting charities the Blood Donor campaigns and this is regularly that have a direct impact on the communities in promoted to staff.
Being a responsible corporate citizen within We encourage employees to support charities our communities is valued by our staff and by of their choice and they can contribute to those potential recruits to the company.
Homeserve charities in a tax ef cient manner through the and its businesses operate a generous local Give As You Earn Scheme.
sponsorship programme offering financial support to school, sports or charity projects Employee support for high pro le charity that bene t the community in areas of either campaigns is also encouraged and in late 2004 education, health or issues of well being.
In the childrens charity Childline declared Weston addition, funds were made available to a number Super Mare based Homeserve Retail Warranties of community sports teams nominated by as its Best Supporting Company for the Bristol employees of Homeserve.
It is also important for staff that they have the opportunity to support national or international disasters such as the Boxing Day Tsunami.
In addition to fundraising, including a sponsored dress-down week during January 2005, Homeserve sponsored a member of staff in assisting the emergency efforts and paid expenses for the ight to South East Asia.
