Corporate and social responsibility INTRODUCTION The Group continues to recognise its actual and potential corporate and social responsibilities to society and acts in a strategic way to implement them.
Relevant laws and regulations are considered a starting point from which responsible behaviour can build.
We have over the last year, developed our CSR reporting to cover some wider issues and in a little more detail than previously.
As promised last year we have included CSR reporting on our corporate website with more detail being accessed through the London Stock Exchange Corporate Responsibility Exchange.
Our areas of responsibility are organised and described under four headings: Marketplace Environment Workplace Community I.
MARKETPLACE CUSTOMERS Our continued aim is to help more people live better lives in their homes and as such we have strived to improve our customers experiences with us over this last year.
We have improved the home planning process with CAD design enhancements.
For those customers who utilise our installation service we have introduced pre fit surveys and day one visits to check how things are going on the first day of the actual installation.
We have increased the focus on store engagement of potential customers as they look around our stores.
Stock accuracy and availability has improved and this has resulted in fewer incomplete deliveries.
The service recovery process has improved to include same day and next day courier recovery.
In addition we have increased our focus on quality and damage issues be it from the supplier, in our own manufacturing plants or in the transit process to the customer.
We have increased the staffing at our UK call centre to deliver industry standard service levels: in fact we were runner up in this years North East Call Centre of the year award.
As buying a new kitchen is a once every few years experience and each customer has different requirements for their order we have introduced a Customer charter in order to simplify and help the customer through the process with the least amount of confusion.
As a result of this and all the other improvements made this year we have reduced the cost of failure to both the business and the customer.
SUPPLY CHAIN Sourcing goods from China The vast majority of goods sourced from China for the MFI Group are done so through our new joint venture company known as MFI Asia Ltd. MFI Asia primarily selects vendors who solely manufacture for export markets.
These vendors source the majority of their raw materials from outside of China and then export the finished products away from the Chinese domestic market.
Before a new vendor is selected by MFI Asia, a cross-functional team will visit the vendors factory to check the product specification, quality, environmental aspects and ethical issues of each factory.
When Leonard Cheshire Homes, a charity that houses disabled people, approached us, they were paying for bespoke kitchens for their residents.
We were delighted to help by adapting standard kitchens for their use.
Its been a valuable learning experience for our product development.......................................................................................................................................................................... 24 MFI Annual Report 2005 As frequent orders are placed on a vendor MFI Asia quality and technical staff will spend considerable time working in the vendors factories to ensure that the standards required by MFI are maintained.
Anything that is identified as requiring attention is discussed with the factory management at the time.
In July 2005, MFI Asia launched its ethical and environmental questionnaire process to the supply base at our annual vendor conference.
Since July 25% of the supply base has been reviewed and follow-up activities undertaken to address any issues raised.
As part of our improvement programme it is planned to undertake unannounced audits in the future starting in 2006 to check that the factories continue to comply with the expected standards even when not producing MFI products.
Reduction in supplier vehicle movements We have instigated a new system of deliveries of laundry and refrigeration appliances into our warehouses for 2006 that will reduce vehicle movements by over 400 per year.
By reconfiguring the way we get our suppliers to stack the appliances, we can not only maximise the space in a trailer but can also reduce the possibility of damage whilst in transit.
We are looking to follow this concept with other products during this year.
Distribution Due to the vertically integrated nature of the business, the Groups distribution system remains complex.
We currently operate 170 HGVs and 380 rigid vehicles and Vans endeavouring to run them as efficiently as possible.
Last year we planned to replace 30 HGVs with the new Euro 4 engines: however these new engines are still to be released for sale.
As a consequence we will review changes to the fleet this year.
We are significantly reducing the amount of empty running of trailers and are developing backhaul opportunities to facilitate this.
We are also implementing a new transport management system in order to further improve our fleet efficiency and reduce our CO emissions and enhance our environmental footprint in this area.
2 Wood Approximately 80% of the Groups raw materials for manufactured products are wood or wood fibres.
In 2005 we used 418,816 cubic metres of wood in the form of chipboard 302,362 cubic metres, MDF 115,299 cubic metres and solid wood 1,155 cubic metres.
All of the wood used by us to manufacture products came from sustainable sources.
We also used 7,995 tonnes of cardboard packaging for our manufactured products.
To ensure a sustainable future for the business it is important that we source our wood in an environmentally and socially sustainable manner.
Wherever possible we specify the FSC Forest Stewardship Council or PEFC Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification Schemes schemes as the preferred options.
The wood products used were 69% FSC and 31% PEFC accredited.
The cardboard packaging is 100% FSC accredited.
Within the ethical sourcing policy we reserve the right to audit suppliers and this is especially so for the chain of custody for wood and wood products.
ENVIRONMENT We are committed to preserving the natural environment and our key objectives in this regard are to: reduce consumption: re-use or re-cycle wherever possible.
This role will specifically: measure progress by setting key performance indicators: continue working towards re-accreditation of the environmental management systems ISO 14001 in the manufacturing division: work closely with our suppliers to ensure that items we purchase come from sustainable renewable resources and are produced in a socially responsible way: ensure that our policy is up-to-date and relevant to our business and is used throughout the organisation in training and general business undertakings: and ensuring that we simplify and standardize all of our procedures to enhance the way we operate in this field.
ENERGY We have been active in measuring and reducing our energy use.
Our retail stores in the UK have been re-awarded the Institute of Energys prestigious Energy Efficiency Accreditation, having first been accredited in 1996 and again in 1999, 2002 and 2005.
We are continuing to install Building Energy Management Systems in all new stores and are monitoring energy performance in all stores.
Our framework agreement with the Carbon Trust has allowed us to take advantage of their services and we have undertaken a scoping study in preparation for embarking on a fuller Carbon Management process within our manufacturing division during 2006.
CO emissions in 2005 totalled 146,902 tonnes representing a decrease per 2 million pounds turnover by 1.5 tonnes over the last 12 months, continuing the improving trend.
The principal source of emissions is from the use of electricity, and the increase in transport fuel is due mainly to supply chain issues during the year.
The Group has made considerable efforts to reduce energy consumption over the past ten years, an effort that has been recognised by the Carbon Trust in publicity throughout 2003, 2004 and 2005.
In addition, all of our sites last year purchased brown electricity from semi-renewable sources and as such is exempt from the Climate Change Levy.
We will continue to use such sources where available and commercially viable.
WASTE As a Group we have created a total of 72,000 tonnes of waste over the year from a combination of manufacturing, distribution, retail and trade operations.
We have succeeded in re-cycling over 60% of this total through a raft of different initiatives and avoiding a potential extra cost of 750,000 by diverting it from landfill.
Included in this figure is the repair, re-use and re-cycling of over 5,000 damaged appliances that have either been sold through our clearance stores, sent to an exporter to Africa, sold to employees or fed back into the product stream.
The success in increasing the re-cycling rate from 40% to 60% over the last two years has been as a result of a concerted push to find different outlets for the waste streams.
We have continued to use the waste wood, in sawdust form, for compost production.
Other uses of wood have been for mixing with a major water companys sludge to provide the basis for another form of compost.
We have also been maximising the amount of waste that is processed through local Material Re-cycling Facilities MRFs.
In addition to the figures above, we continue to run eight bio-mass boilers in the manufacturing plants producing heat for the manufacturing process and also space heating for the factories.
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Business in the Community BITC This year we have taken part in the BITCs seeing is believing visits to see practical demonstrations of their work.
We also have been involved with the Yorkshire & Humberside Regions leaders group to come up with an environmental strategy for the region.
We also took up full membership of the BITC this year and look forward to working more closely with them over the coming year.
In terms of the BITCs Business in the Environment index we have improved our scores from last year to achieve a score of 92.5%.
In addition to this we have also been re-accredited to the FTSE4Good Index.
London Stock Exchange Corporate Responsibility Exchange We have signed up to this database system to further enhance our CSR reporting.
The database accessed through the LSE will give a detailed breakdown of all policies and processes associated with our CSR policy.
In addition some reports have been exported to our corporate website to show the type of information now stored on the database.
WORKPLACE We continue to be a major employer of several thousand people with diverse skills and experience in retail, trade, logistics and manufacturing.
The increasing competitiveness in our markets in 2005 has required colleagues in both retail and trade to find new ways to improve the products and services we offer our customers.
This programme was initiated to gain a better understanding of the make up of our people, how we might better reflect the UK population as a whole and the communities in which we work, and to develop colleagues understanding in the area of Diversity.
We believe that our colleagues abilities and achievements should solely determine their recruitment, career success and progression.
This applies to all colleagues regardless of age, race, gender, disability, sexual orientation, religious belief, lifestyle, class or other method of discrimination.
LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT In such a high service business where great customer relationships are vital to success, investing in the training and development of our people continues to be a high priority for us.
In retail, to help drive the required performance improvement in store operations and the commercial function, we are investing over 1 million more than last year in sales and management training.
This will be achieved through setting up a training academy, which will consist of store-based centres of excellence, and led by experienced sales management.
Our approach represents a major commitment to our people, and we are confident it will effectively embed new sales and service standards throughout our store network.
Within the Howden Joinery business we have invested over 3 million in over 37,000 hours of training.
This covers subjects ranging from interview techniques to fork lift trucks and diversity for all to health and safety.
It also covered specific skills like CAD systems and inventory management.
The plan is to invest in training to the same degree in 2006.
Within our manufacturing and sourcing division we aim to provide total kitchen, bedroom and appliance supply solutions in a superior, faster and cheaper way than our competitors.
Key to our business success is the need to develop high skills, knowledge and capability of our workforce.
In the following year we will work towards our manufacturing workforce achieving lean manufacturing techniques and increasing the knowledge of our technical and product teams in international sourcing capability.
NEW COLLEAGUE BENEFITS To recognise the hard work of colleagues across the Group in the last year, and to continue to enhance our ability to attract new talent to the Group, we have introduced a new range of benefits for colleagues across the Group including access to childcare vouchers, a Colleague Assistance Programme offering advice and guidance on a range of subjects, enhanced paternity leave and a range of discounted colleague benefits.
HEALTH & SAFETY We are continuing to develop the safety culture of the business such that each individual understands their responsibilities regarding health & safety.
A lot of progress has been made this year towards the embedding of health & safety to line management and this is set to continue over the coming year as we continue the culture change within the business.
The health & safety team works closely with line management to support this approach.
Our occupational health service has developed to support the needs of the manufacturing division in their drive towards effectively managing sickness absence within the factories and the introduction of a series of pro-active services.
This has been expanded for 2006 to include a hands-on approach to our warehousing and home delivery departments.
Three of the manufacturing sites have been re-accredited with the Occupational Health & Safety Standard OHSAS 18001.
In terms of our performance this year we have had 224 reportable incidents, 32 less than last year and exceeding our target of a 10% reduction by 2.5%.
We also set a target of reducing hours lost due to injury of 30% in line with the governments revitalising health & safety targets.
We only achieved a 3% saving on this and this will form an area of focus for the coming year.
7% 3% 41% 11% Manual handling Slips, trips and falls 19% Struck by moving object Struck against something fixed Contact with moving machinery Other 19% IV.
COMMUNITY MFI has a presence in over 500 local communities in the UK where it either has a store, trade outlet, warehouse or a factory.
MFI cares passionately that it is a good neighbour in the areas where it trades and where our colleagues and their families live and work.
The Group donated over 500,000 in 2005 to over 1,000 local charities and community organisations.
One beneficiary of the manufacturing side of the businesss community giving is the national charity Young Enterprise.
MFI is working closely with the Humberside region to benefit the communities from where MFI draws its staff for their Hull, Scunthorpe and Howden factories.
Young Enterprise delivers through its network of business volunteers, which includes MFI staff, a wide range of educational business programmes to over 5,000 young people in local schools and colleges more details are available on the corporate website.
Howden Joinery donate to local charities around the communities in which the depots are based.
In addition to this they also sponsor Leonard Cheshire charity in terms of both funding and product in the form of kitchens.
We are to continue in this vein for 2006.
It is the intention of the business in 2006 to concentrate its resources in support of the local communities where it trades and where colleagues live.
Our retail business intends to invest in projects that follow the grain of the business strategy and create interest in individual stores and employees.
At the beginning of the year the Company donated a five figure sum to the Asian Tsunami.
MFI have introduced, throughout the business, a Give as you Earn Scheme where colleagues are able to give money to their favourite charities through the Companys payroll: over 750 make regular monthly donations.
