responsible business responsible business we take our responsibilities seriously... As a leading global engineering business, we take our responsibilities The website also includes links to some of the main charitable, community to the environment and the communities in which we operate often and social programmes supported by the Group.
referred to as Corporate and Social Responsibility or CSR very Priorities for IMI businesses seriously.
We believe that these responsibilities can impact positively Over the past year we have used the four priorities identified in 2004 to on profitability, returns to shareholders, reputation and growth and accelerate our efforts to work in ways that are more sustainable and ensure that we can achieve high standards of responsibility without that we take account of all stakeholders, including future generations.
compromising growth or business efficiency.
We put particular Our four CSR priorities and the key objectives associated with them are: emphasis on ensuring that our management of social, environmental 1.
That all our operations meet or exceed all legal requirements in the and economic issues is aligned and integrated with the overall territories in which they operate with regard to employment practices, management of the business.
We call this responsible business.
health and safety, environment, corporate governance, competition and In 2005 IMI plc was again included in the FTSE4Good index and in anti-trust.
Where legislation does not exist, we will apply our own early 2006 we signed up to the United Nations Global Compact.
In standards of best practice.
Our objectives are: the 2005 Index of Corporate Environmental Engagement survey To improve transparency of IMIs legal compliance mechanisms.
conducted by Business in the Environment amongst the FTSE 350 To anticipate changes in legislation to ensure continued compliance, companies, IMI again scored an excellent overall rating with an minimise the cost risk of implementation while achieving full average score of 82. compliance and maximise potential commercial benefits arising from Managing and monitoring CSR performance legislative change.
The Board has delegated responsibility for CSR matters to the finance 2.
To support our customersCSR priorities.
Our operations seek to director.
Under his direction existing policies in a number of related understand the whole business environment experienced by our areas were reviewed during 2005 and brought together in the form of customers, including their social and ethical responsibilities.
We actively a new Group CSR policy, which was approved by the Board and rolled support our customers on issues that are priorities for them.
Typically these out during the year.
issues may include diversity in the workplace, training, energy conservation and supply-chain relationships.
Our objectives in this area are: A small senior team, with relevant experience, reporting to the finance director and liaising closely with the business units, meets To take advantage of business opportunities arising from customer regularly to review the Groups performance on CSR and any priorities.
We have created a three-year responsible To work proactively with customers on responsible business issues business strategy which will ensure that these policies are fully that could affect our relationship with them.
embedded in the business units.
In conjunction with this, formal To ensure that any threats arising from our customersresponsible responsible businessaudits incorporating Health, Safety and business issues are identified and managed.
Environmental HS&E issues and internal surveys and reviews are In Hungary, for example, our Indoor Climate customers face skills shortages carried out across the Groups operations.
Our CSR objectives are which we are helping to resolve through an association with the Technical reviewed at least annually within the normal business planning cycle, University in Budapest.
Our experts participate in technical seminars and both corporately and as applicable to each business.
The president provide advanced hydronic balancing equipment and textbooks to assist and other senior personnel of each operating unit are responsible both staff and students.
for the implementation of responsible business policies, their One of our most important Cornelius customers required both our Tianjin communication across the business and compliance with all related plant in China and our largest Cornelius facility, at Glendale Heights in the policies and principles.
HS&E forums are held annually in the UK and USA, to undertake an external social accountabilityaudit in 2005.
The the USA to understand risks in these areas and to establish, share and customer was entirely satisfied that our policies and practice fully promote best practice.
To maximise our responsible business supported their own principled public position.
opportunities, we have appointed CSR champions, who are all senior 3.
To manage the particular challenges relating to manufacturing managers, in each of our five businesses.
We ensure that all our facilities operate in We publish greater detail about our CSR management systems accordance with our policies on health, safety and the environment, and policies as well as our environmental report on our website employment practices particularly child labour, pay, benefits and www.
This information is updated annually in August and working conditions, improper gifts and payments, and also set more frequently as and when relevant information becomes available.
standards on these matters that suppliers too are required to meet, 26 Responsible business As we develop a relationship that encourages innovation and enterprise on both sides, partnership with IMI will have a measurable impact on the lives of hundreds of young people and their communities, as well as on IMI's own employees.
Nadia Ammar, Development Director, CIDA Foundation, South Africa.
in line with the UN Global Compact.
We have developed a supplier evaluation tool to ensure that performance is reviewed in a systematic way.
Our objectives are: To minimise supply chain reputational risks to IMI and our customers.
To manage reputational and business efficiency opportunities and threats within IMI and our suppliers.
To improve our  and actions in the area of Responsible Business.
Demonstrating this commitment is our Norgren plant in Brno which, in June 2005, became the first in The Czech Republic and one of the first facilities of any sort in the whole of Eastern Europe to gain Investors in People certification.
Our Cornelius facility at Tianjin also continues to set an excellent example, with a high level of social insurance, including medical and pensions for all employees, and a popular vocational training scheme, also available to all.
27 IMI plc Annual Report 2005 responsible business responsible business 4.
Each of our facilities is required to set intention is that contacts will develop beyond financial support to targets aimed at minimising emissions with global warming potential include individual initiatives and personnel exchange programmes.
and also reducing the associated costs.
Our objectives are: At corporate headquarters we continue our long-standing support for and work with local institutions of world class calibre, including the City To minimise our energy use relative to our sales.
of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra CBSO and the Birmingham To minimise our impact on the environment principally emissions of CO2.
Royal Ballet, but we also maintain healthy relationships with local To minimise the cost of energy use to improve profitability.
schools and other charitable bodies.
In the summer of 2005, through To take advantage of business opportunities associated with our relationship with the CBSO, we again hosted a free lunchtime energy efficiency.
concert in the business parkfor the benefit of our immediate neighbours.
In all our facilities recycling and reducing waste are part of how we do business, but of particular note this year was a project at Norgrens All IMI global graduates are encouraged to undertake community Littleton plant which involved all employees in identifying energy placements during their training period.
The UK Imagineering saving opportunities.
Process improvements and simple energy initiative, involving a number of IMI graduate trainees and final year conservation measures provided immediate savings of at least university students to promote engineering in schools, was again $40,000 a year with further potential savings over time.
Other examples of community engagement in exercise at Farnham in the UK yielded a 33% saving in gas usage 2005 included: despite moving to a 24-hour operation and also reduced cardboard The FIRST national science programme in the USA which aims to waste by 45% 14.5 tonnes.
motivate students in science, engineering and mathematics.
Norgren At Cannon Equipments Chattanooga plant in the USA, installation of provided equipment as part of the kit supplied to each FIRST team a new paint spray system has reduced overspray powder waste and also sponsored and mentored a high school team in Detroit.
going to landfill by 30 tonnes a year as well as reducing the use of IMI facilities around the world responded to appeals for help in aerosol touch-up paint.
mitigating the natural disasters of 2005, especially the Asian tsunami and Hurricane Katrina.
This fourth priority is also expressed through the fact that reduced energy consumption is a primary benefit of and selling point for Nominated employees at Cannon Equipment trained in many of the products and services provided by IMI Group emergency response who are provided with time when community companies, for whom promoting efficient use of energy is good emergencies occur during their work schedules.
An eighth year of funding and active employee participation by Display Technologies, part of our Merchandising Systems business, A typical TA project, for example, for cooling in large public buildings, with the Queens Child Guidance Centre in New York.
This non-profit will deliver savings through reduced temperature fluctuations and community organisation works to improve the well being of children, pumping costs resulting in combined energy savings of 13-22%.
A more domestic project, a housing cooperative in Sweden that used IMI businesses once again also made significant contributions to healthour Indoor Climate services in 2005, reduced its energy costs by related causes both financially and through the personal contributions 90,000, a minimum 15% saving for this and subsequent years.
Successful blood donation drives were again held at Corporate governance many IMI facilities around the world.
Amongst numerous other healthThe Companys commitment to best practice in all aspects of related activities across the Group, at headquarters, IMI matched the corporate governance and details of the standards it adheres to can funds raised by a team of 20 employees participating in Race for Lifein be found on pages 34 to 37.
Information is also available on the aid of Breast Cancer research and DCI in Milwaukee, USA, gave corporate website www.
com significant support to research into Muscular Dystrophy.
Community engagement These examples and many others demonstrate how our businesses and We place great emphasis on community relationships at many levels.
the people within them make a positive contribution to their local This year we have reviewed our charitable donations policy, for communities and environments, while still delivering the necessary example, and begun what we intend to be long-term relationships business performance.
For IMI people, responsibility is fundamental to with Care for Children in China www.
cn and the way we conduct our business.
Our 28 Responsible business Applying the building energy management expertise of our indoor climate company Commtech to our own properties around the world, using thermal imaging and other advanced techniques, promises improvements in our use of energy and cost savings of up to 25%.
Les Frith, Head of Property, IMI plc 29 IMI plc Annual Report 2005
