Inchcape plc 24 Annual report and accounts 2005 Operating and financial review continued Corporate social responsibility Our international operations have resulted in a diverse range of people, cultures and lifestyles, which enrich Inchcape as a whole.
Inchcape plc Annual report and accounts 2005 25 Inchcape has a Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Our people and values Committee, which is chaired by the Group Chief Inchcape recognises that success depends on Executive, who has responsibility for CSR at Board maintaining the quality, motivation and commitment level, and includes the Group Finance Director, of its employees in every market in which it operates.
the Group Company Secretary, the Director of Audit The Groups employment policies and practices are and Risk Management, the Group Human Resources designed to support and achieve this goal.
Director and the Investor Relations Manager.
Underpinning this commitment are the Inchcape This section looks at the three areas, which values.
These values are central to the way we work encompass CSR for the Group.
and are fundamental to our relationship with customers, Our people and values brand partners and employees.
The environment in which we operate, including health Service and safety issues We constantly seek to enhance our service standards Inchcape in the community for our customers and for the companies we represent.
Teamwork We work as a team within our individual businesses, across the Group as a whole and with our principals and partners.
Innovation We strive to remain at the forefront of our industry by anticipating market changes and developing new products and services.
Respect We respect all our stakeholders.
These are our customers, brand partners, employees and shareholders, and we work hard to earn their respect.
Results We set ourselves challenging targets and endeavour to exceed them.
Our values are explained to all our new colleagues when they join Inchcape and are regularly reinforced through all employee communications.
Appraisals are largely based on the five values, and individuals are asked to provide examples of how they have demonstrated the values in their work.
Inchcapes employment philosophy is simple: we want to attract, motivate and retain the best people for our business.
The following examples demonstrate some of the innovative recruitment, induction and development practices in place throughout the Group.
Inchcape plc 26 Annual report and accounts 2005 Operating and financial review continued Corporate social responsibility continued Belgium Environment, health and safety Toyota Belgium provides all permanent colleagues Inchcape is committed to pursuing sound environment, with a comprehensive and exciting training programme, health and safety EHS management policies and which may also include an assignment to the Toyota practices throughout our businesses worldwide.
stand during the Brussels Motor Show.
We continuously look to increase the levels of health During a period of two weeks they help customers and safety standards in the workplace, and it is therefore with their queries and sell cars.
This has proved to be Inchcapes policy to: a fantastic experience for our colleagues, who gain consider EHS issues within existing and future business first hand experience of customer interaction and the activities, through the implementation of appropriate dynamism required for a career in the car industry.
policies and procedures: Hong Kong monitor and manage the EHS impacts, risks and Many of our young managers at Crown Motors, our opportunities for our businesses in order to benefit our Toyota Lexus business in Hong Kong, have come up colleagues, customers, brand partners and the local through the leading edge graduate programme in place communities in which we operate: for this business.
promote the awareness of the Environment, Health and Crown Motors receives more than 2,000 applicants Safety Policy the Policy across our businesses in order per annum for the four places on its graduate scheme, to assess its performance, and set practical targets for which is a clear measure of how highly regarded it is improvement: and as an employer.
report, as appropriate, on the status of the EHS Singapore performance within each of our businesses.
In 2005, Borneo Motors launched its Scholarship Awards initiative in order to promote itself as a socially Implementation of the Policy is the responsibility of the responsible company.
management within each of our businesses.
Common The Awards, designed to develop the communitys standards are applied to a wide range of EHS matters, young people, are given to exceptional students and compliance with local statutory requirements is the attending the Automotive Engineering course, at the minimum standard we will accept.
Where local standards Institute of Technical Education.
The students undertake are below international good practice, it is our policy to work experience at Borneo Motors during their holiday follow UK good practice.
time and participate in Company events including the In 2005, a number of initiatives were implemented to Technician Skills Contest.
This allows them to explore improve and promote EHS standards across the Group.
the world of Borneo Motors, where, if successful, they may be offered a position.
Scholarship Awards were presented to ten students in 2005.
They were invited to attend a ceremony with their families, and the management team at Borneo Motors, in recognition of their achievement.
United Kingdom The Inchcape Academy, which we first introduced in the UK in 2004, achieved significant success in 2005.
More than one hundred managers from the UK attended various leadership development and management skills courses, and at the end of 2005 we welcomed our first European attendees.
Feedback from our colleagues on the Academy remains very positive, and we expect some 300 managers to attend during 2006.
Inchcape plc Annual report and accounts 2005 27 Australia Inchcape in the community Our Subaru business in Australia has formed a long term Our international operations have resulted in a diverse partnership with Environmental Recovery Services ERS range of people, cultures and lifestyles, which enrich in a national workshop waste management programme.
We therefore encourage our The partnership demonstrates Subarus commitment colleagues to become involved in charitable projects to the environment and involves ERS managing, at a local level, in order to help the communities in collecting and recycling waste resulting from vehicle which we operate.
maintenance in the Subaru service centres.
The tsunami at the end of 2004 however, drew worldwide attention and in response Inchcape formed Belgium a partnership in 2005 with the global charity, CARE In Belgium, we have a dedicated resource working International CARE.
on environmental issues relating to the ISO 14001 Working together, Inchcape and CARE have provided environmental certicate.
ISO 14001 is an assessment assistance to tsunami victims in Somalia.
This was the of the environmental impact a business has when worst affected region in Africa and approximately 300 conducting its daily activities.
people died, with 7,300 households, in over forty villages, In 2005 our business in Belgium was evaluated affected by the disaster.
on energy usage, recycling, use of ofce supplies, As part of the project, Inchcape worked with workshop practices and our effect on wildlife and plant CARE to support shing based livelihood programmes ecosystems.
The evaluation resulted in the Inchcape in Somalia.
We have provided engine powered shing head ofce and Lexus dealer network in Belgium boats, and equipment, such as nets and hooks, achieving the ISO 14001 certication, and we are now for families whose livelihoods were destroyed by looking to achieve the same standard in our other the tsunami.
Charitable and political donations Hong Kong In the UK, Inchcape and its subsidiaries have donated We place particular emphasis on risk assessments in funds throughout the year totalling 0.1m 2004 0.1m.
the workplace, with each employee receiving structured Total charitable donations made by the Group worldwide Health and Safety training in this area.
An example during the year were 0.3m 2004 0.4m.
These gures of how we look to reduce the number of work related exclude personal contributions from our colleagues.
incidents can be seen in our Mazda and Jaguar No political donations were made in 2005 warehouses.
In these operations, we have replaced 2004 nil.
traditional storage racks with a new system designed to eliminate high level storage.
This helps avoid the risk of injury through overhead lifting.
Singapore Our Toyota Lexus business in Singapore, Borneo Motors, works closely with Crown Motors, our Toyota Lexus operation in Hong Kong, on workplace assessments.
They are particularly focused on the layout of workshops in respect to the safety of moving vehicles around employees and customers.
All workshops, in Singapore and Hong Kong, have now been resurfaced with slip resistant and oil repellent resin, which, when combined with frequent cleaning, ensures that vehicle uids are collected and disposed of before they can cause injury or pollution.
