30 UNiqUely placed Corporate Social Responsibility the Board recognises the growing awareness of social, the company operates two satellite Access stations where environmental and ethical matters and it endeavours to take into there are satellite dishes which generate radiation.
Access to account the interests of the Groups stakeholders, including its these sites is restricted and there are regular health-and-safety investors, employees, suppliers and business partners, when checks to ensure that they are in protected areas away from operating the business.
through the embedded risk management access by the general public.
personnel who work at these sites process within the Group, significant social, environmental and are provided with relevant training as to the health and safety ethical matters are brought to the attention of the Board.
Code of conduct the Group has adopted the highest industry standards in terms the Group maintains and requires the highest ethical standards of space debris mitigation and including end-of-life graveyard in carrying out its business activities and has specific guidelines manoeuvre plans for the disposal of satellites when they reach for dealing with gifts, hospitality, corruption, fraud, the use of the end of their commercial life.
the first disposal of one of our inside information and whistleblowing.
satellites is planned during 2006. controls are in place to ensure that antennas do not radiate any power at low elevation angles.
the company has complied with the requirements of the sarbanes-oxley Act 2002 to adopt a code of ethics which Community states that the Group expects its directors, officers and safety at sea remains a primary commitment for the Group.
the employees to conduct business in accordance with the highest Groups Global Maritime distress and safety system GMdss standards of personal and professional integrity.
the code of service gives maritime users complete confidence that if they ethics is published on the companys website.
send a distress call, it will be received by a rescue authority.
Employment the Group continues its commitment to the support of the Group has established policies which address key corporate tlcoms sans Frontires tsF, the telecommunications relief objectives in the management of employee relations, aid organisation.
It has supported the charity for more than five communications and employee involvement, training and years through direct funding and the provision of free satellite personal development and equal opportunities.
tsF is able to reach disaster areas quickly and helps other charities with their communication needs while also the company operates a staff forum made up of the executive providing the opportunity for those affected to call relatives.
management team and elected employee representatives.
It meets frequently during the year to brief staff on business In addition, the companys universal service obligations seek to performance and to discuss the corporate environment.
It also support the use of Inmarsat services in rural and remote regions meets when the input of the staff is required on business issues, of the world, where terrestrial voice services are poor or which includes statutory consultation under prevailing legislation non-existent.
these services take the form generally of when appropriate.
payphones in rural villages, for example in India and Australia.
the chief operating officer has been identified as the Board the company continues to fund the Inmarsat chair of Maritime director having responsibility for health and safety issues.
the education and training at the World Maritime university to Group recognises its legal responsibilities to ensure the support the education of maritime specialists.
We encourage well-being, safety and welfare of its employees and to maintain internships with universities to provide students with the a safe and healthy working environment for them and for its opportunity to experience first-hand the engineering and visitors and sub-contractors.
Regular health and safety audits technical aspects of our satellite operations.
during the year, are undertaken at the Groups main operating sites.
Inmarsat formalised its ongoing support for the International space university by funding two half scholarships in its Masters Environment programme for deserving students.
By their nature, the Groups regular operations are judged to have a low environmental impact and are not expected to give the Group encourages its uK based staff to support individual rise to any significant, inherent environmental risks over charities of their choice through the Inland Revenue-approved the next 12 months.
the payroll-based scheme enables employees to gain tax relief on their charitable donations.
As a wholesaler of airtime, the company does not manufacture satellite user terminals: however, the terminals are developed by manufacturers who provide health and safety guidance as to how terminals should be utilised.
INMARSAT PLC AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2005
