02 UNiqUely placed Uniquely placed for our customers VOR Sponsorship Inmarsat services Iberia looks to Swift64 as Fleet F77 128kbps, F33 and Inmarsat C communications choice November 2005 saw the start of the 2005 06 Volvo Once Iberia had decided that up-to-the minute data Ocean Race VoR and with it, each of the seven yachts were communications was the next major addition to the Iberia equipped with state-of-the-art communications systems all service, they looked to Inmarsats swift64 service for a solution, enabled by Inmarsat technology.
Inmarsat is the official sponsor of after evaluating other available systems.
swift64 was attractive Mobile satellite communications for the VoR.
each yacht has to Iberia because they could re-use a lot of existing onboard been fitted with a Fleet F77 128kbps.
launched in February, this equipment.
In the summer of 2005, they began to roll out a full latest service-offering doubles the data speed available on existing email and instant messaging service offering based on swift64, Fleet F77 hardware through a simple software or hardware becoming the first ever air transport operator to put this capacity upgrade.
Fleet F77 is used for high-quality voice calls and live video onto long-haul services.
cost benefits and ease of installation broadcasts as well as high-speed Internet access and data have prompted Iberia to offer swift64 across its entire transmission.
the yachts also have onboard a Fleet F33 used mainly commercial fleet and the airline is already evaluating Inmarsats for voice calls and data links, and a pair of Inmarsat c terminals for swiftBroadband proposition.
All this brings the drama of the race as it unfolds to an audience of tens of millions around the world.
INMARSAT PLC AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2005 03 UNiqUely placed Uniquely placed for our customers The reliability of our network means that our existing customers enjoy fast, dependable and efficient voice and data communications solutions to help carry out their day-to-day functions, optimising the productivity level of their organisations.
If the local infrastructure for communications is incomplete or unreliable, the adverse effect on business can be unpredictable and costly, and thats why many companies spanning different sectors, geographies and markets, turn to Inmarsat to provide the vital backbone for their mobile communications requirements.
US Customs and Media coverage is assured Border Protection Agency Inmarsat Swift64 The US Customs and Border Protection Agency was Media companies all over the world have used looking for a high-speed data solution to help it in the Inmarsat services to gather news from disaster-hit areas, war battle against terror and drugs they found it in the shape of zones, sports events and remote regions.
equipped with an array of sophisticated sensors, cnn and the BBc utilise our services because of the reliability and the p-3A aircraft uses swift64s high-speed data capability to speed of the Inmarsat network.
now, with the commercial send digital images and near real-time video of ground targets, availability of our new voice and broadband data service, BGAn, infrared images or aerial targets to controllers back at base.
this Inmarsat offers a vastly enhanced performance in terms of helps their decision making and enables them to take appropriate network speed and availability combined with the increased action.
Quality of the information and the capability of the data portability, quick set-up and ease of use of the BGAn service.
sensors have far exceeded expectations and they are considering All this enables journalists, broadcasters and photographers to extending swift64 services to the rest of the fleet.
improve the quality and timeliness of their work, while also giving them greater flexibility and freedom as to where they work.
INMARSAT PLC AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2005
