60 International Power Annual Report 2005 Employees Hub, Pakistan We operate an incentive weighted compensation scheme which We value our reputation as a we believe rewards and develops staff on the following basis: caring employer and seek to attract Achievement of tangible personal objectives: annual and retain high calibre employees targets are set for all personnel, calibrated at levels designed to ensure that individuals are able to contribute to the attainment of these objectives.
We endeavour to ensure that all Professional and educational advancement: we promote of our staff conduct themselves, and facilitate mid-career training, internal and external seminars, personal development plans and other educational internally and externally, in a programmes.
In addition, we encourage our employees to manner of the highest integrity participate actively in their personal development and in relevant professional organisations.
We have a number of share-based Leadership: we expect our employees to exercise leadership in their dealings with colleagues, partners, customers plans that are an integral part and suppliers.
of our strategy to reward and This all relies on a foundation of personal integrity and respect.
retain employees We endeavour to ensure that all of our staff conduct themselves, internally and externally, in a manner of the highest integrity.
Clear communication links are critical to enhance business and commercial awareness throughout our Company.
Corporate publications, the International Power website and extranet, employee awareness briefings from executive management and team briefings are all used to promote communications and an understanding of the development and application of policies and strategy.
We use the latest technology to aid rapid communication with all staff around the world, as well as holding the biennial International Power Global Forum.
Equal opportunities The Group is committed to equal opportunities, both from a sense of social responsibility and also because it makes sound business sense to benefit from the wide ranging knowledge and experience of individuals in all sectors of society.
This commitment to equal opportunities means that decisions to appoint, reward, train, develop and promote are taken purely on the basis of skills and abilities, as matched against the requirements of the job.
Employees 61 International Power operates in an increasingly complex business environment.
We place a high priority on the recruitment, retention and training of staff at all levels, whether employed by us directly or by any of our subsidiaries, joint ventures or associates.
The Group values its reputation as a caring employer and seeks These plans form an integral part of the Groups strategy to attract and retain high calibre employees.
Opportunities for to provide appropriate reward and retention strategies for training are given a high priority to ensure that all individuals can employees, to align employee and shareholder interests through contribute to their own career development.
This approach incentive targets based on clear operational and financial criteria extends itself to the fair treatment of people with disabilities and to recruit, motivate and retain employees.
in relation to their recruitment, training and development.
These employee share plans are: the 2002 Performance Share Plan a discretionary plan Diversity in the workplace open to Executive Directors and selected senior managers : Cultural awareness and diversity training is provided to all the International Power Approved Executive Share relevant managers within the business and specific cultural Option Scheme a discretionary plan open to selected awareness training is provided to our employees prior to UK-resident employees : overseas assignments.
At a regional level a number of our assets are members the International Power Unapproved Executive Share Option of diversity organisations.
Our UK assets are registered Plan a discretionary plan for selected UK-based employees : as Investors in People.
Rugeley is also accredited to the the Global Executive Share Option Plan a discretionary Positive about Disability standard.
Our UK assets also have plan for executives resident outside the UK : established a set of policies and procedures to ensure diversity in the workplace.
This ensures equal opportunities are the International Power Sharesave Plan open to all UKintegrated into their recruitment and selection processes resident employees : and subsequent employment.
the International Power Global Sharesave Plan open Since acquiring our Shuweihat and Umm Al Nar assets in the to employees in certain jurisdictions outside the UK.
Middle East, we have increased our awareness of ethnicity and All of the listed plans are currently in operation.
country of origin issues as these form part of the in-country work visa process.
Our awareness continues to increase as Executive Share Options have been granted to executives in our business expands throughout the world.
seven countries outside the UK and the Global Sharesave Plan is now in operation in four countries outside the UK.
As the The Company uses a variety of techniques for assessing Group continues to grow and employee numbers continue applications as part of its selection process.
Where external to increase, we anticipate that the extension of share plans selection techniques are implemented, the Company is at to overseas jurisdictions will continue apace.
pains to ensure that the providers are able to demonstrate their methodologies are free of bias.
Internal selection processes The vesting of any awards made under the 2002 Performance revolve around objective assessment of the candidates insofar Share Plan, and the ability to exercise options granted under as they are able to meet the specification of the job.
the Approved, Unapproved and Global Executive Share Option Plans, are all subject to the satisfaction of certain financial performance conditions.
Information on the relevant performance Employee share plans conditions for each award or option grant under each plan is International Power has in place a number of share-based given in the Directors remuneration report.
The exercise of plans under which employees of the Group and its subsidiary options under the Sharesave Plans are not subject to any companies may acquire Ordinary Shares in International Power plc.
62 International Power Annual Report 2005 Bellingham, North America Directors remuneration The Companys remuneration policy for each Executive Director takes account of the changing nature of the business in both the UK and overseas.
Packages are designed to include: remuneration levels to retain and motivate top quality executives a significant performance-related element incentives to meet measurable performance criteria and align rewards with creating shareholder value opportunities to acquire International Power shares to build a strong share ownership culture Main image: Blackstone, North America 63 Juaymah, Tihama, Saudi Arabia Directors remuneration Executive Directors receive a remuneration package aligned with short and medium-term corporate and personal targets.
The package comprises: a market competitive salary performance related annual bonus a long-term share-related incentive scheme pension benefits other benefits healthcare, company car allowance
