54 International Power Annual Report 2005 Corporate social responsibility Our aim is to ensure that International Power is known throughout the world as a responsible, efficient and successful company.
Our stakeholders our employees, shareholders, customers, suppliers, regulators and host communities expect nothing less of us.
Corporate social responsibility considerations are integral CSR also covers the way we regard, develop and reward our elements of our decisions and they contribute to our global employees.
Details of this are contained in the Employees competitiveness and reputation in all areas of our business.
section on pages 60 and 61 of this report.
Todays fast-changing world relies increasingly upon electricity.
As with any large industrial process, the environmental impact It also demands responsibility from the industry that produces arising from electricity generation is now subject to international it.
For a global wholesale generating company like International as well as national, regional and local scrutiny and regulation.
Power, this equates to following fair and ethical principles Our continuing obligation is to manage our growing portfolio to govern the way we manage and conduct our business.
of assets so as to reduce the environmental impact of our It means working more smartly by ensuring our key activities.
As an example, our partnership with EnergyAustralia, competencies, technical expertise and best practices are is committed to purchasing 2.1% of its energy from green properly implemented over a widely dispersed and diverse sources in 2006, an increase of 0.3% from 2005. range of assets to produce power, water and process heat Our ability to deliver better performance is demonstrated more safely and cleanly.
by our track record in competitive energy markets which is At stake is our reputation, which is hard to earn and easy to based on our knowledge and experience in the power industry.
Our aim is to ensure that International Power continues By disseminating technical expertise widely throughout the to be known throughout the world as a responsible, efficient Company, we strive to raise overall performance.
This has and successful company.
Our stakeholders our employees, commercial as well as environmental benefits.
Effective shareholders, customers, suppliers, regulators and host management systems increase transparency and accountability.
communities expect nothing less of us.
By publishing key performance data, we demonstrate publicly how we are putting our principles into practice.
This strong commitment to corporate social responsibility CSR flows from the top.
The Board is briefed regularly In those instances where we share ownership of an asset, on our CSR performance and executive management is we encourage our partners to adopt our CSR standards and committed to delivering high standards of implementation.
principles, typically through influence at business level board Consequently environmental and social considerations form meetings.
To date we have had good success with our partners.
part of our strategic decision-making process.
This occurs at In 2005 International Power was ranked 48 in the top 100 many levels, from environmental considerations incorporated companies in the Business in the Community BiTC corporate into evaluations of asset acquisitions, expansions and responsibility and environment index which gave substantive developments, through to ensuring compliance with peer group recognition of our commitment to continuously licensing and regulatory requirements as a minimum.
This good BiTC ranking in Establishing a sound reputation requires commitment at 2005 followed our involvement in the FTSE4GOOD index in all levels of the Company.
We work hard to build long-term which we were included in 2004.
The FTSE4GOOD index sustainable partnerships in the communities in which we covers environment sustainability, stakeholder relationships and operate particularly for our assets in developing countries.
upholding and supporting universal human rights.
We continue Our strategy is to provide local employment, support the local to be included within the FTSE4GOOD index, which identifies economy and act as a responsible neighbour and employer companies that meet globally-recognised corporate whilst contributing to the improvement of local health and responsibility standards.
Corporate social responsibility 55 One of the International Power support vehicles at North Haven Club, Australia International Powers principal day-to-day focus is on achieving Saving lives in Australia its financial objectives.
That is the key measure of our success as measured by the financial community and is used internally In 2000 International Power Australia, in determining incentive compensation and for other purposes.
Our financial success is critically important because it enables through Pelican Point power station, us to fulfil our responsibilities to all of our stakeholders, being: funded the purchase of two vehicles good return for shareholders: better pay and conditions for for local surf life-saving clubs.
employees: recognition of successful delivery of products and services to customers: fulfilment of our obligations to our The North Haven and Semaphore Clubs suppliers: and an ability to contribute positively to the needs of the communities in which we operate.
say that the vehicles are the best support they could have received as they Policy are used regularly to patrol local beaches We believe integral to both achieving our financial objectives and move life-saving equipment to and and to fulfilling our obligations to all of our stakeholders is from the beach.
On average these clubs careful adherence by all of our personnel to our core business values FIRST.
save four lives each year 20 since 2000.
Financial discipline Although keeping the beaches safe is Our aim of long-term financial success depends upon financial their prime concern, the clubs also play an discipline.
While as a growth company we are entrepreneurial educational role in the community.
North in our approach to investments, we are aware of our duty to protect shareholders money.
Haven primary school has a Dolphin Safe Financial discipline means: programme where students assist with cleaning rocks in local waterways, making the making realistic risk assessments to value potential investments: area safer for the local dolphin population.
not overpaying for assets we acquire or develop: Our association with these clubs is ensuring that risk can be managed and properly priced: ongoing, and further assistance will cutting out extravagance and waste in business-related expenditures, including administrative and overhead costs.
be considered in the future as part of the Australian business community relations programme.
56 International Power Annual Report 2005 Integrity of communication The Company is run on the basis of honesty, integrity, openness and fairness in business dealings, both internally and externally.
Good business decisions are based on full and good quality information presented clearly and concisely, in time, and with neither a positive nor negative bias.
This applies equally to information flowing to and from management.
We seek to build sustainable business relationships based on honest communication.
In dealing with our customers, suppliers, partners, investors, other external parties interested in our business for example, the press or analysts and our competitors, we operate on the We say what we mean and we mean what we say principle.
We will ensure that any corporate reports and any other external communications are complete, understandable and truthful and reflect the proper operations of the Company.
At the same time, we will respect our confidentiality obligations.
Hubs mobile medical team at work, Pakistan Respect for the individual International Power is a capital-intensive company staffed at all levels by highly skilled professionals with a range of expertise.
Community health project in Pakistan Mutual respect is a key priority, demonstrated by: respecting the opinions of colleagues: During June 2005, the mobile medical team zero tolerance for physical or verbal abuse: run by Hub power station, and staffed by hiring new professionals with not only the right a number of nurses and doctors, treated competencies, but also the proper attitude and work 31,899 people from 25 villages.
In addition to ethic to integrate within International Power: this, 768 patients were treated in Hubs three applying equal opportunities to all, regardless of their nationality, gender, ethnicity or religion: community centres by lady health visitors.
operating our business to the highest professional standards The community centres have also hosted with zero tolerance for any person who compromises family planning clinics, mother and child these standards.
vaccinations, well baby clinics, routine While we do not guarantee lifetime employment, we do vaccinations, health education sessions believe every International Power professional should have ample opportunity to use their existing skills and develop new and general medical clinics.
If circumstances change, the Company and the individual will work together to find a fair and amicable separation arrangement.
Safe behaviour It is relatively easy to introduce corporate policies and procedures which demand compliance, but in essence all unsafe acts or omissions can be avoided if the right attitude and a safe behaviour is automatically applied to everything we do.
This safe behaviour will deliver our Company goal of zero accidents and zero incidents whilst at work and would equally apply when not at work.
We therefore need to understand the right things to do and make sure that they are done properly, with no short cuts or excuses in short, to behave safely all day, every day.
Corporate social responsibility 57 Team first culture and encourages employees to learn from the experience of their colleagues around the world.
Our Companys business has evolved from a technology-driven industry into one in which technical skill, project development A continuing target for 2006, carried over from 2005, expertise, construction and procurement know-how, trading is to review the CSR credentials of our key EPC suppliers.
capability, financial, IT, legal, human resources, communications, At the same time we work with suppliers to ensure that they accounting and tax acumen all play a substantial part.
Such a understand and can respond to our own CSR policies.
complex business depends upon teamwork, with each employee We recognise that regulatory requirements and local bringing his or her individual skills and expertise to the fore.
cultures differ widely but we are also keen to ensure that Teamwork requires complete sharing of necessary information, all employees are aware of the most appropriate health and inclusion rather than exclusion and a lend-a-hand philosophy safety principles in order to ensure their individual safe behaviour.
at all levels of the organisation.
In 2005 we achieved our target of progressively implementing behavioural safety training systems at a number of our locations.
Meeting our customers needs calls for us to be customer-focused We are now confident that we will be able to build on this and responsive.
We want our customers to know our team and achievement and have set a 2006 target to implement respect its capabilities.
behavioural safety initiatives across all of our assets, globally.
Keeping people informed By evaluating initiatives and incidents from inside and outside the Company, we are able to refine our health and safety Effective dialogue with different groups of stakeholders is systems.
Information is distributed Company-wide as Health fundamental to successful CSR management.
As well as the and Safety Information Memoranda.
Lessons learned are Annual Report to shareholders, we encourage communication used to promote awareness and encourage best practice.
through our on-line information service and welcome stakeholder monitoring and comment on our performance.
A key driver of Company policy in the last two years has been to establish a cohesive and consistent approach to One initiative, designed to ensure effective communication HSE management.
During 2005, the majority of our assets with our employees, is the biennial International Power Global improved their environmental management systems by moving Forum.
This incorporates employees from all areas and levels towards full ISO14001 certification, a programme that will within the organisation and allows them to take part in discussions continue to be promoted and encouraged in 2006.
The Global Forum is a key mechanism target for 2006 is to ensure that all International Power assets to promote dialogue throughout our expanding organisation, are certified or are at least working towards certification with ensuring discussion points are incorporated into our business the International Health and Safety standard OHSAS 18001 or in a meaningful way.
The next Global Forum will take place directly equivalent country standard e. g. AS NZS 4801 by the in September 2007. end of the year.
Progress reports against both these targets More informal communication with our employees on will be monitored at the Companys quarterly HSE meetings.
International Powers community-related activities is achieved via our internal extranet ImPact and iprworld the global Recognition and benchmarking magazine.
These provide a wealth of information including Power production is a complex process and our assets our performance, policies, latest news, awards, community operate in competitive markets.
Although our power stations projects and CSR case studies.
Many of our regional businesses throughout the world may use different fuels and different and individual power stations also provide information to technologies to generate electricity, heat or steam, the way we employees and the local community on items of local interest.
record and report our CSR performance must be undertaken Each asset at local level conducts direct contact with regulators.
in a consistent and transparent way.
By working to the Global We continue to monitor and represent the Companys interests on Reporting Initiative and the Association of British Insurers current and future regional, national and international committees.
reporting guidelines we, and our stakeholders, can check and compare our performance with that of other power Any organisation or individual may visit our corporate website companies.
International Powers annual web-based CSR www.
com for up-to-date information about the Company report is now produced in line with these accepted guidelines.
This information is supplemented by more detailed asset specific information on individual websites.
Positive improvement Health, safety and environment In terms of absolute figures our lost-time accidents LTA increased in 2005.
However, relative to the growth of the During 2005, our Health, Safety and Environment Committee Companys portfolio, 2005 proved to be another successful was active through inter-regional working groups to harmonise year in terms of LTA performance, improving on the figures Group-wide policies and met formally four times to manage for 2004.
Examples of outstanding performance include our and communicate health, safety and environmental HSE Milford plant in North America which has reached 3,336 days issues.
The formal Committee supports the more regular local without an LTA, whilst Midlothian and Pego have all achieved HSE committee meetings.
Continuous communication with over 1,500 days and Saltend has achieved 1,400 days individual assets is carried out on an as required basis.
HSE issues were reported, through the CEO, at main Board meetings throughout the year.
During 2005 we achieved improvements in our environmental performance by utilising the latest technology and optimising the As well as monitoring performance, the Health, Safety and way we operate our assets.
As an energy company we provide Environment Committee identifies and pools best practice, 58 International Power Annual Report 2005 Tejo Energia, the owning company of the Pego project, has been awarded the Municipal Medal for Social and Economic Merit, recognising Pegos environmental achievements, safety practices and relations with the community.
electricity, heat, steam and water to our customers.
Within Future regulations our 2005 key performance indicators we have considered all As always, one of our key objectives is to comply with of these process outputs in order to provide a more accurate all applicable legislation at local, regional, national and representation of our total outputs, normalised by kWh international level.
We also keep abreast of all forthcoming equivalent.
As a result, this method has allowed us to calculate legislation likely to affect our business.
Assessing the likely our total output of SO, NO and CO per kWh equivalent.
2 x 2 ramifications for individual assets is the responsibility of the Companys Health, Safety and Environment Committee.
Demonstrating excellence The revised Large Combustion Plant Directive and the Tejo Energia, the owning company of the Pego project, has EU Emissions Trading Directive are already having an impact been awarded the Municipal Medal for Social and Economic at our European assets.
We have continued to participate in Merit again in 2005.
The medal is a prestigious award, subject industry-wide discussions to advise the UK Department of to a high level of competition.
The award recognises Pegos the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs and the Environment environmental achievements, environmental record, safety Agency for England and Wales on the implementation of both practices, relations with the community and partnerships Directives.
This is to ensure that the industrys view is voiced in in social projects on a local and regional level.
terms of potential impact across the entire sector.
International Power has strategies in place to enable our business to comply In Australia, the Hazelwood plant has received the Victorian with the requirements of these key pieces of legislation.
governments approval for the continuation of its West Field mine development.
In return Hazelwood undertook to limit its life-time emission of CO to 445 million tonnes.
This is the first time an 2 Charitable giving Australian power generator has made such a commitment to The Companys Charities and Donations Committee oversees the management of greenhouse emissions.
the award of charitable and other donations.
In addition to assessing requests and making awards in response to applications Targets for assistance from a variety of charities and good causes, the Committee is also responsible for selecting the Companys International Power has established a systematic dual approach community-based nominated charities and annual flagship to CSR target setting.
Certain targets are set at an asset level projects.
Donations are also made to alleviate hardship and bottom up via local business plans whilst other more generic to support relief efforts in response to natural disasters.
targets are set at a corporate level top down.
This dual approach encourages consistency throughout the Company Within our regional businesses, each of our assets has an from a corporate level whilst allowing specific local targets to annual fund for charitable projects in the local area.
be set which may not be applicable to other sites or regions.
In 2006 we will continue to ensure that we include both Nominated charities monitoring of achieved performance reactive and forward International Power designates a number of organisations as looking preventative proactive targets.
A table of targets nominated charities for periods of three years, providing a is available on our website: www.
guaranteed level of annual funding over this time to support This approach allows us to develop and set an appropriate longer-term projects and planning.
In 2005, the decision was range of targets for our business.
Some targets set in 2005 made to continue with Sight Savers as one of our nominated will continue and will be expanded year-on-year as part of an charities for another three-year period.
This three-year ongoing improvement programme.
New performance targets commitment allows us to build a strong relationship with our are also added each year, as needed.
Sight Savers will be given an annual sum Corporate social responsibility 59 Award winners Hassam Fateen and Taha Farooq pictured here with celebrities Patrick Stewart left and Danny John Jules right, and Ken Teasdale of International Power centre.
of 20,000 to fund cataract operations and train medical Young Environmentalist of the Year staff in Pakistan.
In addition, we have decided to support the expansion of the Sight Savers eye hospital in Karachi, Pakistan, The annual Young Environmentalist as a discrete project.
We are donating the 50,000 required to fund equipment and instruments for the clinic, which deals of the Year awards took place at the specifically with child blindness.
Our other nominated charity Dorchester Hotel, London in November will continue to be Crisis, a London-based organisation which 2005.
The awards, which International supports the homeless.
Crisis also receives 20,000 per year for a three-year period.
Power has co-sponsored since 2001, During 2005 International Power and its subsidiaries challenge children to prepare projects contributed 1,173,707 to charitable causes and other highlighting an area of environmental community projects.
Companies in which we have a minority concern and to demonstrate an shareholding associates and joint ventures contributed a further 662,132. understanding and empathy with the issue.
Flagship projects This years winners were Hussam Fateen Our flagship project programme selected each year from nominations provided by our staff has been running for from Pakistan 13-16 year-olds with a four years.
They are community projects funded annually by project on threats to sea turtles in Pakistan International Power.
Flagship projects can range in size and and Taha Farooq also from Pakistan scope, but they all have the same aim: improving quality of life in different corners of the world.
The projects chosen for 2005 8-12 year-olds with a project on included a four-bed intensive care unit in Kot Addu, close to endangered species.
our KAPCO plant, and the refurbishing of a school in Thailand, near our Pluak Daeng plant.
Both projects are now complete.
The status of our previous flagship projects can be found on our corporate website: www.
Our responses to the Hurricane Katrina and Pakistani earthquake disasters In response to the devastation along the US Gulf Coast caused by Hurricane Katrina, International Power plcs US subsidiary, American National Power, Inc. made a corporate donation to the American Red Cross of US$50,000 and matched employees donations up to an additional US$50,000.
Following the devastating earthquake that hit Pakistan in October 2005, Kot Addu Power Company, Hub Power Company and Uch Power Company together donated over 1 million to President Musharrafs Relief Fund.
