Corporate Social Responsibility continued Ethics range of matters affecting their Social and ethical It is important that individuals current and future interests.
Diversity and Equal opportunities throughout all of Interserves Diversity is at the heart of our operations retain a set of core Investors in People business.
We operate in many values and approaches to the Investors in People IiP is the different environments, in numerous process of doing business.
The national standard which sets a level roles, for a wide range of clients.
reputation of the Group and the of good practice for training and To do this effectively we need an trust and confidence of those with development of people to achieve equally diverse workforce, and in whom it deals are among its most business goals.
It provides a order to maintain our success we vital resources, and the protection framework for improving business welcome the widest variety of of these is of fundamental performance and competitiveness people who have the appropriate importance.
We demand and through a planned approach to skills and enthusiasm.
maintain high ethical standards in setting and communicating business carrying out our business activities objectives and developing people Once someone is part of the and tolerate no form of corrupt to meet these objectives.
Interserve Group they should have practice.
To support an open and the chance to contribute and develop honest operating environment, Our strategy of rolling out IiP in whatever way their abilities and Interserve has a whistleblowing recognition across the Group is the opportunities we can offer them policy and procedure which is maintaining its momentum with allow.
We need to make the most of available to all employees.
comprehensive plans in place for all that our employees have to offer all divisions to achieve or retain the so that we can give the best possible Our ethical policy includes guidance standard.
The Metropolitan Police service to our clients and develop for managing our relationships with Service contract was successfully our business for the future.
customers, suppliers and competitors reaccredited in 2005. and addresses the specific issues Fairness and respect for individuals results in the sort of positive associated with international In support of good peoplebusiness.
We consider harassment management practices, other atmosphere that generates its own of any employee for any reason initiatives have been implemented success.
Our policy supports the to be unacceptable.
during the year including Leadership fundamental belief that all our and Management training in employees, including potential Employee consultation Equipment Services and Safety recruits, are equal regardless of We believe in involving our Skills passports in Industrial gender, race, disability, sexual personnel in matters affecting them Services.
Diversity and Equality orientation, age, religion, religious as employees and have continued to policies have been updated and belief or any other reason that keep them informed of all relevant monitoring has been introduced might be assumed to limit their factors concerning the Groups in most parts of the Group.
performance, strategy, financial status, charitable activities and The success of individuals All employees have a personal other issues.
We achieve this committed to their personal training responsibility for the practical through formal and informal and development is recognised application of equal opportunities, briefings, through our Group through the well-established demonstrated by respect for the magazine, Focus, which is issued Interserve Training Trust.
The individual, in their everyday three times a year, and through our Chief Executive presented 35 dealings and working relationships intranet.
Employee representatives people from across the Group with colleagues, customers, are consulted regularly on a wide with awards in May 2005. suppliers and other parties.
26 Interserve Plc Annual Report 2005 Charitable giving Times Crisis at Christmas Card Interserve believes in contributing Challenge, where money is donated to the well-being of the communities to charity instead of being spent on in which it operates.
We donated a total programme which operates at of 10,000: 2,000 to the appeal, different levels: at Group level we with the remainder going equally to: select a charity every two years Learning Through Landscapes, and make an annual donation: we Winchester encourage business units to run charitable events, either for the CLIC Sargent Caring for Children Group charity or for another cause with Cancer, London that is important to the area or National Association for Colitis the people involved: and we offer and Crohns Disease, St Albans support for employees to undertake Coffee morning success sponsored activities.
As part of the support for Macmillan In addition various parts of the Interserve sites across the country Group gave to a range of causes Throughout 2004 and 2005 took part in the Worlds Biggest including 5,700 to Project Coffee Morning.
Always popular, the Interserve worked with Macmillan Compass, 4,500 to Inspire, 5,000 event was well supported with raffles, Cancer Relief as its chosen charity.
to the RNLI, 1,000 to Defence quizzes and, of course, plenty of cups Macmillan provides expert care and Estates Cardiac Risk in the Young of coffee.
Interserve sites raised over practical support to improve the initiative and 11,000 to local 5,000 at the event.
quality of life for people living with community events associated with cancer.
Its activities include funding the Army Defence Estate.
specialist Macmillan nurses and doctors, building cancer care Our chosen charity for the next centres and providing a range of two years is ChildLine.
ChildLine information and support services.
is the UKs free, 24-hour helpline for children in distress or danger.
We formed committees in divisional Trained volunteer counsellors and business unit locations across comfort, advise and protect children the Group to organise fund-raising and young people who may feel events and assist individuals in they have nowhere else to turn.
We have established fund-raising As a result of their work, the committees throughout Interserve commitment and dedication shown and are already generating by many employees in their own The Sahara Challenge donations through a number sponsored activities and the In October, Mason Laird and Rob of activities.
generosity of numerous people in Lindeman walked the 100km Sahara Interserve and beyond, nearly Trek for Macmillan raising over 5,000 - an exhilarating and thought- 40,000 was raised in 2005 to provoking experience for them both.
complement the Group donation of 25,000, bringing the grand total for the two years to over 103,000.
Beyond Macmillan, all Interserve divisions took part in the Financial Interserve Plc Annual Report 2005 27
