Corporate Social Responsibility continued To help us focus on reducing our Environment environmental impact we have Many of our activities improve the adopted the following policy: working and living environments for individuals and communities.
We Group Environmental Policy have the opportunity to work with Statement our clients to provide innovative solutions to minimise environmental The policy of the Group is to impact.
For example, during the conduct its operations in an year we completed the three-year environmentally sustainable project to upgrade the Little Marlow manner in order to protect the sewage treatment works.
The work environment for future not only doubled capacity but also generations.
ensures that clean water is being In implementing its policy the Landmarc supports RNLI returned to local rivers.
Group will seek, through its Interserve subsidiary Landmarc operating companies, to ensure: We also recognise that our Support Services Limited launched its support for the RNLI crew training operations have an environmental Compliance with relevant campaign to Train One and Save Many impact and we are committed to environmental legislation with an initial corporate donation of managing that impact to ensure we and regulation 5,000.
Landmarc employees are also are running a sustainable business.
supporting the campaign by organising Prevention of pollution We use the ISO 14001 standard to team and community events and develop appropriate environmental recycling toner and printer cartridges.
The efficient use of natural management systems EMSs across resources the Group.
Project Services holds The minimisation of waste and ISO 14001 registration for all of its core operations, and in Facilities emissions to air and water Services the Metropolitan Police, Environmental awareness of Slough Borough Council, Office for all employees National Statistics and Carlisle Effective monitoring of contracts are also registered.
environmental performance Facilities Services will roll out a corporate EMS to extend its Continual improvement in coverage and Industrial Services will environmental performance pursue a company-wide registration.
The Group will set targets and objectives for the improvement Cooking with Rick Stein We are regular winners of of environmental management Considerate Constructors awards Celebrity chef Rick Stein was so and will publish details of its through our Project Services division impressed with the efforts of Cornwall environmental performance.
and in 2005 received two Gold, Schools Meals Service to improve school meals that he invited a group three Silver and one Bronze award.
All employees have a role to play of school cooks to spend a day at his We also received a National Gold in care of the environment.
The Padstow Seafood School to cook fresh Green Apple Award for our work on Group has appointed a director to fish.
Two of the attending cooks were the River Gaunless Flood Alleviation be responsible for environmental from the Cornwall School PFI project, Scheme.
issues, and environmental where Interserve provides FM services.
responsibilities are allocated 24 Interserve Plc Annual Report 2005 Photo: Nigel Millard at the RNLI to line management throughout Greenhouse gas emissions Equipment Services improved the Waste the organisation.
 management of its stock transfer All fixed and temporary sites greenhouse gas emissions can be operations in the UK and reduced operate procedures to stream and This policy will be subject to attributed to the direct and indirect haulage by 241,430 miles, recycle waste wherever possible.
In periodic review to ensure it use of energy in the delivery of our representing a saving of 416 tonnes offices this includes recycling paper, continues to meet the Group's services and represent the Groups of CO. printer cartridges and redundant 2 environmental requirements.
The equipment, and on sites can include timber, metals and inert hardcore key elements are: Resource use We use a variety of indicators Water is used to provide welfare etc.
relevant to each of our operating Fuel diesel and petrol facilities in offices.
Process water is companies to monitor environmental consumption in vehicles being Equipment Services reclaimed a used in heating systems, cleaning performance, but the following core used on company business total of 394 tonnes of steel and operations and spray booth filters.
impacts are identified for the Group 14 tonnes of aluminium from the Electricity used at fixed sites - For our fixed sites an estimated as a whole: end-of-life scrapping of products.
Greenhouse gas emissions from lighting, cooling, IT equipment, At the Project Services head our use of energy, including heating and process equipment Timber scaffold boards and office a total of 21.28 tonnes of electricity, gas, fuel in vehicles, formwork panels are sold and hired paper and cardboard were Gas and oil used to heat premises transport and travel out in our scaffolding and formwork recycled.
10.81 tonnes were Travel by employees on company operations.
Timber used in these recycled at the Group head office Use of resources including water business in the UK and overseas, products is sourced from suppliers with a further 1.06 tonnes at the and timber including train journeys and flying who confirm that it is being Equipment Services head office.
Generation and disposal of waste obtained from managed sustainable The Project Services waste skip Our estimate of carbon dioxide sources.
service handled a total of 56,287 Unless otherwise specified, the data emissions in 2005 is 27.0 tonnes per tonnes of waste collected from cover the Groups UK-based million of revenue 2004: 28.8 We use timber both in the Interserve and customers' sites.
tonnes per million, a total of construction process and in the this 18,699 tonnes 33 per cent 33,238 tonnes 2004: 35,658 fabric of the buildings we construct.
went through our licensed waste tonnes.
This was apportioned: During the year Project Services transfer station and 2,513 tonnes adopted a Sustainability Policy and were recovered and not sent to has committed to sourcing all its Tonnes per m revenue landfill.
This represents 13 per 35 timber from suppliers certified by cent of the waste passing through the Forest Stewardship Council or 30 the transfer station.
25 Pollution 20 Arrangements are in place to record 15 and address any pollution incidents 10 and environmental near misses.
No enforcement action was taken 5 against Interserve or any Group 2003 2004 2005 0 company in 2005.
