Corporate Social Responsibility Directly or indirectly, Interserves activities affect the lives of many thousands of people across the world.
We believe we have a duty to behave responsibly in all respects, in all our interactions with all our stakeholders.
Our behaviour is underpinned by our corporate mission and the values to which we subscribe: Mission Interserve is dedicated to delivering Pedal power for Macmillan FM partnering in excellence sustainable shareholder value by Adrian Boucher, Equipment Services, providing an integrated range of cycled on behalf of Macmillan for the Bill Black won this category in the support services in partnership with second time and raised over 340.
2005 PFM awards in recognition of the dedication he has shown in the our clients, our employees and our role of helpdesk administrator at supply chain.
We operate safely and West Lothian College.
Interserve responsibly and seek to improve provides a range of facilities continually.
management services at the College.
Values We continually add value to clients and shareholders by providing complementary services and by nurturing long-term relationships We treat all people with respect by acting ethically and through encouraging our people to develop their full contribution to the benefit of the business We work as a team and honour our commitments by acting in an Teeing off for Macmillan Running for Macmillan open, professional and friendly Interserve sites at Carlisle, Buxton and Interserve staff put on their running manner West Lothian organised Golf Days to shoes to take part in Team Macmillan support Macmillan.
Well attended in a in the Flora London Marathon in April.
We act responsibly by working range of weather conditions, together Cliff Boddy pictured and Gerald safely and with consideration for they raised over 10,000.
O'Neill pounded the streets to raise those affected by our operations over 3,400 between them.
We improve our performance by sharing our knowledge and through continual learning and innovation 20 Interserve Plc Annual Report 2005
