8185 Intertek AR p34 39 KM 02 03. qxp 3 3 06 12:49 pm Page 38 Annual Report 2005 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Introduction The Board views the Annual General Meeting as a valuable opportunity At Intertek Group plc, we take our duty to behave responsibly in to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes governance and ethics seriously.
We will continue to build our corporate their participation.
All Board members attend the Annual General social responsibility commitments in the coming years, in addition to Meeting and in particular, the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination fulfilling national and international legal requirements.
Our policy can and Remuneration Committees are available to answer questions.
be summarised as follows: At General Meetings, a schedule of the proxy votes cast is made available to all shareholders.
The Company proposes a resolution Governance on each substantially separate issue and does not combine Intertek is committed to high standards of corporate governance resolutions inappropriately.
as outlined in the Corporate Governance Report and the Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for ensuring that principles Customers of good governance are applied.
Intertek is built upon a strong ethos of customer service.
Years of experience, detailed knowledge of testing and certification, local Ethics legislation, culture and market conditions, comprehensive training At Intertek, and as individuals, we: programmes and world class laboratories mean that clients receive the most professional service to give them a competitive edge.
Value trust and personal responsibility: We conduct internal and external customer care surveys and Act with integrity, honesty and respect: regular client contact reports.
Listening to our customers helps us Deliver excellent services that add value to our customers business: understand what they expect from us and how we can meet and Focus on continual growth and outstanding performance: exceed their expectations.
Strive to create a safe work environment: Value each employees contribution toward achieving our Employees business objectives: The Group provides equal opportunities for its staff as disclosed in Promote a culture where motivated customer-orientated the Directors Report.
employees can flourish, experience professional fulfilment and reach their highest potential: and Employees have regular appraisals with their line managers in order Respect diverse perspectives, experiences and traditions as essential.
to address any concerns and each division has a Human Resources Director who can be contacted in the event of dissatisfaction.
There is The foundation of the policy rests with the Groups employees, each also an externally managed telephone hotline, which employees can of whom must sign a Code of Ethics, as detailed in the Corporate use to anonymously report any matters of concern.
Those employees affected by Hurricane Katrina were given access to Our Stakeholders counselling and the Group has donated the equivalent of 70,000 We aim to be as responsive as possible and to engage with a wide range to affected employees and their families.
Diversity Shareholders Intertek has 15,500 employees in 108 countries and, together with Communications with shareholders are given a high priority.
The our policy to recruit local people, this diversity is one of our biggest Company produces an Annual Report, which is sent to shareholders.
Combined with pursuing practices that are sensitive to the At the half year, an Interim Report is published.
The Company also needs and cultures of our staff, diversity allows us to be adaptable has a website www.
com which contains up-to-date and more open to different ways of doing business, in line with local information on the Groups activities and published financial results.
Shareholders can subscribe via the Investor Relations section of www.
com investors subscribeto to receive e-mail alerts The Group provides equal opportunities for its entire staff, irrespective of important announcements made by the Company.
of their ethnic or religious background, sex, sexual orientation or disability, as disclosed in the Directors Report.
There is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders.
This includes presentations after the Company has published its full year and half Intertek employs only the best people for their role irrespective year results, as well as on specific issues during 2005, such as the of gender: nevertheless we are keen to see the ratio of women review of share incentives and also on the change in Chief Executive in senior positions improve and have recently appointed a female Officer.
The Chairman ensures that any feedback from the institutional Non-Executive Director.
shareholders is communicated directly to the Board and all the analysts and brokers reports on the Group are e-mailed directly to each Director.
The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and other NonExecutive Directors have also attended meetings with institutional shareholders during the year.
38 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2005 8185 Intertek AR p34 39 KM 02 03. qxp 3 3 06 12:49 pm Page 39 Community Operating in many regions, we respect the rule of law within these jurisdictions and support appropriate internationally accepted human rights.
No use of live animals is made in any of the tests carried out by the Group: We offer independent Social Compliance Monitoring to our customers through our Labtest division which monitors manufacturers within developing countries, ensuring that work practices and factory conditions are legal, humane and ethical, including ensuring that no enforced or child labour is used.
Intertek is also a Social Accountability 8000 certification body, accredited by Social Accountability International in 1999, and was the first external monitor to receive accreditation to the Worldwide Responsible Apparel Production Certification Program WRAP.
Intertek has also been accredited in multiple countries by the Fair Labor Association FLA program,  des Deutschen Enzelhandels AVE program, and the International Council of Toy Industries ICTI Code of Business Practices.
Intertek aims to develop relationships with its suppliers that are based upon mutual trust.
It undertakes to pay suppliers on time and according to agreed terms of trade.
Our awareness of the importance of prompt payment especially to small businesses is demonstrated by this policy.
Environment The Group is committed to preventing any adverse impact on the environment as a result of its operations.
The Groups worldwide risk management team is tasked with identifying all potential risks and introducing procedures to prevent such an occurrence.
Following a review of policy on the audit of environmental risks, the Chief Financial Officer will choose, typically, 10 to 15 sites per annum for review to determine whether procedures are being properly implemented, and to advise on further precautionary measures.
The procedure for the disposal of samples is audited to ensure compliance.
A policy of zero tolerance for non-compliance with such procedures is enforced and regular checks are carried out to ensure compliance.
In certain cases, the Group occupies facilities where pollution occurred prior to the Groups use of the site.
In each case the Group has implemented remedial works, on the advice of third party specialists, to minimise further damage to the environment.
Environmental due diligence is carried out before the acquisition of any new sites.
Interteks Head Office was awarded a certificate of achievement for office recycling, saving the equivalent in paper of 46 trees in 2005 and is expanding the range of products able to be recycled for 2006.
Health and Safety Appropriate health and safety measures have been established and are operated throughout the Group.
Local compliance officers keep the operation of such measures under regular review.
Any incidents are investigated by a central team of specialists, which makes recommendations to avoid a repetition.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2005 39
