Corporate responsibility Invensys is strongly committed to its corporate responsibilities in relation to the communities within which it operates and to the environmental consequences of its activities.
We believe our prospects of Environment, health and safety EHS successfully achieving our business Policy and organisation goals and a fair return to our In July 2004 our EHS policy was updated and opens investors are increased by fulfilment as follows Environment, health and safety are of our corporate responsibilities intrinsic to our operations and our value propositions.
Our goal is that we will not harm people or the environment.
Additionally, we are committed to the Our guiding principles were formulated in 2002 goals of maintaining compliance with the law at all in the Invensys Intent which set out the foundations times and being good neighbours within the of our Groups approach to sustainability and the communities in which we conduct business.
We aspire environment, health and safety in our workplaces, to leadership in these areas by adopting internally the diversity and equality of opportunity, the recognition good practices we support within our customers, thus of human rights and our programmes of community contributing to long-term sustainable growth.
A full involvement and corporate giving.
version of the EHS policy is available on our website www.
Our intention was that we would, following consultation and involvement with our staff in many The Board is responsible for the overall countries, enshrine those principles over time in our environmental, health and safety policy and everyday activities and conduct of business.
We have, procedures, and holds the Chief Operating Officer for example, recently developed our new worldwide accountable for its implementation.
Each business Invensys Code of Conduct that is in the course of is responsible for providing the necessary resources being introduced to our employees in nine languages and implementing programmes to ensure compliance and over 50 countries together with training with EHS policy and procedures and for driving programmes tailored to employee needs.
Each employee is accountable for their own health and safety and In the last year we have given particular priority to that of others who may be affected by their actions improving the health and safety of our employees.
We have also appointed a new Vice President of Risk Management, Insurance and Corporate Responsibility Leadership in EHS comes from the highest levels who is responsible for working with each business within the Group.
Environmental, health and safety group to address corporate responsibility issues and issues and performance are reviewed at all Board reporting on overall performance.
meetings, monthly business group operational meetings and at the Risk Committee which meets four times a year.
To further our commitment to the highest standards of ethical behaviour, our senior managers are required to report annually on EHS compliance within their businesses and the progress made in training and communicating these expectations to employees.
Health and safety Invensys is committed to achieving excellence in health and safety performance.
Our goal is simple no harm to people.
Invensys policy is to provide a safe and healthy working environment at all sites, which includes adequate measures to prevent accidents and ill health by minimising potential hazards in the workplace.
We regret having to report a single fatality in 2004 05.
A worker in our Mexicali, Mexico facility fell from a lift while performing an assigned task.
This death is deeply regrettable, and we continue to review our health and safety procedures.
20 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2005 We have, however, improved our systems for At Invensys, sustainable development lies at the core monitoring frequency rates for Lost Workday Cases of many of our businesses.
We seek to help our and Total Recordable Cases, and are encouraged customers improve the reliability, consistency and by signs of reductions.
For 2005 06, we have set efficiency of both their businesses and products.
frequency rate targets for both Lost Workday Cases Within the Controls business, we provide highly and Total Recordable Cases of 0.6 and 1.8 cases per engineered control solutions for major manufacturers 100 employees per annum, respectively.
of appliances such as ovens, washing machines and refrigerators that increase operating efficiency and During the past year, no reports have been received reduce energy consumption.
Within Process Systems, of any fines or other action from breaches of health we work with customers to improve the efficiencies and safety regulations.
In the US, a single of their operations while at the same time reducing Occupational Safety and Health Administration harmful greenhouse gas emissions.
For example, we OSHA citation and penalty was issued for nonengineer control and software systems that help compliance with the reporting requirement.
This major public utilities optimise their operations and citation resulted in a charge of US$2,250 1,160. reduce nitrogen oxides NO and sulphur dioxide x All defects have been rectified.
2 Environment Employees During the year, we continued to work to minimise Our people define our business, and this is no more any detrimental impact from our operations on the evident than during periods of change and challenge.
environment and put in place an online reporting We continue to work to build global teams with the system for tracking environmental violations and skills to deliver our business growth.
We are pleased to announce that no major offer competitive remuneration to ensure we attract environmental violations or citations were reported the best and remain committed to assisting this year.
Three minor environmental releases were employees achieve personal advancement.
Individual reported, all of which involved an exceedance of a training is offered by the business groups tailored to wastewater discharge permit limit.
Corrective actions specific needs, whether via the Invensys University, have been taken and no further citations were external or internal courses.
One minor noise violation was reported in China that resulted in a fine of RMB 70,000 4,500.
Community relations Corrective actions will be completed by July 2005.
We recognise our responsibilities to the communities in which we operate.
We encourage our business units In March and April 2005, 63 major manufacturing and employees to support the development and operations reported environmental and social wellbeing of their local communities through a variety performance data for calendar 2004.
This data is of activities.
Following last years terrible earthquake currently being verified by external auditors and will and resulting tsunami in the Indian Ocean, many of be published on the Invensys website when available.
our businesses put in systems to match any pledges This data will be used to set objectives and targets for made by our employees.
We recognise, however, that energy water usage and waste reduction across the at a time when the Company is not paying dividends Group.
We will also use this data to benchmark our to shareholders, sensitivity is required in relation Group environmental performance by participating in to the area of corporate giving and we have the annual Business in the Environment BiE Index of accordingly moderated the amount of donations Corporate Environmental Engagement later this year.
We have also continued to make good progress in implementing environmental management systems.
These systems provide benefits such as improving the impact of our activities on the environment, reducing raw material and energy use, and decreasing waste generation.
For example, our Bodmin and Plymouth UK facilities received ISO 14001 accreditation in April 2004 and passed the first audit in March 2005 with no non-conformities.
We continue to explore opportunities to expand our environmental management systems.
Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2005 21
