Sustainability Sustainability stepping up in AMEC Generating a profit at any cost is neither morally nor socially acceptable.
AMEC has acknowledged, for many years, that in order to provide our shareholders with a long-term sustainable profit we need to manage our non-financial responsibilities, which take into account our wider societal obligations, including our social and environmental responsibilities, sometimes referred to as corporate social responsibilities.
In short, sustainability is about good business practice and promoting improvement in how we manage the business in a way that delivers In 2005 we value to our stakeholders.
discontinued hard copy sustainability reporting and introduced a detailed Embedding sustainability report on-line at in our business our website www.
com In February 2005, we appointed a dedicated sustainability programme manager reporting to a senior director who has overall responsibility for people, planet sustainability issues.
and prosperity Guiding Principles During the year, we took steps to place more emphasis on sustainability as a central aspect of the way we manage.
Specifically, 24 AMEC plc annual report 2005 Guiding we revised the Guiding Principles Principle Example of issues to manage into the long term which govern the way we run the Risk Opportunity company, so that working in a Ethical conduct Loss of stakeholder trust Build trust among stakeholders sustainable way is now explicitly Fraud Enhance our reputation part of these previously, we had Release of inaccurate Continual improvement information of internal controls separate sustainability principles.
Protect company against corrupt behaviour Our Guiding Principles, which can Health and safety Fatalities, injuries and ill health Performance provides be found on our website, commit Breach of regulations competitive edge Eliminate lost time from illness us to work ethically, safely, and and injury in a way that respects other people Environment Release of polluting materials Reduced environmental costs and the environment.
Environmental performance and taxes limits business opportunities Resource efficiency Board commitment Breach of regulations Secure financial insurance support The board continued to receive Employment Loss of skills Ensure positive industrial regular briefings on significant Inability to attract talented relations developed employees Retaining talented employees elements of the sustainability Poor staff morale Create motivated, happy environment programme, through board meetings.
Sir Peter Mason, chief Diversity Employee profile makes AMEC Building capability at point unattractive to sections of the of services executive, continued to chair the community Attracting talent from all sections sustainability programme and of the community is actively involved in setting the Community Projects impact on human rights Build strong relationships with direction and supporting the Protester action community stakeholders Conflict led delays in project Licence to operate programme.
In addition, individual performance assessments, Training and Reduced competency capability Improved staff morale investment Failure to capitalise on Retention of talented people including sustainability related opportunities Increase capabilities objectives e. g. safety and Fail to attract investment Developing future leaders organisational issues were Risk management Failure to identify medium Improve management of considered as part of the executive and long-term risk significant risks Risks not adequately managed Effective learning from experience directors bonus plan during 2005.
Accountability Lack of clarity in responsibilities Encourage entrepreneurial Continual improvement Failure to address behaviour underperformance Stimulate innovative solutions Using the risk management Customer service Failure to understand client Effective capitalisation process to inform our Guiding priorities of opportunities Principles, we identified issues Customer not satisfied Developing new services aligned with service to customer needs that apply throughout the business, Poor reputation as seen in the following table.
AMEC plc annual report 2005 25 Sustainability continued Total Risk Management continues Eight fatalities at work 2004: nine to assist in identifying and managing Zero health and safety convictions these risks and opportunities and 2004: one integrating sustainability into the One environmental enforcement company Management and Policy action with a fine of C$5,000 2004: two with no fine Framework.
We continued to embed 89 per cent of the business the AMEC Agenda 21 process, covered by an ISO 14001 aimed at driving performance environmental management forward at business unit level, system 2004: 87 per cent facilitating continual improvement 14 per cent improvement in lost throughout the business.
time incident frequency rate For more information on during 2005 stakeholder engagement, AMEC 4.48 days lost per employee Agenda 21 and sustainability due to sickness absence management, please visit 2004: 4.27 days our website.
24 per cent of vacancies filled internally 2004: 20 per cent During 2005 19 business units Operational sustainability projects achieved more than a performance summary million hours without a lost time We have over 40 corporate incident reportable accident sustainability indicators tracked UKs Industrial Division received year on year across the worldwide a prestigious award from business.
A full and detailed DuPont for innovative approach performance report is contained to delivering world class in our on-line sustainability report safety performance at www.
com, including an 24 ethics complaints reported analysis of performance, targets and investigated during 2005, and objectives.
There follows a summary of 47 per cent reduction in the indicators detailing significant number of reported pollution management issues that directly incidents affect our ability to generate long- 9 per cent of employees decided term value for our shareholders.
to leave AMEC 2004: 7 per cent 26 AMEC plc annual report 2005 be published and will be made Communication clear Sustainability index available in our on-line and simple messaging of performance sustainability performance report.
sustainability issues and linking During 2005, AMEC participated to the new Guiding Principles in the Dow Jones Sustainability Future priorities Index DJSI and the Business Verification procedure We have instigated a number of in the Community BitC Statements relating to sustainability changes during 2005 relating to Corporate Responsibility and made on pages 24 to 27 of this our core sustainability programme.
report have been verified by an We will ensure that these changes external, independent audit team are implemented throughout the Dow Jones Sustainability Index from Enviros.
All data used has business during 2006.
We were listed as the industry been checked for reliability and leader for the Support Services Using information gained from subjected to audit via an internal sector in both the Dow Jones our stakeholder engagement team of verifiers.
World and Pan European throughout the year and Sustainability indices for 2005.
The opinion of Enviros is set out management survey results we in the footnote below.
have identified three key objectives The annual review of the DJSI to build on through 2006: group is based on a thorough assessment of corporate economic, Leadership engagement environmental and social strengthening support and performance.
Its results influence ownership of the new Shaping the investment decisions of asset AMEC working sustainably managers in 14 countries.
programme Business alignment improving Business in the Community the link between business We were ranked in the top 100 in both the BitC Corporate Responsibility value and our sustainability and Environmental indices during responsibilities as identified 2004.
Results for 2005 will soon in the new Guiding Principles Opinion of our independent verifiers, Enviros: The information and data presented in this section represents for accuracy and completeness and are satisfied that it is materially a sub-set of that presented in AMECs Sustainability Performance representative of AMECs performance and data collection processes Report 2005.
Data selection was guided by the interests of the are continually improving.
We are pleased to see the inclusion of reports audience and we would urge readers to engage with AMEC sustainability data in this report and see this as an indication that in developing this section in the future.
We have checked the content AMEC is embedding sustainability into its core business process.
