CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT 2005 It is iSOFTs view that operating in an environmentally and socially sustainable manner provides a stronger basis for future development of the business operations, financial performance, protection of reputation and market valuation.
Commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility As an international business, the ability to deploy It is iSOFTs view that operating in an environmentally employees quickly around the world will impact 27 and socially sustainable manner provides a stronger on the future growth capacity of the Group.
basis for future development of the business The directors have during the year, created and operations, financial performance, protection of strengthened the means by which employees can reputation and market valuation.
be joined into global teams consistent with the companys strategic approach to product Employment policy development and market penetration.
The objective of iSOFTs employment policy is to support our business goals through the attraction, iSOFT has continued to grow its presence in India retention and realisation of full potential from and has established close links to local universities a high-calibre workforce.
and proactively supports local community initiatives such as education sponsorship.
The directors recognise the importance of individual employee contributions in delivering Equal opportunities policy the Groups successful performance to date and The Group is a committed equal opportunities have maintained the commitment that each employer and has established working practices employee receives a formal appraisal every six to promote an employment environment that months.
The appraisal process is an important is free from discrimination and harassment.
means by which individual reward and personal The iSOFT policy ensures that no employee, or advancement is determined.
applicant, is treated less favourably on the grounds of gender, marital status, race, colour, disability The directors further recognise that sustaining the or sexual orientation or is disadvantaged by Groups competitive advantage over the longer conditions or requirements that cannot objectively term is dependent on employees realising their be justified.
It is Group practice, therefore, to ensure that employee development, reward and career Disabled individuals are afforded the same advancement takes full account of ability, opportunities as others, and the Group actively commitment and individual contribution to the supports the employment of disabled persons both collective achievements of the business.
during the recruitment process and in the retention of employees who become disabled whilst in the employment of the Group.
Health and safety policy Business Improvement Programme The health and safety of our employees is of The merger of the iSOFT and Torex organisations 28 paramount importance to iSOFT.
was completed during the year and the directors view the Business Improvement Programme, In fostering a working environment which established to design and implement a single encourages productivity, participation and Group-wide operating structure, as an togetherness, the Group has created a workplace outstanding success.
which embraces statutory requirements and best practice guidelines wherever possible.
As a result, the Business Improvement Programme will continue to be operated within the Group with Employee equity participation the objective of delivering continual improvement A significant number of employees have in operational and organisational processes.
shareholding interests in the Company either directly or under share option and Sharesave Employee communication and consultation schemes.
The directors actively encourage During the year, regular employee and management employee equity participation, subject always to briefings and communication took place to enhance the Groups employee share dealing code rules, individual understanding of the Groups strategy, as they firmly believe that this encourages the market environment and financial and operating profitable development of the Group.
Priority was given to ensuring that the current employee share option schemes and employees were made aware of significant matters the options granted during the year are provided relating to the Groups trading performance, in note 23 to the financial statements on page 70. organisational developments and prospects.
Participation in the Sharesave schemes is iSOFT has an Employee Consultation Forum encouraged across the Group and membership VOiCE with elected representatives.
VOiCE was levels are high amongst eligible employees.
established to create a means of active involvement, social dialogue, information dissemination and communication with the employees of the Group based within the UK.
A similar forum has been established in Chennai, India.
The Group has works councils in Germany and Holland.
The German works council has helped transition all German employees on to common terms and conditions.
In Holland, the Group is in the process of negotiating with the works council a new collective labour agreement.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT 2005 Social, Environmental and Ethical Donations SEE matters The Board believes that the choice of charitable 29 The iSOFT business as a whole recognises that activities is a matter of conscience for individual achieving success in environmental and social members of staff, particularly given our wide management is a joint responsibility between involvement with numerous healthcare institutions.
Indeed active In response to the Tsunami disaster in December employee participation in community events and 2004, the Group donated 22,500 to match the charities is strongly supported through the giving individual donations made by employees.
The of time and the internal promotion and support resulting total was then donated to relief for such activities.
organisations operating in the communities The directors recognise that whilst iSOFTs business neighbouring our development centre in Chennai, activities as a developer and supplier of software India to assist with recovery of the local affected applications, have minimal direct environmental areas.
Other charitable donations during the year impact, there are environmental impacts in running totalled 10,000 2004: nil.
a company and our commitment to adopting best iSOFT made no financial contributions to political practice evidences our responsibility.
The Group maintains an environmental policy to Approval raise awareness, establish standards, assess the This report was approved by the Board on impact of its business activities on the environment, 21 June 2005 and signed on its behalf by: set improvement objectives and monitor performance against these objectives.
The Groups philosophy is to establish a paperless working environment wherever appropriate.
This is supported in practice through the automation of a number of internal management and Tim Whiston administrative processes such as performance Chief Executive Officer appraisals, job profiles and a competency framework, and annual leave requests.
The Group continues to look at ways to move closer still to a paperless working environment.
The responsibility for maintaining and enforcing the SEE policy resides at Board level.
A copy of the current environmental policy is available on the Group website.
Technology has the potential to transform our experience of healthcare.
Combined with the dedication and commitment of healthcare professionals, it can improve the quality of life for all.
