30 ITV plc 2005 annual report ITV considers corporate responsibility CR The focus of the Groups meetings in 2005 Corporate to be a major factor in maintaining good was on improving the measurement of relationships with key stakeholder groups.
ITVs CR performance in different spheres responsibility These include viewers, advertisers, and establishing targets and objectives employees, the regulator Ofcom, investors, where possible.
The Group is in the process artistes and local communities.
of a review of ITVs CR Policy.
In 2005, the Group initiated a viewer survey of ITVs The media collectively has a significant CR issues and performance and launched inuence over social values and ITV is an intranet site on CR topics.
This is part of committed to exercising responsibility in our well used Watercooler intranet, one of all of its programme output from soaps the prime ways ITV communicates with to dramas, current affairs and news.
We believe that it is important to maintain ITVs established reputation for editorial In common with other FTSE 100 standards during a period of increasing companies, ITV receives regular enquiries competition in television.
from institutional investors about CR.
We respond constructively to all such Recognising the significant role of television requests and ITV is included in both the in society, the industry and its regulators Dow Jones Sustainability Index where have developed detailed rules and we are rated as the sector leader and regulations administered by Ofcom.
The experience gained over 50 years of broadcasting has enabled ITV to establish a CR issues relevant to ITV strong culture of responsible programming.
ITVs diverse CR issues divide into two main categories: those to do with what In 2004, ITV plcs first year of existence, we broadcast and those to do with how we established a new structure for we operate.
A CR Operational Group has been appointed reporting to Our principal On air issues relate to the CR and Operational Risk Steering Group, programme standards, our role as a provider chaired by the Company Secretary.
of news and current affairs programmes, The Group has broad representation social and community issues in other from all the main company functions.
The prime function of the CR Operational Behind the scenes ITVs main CR issues Group is to co-ordinate management of are our role in fostering creative talent, issues already well established within employment, regional partnerships and operational functions.
The Group also the environment.
identies any areas in need of closer scrutiny or a new approach.
31 Performance in 2005 In 2005, Ofcom dealt with complaints We are promoting diversity in ITVs about 799 ITV programmes.
Of these, workforce with several initiatives to CR on air 772 were not upheld.
Complaints about recruit people from minority groups.
ITV provides the most popular family of 19 programmes were resolved to Ofcoms During 2005 ITV increased ethnic minority channels in the UK, and spends around satisfaction.
Complaints about eight representation from 4% in 2004 to 6%.
1 billion a year on programming the programmes were upheld compared Women account for 47% of our workforce biggest spend of any European commercial with 17 in 2004.
Ofcom publishes and 42% of management grades.
We strive for strong editorial details of its rulings on its website at and creative values as well as high Environment ITVs main impacts on the www.
environment are the energy and water we ITVs licences contain quotas for certain use at our sites and on location and the This is underpinned by broadcast licensing types of programme and for accessibility waste we produce.
We aim to manage and regulation which is among the most services for blind and deaf people.
ITV and reduce these impacts.
We are in the rigorous in the world.
That regulation offers achieved all its quotas.
process of reviewing and updating our significant protection for the community as environmental policy, procedures, a whole, for minority groups within it and Diversity on screen objectives and targets.
Britain is a diverse nation and ITV believes In 2005 Ofcom implemented a new its contribution to social cohesion is to We collect data on energy use, water Broadcasting Code.
Along with other ensure a balanced representation for all consumption and waste.
Our CR report major broadcasters, ITV was heavily parts of the community in all types of our contains details of reduction in ITVs climate involved in Ofcoms consultation and programmes.
We have begun monitoring impact, water use and waste generation.
on-screen diversity and will be using this Community ITVs social investment data in internal programme reviews and To ensure ITV achieves the required comes in two different ways: as airtime assessing what our target levels should be.
standards across its channels, ITVs donated to good causes: and as cash Compliance Unit was expanded in 2005 to CR behind the scenes donations to charities and social and a total of 27 specialists who guide Employment ITV employs 5,952 people environmental projects.
worldwide, the majority of whom are in In 2005, ITV came first in the Guardians Compliance specialists advise programme the UK.
We aim to treat our employees Giving List, a ranking of FTSE100 companies teams on every aspect of broadcast output, fairly and with respect and have systems by the percentage of profits donated to apart from advertising and network news.
in place to provide a safe working community investment based on 2004 A separate team checks TV commercials for environment for all.
Our total social investment in 2005 compliance with the Television Advertising assembled in 2005 to co-ordinate our was worth 19.3 million.
training strategy across the business, improving all skill levels and emphasising Details of ITVs approach to CR, performance News and current affairs are key facets of leadership development throughout the during 2005 and targets are included in ITVs ITVs public service function and role in organisation.
Every permanent employee 2005 CR report which is available in the society.
Part of ITVs corporate responsibility receives an annual career development Responsibility section of the Company is to produce balanced, informative, review that focuses progress during the website at www.
com or in hard copy impartial news and documentaries.
year and identies any development needs.
from the Company Secretarys ofce.
ITV has a budget of 100 million for production of national and regional news programmes.
Its global reach is aided by ofces in London, Bangkok, Brussels, Jerusalem, Johannesburg, Moscow, Washington and a new bureau in Beijing.
