Corporate social responsibility report Supporting the people, communities and businesses around us Following our company-wide recycling initiative via our National Distribution Centre in Daventry, launched in September 2004, we have recovered over J D Wetherspoon continues to be a central part of local communities all 1,700 tonnes of recyclable material.
This includes 830 tonnes of cardboard over the UK, bringing benefits to millions of people in their daily lives and 800 tonnes of used cooking oil, which have been sent for reprocessing through social enjoyment, as well as providing direct or indirect employment into biodiesel, a greener form of energy than standard fossil fuels.
forecast for the whole of 2005 is for over 3,000 tonnes.
Initiatives with our suppliers ensure that recycled packaging is returned to source and reused for The company recognises the importance of environmental and social issues new product supplied to the company.
Examples include aluminium for and has a dedicated Corporate Social Responsibility CSR group, headed by canned drinks and cardboard for boxed products.
The company, under the CSR groups stewardship, is able to ensure that it is fostering the preservation and protection of the All of our pubs and staff are encouraged to engage actively in raising money environment, while recognising its wider social responsibility throughout all for our chosen charity CLIC Sargent Caring for Children with Cancer.
So far of its commercial activities and operations.
this year, we have raised 880,000 towards our 2million target.
Following the tsunami earthquake in December last year, we also raised 272,305 for We are continuing with the following policies: the Disasters Emergency Committee DEC. Minimise the extent of the environmental impact of its operations, The company once again participated in the annual survey by EIRiS as far as is reasonably practical.
Ethical Investment Research Service and, for the fifth consecutive year, was included in the FTSE4Good index, designed to identify those companies Minimise any emissions or effluents which may cause with good records in corporate social responsibility.
We were also listed as the seventh most admired company in the FTSE 250 Conserve energy through minimising consumption and for Community and Environmental Responsibility in HR Magazine.
Minimise the use of materials which may be harmful to the environment.
Promote efficient purchasing which will both minimise waste and allow materials to be recycled, where appropriate.
Adopt efficient waste-management strategies which reduce the amount of waste going to landfill or to other disposable sites.
Embrace the use of recycled materials and ensure that materials or waste generated by the business are recycled, where appropriate.
Raise awareness of environmental issues among all our employees and suppliers partners.
Ensure appropriate training, in environmental issues, of all employees.
These aims are incorporated and developed within the companys Environmental Management System which is implemented throughout the business.
