Corporate social responsibility report JJB recognises that it has a duty to ensure that its business is conducted in a socially responsible manner resulting in high standards of both social and environmental behaviour.
Through its employees, the Group aims to comply with all applicable laws in order to meet, and where possible exceed, best practice conditions in both the national and global markets within which it operates.
Corporate responsibility is monitored on an ongoing basis via the Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Committee.
The CSR Committee is comprised of a number of senior executives and is tasked with ensuring that the range of controls which JJB has in place to manage CSR risks are operating effectively and that responses to changes in current legislation are implemented in a timely manner.
Commitment JJB is committed to minimising any negative social impacts and wishes to be recognised as a leading corporate citizen within all areas of its operation.
The Company continues to be selected for inclusion in the FTSE4Good Index, launched in July 2001, which is designed to measure the performance of companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards, and to facilitate investment in those companies.
The FTSE4Good Index is used as a basis for the creation of socially responsible investment products.
JJB was also pleased to be included on the Business in the Community index of Corporate Responsibility as well as the Business in the Environment index of Corporate Environmental Engagement and the Kempen SNS Smaller Europe SRI index.
During 2005 JJB intends to place full details of its CSR programme on the London Stock Exchange Corporate Responsibility Exchange.
Inclusion within the indices referred to above will allow JJB to compare and assess how it integrates responsible business practices through its organisation with those of its peers, identifying opportunities for improvement, and also provide further demonstration to current and potential shareholders that JJB is compliant with best practice.
Guiding principles of corporate social responsibility JJB is fully committed to ensuring its business is conducted in a socially responsible manner and has developed a set of broad corporate responsibility principles which it follows and which will guide its future progress.
These principles relate to community relations, environmental issues and ethical labour standards.
24 Community relations JJB are pleased to continue to be associated with Macmillan Cancer Relief, one of our chosen charity partners.
Through the network of JJB values the relationships with both its customers and the wider communities within which it operates and will behave as a good fellow approximately 440 stores and Head office facilities, JJB has been involved in the sale of football badges to customers and staff, the citizen in all areas of activity.
proceeds of which are passed to Macmillan Cancer Relief.
JJB has raised approximately 82,000 during the accounting period ended 30 JJBs main contribution to the community is delivered via its business activities.
The Groups stores and health clubs play a vital role in January 2005.
This brings the total raised through JJB since the campaign began in 1999, to approximately 1.1 million.
satisfying the needs of its customers allowing the redistribution of wealth back into the community through the staff we employ and train.
The money raised has helped fund Macmillans increasing range of The Group is fully committed to ensuring that both the products and services it offers are delivered by way of focus upon the family and services, including the Macmillan nurses and doctors, new cancer care centres, the publication of a range of cancer information documents, always with value for money in mind.
As a further demonstration of the commitment to the community, JJBs indoor soccer centres are distributed through its information and support centres, together with direct financial help for those who need it most.
available to local schools, free of charge.
The Board recognises the need to extend the Groups people first philosophy beyond its business and deliver something tangible back Variety Club Childrens Charity The Variety Club Childrens Charity provides a wide range of support to into the community.
Its community programme provides support to nominated local and national charities and good causes including sick, disabled and disadvantaged children.
The money raised by the charity helps to build paediatric units, donate Sunshine Coaches to Macmillan Cancer Relief and the Variety Club Childrens Charity.
The Group also offers support to its employees who participate in chosen special schools and to take groups of children on fun packed days out: the Charity aims to make a real difference to childrens lives.
Sunshine Coaches is a charity that provides children with the Macmillan Cancer Relief opportunity to get out and about in order to enjoy local facilities and discover the world at large through excursions and educational visits.
Macmillan Cancer Relief is dedicated to helping people living with cancer.
They are working towards the day when everybody has equal These coaches are specially adapted for children with special needs and are donated to organisations which strive to improve the quality of and ready access to the best possible treatment and when care and unnecessary levels of fear are set aside.
life for young people, something with which JJB is proud to be associated.
In the UK, over a million people are living with cancer and four in ten Management and staff from JJBs Golf department, led by the Associate people will be diagnosed with cancer during their lifetime.
These figures are forecast to increase, and so will the demand for Macmillans Director of Equipment, Martin Wild, have organised charity golf tournaments for the last five years and the monies from the 2004 event services.
raised enough money to purchase 6 Sunshine Coaches to add to the 13 already purchased from the proceeds of earlier years events.
25 Corporate social responsibility report continued Environmental issues of detailed action plans with named senior executive ownership, together with objectives and targets against which relative progress is In striving to achieve business objectives, JJB must act responsibly in relation to the impact of its activities on the local community and on the to be monitored and reported upon.
Over the last four years, JJB has achieved the following: environment at large and JJB has accordingly incorporated an environmental management system within its overall risk management 2 CO emissions have been calculated using DEFRA guidelines and framework.
The Group recognises its responsibility to minimise are monitored to minimise atmospheric impact.
Improved distribution environmental impacts and through the effective management of methods have lead to a 20 per cent reduction in emissions: agreed action plans, expects to achieve this whilst delivering improved business performance.
JJB will continue to be involved with selected Energy consumption has risen by 12 per cent against a 22 per cent indices as described on page 24 of this Annual report, further increase in selling space and a 320 per cent increase in the number demonstrating the continuing commitment to be at the leading edge of of health clubs: current environmental issues.
The overall approach to environmental issues is incorporated within the core business management Improved packaging techniques have resulted in a 4 per cent processes, and is encapsulated within the following core principles: increase in waste generation compared to an increase in the volume of waste recycled of 25 per cent: and The reduction of adverse environmental impacts arising from the Groups activities and operations: Water consumption has increased by 92 per cent although there has been a 320 per cent increase in the number of health clubs, all of Ensuring effective and efficient use of materials and energy: which incorporate swimming pools.
Maintain a waste management system strategy which minimises Further details of progress made and future targets, can be found within waste arising and maximises waste recovery whilst ensuring, the Environmental Management section of the JJB website.
wherever possible, responsible disposal methods: Ensure compliance with relevant environmental laws, statutory Ethical labour standards obligations and codes of best practice: and As a responsible Corporate Citizen, JJB seeks to provide its customers with high quality value for money products, sourced from suppliers and Incorporate the principle of sustainable development through a manufacturers who can clearly demonstrate compliance with the systematic approach to environmental management in order to Groups own codes of practice as well as internationally accepted achieve continual improvement.
JJBs Code of Business Ethics, the Supplier Code of Practice and the Environmental actions Factory Code of Conduct, which are set out on the website JJB, assisted by a team of environmental and sustainability services www.
co. uk, have been accepted by JJBs principal suppliers and consultants, has performed a detailed assessment of its operational source manufacturers.
The Codes are based upon the internationally environmental impacts.
The most significant impacts are managed accepted principles of the Ethical Trading Initiative Base Code of Labour through an Environmental Management System EMS and the Board is Standards and the Model Code of Conduct devised by the World confident that the system provides the structure through which it Federation of the Sporting Goods Industry.
delivers its environmental policies across the Group.
The EMS consists 26 JJB cares about the labour standards within its global supply chain and raised with the employees immediate line manager or Head of expects its suppliers to demonstrate similar concerns.
In order to obtain Department.
However, it is recognised that this may be difficult in the assurance that the factories used by the Groups suppliers and source event of an issue being serious or of a sensitive nature, especially manufacturers comply with the Factory Code of Conduct and so where the Group has so many places of work.
To facilitate this contact, promote sustained improvement in factory working conditions, a factory JJB has introduced a Whistle Blowing policy which encourages inspection methodology has been rolled out with the assistance of a employees to report undesirable practices through either a nominated specialist consultancy and is performed by JJBs buyers when they senior member of staff or through its confidential and anonymous make visits to suppliers and source manufacturers factories.
In the case of concerns by customers, these would normally be raised through the Customer Service Department.
Workplace JJB has distributed comprehensive procedures and policies to all retail Within its workplace JJB applies the same level of commitment across stores through its Retail Operations Manual, a copy of which is also its stores, health clubs, Head office, Distribution centre and other available on the JJB intranet.
facilities, thereby ensuring a safe, challenging and rewarding work environment.
The Manual contains comprehensive guidance together with copies of policy documents which spell out JJBs stance on areas such as JJBs The Board recognises its responsibility for the maintenance of a safe Code of Business Ethics, Health and Safety and Equal Opportunities.
and healthy workplace and work environment for employees and others customers, contractors, visitors and the general public who may be All of JJBs endeavours and initiatives across the corporate affected by its work or undertakings.
The Company policy states that all responsibility spectrum are focused towards the provision of ethically employees have a duty to act responsibly and take reasonable care for produced, quality value for money products, through a safe and the health and safety at work of themselves, their colleagues and satisfied workforce in a way that benefits the communities within which customers.
Further responsibilities are placed upon senior management the Group operates.
and the Property Director is tasked with keeping the Board advised on occupational health and safety matters.
JJB is fully committed to the core principle of Equal Opportunity within the workplace and adheres to high standards of employment practice.
The Group has detailed employment policies which are applied in a fair manner so as to reward people fairly and provide appropriate levels of personal development and training within a safe and healthy workplace.
The Groups policies are designed to value the human rights of all employees, whether directly employed, sub-contracted or employed within the supply chain.
JJB is dedicated to the highest standards of openness, probity and accountability.
In line with that commitment, the Group encourages employees and others with serious concerns about any aspect of the Groups work to come forward and voice those concerns without fear of reprisals.
Normally any concern about a workplace situation would be 27
