Notes to the financial statements for the year to 31 December 2005 Accounting Policies Preparation of accounts Introduction Following the adoption of IAS Regulation EC 1606 2002 by the European Parliament, John Wood Group PLC is required to prepare consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards 'IFRS' for periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
The Group has applied IFRS for the year ended 31 December 2005, and has prepared 2004 comparative figures on the same basis.
The Group's date of transition to IFRS is 1 January 2004.
This report contains the consolidated financial results for these periods under the basis of preparation set out below.
To assist with the understanding of the impact of transition from United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 'UK GAAP' to IFRS, the Group has presented the reconciliations of UK GAAP to IFRS as required by IFRS 1 'First time adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards' for 1 January 2004 and 31 December 2004 in note 36.
Basis of preparation These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS and IFRIC interpretations endorsed by the European Union 'EU' and with those parts of the Companies Act, 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of financial assets and liabilities held for trading.
A summary of the more important Group accounting policies is set out below, together with an explanation of where changes have been made to previous policies on the adoption of new accounting standards in the year.
The preparation of financial statements requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amount of income and expenses during the year.
Although these estimates are based on management's best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those estimates.
Significant accounting policies The Group's key accounting policies adopted in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.
In respect of financial instruments, the Group's policy has been to adopt IAS 32 'Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation' and IAS 39 'Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement' from 1 January 2005.
Comparatives for 2004 have not been restated and, as permitted by IFRS 1, financial instruments are accounted for under UK GAAP in accordance with the accounting policies set out in the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2004.
If 2004 comparatives had been restated adjustments would be required to record the fair values of the financial instruments and the respective movements in the fair values during the year.
Transitional arrangements On transition to IFRS, an entity is generally required to apply IFRS retrospectively, except where an exemption is available under IFRS 1.
The following is a summary of the key elections from IFRS 1 that were made by the Group: The Group has elected to apply IFRS 3 'Business Combinations' prospectively from 1 January 2004.
The Group carried out an impairment test as at that date and no further impairment of goodwill was required.
As a result, the balance of goodwill under UK GAAP as at 31 December 2003 was carried forward as the carrying value of goodwill at 1 January 2004.
The Group has elected to reset the currency translation reserve to zero on transition to IFRS.
The Group has elected to apply IFRS 2 'Share-based payment' to all share option grants made after 7 November 2002, but which had not vested at 1 January 2005.
60 John Wood Group PLC Notes to the financial statements for the year to 31 December 2005 Basis of consolidation The Group financial statements are the result of the consolidation of the financial statements of the Group's subsidiary undertakings from the date of acquisition or up until the date of disposal as appropriate.
Subsidiaries are entities over which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies and generally accompanies a shareholding of more than one half of the voting rights.
The Group's interests in joint ventures are accounted for using proportional consolidation.
Under this method the group includes its share of each joint venture's income, expenses, assets, liabilities and cash flows on a line by line basis in the consolidated financial statements.
All Group companies apply the Groups' accounting policies and prepare financial statements to 31 December.
Functional currency The Group's earnings stream is primarily US dollars and the principal functional currency is the US dollar, being the most representative currency of the Group.
The Group's financial statements are therefore prepared in US dollars.
Foreign currencies Income statements of entities whose functional currency is not the US dollar are translated into US dollars at average rates of exchange for the period and assets and liabilities are translated into US dollars at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
Exchange differences arising on translation of net assets in such entities held at the beginning of the year, together with those differences resulting from the restatement of profits and losses from average to year end rates, are taken to the currency translation reserve.
Other exchange differences are taken directly to the income statement.
In each individual entity, transactions in overseas currencies are translated into the relevant functional currency at the exchange rates ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date.
Any exchange differences are taken to the income statement.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the exchange rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
The directors consider it appropriate to record sterling denominated equity share capital in the accounts of John Wood Group PLC at the exchange rate ruling on the date it was raised.
Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable.
Revenue is recognised only when it is probable that the economic benefits associated with a transaction will flow to the Group and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.
Revenue from services is recognised as the services are rendered, including where they are based on contractual rates per man hour in respect of multi-year service contracts.
Incentive performance revenues are recognised upon completion of agreed objectives.
Revenue from product sales is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the buyer, which is normally upon delivery of products and customer acceptance, if any.
Where revenue relates to a multi-element contract, then each element of the contract is accounted for separately.
Revenues are stated net of sales taxes and discounts.
Revenue on lump-sum contracts for services, or construction contracts, is recognised according to the stage of completion reached in the contract by reference to the value of work done.
An estimate of the profit attributable to work completed is recognised once the outcome of the contract can be estimated reliably.
Expected losses are recognised in full as soon as losses are probable.
The net amount of costs incurred to date plus recognised profits less the sum of recognised losses and progress billings is disclosed as trade receivables trade payables.
