Operating and Financial Review management system and the commitment of our staff.
There Corporate Social Responsibility are three key policy areas which provide the framework for the management of corporate social responsibility: the Johnson Matthey is committed to the continuing improvement Environment, Health and Safety policies: the Employment of corporate social responsibility CSR performance and to policies: and the Business Integrity and Ethics policy.
making a positive contribution to a sustainable future through In the US this year, a compliance committee of Johnson the excellence of its products, people and management Matthey Inc. has been formed to further the objectives of practices.
The company makes a significant contribution to Johnson Mattheys corporate social responsibility policy of sustainable development through the application of leading reducing the risks associated with potential breaches of technology and its commitment to operational excellence.
business integrity, ethics and other company policies and The companys reputation and the management of associated violation of applicable laws and regulations.
CSR risks is of paramount importance in protecting the interests of shareholders, employees, customers and the Johnson Matthey Products communities in which we have facilities.
Johnson Matthey operates according to well established Many of our products have a particularly positive social and ethical, social and environmental policies.
Over the last year a environmental benefit.
They range from anticancer compounds number of initiatives have been undertaken to improve our to our autocatalyst technologies, which improve air quality operational performance in these areas.
Details of these around the world.
In addition, our fuel cell technologies aim initiatives can be found in the Johnson Matthey corporate social to make a significant contribution to the clean generation of responsibility report and are presented here in summary.
electricity and security of energy supply.
In the management The full report can be found on the companys website at and control of emissions from heavy duty diesel HDD www.
vehicles such as trucks and buses, Johnson Matthey has The corporate social responsibility disclosure follows the developed a tool box of technologies.
These developments guidelines issued by the Association of British Insurers and the offer our customers a range of solutions to respond to the format recommended by the Global Reporting Initiative has new legislation coming into effect around the world from been used to guide the development of the report.
As October 2005, which requires major reductions in the outlined in the Corporate Governance section see page 40 emissions of both particulate matter and oxides of nitrogen the board has embedded corporate social responsibility into from HDD vehicles.
Johnson Mattheys emission control its risk management process.
Corporate social responsibility is technology for trucks and buses is described in further detail championed at the highest level at Johnson Matthey and the on pages 32 and 33. board has reviewed and endorsed the full report.
Product safety is critical to Johnson Matthey and Johnson Matthey has a culture of continuous improvement sophisticated systems are in place to ensure that a high level of in all aspects of performance.
In this area improvement is protection is afforded to our customers.
driven through corporate policies, a comprehensive Johnson Matthey 24 Whilst Johnson Mattheys main contribution to sustainable Central to this work was the adoption of progressive development will be through the excellence of our products policies to more closely meet the changing occupational health we also seek to achieve similar levels of excellence in the needs of a modern workforce.
As a result a new health management of the business and in the quality of our management strategy is being implemented across the group.
Our expertise in processing valuable This involves building on the strength of existing systems to precious metal materials provides us with a core competence protect employee health from workplace health hazards and in the conservation, re-use and recycling of natural resources, investing more in programmes to enhance the productivity and principles which are applied throughout our business.
A group EHS mental well-being policy has also been updated in recognition of this as an emerging risk factor, crucial to the welfare of employees and their contribution Stakeholder Engagement to successful business performance.
Johnson Matthey undertakes a wide range of engagement These policies are in the process of being communicated activities focused on communication with individuals and group wide.
The policies form the bedrock of the Johnson organisations who are impacted by its operations or who may Matthey EHS management system and provide the standards impact on the Johnson Matthey business, both at corporate against which all EHS audits are undertaken.
These include shareholders, fund managers, EHS compliance audits are an integral part of Johnson employees, customers, communities and national and Mattheys corporate EHS management system.
The company plays an active worldwide are included in the audit programme.
27 in-depth role within the Chemical Industries Association CIA with audits have been carried out in 2004 05.
Formal exit interviews representation on the CIA Council and other strategy boards.
with local site management are a feature of the audits.
Audit Johnson Matthey has also continued to play a lead role through reports are rated as routine, important and very important.
its participation in a number of trade associations and All important and very important reports are reviewed by the government bodies.
The company is also actively involved with Chief Executives Committee and appropriate follow up is national and local government to inform the development of taken on any outstanding issues.
Further site visits are made policy in other areas where Johnson Matthey technology and by the Group Occupational Physician on a routine basis.
products can play a pivotal role, for example, in improving air quality and facilitating the transition to a hydrogen economy.
ISO 14001 Over the past year continued progress has been made in the Environment, Health and Safety implementation of ISO 14001, in line with our target of achieving registration at all major manufacturing sites by 2010.
Johnson Matthey is firmly committed to managing its activities Across the group, 53% of our staff now work at sites with throughout the group so as to provide the highest level of ISO 14001 an increase of 8% on 2003 04, representing some protection to the environment and to safeguard the health and 4,127 people.
Over the past year the Environmental Catalysts safety of its employees, customers and the community.
and Technologies business successfully completed a programme The companys Environment, Health and Safety EHS to certify all its business units to ISO 14001 and all its policies provide the guiding principles that ensure high standards manufacturing sites to the international quality standard are achieved at all sites around the world and afford a means ISO TS 16949:2002.
This standard combines many aspects of promoting continuous improvement based on careful risk of quality, environmental, health and safety management under assessment and comprehensive EHS management systems.
one fully integrated management system.
These policies, summarised in the companys policy statement page 28 are reviewed at regular intervals.
This work has given Regulation greater emphasis to formal management systems, which bring New regulation continues to be introduced at a considerable a systematic improvement in performance.
Corporate policies pace, particularly in Europe.
provide a framework for all Johnson Matthey businesses to It is vital that the company continues to keep abreast formulate site specific policies to meet local requirements.
of the latest developments and that the implications for the During 2004 a comprehensive review of the group EHS business are fully understood.
Given the increasing legislative management system was undertaken which generated a complexity, a senior manager with specific responsibility for this number of policies and guidance on new environmental, health area was appointed during the year.
Over the last five years Chemicals is a current priority and the impact of the regulations some of the key indicators, such as energy consumption and and cost associated with implementation are under constant emissions to air, have risen.
This includes the incremental effects review.
Relationships are being formed with other companies in of a number of acquisitions during the period including Macfarlan the sector to ensure that the assessment and testing burden is Smith and Synetix.
Programmes are in place to ensure that all reduced to a minimum.
REACH will be implemented over a emissions and waste streams are minimised against a general protracted time period, 12 years, and the costs to Johnson background of business expansion.
Group performance over Matthey are estimated to be about 10 million over that period.
the last five years is shown in the graphs above.
Many Johnson Matthey products are below the proposed Johnson Matthey is committed to continuous improvement volume threshold or are outside the scope of the directive.
in all aspects of environmental, health and safety performance.
Johnson Matthey has participated in the Climate Change Over the past year Johnson Matthey has undertaken a number Agreements in the UK and the associated trading scheme, of initiatives to improve performance.
As with prior years this where carbon credits have been generated as a result of has included considerable investment in manufacturing processes energy savings made within the business.
The EU Emissions where the opportunity has been taken to reduce inherent Trading Scheme was introduced in January 2005 and allocations safety risks, provide improvements to planning of site health were made for three sites within Europe, one in the UK and and safety actions, improve resource efficiency and introduce two in Spain.
However, the UK site will remain within the UK the latest emission abatement technology.
trading scheme under the opt-out arrangements.
Accidents are actively monitored and detailed statistics are compiled monthly at a group level.
Our performance has Training shown an improvement over the past year with a reduction in Training is vital to ensuring continuous improvements in the incidence of greater than three day accidents from 9.22 to environment, health and safety at all our sites.
Over the past 6.39 per 1,000 employees per year.
During the same period year staff of all grades have received training from the wide there was a decrease in the number of days lost per 1,000 range of courses available, including courses on managing safely employees from 306 to 248. and site safety practices.
A feature of the current year has been A group wide review of health and safety practices was the emphasis placed on process hazard assessment training at completed during the year which examined ways to increase all levels in the business.
Our major sites employ environment, the rate of improvement in health and safety performance health and safety training specialists.
Expert external trainers across Johnson Matthey and reduce the incidence of dangerous supplement in house capabilities where necessary.
As a direct result of this review the Chief Executives Committee launched a new initiative to drive further improvements in health and safety performance.
This Environmental, Health and Safety Performance initiative has yielded positive results, further details of which are Johnson Matthey undertakes a comprehensive annual review available in the 2004 05 CSR report on the companys website of group environmental performance covering all manufacturing at www.
Johnson Matthey 26 Total Waste Annual Accident Rate per 1,000 Employees Tonnes waste 35 40,000 30 25 30,000 20 20,000 15 10 10,000 5 0 Mar 00 Mar 01 Mar 02 Mar 03 Mar 04 Mar 05 0 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 All accidents 3 Day accidents Johnson Matthey target The Group Occupational Physician visits Johnson Matthey referenced to health and safety performance during the year sites to evaluate the content, performance and standards of 2000 as a baseline for the group and required the following: health surveillance and management programmes, where Reduction in the incidence rate of major injuries by 5% by applicable.
All business units undertake an annual health management Reduction in the number of working days lost by 15% by review and set improvement targets.
Johnson Matthey ensures 2004 and by 30% by 2010. that all types of occupational illness conditions are identified, assessed, investigated and reported by each business unit with The groups performance has been well in advance of these prevention being the primary driver of performance.
The targets and the Chief Executives Committee has decided that collection and validation of reliable occupational health data working to these is no longer sufficiently challenging.
This across the business has been problematic in the past, as it is performance is clearly demonstrated on the graph above which not always possible to attribute some conditions solely to work shows the marked improvement over the last few years.
However measures have been taken to improve The philosophy is that any accident is unacceptable and the quality of data.
Currently the occupational health incident that seeking to achieve a zero accident rate should be our rate is 6.75 per 1,000 employees per year.
In improving performance a target of achieving a conditions associated with mental well-being.
group greater than three day accident rate below 5.00 per Johnson Matthey has continued to develop arrangements 1,000 employees per year by 2008 or earlier has been to support the prevention and management of the impact of adopted.
Achieving this medium term target will rely on close HIV infection on the workforce of the Germiston plant in South management control of all issues influencing health and safety.
A peer education programme has been implemented To ensure these targets are realised further initiatives have and confidential voluntary counselling and testing facilities are been put in place.
A fully updated version of the group EHS provided.
Subsidised treatment, managed through a private health management system is being issued to all sites.
During 2005 insurance scheme, is provided as a health benefit to all employees.
we will implement a new web-based accident and incident reporting system at all our major operating sites group wide.
This will assist local business units with the recording and Environmental, Health and Safety Targets collation of monthly statistics and provide a powerful tool in One of the key aims of Johnson Mattheys EHS policies is to the ongoing monitoring and management of health and safety demonstrate continuous improvement in EHS performance.
Safety improvement plans, generated last year, During the year and in prior years Johnson Matthey will be strengthened and broadened to include both health and adopted corporate health and safety targets in line with the UK environmental risk issues.
Additional multi-business seminars Health and Safety Executive HSE Revitalising Health and will be held on key risk issues.
Safety Initiative for the reduction of the incidence of major Setting corporate targets in the aggregate is extremely injuries and working days lost as a direct result of accidents difficult given the diversity of Johnson Mattheys business.
Performance against these targets was Annual Report and Accounts 2005 27 Operating and Financial Review In order to achieve these objectives we will: A more effective route is to recognise the individual characteristics of each business unit and require that targets are Provide leadership and commitment as an expression of set and achieved at this level.
Typical site targets are as follows: the importance that the board and the senior management team places on EHS issues.
Reduction in waste or emissions to air or water.
Ensure accountability by holding corporate management Reduction in energy or commodity use.
and senior executives within each operating division and Training of a certain number of employees on EHS issues.
business unit responsible for EHS performance.
Undertaking a certain number of inspection programmes.
Provide the financial and human resources to allow EHS Reviewing a target number of risk assessments and issues to be given an appropriate level of priority.
Provide good communication internally and externally and encourage employee involvement and cooperation at all Johnson Matthey seeks to comply fully with all environmental laws and regulations at all times and without exception.
The levels in the organisation in meeting EHS objectives.
company incurred one prosecution in 2004 resulting in a fine Ensure competence on EHS matters through education, of 7,500 following the accidental discharge of contaminated training and awareness at all levels in the organisation, water during decommissioning of the Meir site in the UK.
including creating an understanding of individual The company admitted liability and cooperated fully with the responsibilities for health, safety and the environment.
Undertake assessments to identify the risks to health, safety and the environment from company operations and Environment, Health and Safety Policy Statement ensure that appropriate control measures are implemented.
Johnson Matthey is firmly committed to managing its activities Ensure that new investments incorporate best practice throughout the group so as to protect the environment and and promote innovation through their design and safeguard the health and safety of its employees, customers and operation to eliminate or minimise risks to health, safety the community.
The companys Environment, Health and Safety policies Investigate incidents to identify the root cause and take have been widely disseminated and provide the guiding action to prevent recurrence.
principles necessary to ensure that high standards are achieved at all sites around the world.
They also afford a means of Promote programmes to achieve energy and resource promoting continuous improvement based on careful risk efficiency.
assessment and comprehensive EHS management systems, Set key corporate objectives and performance targets that against which sites are audited.
can be measured and assessed, reporting results in a This policy and its associated procedures are designed to meaningful and transparent way both internally and achieve the following corporate objectives: externally.
That all locations meet legal and group environment, Undertake regular EHS inspections and audits of health and safety requirements.
operations, and review performance, to ensure continuous That the manufacture and supply of products is improvement in EHS management.
undertaken so as to satisfy world class standards of health, The group EHS management system is reviewed regularly safety, environmental management and resource efficiency.
to ensure that it reflects international best practice and our That management systems are effective in maintaining growing understanding of the practical application of standards and fulfilling the challenge of securing continuous sustainable development.
improvement in environmental, health and safety performance.
Johnson Matthey 28 employment consistent with their capabilities.
The business Human Capital Management values the diversity of its people and employment applications Johnson Mattheys people are the groups most valuable are welcomed from all sections of the community including resource.
We are committed to recruiting high calibre minority groups.
employees and providing them with the information, training and working environment they need in order to perform at the Training and Development of People highest standards.
We encourage all our employees to develop Johnson Matthey recognises the importance of recruiting the to their maximum potential and we are committed to very highest calibre of employees, training them to achieve supporting them with effective human resources policies and challenging standards in the performance of their jobs, and practices that are strategically linked to the needs of our developing them to their maximum potential.
Our policy requires careful and regular reviews of organisation structure, succession planning and the Implementation of Johnson Matthey Human Resources Policies development of high potential people to meet our business goals.
The Management Development and Remuneration Johnson Matthey people policies are implemented through the Committee of the board takes a special interest in ensuring corporate human resources standards which set requirements compliance with the Training and Development of People for operations throughout the group to follow.
These standards Policy objectives to: are supported by detailed regional procedures and or business unit procedures.
Policies reflect both regional best practice and Ensure highest standards in the recruitment of employees.
Site specific human resources policies and Assess training needs in the light of job requirements.
procedures are communicated to staff at inductions and through staff handbooks.
Human resources policies and risks Ensure relevance of training and link with business goals.
are examined by the Chief Executives Committee.
Employ and evaluate effective and efficient training methods.
Promote from within, from high potential pools of talent.
Employment Policies Understand employees aspirations.
Equal Opportunities Provide development opportunities to meet employees It is the policy of the group to recruit, train and develop potential and aspirations.
employees who meet the requirements of the job, regardless of gender, ethnic origin, age, religion or sexual orientation.
Disabled people and employees who become disabled are offered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 29 Operating and Financial Review Total Employees by Region Total Employees by Division Gender by Region Employee Turnover by Region Average headcount for calendar year 2004 Average headcount for calendar year 2004 As at 31st December 2004 For calendar year 2004 % % Male % Female Voluntary Employee turnover employee due to restructuring, Rest of turnover divestment or retirement Corporate 100 14 World 228 603 Colours & Europe 1 Asia Coatings 12 678 4,264 1,457 80 10 60 8 Pharmaceutical Materials 608 6 40 4 Precious North America Metal Catalysts 20 2,013 Products 4,269 2 996 0 0 1 Europe North Asia Rest of Group Europe North Asia Rest of Group includes Pigments & Dispersions America World America World Johnson Matthey recognises the need to maintain its ability for meaningful consideration and resolution.
The group to recruit well qualified staff to support the development of whistleblowing procedures provide a route for issues and the business in new and emerging markets.
This challenge will concerns to be raised within the company.
Protection is be met through appropriate manpower planning, local ensured for employees making disclosures.
recruitment and the encouragement of international mobility.
The company supports employee share ownership and An increasing level of training and development activity within where practicable offers employees the opportunity to Asia is being established to reflect the growing importance of participate in share ownership plans which provide the facility this region to the business.
to purchase company shares with a company funded matching Johnson Matthey continues to have a steady requirement component.
Employees in eight countries worldwide are able for high calibre graduate recruits to meet immediate technical to contribute to a company share ownership plan or a 401k and commercial job needs and for development to meet approved savings investment plan.
Through these ownership future management requirements throughout the group.
The plans Johnson Matthey employees collectively held 1.6% of the combination of direct scientific contact with key university companys shares at 31st March 2005.
During the year the departments and a streamlined recruitment procedure ensures companys annual share matching contribution amounted to a reliable supply of high calibre applicants worldwide.
2.1% of profit before tax, exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
Johnson Matthey also sponsors pension plans for Employee Relations and Communication employees of its operations throughout the world.
These The quality of its employee relationships is a priority for Johnson pension plans are a mixture of defined benefit or defined Matthey.
The company has a low voluntary staff turnover 7.1% contribution pension arrangements, savings schemes and in the calendar year 2004 with many employees staying with provident funds designed to provide appropriate retirement the company for their whole careers.
benefits based on local laws, custom and market practice.
Johnson Matthey recognises the importance of effective employee communications and particularly the value of face Activities over the Last Year to face dialogue.
Information and comment is exchanged with There have been a number of key development initiatives at employees through the companys in house magazine, regular Johnson Matthey sites during the past year.
news bulletins, presentations to staff and team briefings.
Improvements to employee communications have focused Employees are also encouraged to access the companys on the use of site satisfaction and attitude surveys as a means intranet and website.
of strengthening and enhancing the dialogue with employees.
Over the last year there have been no disputes with A particular focus of these activities has been the further unions that have resulted in lost time.
Johnson Matthey has development of flexible working arrangements and the continued to work hard to maintain good and constructive promotion of employee wellness through lifestyle awareness, relations with all recognised trade unions.
health education and screening programmes.
Johnson Matthey facilities have established procedures through which employees can raise employment related issues Johnson Matthey 30 Social and Ethical Matters Supply Chains Management of the supply chain and contractor activities is Business Integrity and Ethics Policy Statement a core component of the group EHS management system.
A reputation for integrity has been a cornerstone of Johnson Whilst we are confident of the human rights performance of Mattheys business since Percival Norton Johnson founded it our own operations we recognise that business practices in the in 1817.
It gives customers the confidence that the companys supply chain are not always transparent and represent a risk products meet the standards claimed for them and that they that must be managed.
may safely entrust their own precious metals to Johnson Matthey Over the past year opportunities for integration of ethical for processing and safe keeping.
Employees at all levels are issues into supplier assessment have been examined through required to protect Johnson Mattheys reputation for integrity.
the procurement process and as a direct result of this the The company strives to maintain the highest standards of supplier assessment documentation within a number of ethical conduct and corporate responsibility worldwide through business units was revised to include ethical issues.
the application of the following principles: Compliance with national and international laws and Community Engagement Activities regulations is required as a minimum standard.
Johnson Matthey is actively involved in programmes worldwide Reputable business practices must be applied worldwide.
that promote good community relations to foster a relationship of understanding, trust and credibility.
Guidance on site Conflicts of interest must be declared and appropriate requirements is detailed in the group EHS management system.
arrangements made to ensure that those with a material An annual review of community engagement activities interest are not involved in the decision making process.
across the group has been carried out and shows that 98% Improper payments of any kind are prohibited, similarly no of all Johnson Matthey operations with over 50 employees gift whose value is material and which may be interpreted participate in activities within their local communities.
These as a form of inducement should be accepted or offered by activities are wide ranging and include charitable giving, support Johnson Matthey employees.
for educational projects, the advancement of science and Reporting of business performance should be undertaken economic regeneration projects.
Johnson Matthey employees in such a way that senior management is fully and properly also participate in activities or hold community related roles informed concerning the business true performance, risks outside of the work environment.
The company is supportive and opportunities in a timely manner.
of this broader community engagement, allowing employees time off during working hours as appropriate.
Ethical issues must be dealt with in an efficient and Over the next year, community engagement activity plans transparent manner.
at sites worldwide will be supported by further development A positive contribution to society as a whole, and specifically of group guidelines and their implementation, as well as sharing to the communities in which we operate, must be ensured.
A review of site community engagement activities will be conducted once again and we will focus on We must seek to influence our suppliers to operate to how best to measure and improve the impact of our similar high standards as ourselves.
We support the principles set out within the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and International Charitable Programmes Labour Organisation Core Conventions.
Johnson Mattheys long history of support for charitable causes All employees have a duty to follow the principles set out is matched today through programmes at both a group and a in this policy statement.
It is the responsibility of directors and business unit level.
The causes supported are aligned to issues senior management to ensure that all employees who directly to which the Johnson Matthey business makes a contribution or indirectly report to them are fully aware of Johnson and issues on which employees are passionate.
Mattheys policies and values in the conduct of the companys In 2004 05, Johnson Matthey supported 37 charitable businesses.
It is also the responsibility of directors and senior causes through its corporate annual donations programme.
management to lead by example and to demonstrate the These included support for organisations working in the areas highest standards of integrity in carrying out their duties on of arts and the environment, medical and health, science and behalf of the company.
These issues are further safeguarded education and social welfare.
67% of these corporate donations through corporate governance processes and monitoring by were in support of medical and health related causes.
A total the board and sub-committees of the board.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 31 Operating and Financial Review of 21 additional charitable causes received one-off donations impact on the environment.
In Europe, emission standards for through the corporate programme during the year.
The light duty diesel vehicles have been met by the use of diesel company has a long association with the Royal London Society oxidation catalysts DOCs since the mid 1990s which convert for the Blind, dating back to 1838 and continues to provide harmful unburned hydrocarbons HC and carbon monoxide substantial support.
CO to carbon dioxide and water.
DOCs also help to reduce In the UK, Johnson Matthey continues to operate its annual particulate emissions by trapping and destroying some Charity of the Year programme and employee views are particulate on the surface of the catalyst.
However, there is considered when deciding on the charity.
Help the Hospices was growing interest in the use of catalysed soot filters CSFs to chosen as our charity of the year for 2004 05 and further effectively remove particulates from light duty diesel engines.
details on the partnership are available in the CSR report.
This technology has already been adopted by leading vehicle Johnson Matthey sites around the world also lend support to manufacturers and is likely to be needed to meet future many other charities locally and nationally through donations, emissions standards.
employee time or loans of company facilities.
In response to the Asian Tsunami disaster, Johnson Matthey Benchmark Technology has matched donations made by its employees worldwide in While national HDD emissions standards have thus far not support of appeals for aid in the immediate aftermath of the required the fitting of catalysts to trucks and buses, there has disaster.
Under this programme the company matched 35,000 been a growing retrofit market around the world.
This has in donations given by its employees, thus resulting in a resulted from local governments, city or regional authorities combined total of 70,000.
Johnson Matthey has also pledged requiring vehicles operating in city centres to meet tougher US$100,000 to go towards a specific reconstruction project in emission standards than those that apply nationally.
These local the affected area and is in consultation at present with major regulations have tended to focus mainly on PM emissions as charities and contacts in the region to identify a project where these are very visible as black smoke and there is growing our donation can do the most good.
evidence of a correlation between particulate levels in the air In the financial year to 31st March 2005 Johnson Matthey and deaths from respiratory illnesses.
Johnson Mattheys donated 349,000 to charitable organisations.
This figure only Continuously Regenerating Trap CRT technology has been includes donations made by Johnson Matthey and does not very successful in these retrofit programmes around the world include payroll giving, donations made by staff or employee time.
and has emerged as the benchmark technology for control of HC, CO and PM emissions from HDD vehicles.
Verication The success of the CRT has resulted in the generation The board and Audit Committee review CSR issues as part of of millions of hours of operating data on a wide variety of the companys risk management processes.
A review of site HDD engines.
This places Johnson Matthey in a very strong based environment, health and safety reporting systems forms position to help the HDD original equipment manufacturers to part of the group environmental, health and safety audit meet the much tougher emissions standards coming into effect programme.
The board believes that the measures taken to over the next few years.
review the CSR information provide a suitable level of confidence without external audit.
Johnson Matthey utilises The Johnson Matthey Tool Box external specialists where specific CSR issues are identified.
Control of NOx emissions from diesel engines presents some formidable challenges as diesel exhaust contains a great deal of Case Study oxygen and is thus a strongly oxidising atmosphere.
While this is suited to dealing with HC and CO emissions and burning off Cleaning Up Heavy Duty Diesels Leading Emission Control the soot particles that are trapped in filter systems such as the Technology for Trucks and Buses CRT, the removal of NOx, however, requires a reducing Diesel engines have long been dominant in heavy duty vehicle atmosphere one containing very little oxygen.
They are extremely fuel efficient and thus offer achieve the reduction of all four regulated pollutants from a major improvements in fuel economy over their petrol HDD vehicle HC, CO, PM and NOx it is necessary to use equivalents.
Diesels are also incredibly durable, a major highly sophisticated systems.
There is no one solution to fit all advantage for vehicles that often travel hundreds of thousands applications, yet Johnson Matthey has a full tool box of HDD of miles in a year.
emission control technologies which will enable customers to There is, however, growing awareness worldwide of the meet continuously tightening standards, whichever approach adverse effects of diesel exhaust emissions, especially the they choose.
particulates they contain, on human health as well as their Johnson Matthey 32 As legislation continues to tighten in markets where the As outlined on page 7, it is possible to tackle NOx authorities would prefer a fit and forget solution to high emissions using engine modifications including exhaust gas performance NOx control, one that does not require the recirculation EGR, where some of the exhaust is cooled and vehicle operator to fill a separate additive tank, the use of NOx fed back into the engine to lower the engine temperature and adsorber catalysts is an attractive solution.
These are very clever reduce the formation of NOx.
No catalysts are involved in EGR catalysts, originally developed for use on gasoline direct injection technology.
The use of EGR has an impact on fuel economy, and other lean burn engines, that adsorb NOx on their surface something that is critical to the economics of operating fleets under normal diesel operating conditions and reduce that of trucks and buses and it can also increase the formation of stored NOx to N when a reducing agent, this time diesel fuel, particulates.
As legislation tightens, EGR can be used in 2 is injected into the exhaust.
This can be used in combination combination with DOC or CRT technology in order to meet with a particulate trap such as a catalysed CRT CCRT to the standards.
Johnson Mattheys combination of EGR and the achieve greater than 90% conversion of CO, HC, PM and NOx CRT is known as EGRT.
This technology will reduce CO, without the need for a separate tank of reducing agent and the HC and PM emissions by over 90% and NOx emissions by additional costs and operator action that this requires.
With leading technology in this area, Johnson Matthey is Another proven way to tackle NOx emissions is the use very well positioned to benefit from the substantial new of selective catalytic reduction SCR.
This has been used for market for HDD emission control catalysts that will develop many years to reduce NOx emissions from stationary sources over the next few years as a result of the continuously such as large generators.
SCR uses catalysts to reduce NOx to tightening legislation controlling the emissions of these vehicles.
nitrogen N where a reducing agent typically ammonia in 2 the form of urea is injected into the exhaust.
A small catalyst is placed after the SCR catalyst to clean up any of the reducing agent that passes through.
The use of SCR rather than EGR to control NOx on a HDD vehicle can result in more than 4% better fuel economy, a big benefit for fleet operators.
However it requires the addition of an extra tank and dosing system for the reducing agent which adds cost and also requires the driver to fill up the urea tank.
SCR can be used to control NOx emissions from HDD engines on its own but as legislation gets tighter it can be used in combination with the CRT to achieve greater than 90% reductions in all four pollutants.
This system, which is illustrated on the front cover, is called SCRT and Johnson Matthey has demonstrated its effectiveness on a US long distance truck that has covered 125,000 kilometres with no loss of conversion efficiency.
