Corporate Social Responsibility Business Ethics the responsibility of all managers within recruitment of disabled persons.
Where The Board of Johnston Press has made the Group, responsibility for formulating, disabled persons are employed, their a clear commitment to operating all of updating and ensuring adherence to training, including training for alternative the Group's business activities to the Group policies and relevant legislation has work of employees that become highest standards of business ethics and been delegated to the Director of Human disabled, and development for integrity.
These principles are not only Resources who is responsible to the Chief promotion are encouraged and assisted.
contained in the Group's Corporate Operating Officer.
Expert advice is taken on the needs of Social Responsibility Statement but it is disabled employees and special also policy to include them in Each local Managing Director has equipment is provided where employment contracts.
responsibility within their operation for appropriate.
relationships with customers, suppliers and The code of ethics specifically requires the community.
These relationships are Following the project undertaken in 2004 adherence to all legal requirements.
It subject to review by the Chief Operating to determine what work was required to has a clear policy and procedure for Officer who is responsible to the Chief ensure modification, removal, avoidance addressing issues such as bribery, Executive Officer.
Certain materials and or circumvention of potential barriers to corruption, conflicts of interest, services are sourced centrally such as access for disabled customers, the espionage and giving and receiving gifts.
newsprint and legal services and these Group has implemented changes where The Group opposes all forms of arrangements are subject to review by required and monitors this through oppression and discrimination.
It is a either the Chief Operating Officer, Chief ongoing access audits.
These changes supporter of all human rights.
Executive Officer or the Chief Financial cover customers who wish to interact Officer, depending on the nature of the with our businesses either in person or An acceptable use policy has been supply.
Our training courses for front developed for all of the company's assets counter staff have also been updated so including, but not restricted to, computer The Board formally reviews the Corporate that all our customer facing employees equipment, email facilities and use of the Social Responsibility policy at each can deal with disabled readers or Internet.
This policy is required to be January meeting and considers updates advertisers in an appropriate manner.
throughout the year as appropriate.
The Group has also formulated a Disability Access policy which has been The Group has the absolute objective of Employee Involvement added to our policy and procedures always acting as a fair and reasonable It is the policy of the Group to encourage manual.
We also acknowledge and are and develop all members of staff to keenly aware of our responsibilities to realise their maximum potential.
The The Group is committed to a the many communities we serve, our Group's policy is that, wherever possible, comprehensive training and development readers, customers, suppliers, job vacancies are advertised on the programme, creating the opportunity for shareholders, and to the environment.
Group intranet and internal notice boards employees to maintain and improve their Because of our key role in the so that we maximise the number of performance and to develop their community, a separate section is positions filled from within the Group and potential to a maximum level of incorporated within this report detailing create adequate opportunities for attainment.
This includes a senior some of the many community orientated internal promotion.
management development programme activities in which the Group's to identify and coach individuals who companies are involved.
The Group supports the principle of may have the potential to lead the future equal opportunities in employment and direction of the Group.
To ensure that the Board Responsibility opposes all forms of unlawful or unfair business is not constrained in the future The Board has delegated the day-to-day discrimination on the grounds of race, by lack of talent we succession plan at responsibility for all matters related to age, nationality, religion, ethnic or Group and Company level and recruit Corporate Social Responsibility and social national origin, sexual orientation, gender Management Graduates from UK issues to the Executive Directors.
They or gender reassignment, marital status or universities annually via our Graduate are assisted by the Company Secretary disability.
The Ethical Code of Conduct Recruitment Programme.
Coupled with who is generally the first point of contact incorporated in all new employment the extensive range of skill base and for any issues of this nature.
To assist training provided by the company, these people from deprived or ethnic initiatives are aimed at enabling staff to Specific responsibility for environmental backgrounds to undertake training in make their best possible contribution to issues has been delegated to the Chief journalism, the Group has a bursary the organisation's success.
In 2005 the number of training days Whilst recognising that the practices of It is also the policy of the Group to give arranged for employees totalled 10,700. recruitment, employment and training are full and fair consideration to the Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 37 Corporate Social Responsibility continued In 2004, the Group introduced defined The Hemel Express used its website unionist community in a year which has people values which emphasised open, named by the Newspaper Society as seen IRA decommissioning and the straightforward communication, integrity, weekly newspaper website of the year dismantling of the security structure a continued success and the importance for the second consecutive year - to factor that resulted in it being one of only of recognising every employee's break the first news early on a Sunday of four newspapers of its type to grow contribution.
In addition, employee the massive Buncefield oil storage depot circulation in the January-June period.
forums operate at each centre.
explosion and then carried graphic One of the major stories it covered was pictures and reports in the paper as well the funeral of football legend George The management of employee turnover, as providing real time updates on its Best.
in an industry which is seen as a training website, Hemel Today.
ground for many others, is very It has also been a busy year for the important and in 2005 there were There was a Royal scoop for the St headline writers.
Snatch of the Day was improvements in all areas: Editorial Andrews Citizen when Prince Charles the headline over an exclusive carried by 10.7% 2004 13.0%, Advertising 29.9% spoke to the paper during a walkabout the Crawley Observer about a man 2004 30.5%, Other 12.2% 2004 after Prince Williams graduation from detained by police on the pitch playing 12.3% and in total 17.1% 2004 18.2%.
He thanked people for giving football and having just scored two his son space during his time in the goals.
Fiddler on the Roof was the line Group personnel policies are designed to town.
News of Chancellor Gordon over an exclusive Lancaster Guardian ensure that all employees are made Browns financial support to help save story about a builder caught on CCTV aware on a regular basis of the Group's Raith Rovers was broken by the Fife Free mending a roof despite having claimed policies, programmes and progress.
Press which has been backing the 26,000 in disability benefits.
Extensive use is made of the Group soccer clubs campaign.
Details of the intranet and notice boards with an first gay marriage a civil service in The Freedom of Information Act has been Employee Report being published to Scotland was broken by the used widely by our journalists to unearth a coincide with the publication of the Glenrothes Gazette.
One about CJD was Annual Report and Accounts.
The reported in the Armthorpe Community Company operates a number of share Coverage of troubled soccer star Paul Newsletter, proving that even small schemes as outlined in the Directors' Gascoignes brief return to football newsletter publications can beat the big Remuneration Report on pages 43 to 49. managing non-league Kettering Town boys to stories.
On a lighter note, the was led by the Northants Evening Sheffield Star used the Act to find out how Community Involvement Telegraph.
Not only did the paper break many police officers caught by speed Readers rely on local newspapers being the story of his arrival, it had an cameras had been prosecuted.
The at the heart of their communities - exclusive interview with him on his answer came back none!
breaking major stories, campaigning on sacking 39 days later.
a wide variety of issues and The diverse nature of our communities is spearheading fund-raising initiatives.
The Sunderland Echos tireless efforts to recognised by editors.
The Lancashire Johnston Press titles - together with their find the man who sent the Yorkshire Evening Post ran a series entitled the websites - are at the heart of local Ripper hoax tapes ended in international True Colours of Islam featuring a series affairs, representing the interests of their acclaim when someone was finally of articles by community leaders.
In local communities and acting as a arrested.
The hunt for Wearside Jack Peterborough, the Evening Telegraph catalyst for hundreds of charity campaign had begun in 2000. launched a Pakistan Quake Appeal campaigns.
backed by the citys large Muslim TV, radio and national newspapers also community.
Similarly in Northampton, the Major stories uncovered by group titles followed up the Mansfield Chad story Chronicle and Echo raised 28,000 to included a number related to the London about the police officer who smashed help the relatives of families in the town bombings.
The Bucks Herald kept local the national record for arrests during a caught up in Kashmir by the earthquake.
people up-to-date with details of the year 309 in just ten months.
London bomber who lived in Aylesbury.
Putting a true figure on the amount of In Leeds, Evening Post journalists were The story of a couple offering their home money charities gain as a result of first on the scene as anti-terrorist police as a raffle prize first appeared in the stories in group papers highlighting good swooped in the hunt for the London Fenland Citizen as did the one in the deeds is an impossible task, although it bombers.
The Dewsbury Reporter had a Northampton Chronicle and Echo about is undoubtedly considerable.
Some of world exclusive picture of the wife and a vicar jailed for refusing to pay his the campaigns are for charities close to mother-in-law of one of the bombers community tax.
home others for good causes after a diligent search through the overseas.
Yorkshire Post readers raised papers archives to find the photograph.
The Belfast News Letter has been at the nearly 140,000 for UNICEF following forefront of setting the agenda in the the tsunami and another 16,000 to help 38 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 victims of the Pakistan earthquake.
The Shoebox Christmas appeal to send The Northants Evening Telegraph also paper is also backing a 30m restoration presents to children in Romania.
The got the backing of the Prime Minister for plan for York Minster.
The Buckingham Falkirk Herald searched for bone marrow a campaign to change the driving laws Advertiser raised 25,000 and Wakefield donors to help a two-year-old with a rare after the death of a teenager.
Express readers donated 20,000 to genetic disorder and a Shields Gazette help rebuild homes in remote areas of Sri story about a five year old with a serious The Halifax Courier launched Pride in Lanka devastated by the tsunami.
Similar skin allergy resulted in more than Calderdale encouraging citizenship and support has been given by the Sheffield 10,000 being raised in ten days.
There celebrating the good things about the Star and the Grantham Journal used a was a successful conclusion to a area.
A similar scheme is being run in 12-page sponsored supplement to help Morecambe Visitor appeal to raise Northamptonshire by our two evening raise 25,000.
The Northants Evening 250,000 for a new seafront building for titles.
In Portsmouth, the News Telegraph raised 25,000 and the the towns RNLI rescue hovercraft.
The celebrated the fifth anniversary of its We Crawley Observer 20,000.
A ten-yearpaper was honoured as RNLI Supporter Can Do It awards with a ceremony old Chernobyl victim can see for the first of the Year at a national ceremony.
The hosted by TV personality Esther Rantzen.
time after an eye operation paid for by Lynn News is also helping the rescue Since its launch there have been 1,600 readers of the Portsmouth News.
services with a 60,000 appeal to light a nominations for unsung heroes.
The Suffolk Free Press Many of our titles adopt charities and campaigned for funds for a new More than 1,500 have backed a support them for a year the Mansfield hydrotherapy pool at a special school Scarborough Evening News petition to Chad backing a community fundraising and Bury Free Press readers are buying save a historic seafront theatre and the group and the Worksop Guardian a defibrillators to place around the town to Wigan and Leigh Reporters launched a hospice - being two of them.
The Clitheroe provide early aid to anyone suffering community drugs initiative.
Advertiser and Times is campaigning to cardiac arrest.
A joint venture between raise 700,000 towards the restoration of the Worthing Herald and a local branch In Blackpool the UKs stag and hen the towns Norman castle.
of a bank resulted in one school landing night capital the Gazette has a 5,000 reward.
campaigned over licensing laws to Many of our titles have run campaigns ensure the resort stays as trouble free as supporting and enhancing health Campaigns are the lifeblood of local possible.
The paper has also urged a facilities.
The Hemel Express is heading newspapers.
stand against troublemakers who abuse a 2.5m appeal for a hospice, the emergency and community workers after Yorkshire Evening Post presented more The Stamford Mercury, Berwickshire highlighting how 999 crews had been than 170,000 to two hospices and the News, Grantham Journal, Kirkintilloch spat at, sworn at or assaulted.
Lancashire Evening Post, chasing a total Herald, Nelson Leader, Skegness of 200,000, has raised 171,500 in ten Standard, Newmarket Journal, Diss Gridlock Sheffield has seen the Star months.
The nearby Burnley Express Express, Sussex County Times and campaigning to alleviate road congestion raised more than 60,000 for a hospice.
Burnley Express all campaigned to keep and the Worksop Guardian has taken the The Chorley and Leyland Guardian local hospital facilities open.
Plans to cut local council to task for running down readers inspired by the story of the an out of hours doctors surgery were leisure facilities.
The Peterborough death of a 24-year-old from cancer defeated after a Ripon Gazette campaign Evening Telegraph is campaigning to raised 27,000.
And the Sussex Express and a petition organised by the reduce crime.
set out to raise 35,000 for a cancer and Harrogate Advertiser stopped plans to leukaemia childrens charity but ended reduce night-time fire cover in the town.
The Luton Herald and Post backed a up with 41,000.
The Coleraine Times is charity wristband campaign and the at the centre of a 32,000 bid to send a Home Secretary Charles Clarke bowed Derry Journal has been at the forefront boy with a rare brain tumour to America to pressure from the Yorkshire Evening of a number of campaigns including a for pioneering surgery.
A mini bus for Post to confirm that Yorkshire Ripper Children of Courage awards scheme.
handicapped children was provided Peter Sutcliffe would never be released thanks to a Cumbernauld News from detention.
Sister title, The Yorkshire Many of our titles run similar community campaign and 25 community groups Post, highlighted the scandal of websites awards highlighting good deeds as well shared 10,000 thanks to a Hartlepool which encourage vulnerable young as sports awards - honouring Mail campaign.
More than 60 groups people to kill themselves after a case achievements in the sporting arena.
shared in 10,000 raised by the Melton involving a local girl forcing the Among the people honoured in the Times and a sponsored walk backed by Government to look at what action can Yorkshire Evening Post sports awards the Spalding Guardian raised 13,500 be taken over similar sites.
A similar was Betty Chadderton, the county shared between 40 charities.
Our campaign run by the Lancashire Evening cricket club scorer for the past 55 years.
newspapers in Lincolnshire got together Post drew support from Prime Minister to act as collection points for the Rotary Tony Blair.
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 39 Corporate Social Responsibility continued An important aspect of editing a Observer has been nominated for a civic Environmental Policy newspaper is to receive feedback from award from the local council in The Group acknowledges that the readers.
Customer care schemes recognition of his high quality coverage protection of the environment is one of seeking feedback from readers about of local affairs for more than 30 years.
We aim specific stories are in operation at a to comply with all relevant regulations number of centres including Sunderland, And finally it was cheers to the and see the identification, management Falkirk and Banbury and reader forums Biggleswade Chronicle which marked its and control of environmental risks as like the one in Harrogate provide 6,000th edition by having a special being an implicit requirement for feedback on content, design and style.
adherence to the Corporate Governance Combined Code.
The Sheffield Star got praise of a Besides the cash donations reported on different kind after a councillor stood up page 50 and the support given noted Back in 2002 a scoring methodology and at a meeting and told colleagues that if above, the Group has run fundraising audit programme was developed by they wanted to find out what was going campaigns which have raised over independent environmental risk on in the town hall they should read the 3.2m in 2005.
In addition, free space to consultants to facilitate the ongoing paper.
promote these and other campaigns has monitoring and control of our policies been provided and this has averaged 18 and procedures.
Extensive training was Our titles and staff received a number of pages per week across our titles.
carried out and a rolling programme of awards during the year for a range of internal audits of environmental impacts advertising and editorial achievements.
Customer Services and risks was introduced.
Additionally The highlights included the Blackpool It is Group policy to provide the highest audits by external independent Gazette winning the UK Publishing standard of service to all of our consultants have continued in order to Centre of the Year award in the customers.
Each operating company has verify the findings of these internal Newspaper Society awards, the staff appointed to respond to all reviews.
Detailed reports are produced Lancashire Evening Post being named customer enquiries.
There are strict after each visit and the implementation Community Newspaper of the Year and procedures for resolving customer of all recommendations is monitored by the Worksop Guardian becoming the complaints or queries regarding service management.
fastest growing weekly of its size.
The and these are carefully monitored by Southern Reporter was named paid-for management.
The Group continues to benefit from its weekly newspaper of the year in investment in more energy efficient Scotland for the fourth year running.
On Local management in each operation are equipment as well as the time and effort an individual level, Simon Hulme of the responsible for ensuring that their put into the monitoring and control of Yorkshire Post was Photographer of the companies and all their employees comply energy consumption.
The equipment Year and Gemma Marriner of the Whitley with the requirements of all customer and introduced for this control has enabled Bay News Guardian and News Post competition related legislation.
It is Group the Group to continue to benefit from Leader best weekly free newspaper policy that the interests of Johnston Press rebates against the Climate Change Levy photographer.
only ever require strict compliance and no Tax.
External consultants are used to one in the Group has authority to give any monitor and further facilitate a more The Yorkshire Evening Post was named order or direction that would result in a efficient use of energy.
Commission for Racial Equality Local violation of this policy.
To monitor this and Newspaper of the Year.
Trainee Luton for training purposes, the Group On a full year basis the Group's power journalist Catherine Lofthouse won two undertakes mystery shopping exercises.
costs decreased by 0.6% despite price of the four national prizes for outstanding The Group Sales Charter introduced in increases from energy suppliers.
In terms papers in the twice yearly NCE, the 2004 has become enshrined in our of energy consumption, both electricity journalism qualifications exams, and operations to ensure that our customers and gas showed significant decreases Nick Owens of the Lancashire Evening and advertisers are always dealt with in a over 2004.
Post was named Press Gazette UK fair and equitable manner and the terms of Young Journalist of the Year.
Peter trade are published in the Group's Horner, News Editor of the Chichester newspapers.
40 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 As can be seen from the table 1 below, volume throughput the print centres have increasing by 13 vehicles the CO2 rating the Group made continued reductions in seen a 11.9% reduction.
Gas of the fleet decreased slightly and the the consumption per tonne of throughput consumption in the same period is down average vehicle rating showed a decrease at our print centres which further by 13.4% and adjusted for volume of 2.2%.
The total reduction in the average demonstrates the improved efficiency of throughput the print centres have rating since 2003 is now 3.9%.
Budgets for 2006 have been set to encompass a The Group also has a rolling programme Good decreases in water consumption further 1% reduction in consumption.
of independent audit visits covering were made both on an absolute and on a property and health and safety risks.
Following on from 2004 when we These visits are targeted on the locations undertook the first review of our motors which have the highest risk profile along The Group continues to make excellent fleet, progress has continued to be made in with a sample of other sites.
Detailed progress in achieving the target set out 2005.
The details of which are set out in reports and recommendations are in its Energy Management Policy, which table 2 below.
produced after each visit which require was adopted in 2003, for a 7% reduction follow up and implementation by local in consumption over the period to 2010.
The decrease in the fleet on a like-for-like management.
This process is monitored In fact, electricity consumption since basis was mainly due to reduced by the Group Management Board.
2002 is down by 4.3% and adjusted for headcount.
The Group employs All categories of waste are measured As part of its ongoing commitment, as an industry recognised recycler to handle and monitored and systems are in agreed with the Government, the industry, process waste and all non-paper waste operation, including an independent through the Newspaper Society, has is handled through them.
This has been audit, to ensure that all waste is correctly continued to raise the target for the a very successful operation disposed of.
Initiatives to reduce waste recycled content of newsprint used in the encompassing safe removal of waste production gained pace this year.
On-site production of UK newspapers.
Against a with a transparent audit trail and an ISO chemistry re-cycling has been installed target of 65%, the actual figure achieved 14001 accreditation.
In 2005 the at the new press facility in Dinnington in was 75.5%, already well ahead of the partnership has allowed the Group to order to dramatically reduce waste target of 70% set for 2006.
This will be ensure compliance with the recent solvent removal.
New mailroom helped by the new fide-inking and changes to Hazardous waste regulations.
investment across the group allowed the recycling facility at UPM's Shotton Mill move away from plastic packaging in North Wales.
In addition, the paper-based waste is materials which were sent to landfill to now removed and recycled through a recyclable fibre packaging.
Newspapers cannot be recycled Group-wide arrangement with one of our indefinitely due to the process requiring major newsprint suppliers.
Companies Shareholders some virgin fibre to maintain paper with no printing facilities are only Members of the Board Executive and strength.
All virgin fibre comes from required to account for any packaging Non-Executive have met a number of renewable managed softwood coniferous done prior to delivery to the customer.
shareholders during the past year to forests, which themselves are carefully discuss Corporate Social Responsibility monitored and certified.
The Group is committed to ensuring matters and to address any questions that its recycled newsprint goes into raised by them.
Waste the production of new newsprint and The Group adheres to the requirements random audits confirm this position.
of the Producer Responsibility Obligations Packaging Waste 42 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
