Corporate social responsibility Kingston Communications HULL PLC Annual Report 2004-05 We aim to achieve our business objectives in a caring and responsible manner, recognising the economic, social and environmental impact of our activities.
Corporate Social Responsibility We have completed a Group-wide Environmental We have focused on Occupational Health during We aim to achieve our business objectives in Impact Review and, although our environmental the year with the development of new policies on a caring and responsible manner, recognising the impact is low, we have begun an Environmental Substance Misuse and Work Life Balance.
We plan economic, social and environmental impact of our Improvement Programme.
This is designed to embed to further expand our Occupational Health services activities.
We are committed to Corporate Social environmental management techniques and during the coming year.
We believe this not only serves processes throughout all of our businesses.
the interests of society but also helps to make us Particular success has been achieved in relation There were no work-related fatalities during the more competitive.
This year we established a CSR to our recycling initiatives.
Notifiable accidents have reduced from 11 Steering Group, developed a formal CSR Policy 43,055 kg of paper, 24,965 kg of waste electrical to six.
Working days lost as a result have declined endorsed by the Board and are currently developing electronic equipment and 23,560 kg of cabling.
There were no health and action plans, against which compliance will be safety enforcement notices served on the Company monitored.
The Steering Group reports to the Following collaboration with the Carbon Trust, during the year, nor were there any prosecutions Board quarterly.
we have identified a number of target areas for for health and safety offences.
the reduction of energy use in the coming year.
The Company has been approved by the Good An energy switch off campaign is being Community Relations Corporation and is included in the FTSE 4 Good implemented with estimated annual savings of We are committed to supporting the communities in Index.
We have recently subscribed to the Corporate 60,000.
As these savings are realised we will be which we operate through sponsorship of individuals Responsibility Exchange developed by the London contributing to a forest replanting programme.
and organisations, membership of business Stock Exchange.
We anticipate that this will help organisations, involvement in community projects us to monitor and report on our CSR and Corporate Progress towards a Group-wide Environmental and support for national charities.
Management System has been significant and we expect to achieve compliance with ISO14001 As part of our Centenary celebrations in 2004 The information given in this report, and compliance by early 2006. we launched our Acts of Goodwill programme, with the various policies, is audited by the in-house designed to contribute to local communities by Quality & Business Improvement Team, and is There were no prosecutions for any environmental supporting employees in charitable activities they expected to become a standard Internal Audit offences nor were any environment-related identified.
Since it was launched, we have supported item in the future.
enforcement notices served on the Company.
schools, amateur sports teams and local, regional and national charities by giving staff access to Our employees are encouraged to refer to our Health & Safety company resources, fundraising assistance and CSR, Environmental, Health & Safety, Ethics, Development of a proactive health and safety culture time off to undertake voluntary work.
Whistleblowers and Community Relations policies, has continued.
A revised Health & Safety Policy has which are available on our intranet site to all staff.
formed an integral part of staff training to make Our continued sponsorship of the Kingston sure it is understood, embraced and implemented Communications Stadium in Hull provides a valuable Environmental at all levels.
contribution to the development of sporting and As in previous years, the Companys activities are educational facilities in the area.
Our partnership not expected to give rise to any significant inherent Key individuals have undertake an Advanced Health with Kingswood High School in Hull, through which environmental risks over the next 12 months.
& Safety qualification and have achieved a higher we facilitate interactive learning for pupils, has than average pass rate.
Our Group-wide risk been extended to incorporate e-mentoring of assessment programme continues, with training pupils by employees.
provided for 30 new risk assessors.
12 1 2 Staff Welfare Ethics We are committed to high standards of employment As a provider of telecommunications connectivity, practice and aim to be recognised as the employer we are conscious of our responsibility to ensure, of choice.
We continue to reward people fairly where we can exercise control, that content and and to encourage personal development and service providers observe acceptable standards.
We also recognise the need to consider We insist upon compliance with the Independent all of our employees as partners within the business Television Commission Ofcom programme code and continue to ensure that all of our employment and the rules of the Independent Committee for policies and strategies enable us to carry out our Supervision of Telecommunications Information business with integrity and enhance the quality Services.
Our Karoo internet customers have been of our working environment.
Employment policies offered a free spam filtering service allowing them are designed to provide equal opportunities to control emails they may find offensive or intrusive.
irrespective of colour, ethnic or national origin, nationality, sex, religion, marital or disabled status.
We have a formal Ethics Policy confirming our 1.
Affiniti, our national  to a culture of openness, trust and The training and development of employees is integrity, and to treating staff fairly and with respect.
business operation, specialises in considered fundamental to the continued success of It sets out our commitment to protect employees, the provision of converged the Company and we are committed to the Investors partners, suppliers, customers and shareholders communications services in People award for our training programmes.
from illegal or damaging actions by individuals.
It includes a Whistleblowers Charter which An internal communications strategy supports the enables our employees to report, in confidence, 2.
A contract for the provision of 0845 Companys commitment to informing all employees any suspected wrongdoings by the Company numbering services and Interactive of the financial and economic factors affecting the or other employees.
We also provide employees Voice Response Technology allows Companys performance.
Consultative arrangements with details of how to obtain independent external Sheffield residents easier access to with staff representatives are in place throughout advice from the Public Concern at Work helpline.
the Company and we are committed to listening out-of-hours medical care to and acting upon feedback from staff through During the year some of our customers suffered from these and other mechanisms such as employee the rogue dialler scam whereby unscrupulous surveys and team briefing processes.
service providers manipulated their dial up internet access, causing unanticipated premium rate charges The Company wants its employees to share in its to be incurred.
Although we have no control or success and aims to achieve this through various influence over the service providers and have been share and performance-related bonus schemes in charged for these calls ourselves, we have given our which the vast majority of employees participate.
customers time to sort out the problem.
Where this The Company offers flexible benefits for all staff has not been possible we have, in many cases, borne and a job grading and reward structure is in place.
a substantial proportion of the cost and offered customers free upgrades to broadband to prevent the problem from re-occurring.
