CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY WE VALUE OUR BUSINESS, OUR PEOPLE AND THE COMMUNITIES WE SERVE AND ARE PROUD OF OUR PERFORMANCE TO DATE.
Responsible business Satisfying our customers Hiltons Environmental Sustainability Programme continues to grow and has been For Hilton Group, being a responsible business Our customers are our business.
In order involves going beyond our legal obligations.
We to maintain high levels of satisfaction we are officially launched throughout Europe and Africa under the banner of We Care!.
have a sound Corporate Social Responsibility constantly assessing the views and needs CSR programme, which has continued to of our customers.
We operate a fair system The Hilton University ecolearning program www.
com is now being grow, and we are pleased to report further for handling complaints and respect the rights successes in 2005.
Here are some highlights: of the consumer in the countries in which accessed globally, with over 600 Hilton employees having completed the course we operate.
Developing our people During 2005 Ladbrokes updated their We rely on our team members to provide the customer Comment Cards to incorporate To raise awareness of the problems associated high quality of service our guests and customers with long line fishing and its impact on seabirds, a WOW!
nomination form which enables expect.
In return we work hard to look after them.
customers to recognise excellent service Ladbrokes and the Conservation Foundation Our aim is to maximise and develop their skills, once again ran the Big Bird Race which across the Company.
In response we received provide opportunities for personal development 1,718 WOW!
nominations, with 17 shops tracked the migration of a group of Albatrosses and achieve high rates of employee satisfaction.
across the ocean from Australia to South Africa.
Ladbrokes also scored highly at the National Customer This high-profile event was supported by We have been really pleased with our staff celebrity conservationists Professor David Service Awards with 1 category winner and development programmes at Ladbrokes, and 2 additional category finalists.
Since joining Bellamy and Sir David Attenborough.
in 2005, we launched the Ladbrokes Academy, www.
com bigbirdrace the Institute of Customer Service ICS in which provides a wide range of development 2004, several managers have also received tools for employees throughout the business.
an ICS qualification and two have become This provides a one stop shop for any Upholding good business practices ICS assessors.
Our internal codes of practice require business individual in Ladbrokes who seeks to develop themselves.
Recognising our achievements professionalism, honesty and integrity in Hilton International has a long history of all that we do.
We seek to comply with all we were given Corporate Recognition status measuring customer satisfaction and in 2005 from Investors in People in July 2005.
A new relevant legislation and to maintain good they won the UK National Business Award for relationships with all our stakeholders.
Hilton University CSR training package was Best Customer Focus, demonstrating it has launched throughout Hilton International during Ladbrokes has continued to develop its the customer at the heart of its business and approach to responsible gambling, and the summer of 2005.
This is publicly available deploys and manages resources most effectively on the internet at www.
This extensively supports Citizencard, the to meet the needs of its customer base.
Responsibility in Gambling Trust and through tool was in part sponsored by the European Commission and was developed by our CSR the Trust Gamcare and the Gordon House Association.
Hilton UK and Europe have been advisors, Acona, in conjunction with the Hilton Respecting the environment European Consultative Forum ECF.
We recognise that our activities have an impact working together to develop a more robust approach to managing ethical and environmental on the world around us.
We are committed to protecting the environment through prevention standards in the supply chain, and working with third parties to look at possibilities for of pollution and efficient use of resources and we strive for continual improvement of our supplier certification.
At Hilton Group we strive for high standards of performance and advocate socially and environmentally responsible business practice throughout our global operations.
20 Annual Report and Accounts Supporting our communities The total grant funding given out by the We believe in social investment and encourage foundation amounted to over 1.2 million, our divisions to become active members of the supporting over 170 UK charities.
societies in which they operate, supporting employee involvement wherever possible.
Benchmarking our performance We encourage charitable fundraising and Hilton Group continues to be a member of support charitable initiatives throughout the FTSE4Good and the Dow Jones Sustainability world, particularly through our own charitable Index DJSI series.
Both of these schemes organisations: Hilton in the Community recognise best-practice in CSR.
Foundation and Ladbrokes in the Community Charitable Trust.
We continue to participate in the UK National Environment Index and the Corporate Ladbrokes in the Community Charitable Trust Responsibility Index, as operated by Business continues to grow and in its second year has in the Community.
Our performance has been become a successful charitable body, well steadily improving over the last five years.
The In April, it was announced that Hilton Group Trust works with a wide range of good causes, was now Top of its Sector in the National helping raise funds and tailoring initiatives Environment Index, scoring 84% in 2004 to meet the demands of local communities.
Hilton Group was Projects supported this year include those also ranked in 41st position out of the helping children, hospices and local sports FTSE100 participants.
Hilton Group was activities, and during 2005 we have raised over Second in its Sector in the 2004 National 850,000 through the efforts of our employees Corporate Responsibility CR Index, scoring across the UK.
As a result of our success to 83% and was ranked in 36th position out date, we have been able to donate more than of the FTSE100 participants.
900,000 in grants to over 650 UK organisations and charitable projects in 2005.
In addition, Full CSR Report Ladbrokes works with the Coalfields For full details of our CSR policies and to Regeneration Trust to support social and read our 2005 CSR Report please visit the economic regeneration throughout UK Coalfield Group website www.
Hilton in the Community Further information on CSR is also included Foundation has had another successful year, in the Report of Directors on page 109 of this with the HUKI hotels raising over 1 million Annual Report.
during the year, which Hilton supplemented by a further 200,000 in management contribution.
Our aim is to bring a positive benefit to the societies in which we operate, through high quality services, economic growth, environmental management, community involvement and, of course, employment.
