Corporate social responsibility for the year to 31 December 2005 The Laird Group PLC, its Divisions and businesses the Group involves a wide community of stakeholders, including investors, employees, customers, suppliers and local communities.
During the year the Companys membership of the FTSE4Good UK Index, a financial index series that is designed to identify and facilitate investment in companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards, was renewed.
Lairds aim is to improve the quality of life for people around the world through the provision of innovative, value-added products that advance performance and protection across the electronics and the residential and home improvement markets.
Business Ethics The Laird Group PLC believes that high standards of business ethics are critical in todays business world and therefore places high priority on compliance with all legislative and regulatory requirements, and on the maintenance of high ethical standards, within each of the territories and jurisdictions in which it conducts its business.
The Group commits to conducting itself, and expects all employees to conduct themselves, in an honest, ethical manner in all dealings on its behalf and to behave professionally and with integrity and fairness.
The Group applies these same standards to all business dealings with customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
The Groups policy is that businesses should compete enthusiastically and fairly in the marketplace and must comply with the relevant competition laws of each country in which it operates.
A copy of the Ethics Policy statement is available on the Companys website or from the Company on request.
Health, Safety and Environmental The Group is committed to providing a safe working environment for its employees and the Group maintains a proactive communications strategy amongst all employees to stimulate continuous improvement and promote and develop good health, safety and environmental practices.
The Laird Risk Management Group RMG, chaired by an executive director, currently Mr Drabble, and with members drawn from the Groups businesses examines risks within the operations and in particular oversees health, safety and environmental matters.
The RMG, which met four times during 2005, reports to the Board.
During the year comprehensive health, safety and environmental audits were carried out at all recently acquired Group businesses and update audits were conducted at all other major Group facilities.
The results of the health, safety and environmental audits and their follow up are monitored by the RMG.
Health, safety and environmental training is given to designated employees and reinforced via refresher courses where necessary.
Although each business has its own Health and Safety Committee which has representatives from management and employees it is recognised that there are benefits of sharing knowledge within the Group and in the UK a Health and Safety Forum which has representatives from each business met during 2005.
Issues discussed during the year included health, safety and environmental issues including new health and safety regulations and accident statistics.
Across the Group, health and safety training is provided focusing on perceived risk within each business.
A number of specific health and safety achievements from 2005 include: Appointment of a Safety & Environmental Affairs Manager for Laird Security Systems in the US and a Director of Environmental, Health & Safety for Laird Technologies worldwide operations.
Amesbury Textiles reduced OSHA accidents by 66% to 8 in 2005 compared to 20 in 2004.
UK-based EWS Manufacturing Limited reduced accidents by 42% in 2005 and reportable accidents by 80%, compared to 2004.
Each Laird Technologies facility in Greater China developed its Health & Safety Committee, which is coordinated by a Site Manager responsible for monitoring and modifying Health, Safety and Environmental policies and practice and organising the provision of appropriate employee training.
In 2005 the Group published two editions of its employee newsletter, Insight, which is available to all Group companies via email and intranet sites.
The newsletters feature articles on charity and community involvement, employee achievements and key events within the Group.
Environmental Policy The Group is committed to pursuing high standards of environmental performance including the maintenance of safe and healthy working environments.
Detailed policies are developed and implemented by the operating divisions and their subsidiary businesses to reflect their specific trading activities and the associated risks.
The Groups minimum requirements are for its businesses to comply with local legislation and to operate continuous improvement programmes, to ensure that efficient use is made of all resources, including energy, water and raw materials, that emissions are restricted to within best practice levels, waste is minimised and accidents are prevented through comprehensive training.
2005 was a year of progress in overall performance in the areas of health, safety and environmental management, as evidenced by all of the Groups main manufacturing facilities achieving accreditation to, or re-certification to the 2004 version of, the ISO 14001 standard, during the course of the year.
Recent acquisitions are on course to achieve accreditation in 2006.
This is in addition to the majority of the Groups main manufacturing facilities being ISO 9000 and ISO 9001 certified.
In 2006 the Group 24 The Laird Group PLC also aims to complete its integration of the occupation health and safety specification, OHSAS 18001, into each of its ISO 14001 registered sites, to further reinforce these existing management systems.
The Group undertakes a rolling programme of environmental audits covering all of the Groups manufacturing sites.
The formalisation of environmental management systems via the certified Environmental and Health and Safety standards will promote continuous improvement and allow consistent monitoring of energy source reduction, waste treatment and the re-use and reclamation of natural resources.
A number of specific environmental initiatives have been carried out during the year, for example: Laird Technologies in Lincoln, Nebraska achieved a 95% reduction in hazardous waste through the implementation of an on-site recycling programme eliminating the need to ship waste solvents to an approved site for treatment and disposal.
Amesbury Textiles implemented energy saving initiatives during the year resulting in increased production per KWH used and a waste management programme which reduced disposal to landfill from a peak of daily to once every eight weeks.
Laird Technologies St. Louis facility received a Silver Award from Missouri Water Environment Assistance in recognition of industrial waste water pre-treatment compliance in 2005.
The business also reduced natural gas consumption by 9% compared to 2004 and electricity consumption by 16%.
UK-based Linear Limited continued its recycling programme for production and cardboard waste which has, aside from delivering environmental benefits, reduced its landfill and transportation costs significantly in recent years.
Laird Technologies Cleveland facility developed a new form of corrugated cardboard packaging in partnership with their largest vendor and this, along with all other corrugated cardboard at the facility, is now recycled through the packaging provider.
Amesbury Foam-Tite established an energy conservation team to find ways to control unnecessary waste of natural gas and electricity by various methods, including monitoring energy use, sending employee reminders and shutting down idle equipment.
The same business worked in co-operation with local authorities during an expansion project to encourage native wetlands plant and animal species to grow in natural areas of company property that had been designated for rainwater infiltration and recovery.
A copy of the Groups Health, Safety and Environmental Policy statement is available on the Companys website or from the Company on request.
Charitable Donations and Community Affairs The well-being of the communities in which the Group operates is important to its long term development and success.
During the year the Group gave 49,000 to national and local charities 2004, 116,000.
The Group supported a number of large UK charities for example, Guide Dogs for the Blind, Whizz-Kidz, The Samaritans and Cancer Research.
The subsidiaries of the Group, many of which are long-established in their communities, support a variety of local initiatives.
Examples of Group community and charity involvement activities during the year are: Support by several Group companies of a variety of local sports teams through the provision of team sponsorships, kit and equipment donations and other fund-raising events.
Participation in an Annual Toys for Tots campaign through the purchasing of toys, the donation of unwanted Christmas gifts and active promotion of the regional programme which provides toys to needy families in the local community.
Participation in Enterprise Support days at local schools and the provision of work experience placements.
Donation of food, toys and clothing to local orphanages in Ningbo, China and Penang, Malaysia and canned goods to shelters for the homeless in the US.
The Laird Group PLC Head Office, through a scheme operated by Guide Dogs for the Blind, sponsored a trainee Guide Dog puppy Hero and raised funds for the charity.
Organisation of charity coffee mornings and sponsored car washes in the UK and participation in a charity Food and Fun Fair held in order to raise money for a Heart Patients Fund at a local hospital in Malaysia.
Following the devastation caused by Hurricane Katrina in the United States donations and contributions were made by employees and businesses across the Group and a corporate donation matching scheme, similar to that established to aid the families of those affected by the tsunami in Asia in December 2004, was implemented.
