P24 Corporate social responsibility statement LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005 Corporate social responsibility statement LogicaCMG believes that developing good that, together we are able to make better company.
In addition, share options have been standards of corporate responsibility is an decisions.
Decisions should be communicated awarded to senior managers across the group, inherent aspect of its business principles.
In openly and the reasoning clearly explained with through the Executive Share Option Scheme doing so, we have established a number of the aim of everyone being committed to the and the Executive Equity Partnership Plan.
policies which reflect the companys ethos outcome.
The role of properly organised works and attitude towards our employees, customers, and staff councils for employee consultation is Fulfilling potential other stakeholders and the community recognised and valued.
We recognise that everything we expect to in general.
achieve in business is dependent on the The LogicaCMG European Works Council, with personal performance of our staff.
It is important Our employees elected employee representatives, is a forum for that our people have the skills and knowledge Our mission is to help leading organisations dialogue with group employees in Europe.
Within required to successfully perform within our worldwide achieve their business objectives the UK, the Staff Communications Council gives markets and that it is vital we have strong, through the innovative delivery of information staff representatives a direct channel to effective managers to lead the company technology and business process solutions.
By management to share views and information.
To help develop the helping our customers succeed we, in turn, Both councils promote the exchange of views talent required, the company operates a enable our company and our people to succeed.
and information between company and staff performance development programme for all Every member of staff has a part to play in to extend understanding and help introduce staff and, amongst management, the company creating customer satisfaction and employees policy changes.
runs a leadership and succession planning are expected and encouraged to contribute to programme.
These development programmes organisational advancement.
We operate a The group encourages diversity and employees are provided to help employees expand on policy of continual improvement, of both our include men and women from different nations, their skills and competencies with the aim of, business processes and the skills of our people, cultures, ethnic groups, generations, where appropriate, developing their careers to take best advantage of advances in backgrounds, skills and abilities.
This safeguards our operations for are recognised and rewarded for their effort and the future, ensuring that we will continue to add contribution to the company - not on the basis The companys performance management value to our customers businesses.
of grade, status or favour.
We believe in being system for employees is annually reviewed and open at all times, subject to respecting developed.
It embraces, amongst others, the We recognise that people are our principal asset customer, company and personal confidentiality.
following principles: and the foundation of our business.
Employee clear and agreed personal objectives policies have been designed to meet the needs We aim for LogicaCMG to be a company in career pathways that identify key capabilities of our business, and follow best practice, whilst which the best people want to join and develop and behaviours at different competency levels complying with local legislation where necessary.
Our ethos is intended to support across core career paths These policies encapsulate our culture and this aim through attracting, retaining and personal development and succession values which are then reflected in and through releasing the full potential of high-quality people.
planning to support training and our people.
Every year our communications and human personal growth resources teams co-ordinate and disseminate an annual appraisals to review progress and The companys ethos - The LogicaCMG Way - on-line global staff survey which is translated into determine pay and promotion.
emphasises our core principles of: several languages and is accessible to all openness, communication and involvement employees.
The results of the survey are used These programmes are an important foundation equality, fairness, integrity and meritocracy to measure employee job satisfaction and for growing the business and meeting its professionalism and quality gather feedback on aspects of working for global ambitions.
personal development and loyalty LogicaCMG in order to determine areas and success - for our customers, employees priorities for actions.
The survey is also used to Health and safety and shareholders.
assess the effectiveness of internal We aim to ensure a safe and healthy working communication channels and identify any areas environment for all our employees, outside The company recognises the value of good which may require improvement.
contractors and visitors, not only on LogicaCMG employee communications within a knowledgepremises but also for those staff and contractors based business.
Two-way communication is an Share ownership working on client sites.
The company complies important source of ideas and information and is We strongly support employee share ownership with all relevant local legislation or regulations, vital to the enhancement and development of as a way of encouraging employees to and best practice guidelines recommended by our staff and the company.
participate in the progress and profitability of the national health and safety authorities.
This year, as we have done in past years, liaise with staff regarding our policies and Our managers are accessible to staff at all levels: we are launching the LogicaCMG employee practices so that we can continue to develop communicating with and involving them in the sharesave plans and the Employee Equity work surroundings into a healthy, safe and development of the business.
We aim to involve Partnership Plan in many of our global locations.
all employees in decision making processes In our group, recently enlarged with the wherever practical and they are encouraged to acquisition of Unilog S. A. a good percentage of express opinions and propose solutions in order our employees have options or shares in the LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005 Corporate social responsibility statement P25 Due to increasing global security concerns, we our staff, to take best advantage of advances in Community continue to upgrade our policies to ensure our technology.
This safeguards our operations for LogicaCMGs chief contribution to local people are able to operate safely in all countries.
the future, ensuring that we continue to add communities is through our staff.
With nearly Where appropriate, employees have access to value to our customers businesses.
30,000 employees, subsequent to the Unilog online information regarding international safety acquisition, in 36 countries across the globe, the and security provided by an expert security To cater for the wide variety of work we do, we company brings employment and its attached company.
This security company is also used to aim for a balance between flexibility in the way benefits to innumerable communities.
The vet travel arrangements and provide safeguards we operate and tight control to meet customer company encourages staff to support local as required.
As well as this, guidance issued by expectations predictably and repeatedly.
organisations such as the UK Foreign & Commonwealth Office is taken into account.
We have clear and strong lines of Environment communication which allow us to respond As is stated within our environmental policy, the Our business quickly and efficiently to customer and market company believes that the group's operations requirements, and our customers receive a have, by their nature, minimal impact on the Ethical conduct consistent service across geographies, industries environment.
However, we acknowledge that We recognise the obligations we have towards and technology areas.
Our sales effort and there are some environmental impacts our staff, shareholders, customers, suppliers, delivery capability are aligned in order to ensure associated with our daily operations.
competitors and the community as a whole.
We that we can successfully and consistently deliver believe our reputation, together with the trust what we promise.
We consider the development and and confidence of those with whom we deal, to implementation of environmental standards to be be one of our most valuable assets.
In order to Business partners and suppliers of great importance.
As such, we strongly keep this reputation and trust we demand and As with our relationships with our other encourage the 3 Rs: maintain the highest ethical standards in carrying stakeholders, we aim to develop relationships reduce out our business activities.
and improve networking with business partners re-use, and and suppliers based on mutual trust.
All employees are required to abide by our one of our major strengths is our approach to ethical policy which prohibits all forms of illegal or alliances and partnerships with customers.
Many In the course of our operations we aim to immoral behaviour.
It can be found on the of our new contracts come through these reduce consumption of energy, water and companys website and intranet.
The policy alliances and our partners contributions help us other consumables.
We also strive to re-use helps to uphold the reputation of our company to deliver the solutions required by our and recycle, where environmentally possible, and staff, and maintains public confidence.
and responsibly dispose of non-recyclable items.
Through these actions we hope to Staff are encouraged to promptly report any The companys alliance management lessen our impact on the environment, potentially illegal, improper and or unethical programme is key to understanding evolving particularly by limiting our waste and reducing conduct that they become aware of at their strategies, teaming together on integrated harmful emissions.
workplace or in connection with their work.
We solutions with a strong emphasis on innovation, believe we have an environment that enables execution, and collaboration.
Our global strategic Our environmental policy is communicated on staff to raise genuine and legitimate concerns alliances have been strengthened, particularly the companys website and intranet.
However, in the event that staff believe our relationships with technology market leaders also allocated management resources to their reporting to line management may result in SAP, Microsoft, IBM and HP, but also with implement the policy across the group.
It is harassment, victimisation or undue distress, they Oracle and Cisco.
The value to the business has hoped that by adopting simple, environmentally may contact a confidential help-line to report been reflected in significant joint-contract wins, friendly initiatives the company will distribute matters.
The help-line provides an opportunity taking advantage of LogicaCMGs new global awareness amongst our stakeholders and the for concerns to be investigated and for service delivery capabilities.
Examples of such initiatives include: appropriate action to be taken to ensure that the encouraging employees to avoid non-essential matter is resolved effectively.
Our clients appreciate the ability to offer, through travel and use electronic communication partnership, the best combination of state-ofmethods Customers the-art technology and world class products, using effective facility maintenance We strongly believe that integrity in dealings with strong customer relations and deep industry programmes to implement energy and watercustomers is a prerequisite for a successful and knowledge and experience, combined with the saving initiatives sustained business relationship.
capacity to implement and deliver value-added, where possible, procuring resources and mission-critical, repeatable global solutions on services from suppliers who have a We operate a highly effective and efficient time and within budget.
sympathetic approach to the environment.
organisation, focused on meeting customer objectives.
Our aim is to provide products and The company regularly reviews its environmental services which give fair value and consistent policy to ensure it reflects changes in regulations quality, reliability and safety in return for fair and best practice.
We aim to continue to reward.
We operate policies of continual manage and reduce any material adverse impact improvement, of both processes and the skills of on the environment.
P26 Corporate social responsibility statement LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005 The company recognises that the first step to Charity Many of our staff contribute their own time to a reducing its environmental footprint is to quantify Our staff have always been generous in their variety of charitable activities.
We have commissioned an independent, support for charitable causes.
The company supports and encourages such activities and external company to measure emissions made supports give as you earn schemes to facilitate has put together a voluntary database on in the UK.
Challenges lay in obtaining and financial donations by staff via the payroll.
In which employees can list the charitable works in collating the necessary data and, subsequently, addition, the company encourages staff to which they participate.
It is anticipated that this new processes and procedures will be put in support charities and participate in local will prove helpful in strengthening networks place to ensure more comprehensive information charitable events and, where possible, donates across the company and enabling many of the can be collected with more ease in the future.
its surplus computers to local good causes.
organisations we support to benefit from our The benefits will be better developed policies wide range of contacts.
Our objective is to which will contribute to the reduction of When making charitable donations, the create a mutually supportive network which emissions across the group.
companys aim is to develop partnerships with helps to add value to the various charitable national charities and non-governmental organisations in which we are involved.
The Kyoto Protocol defines 6 greenhouse organisations in countries in which it operates.
In gases GHG, each with a different capacity to response to the tsunami disaster which struck Political contributions cause global warming.
Within the IT service Asia on 26 December 2004, the company Our policy is not to make any donations to sector, companies are believed to emit these established the Tsunami Support Fund with a political parties.
gases both directly and indirectly.
Direct donation of 100,000 from the company and emissions originate from sources owned and further contributions from staff.
The purpose of However, the UK Political Parties, Elections and controlled by a company whilst indirect come the Fund is to raise money for medium and long Referendums Act 2000 the Act, which came from sources which are owned by others but the term projects relating to the education of into force in February 2001, defines political usage is controlled by the company in question.
affected children in that region.
donations and political expenditure so broadly As may be expected, the majority of LogicaCMG that some of our activities may fall within the UKs emissions originate from the use of The company has also put in place, within definitions in the legislation.
electricity, gas and water supply, business the UK, an innovative scheme to benefit two travel transport and waste.
It is anticipated that of the countries largest child support charities, These include seminars and other functions to continued fulfilment of the objectives detailed in the National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty which politicians are invited, the cost of taking our environmental policy will, in the future, to Children NSPCC and Children First.
As part part in industry forums and the cost to the reduce these emissions and hence our of this scheme we pay the two organisations company of giving staff time off to take part in environmental footprint.
a proportion of the receipts received from all municipal political activities.
of our clients who signed up to our prompt LogicaCMG has met the FTSE Groups payment plan.
In 2005, 9,600 was donated While we do not intend to alter our normal corporate responsibility criteria and is a to the NSPCC.
activities, we will continue to seek shareholder constituent company in the FTSE4Good Index authority for such expenditure to ensure that the Series.
Created by the FTSE Group, the global We believe that being active in the wider requirements of the Act are met.
index company, the FTSE4Good Index Series is community is an essential part of corporate designed to identify companies that meet responsibility and as such, is an essential globally recognised corporate responsibility element of the way we run our business.
Companies in the FTSE4Good Index believe our charitable involvement and social Series are working towards environmental responsibility as being intrinsic to our peoples sustainability, developing positive relationships and our companys future.
with stakeholders and upholding and supporting universal human rights.
Planting The Future With great enthusiasm from all participants, A total of 1,500 trees were planted at Tapada Edinfor a LogicaCMG company held a fide Mafra, one for each Edinfor employee, to Planting The Future initiative at the help restore Portugals forest area, after vast woodland and wildlife park Tapada fide Mafra portions of the park burnt down in wildfires some 40 km from Lisbon during October and over two previous summers.
The event November 2005. provided a good occasion to bring staff together in a show of strong support for the The event, held under the motto Integration, local community.
Growth and Success, took place over four Martin Read, chief executive, LogicaCMG right and Jim sessions in three days and was attended by Yeats, chief executive, LogicaCMG, Iberia, planting the several hundred Edinfor employees.
future, at Tapada fide Mafra.
