Sustainable development review How we meet our wider responsibilities We believe that zero harm to our employees is a necessary and achievable goal Safety a defining value Over the last five years we have achieved a significant improvement in our safety record.
However, the rate of improvement has slowed and 46 people lost their lives at our managed operations in 2005 compared with 49 in 2004 of whom 21 were employees and 25 contractors.
The Board has consistently stressed that fatalities are not acceptable.
To this end a series of major initiatives was launched during 2005.
These included the adoption of a new set of principles which rest upon: a mindset that accepts that zero harm to our employees is an achievable goal: that we should learn more effectively from incidents so as to prevent repeats: and that a set of simple, non-negotiable standards and rules the Anglo Safety Way and our safety Golden Rules should operate across our businesses.
A safety peer review process has been initiated to spread learning and best practice between operations.
As part of a fundamental overhaul of training, all of the Executive Board and the business unit chief executives underwent DuPont safety training and this approach will be cascaded to managers and front line supervisors throughout the organisation.
Energy Day HIV AIDS Anglos inaugural Energy Day, held in The HIV AIDS epidemic remains the August, focused on issues such as most significant health issue confronting long term prospects for coal, oil prices, the Groups operations in southern nuclear options and renewables, while Africa.
At an Anglo Platinum refinery, progress reports were presented on this graffiti wall helps publicise the Group targets to improve energy disease, thus assisting in countering efficiency by 1.5% per annum.
22 | Anglo American plc Annual Review 2005 Additional work is also under way on so we were at the forefront of Our biggest single commitment is to the more effective communication of corporate advocacy of measures the Anglo American Chairmans Fund our safety programmes, on improving to reduce poverty and to improve in South Africa, reflecting social the dissemination of lessons from life-chances in the continent.
needs, longstanding connections accidents and ensuring that and the high regard which the Fund contractors are integrated into If Africas economic revival is to be enjoys as a social-investment our safety processes.
sustainable it will require a better vehicle.
A flagship project is the environment for enterprise and Mbilwi High School.
Located in a poor HIV AIDS combating wealth creation.
Thus, we were rural area of Limpopo Province, the the pandemic the first company to commit to school has become recognised as a HIV AIDS continues to take a fund the NEPAD Investment Climate centre of educational excellence.
The heavy toll in parts of southern Facility through a contribution of Fund has agreed a grant towards the Africa and we estimate that $2.5 million.
The Facility is a publicconstruction of fully equipped 23% of our workforce in the private partnership intended, inter science laboratories and a media region is infected.
alia, to be a source of authoritative resource centre.
advice on and advocacy for effective Since 2002 our focus has been on regulation, for easing the process of The Anglo American Community the encouragement of Voluntary business registration, for reforming HIV AIDS Partnership Programme is Counselling and Testing VCT.
African capital markets, for in its third year and works in Within an environment of streamlining customs procedures communities around eight Anglo confidentiality and guaranteed nonand fiscal regimes and for operations.
It is leveraging Company discrimination it is important for strengthening property rights.
resources and increasing support for individuals to know their status youth behaviour change and Left: Major new safety and for those who are HIV to have We were involved in a number of prevention programmes and homeinitiatives have been launched their health monitored and at the partnerships to improve development based care projects in informal Group-wide that involve every appropriate moment to move to outcomes, including the Extractive settlements.
At one site, as part employee, from the Executive anti-retroviral treatment ART, Industries Transparency Initiative, the of the VCT campaign, over 1,000 Board and business unit chief executives, who have all which is provided free to all Voluntary Principles on Security and community members were undergone safety training with employees.
Take-up has been slower Human Rights and the International counselled, tested and referred to DuPont, to miners in than we had hoped.
During 2005 the Council on Mining and Metals support services in one 18-hour period.
overall level of VCT increased from Resource Endowment Project.
20% to 30% but reached a high of In Europe, the biggest new 96% for the year at the awardIn July 2005 we were delighted commitment is Mondis creation of a winning Goedehoop colliery.
to receive the Business in the new scholarship fund for 16 students Community International Award for each year from Africa, Asia and At the end of 2005 we had some our contribution to the Millennium Central and Eastern Europe to study 2,733 people on anti-retrovirals, of Development Goals in Africa.
whom 95% were fit enough to carry on their normal work.
In Anglo Coal Corporate social investment Within the UK we maintained our South Africa a high proportion of the Anglo American plc and its subsidiaries emphasis on international costs of treatment are being balanced contributed $56.7 million 1% of development, education, health and by reduced absenteeism, better pre-tax profit to charitable causes the environment, including support productivity and stopping the loss of and social investment.
This for CARE projects, the National AIDS skilled personnel.
compares with $47.4 million in Trust, Transparency International and 2004 1.1% of pre-tax profit.
There is cause for concern that the virus could attain critical mass in a number of other countries, including Corporate social investment 2005 China, India and Russia.
We are, % therefore, working with the Global Community development Business Coalition on HIV and others Education and youth 19 to encourage higher awareness Health HIV 32 and effective government action in Arts, culture and heritage those countries.
4 Housing homelessness 4 Environment Development and poverty Other 5 playing our part 2005 saw the Report of the 9 Commission for Africa and the G8 27 Gleneagles Declaration.
Over half our workforce lives in Africa and Water management Water is in an increasingly valuable commodity in Australia, the driest of all the inhabited continents.
Here at Anglo Coal Australias Callide mine, an Environmental Management Programme approved by the state of Queensland has been developed to control water discharges and ensure a sustainable supply of water.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2005 | 23
