Corporate Social Responsibility continued The Board monitors the Groups accident statistics on Health and Safety a monthly basis.
The overall rate of workplace injuries Marshalls consider health and safety to be one of its within the Group continues to fall.
The number of highest priorities and a fundamental characteristic of accidents legally reportable under the Reporting of being a successful business.
The Group is now into Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrence the ninth year of formal Health and Safety Regulations RIDDOR has fallen from 33.0 per 1,000 improvement plans.
These plans focus on the employees in 2004 to 24.6 per 1,000 employees in elimination of hazards and minimisation of risk as 2005.
The target is to reduce RIDDOR injuries by a well as incorporating significant employee training in further 10 per cent in 2006. health and safety awareness and incident prevention.
The training is supported by the Groups Employee Accidents and Incidents 2005 2004 Health and Safety Handbook.
Health and Safety rate per 1,000 employees improvement remains a key area of attention for Major injury 2.7 3.8 2006 and this is reflected in the priorities of all Injury resulting in over Managing Directors and employees.
3 days absence from work 21.9 29.2 All RIDDORS 24.6 33.0 At factory level, health and safety is promoted by Average UK headcount 2,884 3,222 Safety, Health and Incident Prevention Teams which consist of employees and managers.
These teams The Community continue to be the cornerstone of the safety The Group is keen to contribute to the communities management system and make a significant in which it operates particularly those neighbouring contribution to the improving safety performance.
This is achieved through active participation The Group has identified its major health and safety in local community forums, events, charitable risk as being from repetitive manual handling donations and other initiatives that help the processes and it is the Groups policy to eliminate community.
The Group is now in its third year of implementing BSI-accredited Integrated Management Systems which incorporate accreditation to OHSAS 18001.
At the end of 2005 the Group had secured accreditation to OHSAS 18001 for locations representing 55.55 per cent of all employees.
Remaining locations are scheduled to seek accreditation during 2006 and 2007.
In the course of 2005 the Group piloted a Behavioural Safety Programme at three locations.
This programme aims to identify and resolve unsafe acts in a positive non-judgemental manner.
The programme will be progressively rolled out across the Group.
As reported in previous years the Health and Safety Executive HSE initiated a personal prosecution against the former Chairman, Christopher Burnett, in respect of a failure to comply with an Improvement Notice issued by the HSE in early 2002 at one of the factories in the former Clay Products business which was sold on 4 January 2005.
The charges were dismissed in May 2005 after the prosecution offered no evidence.
22 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2005 School Visit to Marshalls at Llay During the year, the Group made charitable The Group values and derives considerable donations of 24,115 2004:18,745.
It is the Groups competitive advantage from active co-operation policy not to make political donations and no with its established suppliers in terms of political donations were made in the year 2004:Nil.
Marshalls continues to work with local communities in close proximity to its sites which enables it to The Environment donate products to community groups and local Marshalls is committed to assessing and charities to help transform the local environment for managing the environmental impacts of all its the people they serve.
The Environmental Report is on pages At the corporate level Marshalls is a member of 24 to 27. Business in the Community whilst locally encouraging management to form mutually supportive relationships with their immediate Social and Ethical Responsibilities communities.
At site level in 2005 Marshalls The Group takes its Social and Ethical responsibilities contributed to many locally oganised initiatives very seriously and in December 2005 was accepted including educational school visits, sponsorship of as a member of the Ethical Trading Initiative the ETI.
numerous community events and participation on As a member of the ETI it is committed to adopting local regeneration initiatives.
the ETI Base Code on a progressive basis throughout its supply chains with specific focus on China and The Market Place India.
The Code is based on International Labour Organization conventions and as such is widely The Group recognises the importance of building acknowledged as a model code of labour practice.
It and maintaining positive relationships with its contains provisions based on a number of principles customers, suppliers and contractors.
which include respect for freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining, safe and hygienic There is a commitment to a process of continual working conditions and working hours that are not improvement in meeting customers requirements excessive.
Child labour is not permitted and harsh or and expectations.
This is highlighted in the inhumane treatment is not allowed.
established customer service improvement programme.
This programme has, since its As well as adopting the ETI Base Code, the Group has inception in 2003, resulted in significant and also committed to monitoring and independent sustained improvement in customer order verification of its supply chains, awareness-raising delivery, on time, in full and with increasingly error and training, driving year-on-year improvements, free product and administration.
assessing the impact of its core business activities on labour standards, reporting annually to the ETI on The Group Purchasing Policy sets out the progress and participating in ETI projects.
standards and ethics by which business is conducted.
It ensures that there is no bias or conflict of interest and all suppliers will be treated fairly and without prejudice.
The Group negotiates terms and conditions, including payment terms, with all its principal suppliers.
Save in the case of a dispute, payments are made in accordance with such negotiated arrangements.
Marshalls plc Annual Report 2005 23 Environmental Report registration to the Wildlifes Trust Biodiversity Board Responsibility Benchmark is progressing, advancing with learning David Sarti is the Director responsible for the gained from the pilot site.
The Group also Environmental Performance of the Group.
"recognises the need for sympathetic restoration and after use of quarry sites and considers the character of the local environment and the Environmental Policy concerns of the community when planning such matters""."
"The Groups Environmental Policy which was reviewed in January 2006 states: Environmental Management ""Marshalls is committed to achieving the highest standards of environmental performance, During the year the Group continued the roll out of preventing pollution and minimising the impact of Integrated Management Systems IMS at each of its operations."
The Groups aim is that no lasting its manufacturing sites.
The IMS combine ISO 9000 environmental damage occurs as a result of its 2000 for Quality Management, OHSAS 18001 for activities and policies are being implemented to Health and Safety Management, and ISO 14001 for ensure that all its operations meet or exceed the Environmental Management.
requirements of legislation and applicable best practice.
At the end of 2005 the Group had 39 operational sites.
Of these sites: Marshalls regards compliance with relevant environmental laws and the adoption of 24 had ISO 9000 : 2000 Quality Management responsible standards where no legislation exists as Systems in place, representing 81.5 per cent of the an integral part of its business strategy and is Groups manufacturing output: committed to considering the environmental impacts associated with its products throughout 20 had Health and Safety Management Systems their life cycle.
to OHSAS 18001 in place, representing 79.7 per cent of the Groups manufacturing output: and Marshalls has committed to monitor its environmental performance in line with the 16 have ISO 14001 for Environmental Construction Product Association requirements.
Management, representing 61.9 per cent of the Environmental aspects are identified at each site Groups manufacturing output.
and corresponding objectives and targets set to reduce the significance of impacts in those areas.
IMS therefore covers 61.9 per cent of the Groups These will be reviewed on at least an annual basis to manufacturing output.
All the Groups ensure continual improvement.
accreditations are accredited through BSI.
Marshalls will continue to raise environmental A plan is in place to continue this roll out awareness within the Group through the programme with the aim of completing the development and training of its employees and will accreditation of the majority of the sites by the end communicate openly and consult with customers, of 2007.
The roll out programme has been suppliers and other stakeholders on relevant extended to include the businesses which were environmental matters.
None of the new sites acquired held any robust Management Systems for Marshalls strives to conserve natural habitats and the three disciplines.
create additional areas of wildlife value wherever possible.
Work towards achieving Group 24 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2005 concrete manufacturing site will have an individual Environmental Impact target with the aim to save a minimum of 5 per cent The Group continues to review the significant of energy consumed per month by the end of 2006. environmental impacts of its operations and utilises the CPA KPIs to measure the impacts year on year.
"The CPA KPIs are all based on a consistent ""per tonne of production output"" measure."
Each Water Use KPI has been presented graphically showing two Significant progress continues to be made in the years of comparative data.
With the exception of recycling and harvesting of water with a the energy KPI, the comparative statistics include consequential reduction in the purchase of treated the relevant data for the discontinued Clay water.
Products business which was sold on 4 January 2005.
"For the energy KPI, however, the impact of The CPA KPI for water usage is ""volume of water used the former Clay Products business has been on site including office use from controlled waters, removed from the 2003 and 2004 figures, as it was i. e. mains and extracted water per tonne production a significant high energy operation."
the Clay Products business on each of the other Water Used per Tonne of Production Output CPA KPIs has not been significant and consequently, in each case, the 2003 and 2004 0.0878 0.0856 figures have not been restated.
"KPIs are as follows:- 0.0587 Energy The KPI for energy consumption is ""amount of energy consumed kg CO2 at manufacturers site 2003 2004 2005 per tonne of production output""."
The bar chart below illustrates the Group The Group monitors discharge water on a monthly performance for 2003 2005. basis at all sites producing precast concrete.
Third party testing took place during the year and no KG of CO Consumed per Tonne of Production Output 2 concerns were raised by the relevant authorities.
Excluding Transport Fuels 10.1 9.9 7.4 Transport The Group monitors deliveries made on its own vehicles and those made on vehicles of sub contractors employed by the Group.
Collections by Builders Merchants from the Group Service Centres using their own vehicles are not included in the 2003 2004 2005 Group figures.
"The CPA KPI is ""number of transport movements leaving site made by a company or its As part of the continuous improvement contractor via road, rail, water or other per tonne of requirements of BS EN ISO 14001 targets are being production output""."
set for the reduction of energy.
Due to the requirements of different processes, each precast Marshalls plc Annual Report 2005 25 KG CO per Tonne 2 Water Used per Tonne
