Aztec Sun The Group enters into forward foreign currency By contrast, the Domestic market is expected to contract derivative transactions of relatively small remain challenging in 2006 with the CPA forecasting value.
The purpose of such transactions is to manage a decline of 1.0 per cent in private housing repair, the currency risks arising from the Groups maintenance and improvement expenditure before operations.
An interest rate hedge has been entered an increase of 3.0 per cent in 2007.
Domestic into to manage the effect of the increased exposure installers average order books remain constant and to interest rate increases.
The Group manages its are currently 8.4 weeks 2005: 8.3 weeks.
insurance risk by continuous review and by maintaining a balance between capped self Order intake and despatch volumes since the year insurance and third party cover against major end have been at a similar level to early 2005. catastrophes.
Marshalls continues to develop its integrated offer for the Public Sector and Commercial market and its consumer initiatives for the Domestic market as well Group Outlook as continually reviewing its cost base.
These improvements complemented by recent Market intelligence shows that Public Sector and acquisitions and a strong balance sheet ensure that Commercial demand, which represents half of Group the Group is well positioned to operate in the revenue, remains robust.
The CPA forecasts that the challenging market conditions anticipated in 2006 Public Sector and Commercial market will grow by and to take advantage of the expected market 2.9 per cent in 2006 and a further 3.8 per cent in 2007. improvements in 2007.
From 2008 onwards building for the 2012 Olympics will start to have a benefit.
Marshalls plc Annual Report 2005 19 Directors Biographical Notes Mike Davies 58 Richard Scholes 60 Non-Executive Chairman Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Joined the Board in October 2004.
He is currently Committee the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director at Taylor Woodrow plc and a Non-Executive Director He was appointed to the Board in July 2003.
He also serves as a Nona Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Executive Director on the Boards of a number of Audit Committees of Bodycote International plc, private companies.
Chaucer Holdings PLC and Crest Nicholson PLC.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of Keller Group Graham Holden 46 PLC and is a Chartered Accountant.
Chief Executive Andrew Allner 52 Joined the Company in 1986 and was appointed Independent Non-Executive Director to the Board in 1992.
He is a Chartered and Chairman of the Remuneration Accountant and was previously Finance Director Committee and Chief Executive of the Landscape Products Division.
He was appointed to his current position He was appointed to the Board in July 2003.
He is on 1 January 2004. the Group Finance Director of RHM plc and was previously Chief Executive Officer of Enodis Plc.
Ian Burrell 48 He is a Chartered Accountant and a former Finance Director partner of Price Waterhouse.
Joined the Company and the Board in June 2001.
Bill Husselby 66 He is a Chartered Accountant and was previously Independent Non-Executive Director Group Finance Director at Cornwell Parker plc.
He was appointed to the Board on 7 March 2005.
David Sarti 40 He is Chairman of Cogent Elliot Group, the Executive Director independent advertising agency and is a Board member of Welsh National Opera.
Joined the Group in March 2001 and is currently Managing Director of Marshalls Landscape Member of the Nomination Committee Member of the Audit Committee Products.
He was appointed to the Board in Member of the Remuneration Committee November 2004.
Elizabeth Blease Company Secretary Advisers Registrars Stockbrokers Computershare Investor Services plc PO Box 82, The Pavilions HSBC Investment Bank Plc Bridgwater Road Bridgewell Securities Limited Bristol BS99 7NH Auditors Shareholders enquiries should be addressed to the KPMG Audit Plc Registrars at the above address Tel: 0870 702 0000 Legal Advisers Herbert Smith Registered Office Eversheds LLP Birkby Grange Financial Advisers Birkby Hall Road Huddersfield HD2 2YA N M Rothschild & Sons Limited Telephone: 01484 438900 Bankers Facsimile: 01484 438945 Royal Bank of Scotland plc Internet address: www.
co. uk Lloyds TSB Bank plc Registered in England and Wales: No.
5100353 20 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2005 Corporate Social Responsibility Marshalls believe in conducting its business in a opportunities and other relevant legislation being manner which achieves sustainable growth whilst applied as the minimum acceptable standard.
incorporating and demonstrating a high degree of Disabled people are provided with equality of social responsibility.
Marshalls regard Corporate opportunity in employment and adjustments are Social Responsibility CSR as a journey, in the course made, wherever reasonably practicable, to ensure of which it aims to align increasingly its business that they are not disadvantaged.
values, purpose and strategy with the social and economic needs of its stakeholders, whilst Managers are responsible for ensuring that embedding responsible and ethical business polices employees are properly inducted into the Company and practices in everything it does.
and provided with the necessary support to fulfil their roles effectively and to help develop their full The Board takes regular account of social, potential.
Particular focus is placed on interpersonal environmental and ethical matters in the business of skills and customer service in order to continue to the Group and believes in being responsible in the improve the service provided to its customers.
way that it conducts its operations.
David Sarti is responsible for managing the key elements of the Investment in management development continues CSR policy and during the year a full time CSR with programmes in place which identify and manager was appointed to develop further and nurture potential, ensure consistent management implement the CSR strategy.
The CSR manager is now practices are applied and provide opportunities for working towards the development of key succession into more senior roles.
performance indicators and a separate report to describe further CSR progress over time.
An increasing emphasis is being placed on internal communication to employees through the use of eMarshalls is pleased to be a constituent member of mail, intranet, newsletters, briefings and both formal the FTSE4Good UK Index.
Further development of information and The Work Place consultation processes will continue during 2006, continuing the improvement in communications Employees through the increased involvement of recognised The Groups Statement of Values and Principles sets Trades Unions and employee representatives.
out the high standards to which all Marshalls employees are encouraged and expected to adhere.
Employees are actively encouraged to donate funds The statement includes guidance on business to charity through payroll which accounted for practice, entertainment and equal opportunities.
There is a published process through which employees can raise, in confidence, serious concerns about possible improprieties.
Marshalls believe that people are the key to the success of the business and recognise the diversity of the community, employees and customers.
The Board is committed to promoting and maintaining a working environment where all individuals are treated with dignity and respect and where individual talent is recognised and valued.
Marshalls aim to achieve this by adopting fair and Southampton NHS General Hospital merit-based employment policies, with equal Marshalls plc Annual Report 2005 21
