Annual report 2005 Corporate and social responsibility Diversity & work life balance Our People The majority of our people work on a part time basis to suit their personal circumstances.
We seek to develop inclusive pubs and work The Group remains committed to treating all of its people in a FIT places and recognise the benefits of employing teams that fully reflect manner, something that underpins all of its employee policies.
FIT the local communities within which we operate.
encapsulates three fundamental behaviours that apply throughout the Group.
Pathfinder Pubs is a member of the Employers Forum on Disability.
During the year we have continued accessibility audits at our outlets Fairness Any action, decision or policy adopted within the Group and made significant investment in changes that make our pubs should be both equitable and reasonable.
It should not result in one more accessible to customers and employees with a disability.
particular group of employees gaining an unjustified advantage or benefit at the expense of another.
Many within our head office and supply chain teams have been with us for more than 25 years and we recognise this loyalty and commitment Integrity If a commitment is made it should be kept.
If it cannot be with long service awards for both 25 and 40 years service.
Last year delivered or circumstances change so that an alternative course of we extended this arrangement to our pub based staff, offering similar action is appropriate this should be clearly explained.
recognition at 15, 25 and 40 years service.
Transparency Wherever there is the freedom to do so, the Group This year we have extended our food discount Pathfinder Privilege should act in a manner that is open to the scrutiny of our employees scheme, which offers employees and Group pensioners 20% off their and the wider community.
food bill in most Pathfinder Pubs, to include hotel accommodation.
The Chief Executive takes responsibility for all people related matters, Developing all of our people which are then delegated through the other Executive Board Directors The Group operates a whole range of development activities designed and the Groups Director of Human Resources.
The Group also publishes to encourage anyone who wants to develop within the business to do a full Equal Opportunities Policy and a Public Interest Disclosure so.
This year we have seen the rollout of the Keyholder Programme Whistleblowing Policy, both of which are available on the Groups designed to encourage staff within Pathfinders pubs to obtain the skills website, www.
to ultimately manage their own outlet.
We are also in the process of reviewing and updating our development programmes for head office Listening to our people and supply chain staff and these revised programmes will be launched This year we have introduced a new employee magazine called in the New Year.
The Word which is sent to over 11,000 employees and Group pensioners keeping them updated on Group events and providing The Group has been continually accredited with the prestigious an opportunity to record and celebrate employee achievements.
Investor in People standard since 1995 and has won a number of Well attended roadshows and conference presentations are National Training Awards over the same period.
increasingly seen as an integral part of how we operate and this year for the first time, the annual Pathfinder Roadshow, succeeded Protecting our environment in getting the entire head office and pub management team some 860 employees under one roof.
The Board determines the Group environmental policy and the Environmental Committee, chaired by the Finance Director, is responsible The Group has a long history of excellent relationships with its trade for policy implementation.
unions, both for consultative and collective bargaining arrangements.
Employee representatives have a significant and recognised role to Environmental management play in developing our business and we intend to continue to encourage The Group uses structured environmental management systems and such participation.
Our confidential employee attitude survey, which processes that allow it to: provides significant support for the qualitative feedback we obtain, remains an important part of our employee feedback process.
Adopt economic production processes, which minimise Last year we reported that our results had shown a significant environmental impact.
improvement when compared with previous years.
This years Continue to aim for prevention of pollution at source.
results continue to show the high scores have been maintained Provide appropriate training so that employees are able to exercise and in places improved upon.
personal responsibility in preventing harm to the environment.
Contribute to every aspect of environmental protection.
The Group operates a free Employee Assistance Programme Provide facilities for environmental auditing.
providing confidential support for employees 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
20 W&DB 2005 Annual report 2005 Corporate and social responsibility Regular environmental audits are conducted at our production sites.
Health and safety Resulting action points are addressed during the year.
The Group is currently being assessed for Integrated Pollution Prevention Control The Board and health and safety IPPC accreditation from the Environment Agency on our qualifying The Group has a Health and Safety Policy, endorsed by the Board production sites.
The award recognises the best use of available and used throughout the Group.
The Group Health & Safety Manager techniques for energy and waste management.
reports to the Board twice a year, giving detailed statistics on health and safety issues and the progress made in improving our performance Energy where required.
These reports also outline planned health and safety The Groups aim is to minimise energy consumption by its continued initiatives and comments on potential future developments and challenges.
use of measuring and monitoring techniques and by setting challenging targets for energy reduction to ensure continuous improvement in Health and safety practical application and employee environmental performance.
involvement Relevant health and safety information and guidance forms a part of We continue to collate and analyse statistics related to the Climate every employees induction process, and many managers have been Control Levy, energy usage and effluent production to compare trained in risk assessment techniques.
All of our production and head production sites and provide targets for general improvement initiatives.
office locations have active health and safety committees, involving The results are also used to assist in the determination of capital both managers and employees, which meet regularly and are coinvestment projects, update future energy targets and they form ordinated by the Group Health and Safety Manager.
We also now part of the post investment evaluation.
have a similar committee for Pathfinder Pubs.
Pathfinder Pubs has expanded its programme of monitoring energy Within Pathfinder Pubs, all pubs undergo health and safety audits usage per square metre from its Bostin Local sites to all of its operating by an external contractor and the measures by which we judge a formats.
In addition to this Pathfinder Pubs are the first pub operator satisfactory outcome are continually reviewed and raised.
Each pub to work on a joint project with the Carbon Trust to actively explore receives a comprehensive health and safety manual for use as a opportunities for carbon emission reduction.
source of information, guidance and training together with a set of compliance documentation that has been widely praised by Low energy lighting is already installed in all back-of-house areas Environmental Health Officers.
and following a successful trial Pathfinder Pubs have now introduced low energy lighting into the vast majority of its front-of-house pub In The Union Pub Company tenants and lessees are provided with estate, an exercise that should be completed by January 2006. the opportunity to receive health and safety training, and can also The Union Pub Company are now actively exploring ways that obtain examples of best practice for use within their pubs.
they can use the knowledge gained for the benefit of their tenants and lessees.
Managing risk Recognising the growing importance of managing risk within a Water use dynamic environment, the Group has appointed both a Director of Last year we reported that we had instructed an independent energy Treasury and Risk and a Group Risk Manager.
These new roles aim management group to undertake detailed surveys at our prime usage to help line management identify risks within the business and then sites with a view to recommending ways of reducing usage.
We have develop strategies to remove or mitigate them.
now completed water risk assessments in all of our Pathfinder pubs and monitoring procedures are being introduced on a rolling basis.
A responsible attitude towards alcohol We also continue to work closely with Severn Trent Water to meet stringent standards for disposal of our effluent.
Quality products, excellent service, a safe and relaxed environment and well maintained pubs will always create a positive experience for Grease & cooking oil customers and we firmly believe that, if managed responsibly, they We dispose of grease in a responsible manner.
Whilst some used contribute to the overall quality of life within our local communities.
cooking oil is collected and disposed of by a waste contractor who then recycles the material, much of the need for disposal has now been Our promotional material carries a clear and concise message removed with the introduction at many pubs of grease guzzlers.
This encouraging the responsible consumption of alcohol.
Marstons patented system uses enzyme technology to break down fats on site.
Pedigree was the first beer brand to include a responsible drinking message in its television advertising and an ongoing programme is Asbestos underway with the packaging of our own brewed products involving Our pub estate has now completed its asbestos audit programme the use of both a responsible drinking message and the recording of and appropriate systems and controls are in place.
the alcohol unit value of the product.
W&DB 2005 21 Annual report 2005 Corporate and social responsibility Our training programmes for our retail staff include significant elements We will continue to increase the percentage of our floor space that designed to assist their determination of when it would be inappropriate is no smoking.
to serve a customer and how to take positive steps to ensure that We will, as a minimum, comply with our commitment to ban smoking difficult situations are handled in a calm, safe and considered manner.
at the bar and within back office areas by the end of 2005.
We will Within The Union Pub Company we run a customised drinks and drugs also ensure that 20% of our trading area will be smoke-free by this awareness programme through Telford College which our lessees and time, rising to 80% over time.
tenants are encouraged to attend.
Having been chosen as Most Responsible On Trade Retailer Pub Company at the Responsible We have increased the number of our smoke-free pubs within Drinks Retailing Awards 2004 run by the Morning Advertiser, Pathfinder Pubs to 15 and we will continue to increase this number The Union Pub Company continues to lead the field in this area.
where our customers indicate a preference.
We have also undertaken a comprehensive upgrade of our outdoor areas, with a particular The Company is a member of the British Beer and Pub Association emphasis on quality patio and garden areas that will allow our smoking BBPA, providing the Chair for the Midlands Section for the last four customers to continue to enjoy all of our products and services.
Pathfinder Pubs and The Union Pub Company are both associate members of The Portman Group and are committed to Within The Union Pub Company we have sought the views of our complying with the provisions of its Code of Practice.
Full details of tenants and lessees and the vast majority have also sought the views this Code can be found on The Portman Group website either directly of their customers.
Again work has been done to improve outside or via the link from the Groups own website, www.
amenities and this will continue.
Support for alcohol awareness and education programmes All our sites now display the appropriate signage in accordance with By focusing on educating young people, the Group believes that it can the Clean Air Charter.
We will continue to monitor developments in this help them to establish a responsible attitude to alcohol and socialising area but remain confident that the breadth of our customer offer will in a safe and considerate manner.
Examples of our commitment include: enable us to provide a quality experience for our customers once the legislation is implemented in its final form.
This year we funded extra resource for a local college to provide advice, and guidance to students on safe socialising.
In the community We also provided funding for Staffordshire County Youth Service enabling them to give their teenage Peer Health Advisors alcohol The Group is committed to being an active and positive contributor awareness training.
The outcome was that over 1,000 young people to the communities it serves.
The Groups Corporate & Social received advice and support from this initiative and it is likely that Responsibility CSR Committee meets at least quarterly, under this will be repeated this year.
the stewardship of the Finance Director.
We are keen to explore opportunities to support wider responsible Charitable donations drinking initiatives and we are talking to representatives of Each year our licensed retail managers, pub staff and tenants raise Wolverhampton City Council about providing support for a potential significant amounts of money for many different charitable causes local launch of the very successful Best Bar None Campaign aimed at through local pub based activity and contributions from the Pathfinder responsible retailing within pubs.
Having been launched in Manchester, Local Heroes Foundation.
Donations from the Foundation are funded this initiative is rapidly gaining national exposure.
We continue to be directly from contributions made by employees within its head office the only drinks industry member of Wolverhamptons multi-agency function, which totalled 28,957 during the year.
These contributions Alcohol Taskforce set up to develop the policy for local implementation are then matched by the Company.
During the year these combined of the Governments National Alcohol Harm Reduction Strategy.
efforts have raised more than 80,000, including a substantial sum for the Tsunami relief appeal.
Smoking in pubs In addition to providing prizes and administrative support for the In October of this year the Government announced plans to introduce charitable activities of their tenants and lessees, The Union Pub a smoking ban from 2007 in all work places including pubs that Company raises money for nominated charities and WDB Brands sell food, but excluding those that do not sell food.
Whilst noting makes hundreds of prize donations for charitable activities run by these developments the Group remains committed to introducing its free trade customers.
improvements prior to these dates and stands by the pledges made in last years annual report, namely: Our employees also run their own W&DB Employee Charity Fund, which we are proud to support.
This fund is run by employees for We will continue to increase our use and upgrade our existing air employees and since its inception has raised well over 150,000 for extraction facilities for the benefit of everyone in our pubs.
In the last twelve months the Fund has made donations 22 W&DB 2005 Annual report 2005 Corporate and social responsibility totalling some 6,500 to a range of good causes nominated by our employees.
In support of this the Group runs Give As You Earn arrangements for employees enabling them to make tax-efficient donations to this, or any other registered charity of their choice.
The administration charges for running this scheme are borne by the Group, thereby ensuring that employees donations are given in their entirety to good causes.
Ethical purchasing As a responsible employer we have a duty to support and encourage a responsible purchasing policy for all of our goods and services.
As a minimum, all of our purchasing professionals abide by the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supplys CIPS Professional Code of Ethics Statement.
This Code requires purchasing professionals to have due regard for their responsibilities in respect of a whole range of issues and full details of the Code can be found on the CIPS web site or follow the link on our own Group website, www.
W&DB 2005 23 Annual report 2005 Directors report The Directors present their annual report and audited financial Our communications aim is to increase the understanding and statements for the financial year ended 1 October 2005.
This commitment of all our employees through regular briefings and represents a 52 week period compared to a 53 week period for in-house publications.
Research and development is either by way of market research, or Principal activities and business review in conjunction with the Brewing Research Foundation International.
The Groups principal activities are operating managed, tenanted and leased public houses, brewing beer and wholesaling beer, Environmental policy is determined by the Board.
Performance against wines and spirits.
preset objectives is reviewed regularly by a sub-committee of the Board chaired by the Finance Director.
Our operations comply with A review of activities and the financial performance during the period relevant environmental legislation to minimise risks of all forms of together with an assessment of likely future developments are pollution and noise.
presented in the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review and the Financial review.
The Companys payment policy follows the CBIs Prompt Payment Code for all suppliers.
Copies of this Code can be obtained from the Results and dividends Companys registered office.
Creditor days at the period end for the The profit for the period after taxation amounted to 33.4 million Group were 38 2004: 42, and creditor days for the Company were 2004: 48.4 million.
The dividend on the cumulative preference shares nil 2004: nil.
The directors propose a final dividend of 25.66p per ordinary share which, when added to the interim dividend Charitable donations made during the year were 45,176 2004: of 13.2p, makes a total of 38.86p per ordinary share for the period 16,307.
These were made across the divisions to various local ended 1 October 2005.
The final dividend, as proposed and if and national charities, further details of which can be found in the approved, will be paid on 31 January 2006 to those shareholders Corporate and social responsibility report on page 22.
No political on the register at close of business on 30 December 2005. donations were made 2004: nil.
Policy and practice Directors The commitment and ability of our employees are key factors in The present Directors and their biographical details are shown on achieving the Groups objectives.
We seek to give equal opportunities pages 18 to 19.
All served throughout the financial year.
Derek in employment and ensure that all employees receive fair treatment Andrew, Lord Hodgson and Peter Lipscomb retire by rotation in irrespective of sex, religion, ethnic origin or disability including those accordance with the articles of association and offer themselves for who become disabled during their employment.
Employment policies re-election at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Details of the are based on the provision of appropriate training, and annual terms under which the directors serve and their remuneration are personal appraisals support skill and career development.
The given in the Directors remuneration report on pages 27 to 33.
Company operates a Save As You Earn share option scheme open to all employees on the completion of three years service.
