McCarthy & Stone plc - Annual Report & Accounts Corporate Responsibility Report Our Corporate Responsibility Strategy Be the natural choice for a happy retirement.
We believe that Corporate Responsibility CR is integral to Be the UKs premier retirement builder and a Good the performance of our business and should therefore be of Corporate Citizen.
material concern to our shareholders.
For McCarthy & Stone Our Business CR means addressing the environmental, social and With a product that is entirely focused on providing homes economic impacts of our business in relation to both the for the elderly, we believe that our particular form of developments we build and the way in which we run our development makes a significant contribution to sustainable business.
housing in the UK by: focusing on the development of During the past year we have been working to develop our brownfield sites built to high densities: providing housing for CR strategy, aligning it closely with our business objectives.
older people that is affordable to them and specially The primary concern of our shareholders is the delivery of designed to meet their needs, ensuring that they are our financial objectives.
We believe that our approach to CR integrated into and support the local community and enables us to achieve these objectives, which both economy: refining our designs to best meet the needs of our quantitatively and qualitatively add to shareholder value by customers, and, by constructing efficient buildings with low enabling us to: lifecycle costs.
These particular attributes of our business Enhance our ability to acquire appropriate land and to also provide for some challenges with regards to CR.
standard product appeals to and is established in the market Minimise risk, including historic land use risks and which sometimes makes it more difficult to innovate or to planning risk.
However, when we do so, our Improve the quality and efficiency of our product, thereby impact can be more widespread across a whole portfolio of increasing customer satisfaction, referrals and projects, rather than individual sites.
consolidating our position in the marketplace.
Governance Optimise operational efficiency in order to deliver growth.
The Board fully acknowledges the Groups responsibilities Reduce the costs and reputational risks associated with for corporate responsibility.
Gary Day, plc Land & Planning non-compliance or poor performance.
Director, has executive responsibility for sustainability and Attract and retain the best employees.
CR, reporting directly to the Board on a monthly basis.
The Enhance our reputation with our target market and other Group has a Sustainability Committee which comprises stakeholders.
Board and operational management from across the Group, which meets regularly and has responsibility to integrate These factors contribute to the achievement of our sustainability issues into business decision-making.
The development and trading profits and more qualitatively to Group has a Board-approved comprehensive CR policy the overall perception of the company amongst the integrating environmental, social and economic investment community, which can influence share value.
responsibilities and publishes this and other relevant policies In last years Report we provided details of our overall on its web site www.
co. uk.. approach to CR and some examples of how we were implementing our strategy.
As our strategy remains largely Corporate Governance consistent with that outlined last year, this years report We are committed to working towards best practice focuses mainly on progress and performance, with a Corporate Governance standards and have reviewed the particular emphasis on how our CR strategy adds value to revised new Combined Codes to decide what level of our business and therefore contributes to shareholder value.
compliance is appropriate for McCarthy and Stone.
Further Our full CR report will be posted on our web site in due detail on Corporate Governance issues can be found on course www.
co. uk, providing more pages 33 to 36 in this Annual Report and Accounts.
detailed information and performance data on our key We were delighted that the Association of British Insurers impact areas.
ABI recently recognised the quality of our disclosure under Having provided some background information concerning its Socially Responsible Investment Guidelines as Full in our CR strategy, this CR Report goes on to set out how we last years Annual Report.
The ABI has highlighted the seek to achieve our core business objectives which are to: importance of these guidelines in helping companies to Provide a sustainable product.
prepare for the impact of the Operating and Financial Increase shareholder value with sound financing.
We will continue to ensure that our Annual Report and Accounts provide investors with appropriate Create an environment in which all contribute to, and information on the risks and prospects for the business in benefit from, the Groups success.
line with emerging best practice.
Deliver growth through cost effective quality processes.
20 McCarthy & Stone plc - Annual Report & Accounts Corporate Responsibility Report is developed detailing the measures that will be taken to Risk Management reduce the risk to our residents and the local community in As outlined in last years Annual Report, our risk the event of a flood, thus enabling us to pursue development management processes remain central to the delivery of opportunities in areas at risk of flooding and to incorporate superior returns to our shareholders and to ensuring the building design measures to mitigate any risks.
effective implementation of our CR strategy.
We continue to provide training for Board members, regularly review our Performance Management risks and incorporate mitigation measures in Our Future Our Future Plan defines Critical Action Steps that must be Plan with clear responsibilities and timing delegated to undertaken to meet our business objectives.
Against each of relevant operational management.
Actions steps are our objectives we establish a Measure of Success so that we identified to address the key risks and each month the can see how we are performing.
The Critical Action Steps are progress to complete the action is reported on at the cycle of reported on each month through the regular round of Regional and Group Board meetings.
Further consideration Regional and Group Board meetings.
The Measures of is given at each meeting as to whether the likelihood and Success are reviewed formally twice a year by the PLC Board impact of any risk has significantly varied.
and there is a full scale review of the whole Plan each year, One example of how our thorough risk assessment process is tying in with the risk management and budget setting implemented at a project level is our Flood Risk Policy.
The table below provides our indicators of accordance with this policy, where a site is found to be in a performance in relation to our key CR impact areas and an designated area of flood risk, a Flood Risk Management Plan overview of our performance during the past 3 years.
Performance against our Corporate Responsibility Performance Indicators Impact Performance Indicator 2003 2004 2005 Business Objective: Product Sustainability Land Use Percentage of acquired brownfield land 100% 100% 100% Development Density Average housing density per acre 129 111 Transport Percentage of developments with a Green Transport Plan 100% 100% Business Objective: Increasing shareholder value with sound financing Investor Engagement Score in WWF Insight Benchmarking survey 32% 73% Business Objective: Creating an environment in which all contribute to, and benefit from, the Groups success Employee satisfaction Percentage of employees that indicate that they are 88% 88% 95% satisfied or very satisfied working for McCarthy & Stone Employee satisfaction Percentage of employee turnover 17.7% 18.7% 18.1% Equal opportunities Percentage of employees aged over 50 32% 33% 35% Equal opportunities Percentage of senior grades promoted from within 70% 77% 82% Reward Percentage of employees participating in share save schemes 28% 31% 32% Well-being Average number of days lost to sickness 4.9 4.5 Business Objective: To deliver growth through cost effective quality processes Construction Health & Safety HSE notices 4 0 2 Health & Safety No.
of reportable accidents i. e. over three days off work 8 10 14 occurring on our sites or in our offices in the year.
of Enforcement actions 0 0 0 Waste Management Average number of skips per dwelling built 3 3 Office Management CO2 emissions Average CO2 emissions of company car fleet 164g kg 153g kg 153g kg Business Objective: To deliver growth through cost effective quality processes Customer satisfaction Average Customer satisfaction score 77.1% 76.1% 75.7% Market Share NHBC registrations 71% 74% 65% Business Objective: To be the UKs premier retirement builder and a Good Corporate Citizen Communities Housing choice Percentage of local authorities adopting 6% 30% Not surveyed for the elderly older people housing strategy C Ch ha ar riit ta ab blle e A Ac ct tiiv viit tiie es s Community involvement Total value of donations and contributions in kind 5,000 43,000 40,000 using BITC criteria 21 McCarthy & Stone plc - Annual Report & Accounts Corporate Responsibility Report apartments, is 88 yet on some developments we have 1.
Providing a Sustainable Product achieved SAP ratings in excess of 100.
We have been The sustainability of our product is at the core of our CR reviewing the feasibility of providing additional natural strategy.
The way in which we address this is of increasing drying spaces on developments to reduce tumble drier use interest to regional and local planning authorities and and investigating the possibility of connecting communal therefore an effective response will enable the successful laundry appliances to off peak electricity supply.
acquisition of land and the securing of planning consents, which both contribute to the continued growth of the business.
McCarthy & Stone Average SAP Ratings In order to draw together the various elements of Region 2004 5 Region Average sustainability into a formal procedure, this year we have South West 84 piloted a sustainability appraisal on one of our sites.
North London 88 The appraisal covers a wide range of criteria covering Western 91 environmental, social and economic sustainability.
We will be North West 80 reviewing the appraisal to assess whether it provides a robust model and framework for the evaluation of all future projects.
Midlands 83 We set out our general approach to product sustainability in South East 86 last years report.
The summary below provides more North East 90 examples of how we are implementing our commitments: Scotland 80 Total Average based Land on regional averages 85 We continue to develop 100% of our developments on Total Average based brownfield sites, well exceeding the Government target of on all ratings 86 60%, and we continue to achieve high levels of development density to make the most effective use of the land available.
Car Use Climate Change We continue to ensure that 100% of our developments are provided with Green Transport Plans.
We actively encourage This issue has increased in importance since last years local services to visit sites thereby reducing the number of Report and Accounts.
We continue to design dwellings to journeys made: are integrating charging points for electric high standards of energy efficiency and specify that all buggy recharging into all of our developments: and are white-goods are A rated with the exception of tumble driers exploring the feasibility of alternative means of transport on in communal laundries.
Our average SAP rating, the specific sites, amongst other initiatives aimed at reducing the Standard Assessment Procedure for energy rating for new reliance by our residents on the retention and use of their dwellings, based upon the likely worst performing private cars.
Water Water efficiency is an increasingly important issue in the UK as our water resources become increasingly scarce.
We incorporate dual flush toilets and have been reviewing our standard specifications to assess the feasibility of incorporating aerated taps and water butts in our developments in order reduce mains water consumption.
In terms of water management, we have successfully incorporated a number of Sustainable Urban Drainage features on sites to improve the effectiveness of water resource management including flood attenuation tanks, porous pavements and drainage ponds.
Watermill Court, Havant, where we successfully retained and incorporated a Listed drying shed as part of a protected Parchment Works into our design.
22 McCarthy & Stone plc - Annual Report & Accounts Corporate Responsibility Report one of our employees is working towards becoming a Domestic Waste registered assessor in order that we can work towards We are currently exploring the feasibility of a number of addressing the criteria assessed by this standard.
initiatives to encourage greater domestic recycling at our sites in keeping with Local planning Authorities particular 2.
Increasing shareholder value with sound approaches.
financing Ecology As outlined in the introduction above, clarifying the link The majority of sites that we develop are small centrally between our CR strategy and investment performance is located urban brown field sites and therefore we have a crucial.
McCarthy & Stone participated in two initiatives this significant opportunity to add to the ecological value of sites year to further its engagement with Socially Responsible through the introduction of high quality, sensitive landscaping.
Such in-depth engagement is important in order to Given the nature of our schemes, we are also able to introduce re-assure existing investors that we meet their expectations long-term management regimes which ensure the effective for addressing our environmental, social and ethical impacts, implementation of initiatives to enhance biodiversity.
but also as it provides potential opportunities to access new We have developed ecological management plans for a sources of finance.
number of developments that include detailed objectives in relation to issues such as species protection and the We were delighted to have significantly improved our selection of trees, shrubs and plant species to encourage performance in the WWF Insight Investment survey of major wildlife and long-term maintenance of the sites.
Given the listed house builders.
In the survey, which assesses our nature of our schemes and the long term management strategy and governance in relation to sustainability issues as regime that forms an integral part of our development, we well as the way in which we manage our environmental and are able to guarantee long term implementation of such social impacts, we increased our overall score from 32% to proposals and in many cases our landscaping is maintained 73% in the survey - the largest improvement of all the for the duration of the lease.
This improved our ranking An example of our achievements in this area is our South in the survey from 11th to 5th, a significant achievement West region which was awarded 5 Daily Mail Greenleaf which reflects the increased quality of disclosure in this Standard Awards.
Report and Accounts as well as additional information provided to WWF and Insight on the implementation of CR Materials strategy for more information see wwf.
Our standard specification for timber states that we will source timber from renewable sources and preference will be Figure I: Company ranking based on scores after engagement, in 2003 and 2005 given to those suppliers that operate a formal environmental 100% 2005 policy, audited and accredited under schemes such as EMAS, 90% 2003 80% SFS, FSC, PEFC or approved equivalent.
Our standard 70% specifications also encourage the use of recycled materials 60% and have a target to establish the percentage of recycled 50% materials that are currently being used in the materials we 40% 30% purchase with a view to increasing this percentage.
We are 20% also going to investigate the feasibility of changing all our 10% specifications to use low energy lighting.
0% Eco-Homes Eco-Homes is set to become the most widely used environmental certification scheme for dwellings and is now We also contributed to research being undertaken by the a mandatory requirement on projects where public funding Socially Responsible Investment Team of Morley Fund is gained for affordable housing.
At McCarthy & Stone, we Managers.
The research sought to identify the links between have been working with BRE who developed the standard, sustainability issues and investment performance within the to review it and assess whether it would be possible to house building sector and identified a number of key links develop a bespoke Eco-Homes standard for housing for the between investment performance and sustainability issues: elderly.
Whilst it is not clear whether this will occur at The ability to acquire land at the right prices.
present, we have set up an Eco-Homes Working Group which has reviewed the Eco-Homes standard, identifying Experience in urban regeneration those criteria that require flexibility when being applied to Recruiting and retaining good quality staff housing development for the elderly.
Whilst this standard Responding to changing demand may not be fully appropriate to the nature of our Sustainable Housing developments, we recognise its increasing importance and 23 Crest Nicholson 631m The Berkeley Group 1,272m George Wimpey 3,005.7m Taylor Woodrow 3,359m McCarthy & Stone 317m Bellway 1,093m Barratt Developments 2,327m Wilson Bowden 1,282m Bovis Homes 560m Persimmon 2,130m Redrow 670m Westbury 893m Total score McCarthy & Stone plc - Annual Report & Accounts Corporate Responsibility Report Whilst the research did not specifically address housing for development plans and we have provided training for managers the elderly, it does provide increasing recognition that a and staff to ensure that this process is as effective as possible.
sound approach to CR is valued by shareholders.
We have also circulated attributes and experience schedules for prospective candidates seeking promotion and are very pleased that our promotion statistics continue to improve.
Creating an environment in which all In recognition of our commitment to employees, we now have contribute to, and benefit from, the four regions accredited to the Investor in People standard with Groups success.
Scotland joining the Midlands, North London and South East which achieved accreditation last year.
We are presently McCarthy & Stone employees are central to the delivery of considering accreditation for our Head Office.
Whilst we our business objectives.
We employ a total of 1134 people encourage our operating regions to work towards this standard, 1043.
We recognise that attracting and retaining employees the decision to become accredited is made at a local level.
is only possible if we create the right working environment and provide attractive reward mechanisms and opportunities Communication for personal development.
We have a wide range of policies We continue to try and improve our dialogue with employees relating to employees to support this, as illustrated in the through various media, including regular corporate following examples.
announcements, notice boards, public folders, team Equal opportunities briefings, departmental meetings, the employee handbook and our staff magazine Signpost.
Our Ask Keith Lovelock We have a comprehensive Equal Opportunities Policy in place campaign was set up last year to enable employees to address that ensures we attract and retain the right people on the basis questions directly to the Chairman.
This invited a wide range of ability and experience.
The Group gives full consideration to of feedback, all of which has been responded to personally.
applications for employment from disabled persons, and where existing employees become disabled, provides continuing Reward employment under normal terms and conditions wherever We are keen that employees should feel that they are fairly practicable.
The percentage balance of male female employees rewarded for their contribution to the companys success.
In is 55 45 59 41, with 18% 12% of management grades addition to existing reward schemes including participation held by women.
The lower proportion of women in senior in the Company Profit Share Scheme, prizes for performance grades reflects the general pattern across the industry.
in relation to the Customer Charter and the NHBC Quality Training & development Awards, sales performance rewards and holiday and cash rewards for long serving employees, we have a number of Our approach to training and development is encapsulated other reward schemes: within our Group Training & Development Policy, which sets out the key objectives of our training programme.
We also This year, workshops concerning employee benefits are have a corporate Career Development Matrix which sets being delivered to all regions and a leaflet and employee out the company training, management skills training, guide have been developed to encourage employees to professional development and advanced management take advantage of the benefits offered to them.
training appropriate to different grades of employees within We have recently introduced Well Man Well Women health the company.
In addition to our induction training, employee screenings for Grades A-D who have 3 years service and are buddying, graduate training and IT, Health and Safety, aged 40 and over - one of the most highly valued employee Customer Care and Sales Training Programmes, we have benefits arising from the employee satisfaction survey.
instigated the following initiatives: To encourage staff to take an interest in a critical aspect Annual National and Regional kick-off rallies to of the business, we have a Land Introduction Bonus.
communicate the performance of the company over the Members of staff that introduce new land to us where we last year and to highlight business objectives and other proceed to exchange contracts receive a bonus.
Total issues to all employees.
payments under this scheme during this year were 26,750.
All new employees view the McCarthy & Stone Way video In our employee satisfaction survey see below, we found as part of their formal induction process.
that the reward that people valued most highly was the Development Workshops are being delivered in all regions Company Pension Scheme.
However only 37% of those who to management teams.
Each workshop covers training and responded have joined the scheme and we are therefore development policy, training matrix, new employee going to be working hard over the next year to improve induction, company training programme, performance understanding of and commitment to the scheme.
assessment review and career development.
We continue to encourage the use of Personal Development Plans and we aim to undertake performance appraisals for all employees annually.
Performance appraisals include career 24 McCarthy & Stone plc - Annual Report & Accounts Corporate Responsibility Report Employee Satisfaction Supply chain management It is clear that these investments in our employees pay off.
We recognise that our suppliers are crucial to the delivery of Every two years we carry out a comprehensive Employee our business and CR objectives.
Each supplier completes a Survey and this years highlights of the survey include: vendor assessment form which provides details of its approach to a wide range of issues including their financial performance, Over 95% of respondents said they are happy in their jobs.
sourcing of materials and manufacturing processes, treatment 74% of respondents felt that overall opportunities to of employees, transport arrangements and environmental progress within the company were good or very good.
We run an annual suppliers awards programme We are continually seeking to improve employee satisfaction with 3 Gold, Sliver and Bronze regional awards: an overall and we will be continuing to address those issues raised in award for consultants and manufacturers: and an award for the survey by employees as areas where we could improve, suppliers approach to environmental issues.
including communication, training, rewards and recognition.
We have a purchasing policy which encourages the development of strong relationships with suppliers, 4.
Delivering growth through cost effective sub-contractors and consultants and a Suppliers Charter which quality processes.
sets out our standards for the treatment of suppliers, including matters such as prompt payment.
The amount owed by the The Construction Environment Group to its trade suppliers, sub-contractors and consultants Health and Safety: The protection of the health and safety at 31 August 2005 represented 24 26 days worth of the of site operatives and others visiting our sites is of amounts invoiced during the year.
We have a corporate Health Office Management and Safety Policy and Committee and have signed up to the House Builders Federation Health and Safety Charter.
We Running our offices efficiently is an important part of our have a full-time Health and Safety Manager, whose role commitment to Corporate Responsibility, particularly as it helps includes spot auditing, and an external adviser who carries us to communicate the importance of environmental issues to out regular inspections and ratings of each construction site.
We procure all of the energy for our offices All employees attend a comprehensive Health and Safety from a renewable energy tariff and in our head office we have training course as soon as possible after joining the company reduced our energy consumption by 10% over the past year, and managers receive further training in health and safety.
mainly through the introduction of a new Building Management The majority of training is carried out in accordance with a System which has helped us to optimise the performance of training matrix, for example site managers complete the 5 the building.
We have also fitted our head office with waterless day CITB Site Managers Safety Training Scheme.
We have a urinals and recycle water for use in the heating and cooling positive accident reporting culture, including both direct and system.
Thames Water has confirmed that this has reduced the sub-contract workers and our accident rates are below half amount of water we return to sewers from 95% to 68%.
of the all builder averages published by the NHBC.
This year We have recycling programmes at all our offices.
An example we were the runner up in the Building Magazine Awards in of the success of these programmes includes our head office the Best Safety Innovation Category for our work on where paper and cardboard recycling has increased over the covering service holes in pre-cast floor beams.
past two years from 0 to 40 bags per week of paper waste Considerate Construction: We have our own Considerate not including confidential waste which is shredded and also Construction Policy, which is implemented on all of our sites.
We also continue to recycle vending cups and The policy is generally consistent with the national Considerate toners.
This recycling programme is to be further extended Constructors Scheme standards and covers issues such as site over the next year to cover other waste streams and we have cleanliness, noise, working hours, waste management, health a target to reduce our non-recyclable waste by half from 2 and safety, standards of dress and site operative behaviour.
wheelie bins to 1 wheelie bin per day.
Waste Management: The costs of material and of waste All of our offices have introduced Green Transport Plans in order disposal are set to continue rising.
There is therefore a strong to encourage our employees to travel to work by public commercial case for reducing waste and we have been transport and to share cars where possible.
These Plans provide introducing a number of initiatives to ensure that we manage information on local transport facilities as well as local amenities.
our waste as effectively as possible.
We have introduced Waste We have Environmental Co-ordinators in place in all of our offices Management Best Practice Guidelines which provide checklists to provide support, encouragement and practical assistance for pre-site start and on site practices, and also vendor to employees in the implementation of all of these initiatives.
assessment criteria for skip and waste management contractors.
We have also recently commissioned Wastefile UK to undertake a review of our waste management practices and to provide us with recommendations that will help us to improve our performance in this area.
25 McCarthy & Stone plc - Annual Report & Accounts Corporate Responsibility Report Report in our Report and Accounts last year, Gary Day, our 5.
Being the natural choice for a happy Land and Planning Director, is a member of the ODPM DoH retirement Housing and Older People Development Group HOPDev As part of our continuing commitment to the delivery of our which is helping the Government to deliver on its strategic Customer Satisfaction Strategy, we have developed a Customer Framework Quality and Choice for Older Peoples Housing.
Charter which seeks to articulate the commitments we make HOPDev is charged with advising on a wide range of matters to our customers.
This year we have also launched a new relating to housing and older people and in the year, we have initiative as part of our quest to improve our product and directly assisted HOPDev in the publication of a report services.
Our Mother Value campaign encourages our entitled Delivering Housing for an Ageing Population: employees to provide a good quality product and service by Informing Housing Strategies and Planning Policies which asking would this be good enough for my mum?
sets out key issues facing all those involved in planning the Last year we identified the need to refresh our frontline housing supply for Britains ageing population over the next training for sales consultants and are rolling out a training decade and beyond.
The report has been distributed to local programme for existing employees to revisit our Customer authority housing and planning officers and others Charter, review the current climate for delivering customer responsible for policy formation in this field.
service excellence and gain suggestions from our employees We also remain a member of the DoH Learning and as to how we can further improve customers satisfaction.
Improvement Network for Housing Based Models of Care Our already strong performance in relation to customer Housing LIN and have continued to contribute to the service has also been emphasised in the most recent NHBC DoHs call for an increase in the supply of extra-care Customer Satisfaction Survey, highlights of which include: sheltered housing.
In the year we have made presentations at a number of seminars organised by the Housing LIN.
The average satisfaction with customer service before and We have also attended, by invitation from the former after moving into a McCarthy & Stone home was 75.5% Parliamentary Under-Secretary of State for Health, 85.5% of customers were satisfied or very satisfied with Dr Stephen Ladyman MP, a number of discussion groups with the condition of their new home on the day moved in, the aim of seeking to reduce the barriers that are preventing ranking us 1st of those companies in the survey.
the delivery of more specialised housing for older people.
McCarthy & Stone had the lowest number of problems Alongside the Town & Country Planning Association, and in reported after customers moved into their new home.
support of its call for more Inclusive Communities, Gary 81.9% of customers were satisfied or very satisfied with Day spoke at Fringe Meetings at all three political Party the tidiness of the site in the area around their new home Conferences this year, emphasising the importance and value and 85.7% were satisfied or very satisfied that we kept of delivery of housing to meet a wide range of needs, noise and disruption to a minimum in the area around including older people, in the right place and at the right their new home.
In so doing, McCarthy & Stone has continued its call 84.7% of customers would recommend McCarthy & Stone for more comprehensive Housing Needs Assessments at both to a friend.
regional and local levels of policy formation and for genuine housing choice for older people now and into the future.
Other notable achievements that recognise our commitment We have been approached by the Royal Town Planning to customer satisfaction include: Institute to participate in a project instigated by the DoH British House Builder of the Year Daily Express Gold Housing LIN to research the role of planning in the provision Trophy for Builders Building 501 or more units category of housing for older people.
The project is intended to 7th year running that the Group has won an award.
develop awareness and understanding of issues, options and Runners-up in terms of best National Builder an award emerging good practice to ensure that changing housing needs that we won in 2003 and 2004. for the ageing population are met through spatial planning.
Winner of New Building Category of Spalding and District In the summer of this year the Civil Society building Award Scheme London Road, Chartered Institute of Housing Spalding.
published its Good Practice Guide Two of our site managers this year received an NHBC Pride on Sheltered and Retirement in the Job Award for their work at Yeovil and Portishead.
Housing, which we sponsored and which is designed to ensure that 6.
Being the UKs premier retirement sheltered and retirement housing is delivered and managed effectively as builder and a Good Corporate Citizen an integral part of local strategies for Promoting the well being of older people older peoples services.
We remain involved with the Government and We are also sponsoring research that is being undertaken by non-Governmental organisations in promoting the special the International Longevity Centre UK and sit on the steering housing needs of older people and, as mentioned in the CSR group for the project which is assessing the best means of 26 McCarthy & Stone plc - Annual Report & Accounts Corporate Responsibility Report helping local planners to better prepare and plan for the Employees from our Midlands and Head Offices took place housing and community care needs arising from the in the Race for Life in aid of Cancer Research UK raising demographic ageing in the UK.
We have also contributed to close to 3,000. a project launched by a collaboration of organisations with an interest in the well-being of older people, which sets out a vision and manifesto for older peoples housing and care in the years up to 2020.
We provided a presentation at the 20 20 Housing and Care Forum in July this year, where that project and vision was launched.
Over the last couple of years we have formed strong links with other organisations that share our concern for the wellbeing of our existing and future older generations, including Age Concern, Help the Aged, Better Government for Older People and Care & Repair UK.
We have become a champion for better Housing Needs Assessments and housing strategies for older people and sustainable housing and planning policies that will facilitate the delivery of genuine housing choice for this increasingly important sector of our population.
We are about to introduce a new initiative to contribute to the fitness and health of our customers by offering a number of free one month memberships of local health clubs for the over 60s.
We will be trialling this initiative in Bournemouth and Employees from our North West Regional Offices took Exeter before considering rolling it out on a national basis.
part in the annual Redesmere Charity raft race in aid of East Cheshire Hospice raising over 500.
Community & Charitable Involvement We used the Groups developments for the McMillan All our employees make contributions to community Cancer Relief Worlds Biggest Coffee Morning events.
initiatives either as part of corporate initiatives or as part of their involvement with the communities surrounding the Head Office employees baked and sold red nose ginger developments where they are working.
We encourage and bread men and raised over 400 for Comic Relief.
support this and some examples of initiatives are provided below: Management Targets for 2005 6 At our scheme in Formby our team came to the aid of a local Charitable Trust which occupies a building next door CR Strategy to the site.
The local site team arranged with the trust to Review and refine data gathering processes against CR KPIs redecorate the exterior of the building with graffiti proof Integrate our CR Strategy into Our Future Plan, including paint.
Provide a sustainable product Review project specific sustainability appraisals with a view to rolling out a standard format for new developments.
Review the standard specification for Timber on the basis of current research undertaken by the Governments Central Point of Expertise.
Review the proportion of recycled materials purchased, with a view to increasing this.
Undertake a more detailed review of SAP data on one development project.
Investigate the possibility of connecting our communal laundry appliances to the off-peak electricity supply.
Investigate the feasibility of specifying external light fittings compatible with low energy light bulbs.
Investigate the feasibility of signing all new developments up to renewable energy tariffs.
