AT A GLANCE | BUSINESS REVIEW | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 30 Corporate responsibility At Meggitt, we recognise our responsibility to shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers and the wider community.
We will comply with all relevant national laws and regulations and aim to improve our financial, social and environmental performance continually.
Policy Meggitt is committed to upholding sound corporate governance minimising the environmental impact principles of products and processes providing a supportive, rewarding and acting as a responsible supplier and safe working environment encouraging our contractors and suppliers to do the same conducting business relationships in an ethical manner supporting our local communities Action For our stakeholders, this means ensuring financial probity effective risk identification robust internal and external reporting and controls dynamic business continuity plans providing safe working environments conducting independent audits maintaining  environmental management systems professional and comprehensive employee training programmes modern operational practices the social and economic enrichment of local communities MEGGITT PL MEGGITT PLC C REPORT AND A REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 CCOUNTS 2010 31 We continued to enhance our our sites and have implemented Governance and compliance  and sharing programmes across the group to Meggitts Corporate Responsibility CR through intra-group HSE conferences achieve that goal: Policy published on www.
com and our intranet, where we post At MPC Loughborough, energy underpins the way we manage social, environmental bulletins and initiatives.
champions were appointed in key ethical and environmental issues and we In 2010, despite unseasonably cold energy intensive areas, trained on devote significant internal resources to weather and the associated increase in site specific energy factors, forming implementing it across Meggitt facilities heating requirements, energy-reduction work groups to monitor and discuss worldwide.
Every site records important initiatives resulted in a moderate energy-related ideas and behaviours.
data on employees, supply chain and absolute reduction in all our key energy Energy-saving ideas, such as health, safety and environment HSE performance measures: maximising the volume of parts being performance for analysis by the group, put into ovens thereby reducing which is available on the CR page of Carbon emissions decreased by 3.8% volume of cures and associated our website.
to 115,638 2009: 120,161 tonnes as energy usage, are shared at monthly 1 restated CR is overseen by our Group Corporate site reviews and teams are empowered Affairs Director.
HSE matters, trade Electricity usage decreased by 0.2% to experiment with new ideas.
compliance and ethics and business to 148.0 GWH 2009: 148.3 GWH MPC Rockmart was recognised by conduct are managed by a highly Gas usage declined by 2.1% to 191 the United States Department of experienced team of professionals.
The GWH 2009: 195 GWH Energy as an Energy Saver in 2010 Board has appointed an Ethics and Trade for exceptional leadership in Compliance Committee to ensure we Meggitt provides emissions data to the industrial energy efficiency.
The have effective programmes in these two Carbon Disclosure Project CDP, a energy management team, led by areas and to oversee their management.
non-governmental initiative that the energy champion implemented The Board receives HSE reports on a measures and discloses the greenhouse several initiatives.
These included an quarterly basis.
Divisional presidents gas emissions and climate change overhaul of plaster ovens, allowing and site directors are responsible for the strategies of 2,500 organisations around the site to reduce cure times from 48 implementation of our policies on these the world.
to 30 hours, saving energy to power matters at a local level.
In 2010, the Meggitt Energy Reduction the fans and steam to heat the oven.
This Environment MSS San Juan Capistranos energy is a group-led forum that shares team had a simple idea to change information and drives performance Meggitts Group Environmental building cleaning services from on energy-related initiatives.
MERP Policy commits us to night to day time.
This resulted in a incorporates all levels of employees reduction in after-hours energy use of complying with applicable when evaluating energy-reduction 10% by eliminating lighting and heating environmental legislation opportunities.
Energy management and air conditioning requirements.
teams and energy champions have reducing the environmental impact been appointed at sites, tasked Performance in other key environmental of our own and our suppliers with continually assessing such metrics improved.
This included: products and operations opportunities.
The MERP steering group Water consumption decreased by comprises key operations leaders from 3 3 1.3% to 631,508 m 2009: 639,807m Our global environmental audit each division and representation from programme, supported by external group operations, company secretarial, Hazardous waste recycled has consultants, is used to review HSE and finance functions.
Energy and increased by 10.4 % to 1,304 tonnes compliance standards, reveal shortfalls emissions performance are shared and 2009: 1,181 tonnes in performance, recommend remedial reviewed, with targets set as appropriate.
Hazardous waste to landfill as a action and share best practice.
In 2010, MERP also drives our compliance percentage of total hazardous waste nearly one third of Meggitt sites were strategy on the impact of emissions has decreased to 8% 2009: 28% audited.
Over two thirds have attained legislation such as the UKs CRC Energy environmental management standard Efficiency Scheme, of which Meggitt is a Our environmental metrics are reported ISO14001, with the remainder working registered participant.
in full on the CR page of our website.
Some of our engineering processes Meggitt is a signatory to the Sustainable cannot be substituted for those with less Aviation Strategy of the A|D|S Group the impact because of performance UKs primary aerospace, defence and demands on our defence and aerospace security trade association and is products.
However, we are committed to represented on the A|D|S environmental minimising the environmental impact of working group.
1 Meggitts carbon emissions data is derived from electricity, gas and fuel oils usage which is converted using the 2010 greenhouse gas conversion factors of the UK Department for Environment and Rural Affairs DEFRA.
For electricity only, DEFRA update prior years conversion factors annually and so Meggitts carbon emissions arising from electricity usage in 2009 have been restated.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 AT A GLANCE | BUSINESS REVIEW | CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 32 Corporate responsibility and practices through exemplary Meggitts group-wide trade compliance Health and safety leadership of ongoing health and safety programme is based on the model of initiatives.
This includes integrating excellence outlined in the NunnMeggitts Group Health and Safety health and safety performance into Wolfowitz Task Force Report of 2000 Policy outlines our commitment to business operations as part of overall the influential report on export formal management systems site management reviews.
compliance best practice and US for regulatory and legislative Government guidelines.
We achieve The on-line health and safety training compliance and guidance on best multiple levels of accountability using programme for all UK employees practice five key process tools assessment, continued in 2010 and on-line training is compliance improvement, verification, integrating identification, being implemented for all US employees corrective action and audit which are assessment and control of health in the first quarter of 2011.
We are in the applied in a continuum.
Plans arising and safety risks into operational process of evaluating similar training from the review elements enable 16 management programmes for other group sites.
We sub-processes for 36 businesses to continue to disseminate information and incorporating health and safety be tracked by managers at all levels, best practice through our intra-group thinking into business plans including the executive leadership team.
conferences and health and safety instilling the importance of health alerts and bulletins which include Meggitts trade compliance teams receive and safety in employees at all information on the implementation training and access to key subject matter levels and providing all employees status of our global health and safety experts inside the group and from global and temporary workers with procedures, group health and safety trade compliance advisors, JP Morgan appropriate health and safety performance data and on health and Trade Management Consulting.
Meggitts information and training safety initiatives.
trade compliance website, a customised database of training modules, forms, delivering products and services There were no fatalities at Meggitt templates, regulations, editorial and that can be installed, operated and sites in 2010 2009: none.
In 2010, the company policy and procedures, is maintained without risk to health number of reported injuries declined comprehensive and well-respected by and safety as far as possible to 53 2009: 60.
The accident incident experts in the field.
rate declined 7% to 737 2009: 795. consulting stakeholders on health While group standards rose in 2010, we In 2010 we selected a global trade and safety risk management remain committed to improving our management software solution to health and safety performance in all of automate, in part, and enhance our trade In 2010, we continued to work toward our operations, every year.
Following improving our health and safety a design phase, we expect to start Compliance with the European performance by applying the key implementation towards the end of 2011.
Community Regulation on Registration, principles of our Health and Safety Evaluation Authorisation and Restriction Policy.
This is achieved by ensuring Business ethics of Chemicals REACH is managed by effective leadership and organisational the Group REACH Steering Committee arrangements are in place throughout Meggitts Ethics and Business which has been active in completing our global operations, led by the Group Conduct Policy commits us to due diligence and dealing with the risks Health and Safety Steering Committee associated with the discontinuation of conducting business fairly, and the Vice-President of Health, Safety supply of chemicals used by aerospace impartially and in full compliance and Environment.
Our global health and manufacturers.
Our HSE Director for with applicable laws and safety audit programme, supported by MSS is a member of the Aerospace regulations external consultants, operates and Defence Industries Association according to the same continuous integrity and honesty in all our of Europes REACH Implementation improvement philosophy as our business relationships internally Working Group which enables us to production facilities.
We use it to and externally source and compare information about review compliance standards, reveal REACH compliance across the industry.
shortfalls in performance, recommend Our Ethics and Business Conduct Policy remedial action and share best practice.
Trade compliance and Code of Conduct, overseen by the In 2010, nearly one third of Meggitt sites Ethics and Trade Compliance were audited.
Meggitts Trade Compliance Policy Committee, must be followed by all We improved the way we measure and outlines our commitment to comply employees and advisers.
All employees collect our health and safety data during fully with the laws and regulations have received Code of Conduct training 2010 to include trend analysis of the governing trade controls in the and are required to view the Ethical types and causes of workplace injuries jurisdictions in which we operate.
Moments training videos which are to identify key areas of risk.
We seek to released regularly.
We are a signatory to achieve continuous improvement in all the Statement of Adherence to the Global areas of workplace risk by driving Principles of Business Ethics for the sustainable workplace safety behaviour Aerospace and Defence Industry.
We define reported injuries as those which are reportable under local laws regulations.
The accident incident rate is calculated by taking the number of reported injuries, multiplied by 100,000 and dividing it by the average employee headcount during 2010.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 33 and our Control Systems and Safety Systems sites have hosted internships under this programme.
Employees by division 7,370 Aircraft Braking Systems 1,194 17% Control Systems 956 13% Polymers & Composites 1,798 24% Sensing Systems 1,403 19% Equipment Group 1,644 22% Quality assurance with teeth Cross-group facilities 375 5% Ian McMurray Group Head of Operations and Quality As Meggitts first Group Head of Operations and Quality, I have initiated Employees length of service years a quality assurance group with teeth.
Its a taskforce of 30-plus senior quality professionals improving performance, reducing costly duplication and developing frameworks to address problems at a systemic level.
One of our biggest challenges is interpreting constantly evolving regulations and standards around the world.
To avoid becoming mired in the minutiae of a regulatory position, we iterate a 7,370 single Meggitt point of view, moving forward with confidence on implementation and working directly with regulators where conflicts arise.
Uniquely, my role brings quality and operational disciplines together so problem-solving becomes the responsibility of a crossfunctional team, with checks and balances between cost imperatives and regulatory compliance built in.
Less than 5 3,116 Between 5 and 10 1,488 Between 10 and 15 993 Between 15 and 20 312 During 2010, Meggitt adopted a formal contributions across the group Between 20 and 25 459 Anti-Corruption Policy and provided amounting to approximately 375 million Over 25 1,002 global anti-corruption training to all in 2010 32% of revenue.
employees and the Board of Directors.
Individual Meggitt facilities work with A new Ethics Guide outlining the core the local community and support Employees by region elements of our ethics programme the charities at their discretion.
Yearly Ethics and Business Conduct Policy, the reports reveal the exceptional Code of Conduct and Anti-Corruption generosity of many employees who give Policy was published in 2010 and time and money to a wide range of distributed to all employees.
Meggitts headquarters, which are based in 7,370 Our people, local communities Dorset, UK, continued to sponsor the and charitable donations Arkwright Scholarship Trust, the At the end of 2010, Meggitt employed Institute of Mechanical Engineers over 7,300 people, a diverse workforce Schools Aerospace Challenge, the local which enjoys our equal opportunity policy Community Foundation and the Poole and access to educational opportunities Hospital Staff Excellence Awards.
UK 1,963 27% worldwide from apprenticeships and A number of our sites in California North America 4,081 55% Mainland Europe 1,063 14% MBAs to graduate courses and have supported the Royal High School Rest of world 263 4% leadership development initiatives.
Vocational Education Programme for Simi Valley.
Several of our senior Meggitt makes an important economic employees have assisted students in contribution to our local communities, developing their core business skills with salaries, tax and social security MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010
