Business review CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Micro Focus World, May 2009, was set up as an online event to completely remove the carbon impact of a major industry conference.
The Company has introduced a number of automated processes to reduce the quantity of paper and packaging that is used in the business.
Micro Focus has invested in video conferencing facilities in key locations Environment People and employees are encouraged to maximise use of this resource in place of travel where appropriate.
With of ces in 24 countries worldwide, Micro Focus is conscious of its total energy consumption and the amount of waste materials Board of generated and is actively working to reduce both energy usage and directors the quantity of waste materials produced that cannot be recycled.
Internationally Micro Focus complies with both the EU Decreto Legislativo 152 year 2006 and US state and federal waste management policies and legislation.
Examples of managing waste effectively and The Community Marketplace constantly improving energy ef ciency are: Waste and recycling constitutes 0.31% of total overhead costs All packaging is both biodegradable and recyclable and adorned with the Universal symbol for recycling Recycling bins are situated throughout global of ces Introduction All packaging and products are labelled with aqueous inks: therefore Micro Focus is a growing international company with an increasing a greater proportion of material is biodegradable and recyclable responsibility to address its corporate and social responsibilities.
The Hard case plastic has been replaced by softer DVD cases which Micro Focus board is committed to running the Company in accordance have a shorter life cycle and are more biodegradable with best practice in corporate social responsibilities CSR as part of a broader commitment to effective corporate governance for the Group.
Over 70% of product deliveries are now electronic as opposed In this context, Micro Focus seeks to integrate CSR considerations into to physically packaged and delivered all aspects of its day-to-day operations.
The board acknowledges its duty to ensure the Company conducts its activities responsibly and with 2.
People proper regard for all its stakeholders including employees, shareholders, Micro Focus has grown its workforce signi cantly in the past year, business partners, suppliers and the local communities.
integrating acquisitions and focusing on increased communication, leadership and talent development to build a uni ed team across the CSR policies at Micro Focus are set and monitored at board level, but Company.
Clear communication during a year of change has been the implementation of these policies touch all employees and the way focused on employee understanding and engagement.
After seven they work with each other, customers, partners and the communities acquisitions in four years, Micro Focus is committed to building they work within.
Examples are the way we support our local consistent corporate values across all operations and is actively communities, develop our staff, nd greener ways to do business, developing strengthened channels for employee feedback to build or help our customers and partners to lower their carbon footprint.
a winning culture and further drive success going forward.
Since the financial year end, the Company has conducted an employee survey The CSR Policy at Micro Focus covers four areas the environment, across all locations to better understand employee views and channel people, community and the marketplace.
A summary and some future initiatives effectively.
The Company understands the considerable examples can be found here.
efforts made by its employees to drive the success of the organisation and is committed to providing a rewarding and enjoyable working 1.
Environment environment within effective corporate governance guidelines.
Climate change is on the agenda at Micro Focus.
Our stakeholders have con rmed that they consider climate change to be a major Social issue facing society.
As a member of the IT sector, we believe that we The health, welfare and development of Micro Focus employees can directly impact climate change for the better.
It is acknowledged remain a priority.
Employees are recognised as key to the business that the IT industry contributes a small percentage of the global carbon with individual skills and experience being valued and developed.
footprint, but the sector can have a high impact on the solutions to reduce the footprint going forward.
We recognise that our products Micro Focus employs approximately 1,500 employees across 24 different and services can impact many other IT dependent organisations by countries: 48% are based in NA, 42% in EMEA and 10% in APAC.
helping them to manage their IT infrastructure in a more ef cient With the intent of attracting, recruiting, developing and retaining valuable employees, Micro Focus employs an equal opportunities and environmentally friendly way.
policy approved by ACAS that is followed across all Group operations.
Micro Focus is working to reduce its carbon footprint and is working with industry professionals to help the Company record, monitor A corporate intranet resource is supported by country level all employee and achieve this.
As an example, in 2009 Micro Focus pioneered a meetings on a regular basis and frequent team and individual meetings to discuss corporate progress and priorities.
carbon-friendly user conference by hosting the entire event online.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 18 Employee development is encouraged through appropriate review processes and training.
Staff are supported to achieve and maintain a high standard of performance in their work, and appropriate training is provided to meet these standards.
Where performance is not met, Micro Focus operates a fair and systematic approach to dismissals and disciplinary measures.
Micro Focus directors actively encourage employee equity participation.
The Company has introduced a Sharesave and US ESPP scheme subject to compliance with the Groups share dealing policy and model code.
Health and Safety High standards of health and safety are an integral part of Micro Focus Haiti disaster fund business performance and apply to all business locations.
All policies are Micro Focus supported its first global fundraising initiative in support of the British Red reviewed on a regular basis according to current and local legislation Cross and its Haiti appeal to aid recovery after the natural disaster there earlier this year.
Images: Talia Frenkel American Red Cross and employees are involved in the decision making policy with a dedicated health and safety committee represented by members from all departments throughout the organisation.
Employees are made In addition to community and charitable work, Micro Focus runs aware of policies and any individuals whose job description involves the Academic ConnecTIONs Program to support Enterprise IT skills activity requiring more than the basic requirements or knowledge development in academic institutions.
The technology industry is receive relevant training from a quali ed external organisation.
one of the fastest growing industries in the world, and Micro Focus recognises the value in nurturing and encouraging the skills required to Business Ethics sustain the pace and breadth of the growing technology industry.
The Micro Focus is committed to maintaining a high standard of business ACTION program is designed to promote the teaching of COBOL and conduct and ethics throughout the Micro Focus Group and a Code modernization technologies in universities worldwide with free software of Business Conduct and Ethics re ects the business practices and downloads for students and the provision of materials to help colleges principles of behaviour that support this commitment.
The Company develop relevant courses in application modernization technologies.
expects every employee to read and comply with the Code.
Marketplace customers and supply chain IT security policies are designed to protect the Companys investment As companies face the prospect of carbon regulation worldwide they made in research and development programmes and commercialisation are looking for innovative ways to help them solve these challenges.
Up-to-date security systems are in place to protect the One such opportunity is to review their enterprise software assets Companys IT systems and intellectual property is protected through in new ways to make dramatic improvements which satisfy these appropriate trademark registration and a patenting programme.
requirements and at the same time improve productivity and innovation Micro Focus respects rights to privacy and local legislation whether while protecting business intelligence.
Micro Focus is a leader in customer, associate or employee and any data or information held by Enterprise Application Management & Modernization and its solutions Micro Focus is held securely and only authorised staff can gain access.
enable customers to quickly and cost-effectively transform proprietary IT infrastructures to more nimble, modern and cost-ef cient environments.
The community and charity work Micro Focus encourages employees to work within the community and By providing innovative technology that allows clients to operate their allocates an annual budget for its employees to be used on a fundsIT systems on lower cost and energy models, we are enabling a newer matching basis, plus a number of man-days per month to be used and greener generation of corporate behaviour both at the day-to-day for activities which directly bene t a charity.
Employees have always operational level and also by removing the energy impacts inherent in supported a wide range of charities and community organisations at the purchase of the new systems and equipment required by a local level.
Micro Focus also works with the community by sponsoring organisations pursuing a rip & replace IT strategy.
sports and music clubs and school teams within the local area.
The Micro Focus Charity Committee makes an active contribution towards Furthermore, Micro Focus already offers almost all of its products in the development of the communities in which we are based, through a downloadable format via the web, removing costly and carbon Company and employee participation in charitable causes.
footprint impacting packaging and shipping requirements from the transaction.
Customers consume less energy and dramatically improve During FY2010, Micro Focus supported its first global fundraising internal processes.
Our logistic dependent customers have achieved initiative in support of the British Red Cross and its Haiti appeal to aid improvements in their operational ef ciency, consuming less resource recovery after the natural disaster there earlier this year.
Micro Focus provides solutions that boost ef ciencies to range of fundraising activities across many countries, Micro Focus a number of vertical industries including financial services, retail, utilities, presented 50,000 to the British Red Cross in May 2010. transportation, automotive, pharmaceuticals, telecoms and government: all of which have their own rigorous carbon responsibilities.
For At the regional level, community and charity support is led by example, in our work with retail customers, we have improved stock employees in local teams to support causes in a range of areas.
replenishment systems which in turn have improved waste management levels at these organisations.
In FY2010, the UK team was shortlisted for the 2010 Business Charity Awards for best challenge team in association with Action for Children.
In the supply chain we support suppliers CSR commitments and also set our own requirements for those who wish to do business with Micro Focus.
We ensure partners and suppliers understand our own CSR standards and encourage them to meet the same level of best practice.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 19
