CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY responsible Hospitality ensure that any occurrence of such can be identified and dealt We understand that our customers, investors, employees and with appropriately and swiftly.
suppliers actively choose their relationships with the Group.
Increasingly, this choice depends on the degree to which When employees develop health problems we aim to support we demonstrate corporate social responsibility: behaving them so as to promote a swift return to work wherever possible.
ethically and legally, treating our employees with respect and We aim, wherever it is possible to do so, to rehabilitate staff who consideration, finding ways to minimise our impact on the have suffered a problem or disability that interferes with their environment and doing what we can to improve the lives of ability to work.
For those who cannot be accommodated, we those in the wider community around us.
are committed to arranging a sensitively-managed departure.
Aside from its social contribution as a profitable, taxpaying The Group has adopted a formal Human Rights policy which enterprise, the Group recognises that delivering good longsupports our commitment to International Labour Organisation term returns to shareholders requires it to demonstrate standards and the UN Global Compact on human rights and commitment to corporate social responsibility.
To this end, labour and to providing equal opportunities in employment the Board has adopted - and reviews regularly - a number of without discrimination.
policies, collectively referred to as Responsible Hospitality.
Staff by function The Board also recognises the need to communicate to Function 2010 2009 stakeholders its progress on executing these policies.
Hotel Operating Staff 8,960 8,809 Management Administration 1,219 1,255 responsibility to employees Sales and Marketing 500 519 For the year to 31 December 2010 the average number of Repairs and Maintenance 553 548 Group employees, worldwide in 17 countries, was 11,232.
Total 11,232 11,131 Our employees are the foundation of our business.
The Group aims to retain a knowledgeable and skilled workforce which Staff by Gender % feels suitably rewarded and motivated.
We aim to ensure that Gender 2010 2009 everyone who works for the Group has the right skills and % Male 53.29 48.84 knowledge to do their jobs and encourage employees to gain % Female 46.71 51.16 industry-relevant qualifications where appropriate.
Some of our hotels were recognised individually by industry groups for their progress on delivering against this policy last Staff by Age % year.
For example, in March, the Copthorne Hotel London Age Range 2010 2009 Gatwick received a Gatwick Diamond Business Award for its Below 30 44.08 36.03 commitment to developing people and skills.
Similarly, the 30-50 45.72 45.18 Copthorne Kings Hotel Singapore was recognised in April as Above 50 10.20 18.79 Most Supportive Employer for Workforce Skills Qualification at the World Gourmet Summit.
A Healthy Workplace In addition to encouraging employee qualifications and Maintaining high standards of health and safety is vital to the development, the Group supports hospitality education Group, both in terms of protecting employees and suppliers around the world by providing workplace experience to visiting our premises and assuring the satisfaction of our guests.
students where appropriate schemes operate.
For example, The Group seeks to comply with legal requirements regarding in collaboration with the Italian Chamber of Commerce, sixhealth and safety in every city and region in which it operates.
month work placements for Italian students are being trialled at a London hotel.
The Group aims to achieve compliance with the occupational health and safety assessment specification OHSAS 18001.
The Group maintains a code of high ethical standards, which OHSAS 18001 is an internationally recognised assessment it expects all of its employees to adhere to.
It will not tolerate specification for occupational health and safety management anti-competitive practices, bribery, fraud or other forms of systems, which provides a framework to identify and control corruption and has whistle-blowing policies in place to health and safety risks, reduce the potential for accidents, 46 47 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY aid legislative compliance and improve overall performance.
Management also works with suppliers to minimise the In 2011, the Groups European region aims to achieve formal environmental impact of their activities.
These include accreditation to the OHSAS 18001 standard.
agreeing suppliers delivery schedules so that product orders are consolidated, the number of product deliveries is reduced During 2010, the Group implemented reporting systems with a corresponding reduction in road miles driven to to ensure accurate recording of incidents occurring in all of restock the Groups properties.
The Group encourages its its European hotels, while health, safety and food hygiene general managers and staff to identify similar environmentally standards are evaluated by external auditors.
During 2010 we responsible initiatives at all times.
conducted a full analysis of health and safety training needs in our European destinations and are rolling out a training The Group has now established a consistent and reliable programme in 2011 to meet those training needs that have been carbon footprint for all of its owned and managed properties.
In the USA an improved health and safety training This is an important step forward in our environmental programme is being implemented during the first quarter of management initiatives because it provides an accurate 2011.
The training is designed to improve the health, welfare, measure of carbon emissions for each property which will security and safety of our employees and guests and includes enable target setting for future reductions in emissions.
Most of topics related to prevention of accidents and injuries, as well as the Groups carbon footprint emanates from its consumption compliance with US federally mandated Occupational Safety of energy.
The Board has set a target for the Groups energy and Health training and OHSAS 18001. consumption to be reduced by 10% over the two-year period ending 31 December 2012.
Responsibility to the Environment 2010 2009 - The Group seeks to minimise its impact on the environment.
Global carbon footprint Our Responsible Hospitality policies aim to ensure operational tonnes CO 329,581 329,012 0.17% 2 compliance with all relevant environmental legislation in all of Emissions per room night those countries where we operate.
The Group aims to achieve kg CO 50.70 52.98 -4.29% 2 compliance with the environmental management system ISO 14001.
In 2011, the Groups European region aims to achieve formal accreditation to the ISO 14001 standard.
responsibility to the wider Community As owners as well as operators, the Group recognises that During 2010, the M Hotel in Singapore received the coveted it plays a role in those communities in which our hotels are Green Hotel Award by the Association of Southeast Asian based, providing employment directly and indirectly and Nations.
Many of our New Zealand hotels have been given the paying property taxes to local governments.
In addition, the Qualmark Enviro Award.
In September 2010 our UK properties Group encourages its individual hotels to reach out to local were awarded the Carbon Trust Standard in recognition of communities through volunteering by staff and through achievements in measuring, managing and reducing carbon provision of free space to nominated charities for their fundemissions by 2% across the UK estate since 2007.
several carbon reduction initiatives over the past three years, including the installation of energy-efficient lighting and water At Group level we donated 42,000 to a range of charitable supplies.
During 2011 we aim to improve the monitoring of organisations during 2010 2009: 85,000.
These included utility consumption in the UK by installing automated meter ORBIS, the Haiti Relief Fund, the Child Cancer Foundation and reading.
This will benefit both our environmental and financial the Red Cross.
In 2011, we plan to focus our central charitable performance.
giving on one or two key charities nominated by staff over a period of two to three years.
This will enable our chosen The Group continues to investigate new methods of waste charities to plan and achieve more with the funds we donate.
disposal as we pursue our policy aim to cease adding to landfill sites.
In late 2010, one of our London hotels undertook a threeOur supplier policies seek to favour fair trade sourcing month trial of a new recycling system that converts food waste wherever possible.
to a high quality, organic and completely sterile compost.
The system is still being evaluated and, if successful, will be rolled out to all London hotels during 2011.
Alternative food waste disposal systems are being considered for other hotel operations in regional UK.
46 47 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY BOARD OF DIRECTORS Looking Forward from a CSR perspective.
The Group considers that this will As a major hotel owner and operator, we recognise the Groups enhance Millennium & Copthornes reputation for Responsible impact on society cannot be measured by financial performance Hospitality, will strengthen our relationship with customers, alone.
It will continue to commit time and resources in order employees and suppliers and will support our aim to add value to refine operating practices and improve performance for our shareholders.
48 49 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 MiLLenniUM & CoptHorne HoteLs pLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010
