Corporate social responsibility Last year, 1.1m customers who could not produce proof of their age were refused service Good food We have now published the calori c value of all menu items in Harvester, Toby Carvery and Crown Carveries online Over 70 of Mitchells & Butlers pubs were presented with Best Bar None awards in 2010 The Mitchells & Butlers Good Food Group Our responsibilities highlights Some of our corporate social responsibility highlights Recognising our responsibilities was set up in the year.
The Good Food this year are summarised below: As one of the leading companies in the Group reports to the Executive Committee, UK eating and drinking-out market, with which is responsible for ensuring that the highly visible brands, Mitchells & Butlers purchasing and retailing of food is achieved We have published online the calori c and nutritional information on all menu items understands the vital importance of in a responsible manner.
It brings together for over 400 restaurants.
maintaining high corporate social the Companys key experts to discuss and responsibility values.
Every year, thousands agree the policies that cover the sourcing Over 70 of our restaurants and pubs across of people enjoy visiting restaurants and and purchasing of food ingredients, one of the country entered, and won, a Best Bar None Award for upholding the highest standards pubs, safely, responsibly and without risking which is to source local or British produce of safety and security.
As we serve our customers where price and availability allow.
We also some 125 million meals and 435 million ensure that our suppliers operate to highly 1.1 million customers were refused service for drinks each year in our restaurants and regulated EU animal welfare standards, appearing to be under 21 and being unable to produce acceptable identi cation to prove they pubs, we recognise that we have an thereby helping to safeguard high were of legal drinking age, and 328,000 customers inherent duty under our licences to ensure standards in animal welfare, quality, food were refused service for being, or appearing to be, the responsible operation of our premises safety and, of course, price.
for our guests, employees and the wider we can provide the best possible value for Over 350,000 was donated to worthy causes community.
In addition, we also appreciate money to our customers.
through corporate donations and fundraising the importance of fostering and maintaining by employees.
strong working relationships with suppliers, employees, neighbours and Government Serving alcohol responsibly We achieved a 15% reduction in relative carbon emissions and were awarded the bodies.
As a result, we seek to be at the Our pubs operate in hundreds of Carbon Trust Standard.
forefront of good corporate practice in communities across the UK, serving every area of our business.
thousands of customers every day.
Our We are now recycling 38,000 tonnes of waste Alcohol and Social Responsibility Policy per year, representing the carbon equivalent of 36,500 family cars being taken off the road.
has been in place since 2000 and aims to Good food ensure that all of our licensed premises We have a wide selection of dishes available are operated responsibly, safely and within A more detailed account of Mitchells & Butlers on our menus.
We work closely with our the parameters of the law, while providing corporate social responsibility practices can be found in our separately published food suppliers to develop a range of menu an inclusive environment for the sensible, Corporate Social Responsibility Review 2010 items where we can improve the nutritional controlled consumption of alcohol.
com csrreview content and our food development teams consider how we can incorporate healthy Uniquely, the restaurant and pub cooking practices into our kitchens.
environment ensures that not only the sale but also the consumption of alcohol Mitchells & Butlers was one of the first pub is supervised, lowering the risk of alcohol companies to agree to publish information misuse and overseeing its proper regulation.
on the calorie content of dishes served in its The integral obligation of our licences, linked pubs.
This has enabled our guests to make with the Mitchells & Butlers business code their own choices about the food and drink of conduct, means that our brands do not they want to enjoy in our businesses.
Over conduct irresponsible alcoholic promotions.
400 Toby Carvery, Crown Carveries and For example, no promotions such as 2 for Harvester restaurants now provide 1s, happy hours or pay 10 and drink information about the calories, salt and all you can are allowed.
However, this fat content of their menu items online.
is not the case in wider society, as shown The aim is that this information will be by the off-trade pricing and promotions, available for all brands by the end of 2011. where alcohol is sold cheaply, without any supervisory responsibility.
12 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information We are a major funder of Drinkaware, who aim Mitchells & Butlers was awarded the Carbon Trust to promote responsible drinking Standard for reducing relative carbon emissions by 15.4% The environment Harry Morrison, General Manager of the Carbon Trust Standard left presents Mitchells & Butlers Energy Manager, Richard Felgate with the award following relative savings of 15.4% on carbon emissions Our pub managers are supporters of the national Pubwatch scheme We believe that threatening the safety We are a major funder of Drinkaware, Recycling progress and well-being of staff, customers and which aims to promote responsible drinking Our businesses generate over 100,000 the public in general is unacceptable, and nd innovative ways to challenge the tonnes of waste each year, re ecting our and that those guilty of creating disorder national drinking culture to help reduce scale and market position, and we continue or committing other crimes should be dealt alcohol misuse and minimise alcohol-related to make excellent progress in our efforts with using the full force of the law.
The Drinkaware logo and the Why to recycle.
We are now recycling 38,000 we believe that the authorities should let good times go bad?
strapline is widely tonnes of waste following the roll out deal severely with licensed premises that publicised on drinks menus and brand of much improved recycling services persistently break the law or encourage websites in Mitchells & Butlers.
This is the carbon saving anti-social behaviour.
equivalent of 36,500 family cars being taken off the road and represents a 17,000 tonne The environment recycling increase on FY 2009.
328,000 Reducing energy consumption Reducing energy consumption makes good Food waste Number of customers who were refused sense: most importantly, it helps to tackle We have diverted over 6,000 tonnes of service for appearing to be intoxicated the effects of climate change whilst it also food waste away from land ll, the carbon helps save money.
saving equivalent of taking 12,500 family Under our Alcohol and Social Responsibility cars off the road.
Food waste is recycled Policy, our staff are trained not to serve In early 2008 we created a dedicated energy using anaerobic digestion where microbiotic alcohol to customers who appear to be under team to establish a coherent company-wide organisms turn biodegradable material 21 and cannot provide acceptable ID to approach to energy management.
The team food waste into bio-gas.
This gas can be prove they are over 18: last year, we refused continues to motivate retail managers to converted into electricity and the waste service to over 1.1 million such customers.
focus on their energy consumption which used as fertiliser.
Neither do we serve alcohol to those who resulted in us being awarded the Carbon are, or appear to be, intoxicated: last year, Trust Standard in May 2010 we were Used cooking oil 328,000 customers were refused service as one of the first companies in our sector Almost 3,000 tonnes of used cooking oil they were deemed to have already had too to have received it.
This is an impressive was collected last year for recycling into much to drink.
We consider the impact achievement because we have increased bio-diesel saving over 5,000 tonnes of of our pricing and promotions policies the number of meals served signi cantly carbon, equivalent to taking 24,000 family carefully to ensure we offer no incentives over the last three years but have reduced cars off the road.
or encouragement to drink to excess.
relative carbon emissions by 15.4% per meal.
Future targets This highly responsible approach has Last year saw the launch of the FTSE Based on our improved model of resulted in over 70 of our businesses Carbon Disclosure Project Carbon Strategy waste services, we aim to be diverting winning Best Bar None awards last year.
Index Series, which listed all FTSE 350 80% of waste from land ll by the end of Best Bar None is a national award scheme Index constituents, rated according September 2011 across the whole estate.
supported by the Home Of ce aimed at to their carbon risk exposure and carbon By simultaneously making best use of promoting the responsible management management performance.
On the our three other waste streams dry mixed and operation of alcohol licensed premises.
Emissions Performance area, Mitchells recycling, glass and general waste we & Butlers score of 72.7% compared to a top intend to achieve zero waste to land ll In the year, Toby Carvery and ONeills sector score of 78.8%, a FTSE 350 Index by the end of 2013. included information about units of alcohol average of 27% and a Top 40 average of 65%.
on their drinks menus and our other brands have committed to follow their lead in 2011.
Mitchells & Butlers has over 30 live projects Units of alcohol are displayed on the labels and trials under review and we plan to of Mitchells & Butlers own label wine range.
invest in excess of 10m in energy saving projects over the next three years.
Mitchells & Butlers plc 13 Annual report and accounts 2010 Corporate social responsibility continued Working with local communities Mitchells & Butlers Heart of the Community Awards Over 120 managers entered their pub into winner Sarah Jeffries, Cllr Pam Light and Ember Inns Mitchells & Butlers Heart of the Community retail business manager Colin Brown presenting Awards 2010 Eileen Newman, Chairperson, First Step with a cheque for 10,000 Of the total, around 74,000 was donated Working with local communities Employees by Mitchells & Butlers to a host of national Mitchells & Butlers has always Mitchells & Butlers communicates with and local charities, including a 25,000 encouraged our businesses to get to its employees on a frequent basis and donation to our corporate charity partner know and understand the needs of their in a number of ways to suit their different Marie Curie Cancer Care.
Our employees local communities and our Heart of working patterns.
This includes: raised a further 34,000 for Marie Curie, the Community Awards in May 2010 bringing the total donation for the second recognised the extraordinary lengths that a corporate intranet website: year of our partnership to 59,000. our managers and their teams will go to a dedicated external website for support local good causes.
retail employees: The remainder was raised through a host email news alerts: of fantastic brand-led fundraising activities, Last years overall winner, Sarah Jeffries letters: including: from the Harrow Inn, in Hornchurch, Essex, line manager brie ngs: took on a pub that had a reputation for e-newsletters for mobile workers: our Ember Inns pub teams raised over anti-social behaviour.
However, determined a monthly magazine poster for the 52,000 for Sport Relief during February to get this business back on track, Sarah, retail estate: and and a further 60,000 for Against Breast supported by the police, became the communications forums or road shows Cancer in their fifth annual Drink Pink founder member of the Safe & Sound held by function or brand several times fundraising campaign in April: Partnership and The Harrow can now be a year, across the Company.
Harvester managers and teams raised justi ably proud of its new reputation as another 50,000 for the Make-A-Wish a welcoming and safe place to go.
Details of the financial and economic Foundation in August: and factors affecting the performance of the a group of just 13 Sizzling Pub Co. team Our pub managers are supporters of Company are shared with all employees members cycled 130 miles from Gourock Pubwatch, a voluntary scheme operating at the appropriate time using the methods to Leith over three days and raised an in hundreds of communities across the UK.
incredible 107,358 for Help for Heroes.
Its purpose is to promote a safe, secure and responsible social drinking environment in We provide opportunities for employees Support in Birmingham all licensed premises.
to give their feedback to the Company Mitchells & Butlers, with its Birmingham in a number of ways, from team or shift heritage, is proud to work with a number Charitable activities meetings in pubs, discussion groups with of arts partners in the region and give At least 350,000 was donated to worthy Executive Committee members, annual something back to our local community.
causes during the year, through corporate surveys for all employees and the Mitchells Our support includes sponsoring the world donations and employee fundraising, & Butlers annual Business Forum.
Business class performances of the Birmingham Royal although the total gure will be much Forum representatives collect questions Ballet, working with the Birmingham REP higher if all the many events held across the from employees across the Company and to encourage interest in Midlands theatre Company where employees raised money put them to a special Executive Committee.
and supporting the City of Birmingham for their preferred charities are included.
The questions and answers are published Symphony Orchestras On the Road series in a poster magazine called Its Your Shout.
We recently launched Whats the Big Idea?, a Company-wide new initiative where employees are encouraged to submit their ideas for improving the business, environmentally, nancially or otherwise, via our dedicated employee website launched earlier this year.
14 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Mitchells & Butlers CSR publications More detailed information on Mitchells & Butlers CSR policies and initiatives can be accessed online at: www.
com csr The following publications are also available online: Annual corporate social responsibility review: Alcohol and Social Responsibility policies Entrepreneur and thirsty Dragon Duncan Bannatyne Mitchells & Butlers publishes a comprehensive Our Alcohol and Social Responsibility policies launched Ember Inns Drink Pink campaign which corporate social responsibility review every December.
for England & Wales and for Scotland detail raised 60,000 for Against Breast Cancer This review covers key areas of importance to us as our responsible operational, promotional and a Company, as well as to our customers, employees, training guidelines.
local communities, suppliers and shareholders, namely: Food: Alcohol: Employees: Community: Environment: and Corporate Governance.
This year saw the launch of e-learning Health and safety The Company has adopted a Code of and our retail teams have now completed We strive to ensure our pubs provide a safe Ethics the Code to promote honest and over 46,000 interactive modules online, environment for all our staff and customers.
ethical conduct throughout our business.
including food, health and re safety, In addition, we: The Code, which previously applied to Challenge 21 and Intermediate Food Hygiene.
all senior managers, was extended during aim to protect the health of our 2010 to cover all corporate employees.
Employees with disabilities employees through our health and The Code requires: Through our diversity and equal safety management strategies: opportunities policy, the Company aims seek to minimise the risk of injury compliance with all applicable rules and to provide an environment which enables from Company activity: and regulations that apply to the Company job candidates with disabilities to perform ensure that suf cient resources and and its of cers: better by seeking, where possible, to make information are made available and the ethical handling of actual or apparent reasonable adjustments.
Through our online suitable management systems are in con icts of interest between internal and recruitment system, candidates can inform place to address health and safety matters.
external personal and professional us directly about their disability, so that relationships: and we can make adjustments, enabling them The Company requires pub managers to that any hospitality from suppliers must to perform to the best of their ability on keep records of all safety checks for food, be approved, with a presumption against assessment events.
In addition, each its acceptance.
year we run designated safety weeks aimed Should any employee of the Company at reinforcing the Companys policies and In addition, Mitchells & Butlers offers an become disabled during their time with us, making our pubs even safer places for our independently administered con dential we actively make adjustments, including customers and staff.
During these awareness hotline, also known as a whistle-blowing arranging appropriate training, to keep the weeks, staff receive appropriate refresher hotline, for any employee wishing to report employee with us.
We take steps both training and speci c topics or areas of any concern that they feel is inappropriate to increase the effectiveness of employees best practice are highlighted, for example, to raise with their line manager.
All with disabilities and to ensure they are in re evacuation drills, hazard spotting whistleblowing allegations are reported a suitable role.
exercises, food safety messages, Challenge to and considered by the Executive and 21 policy and robbery prevention training.
Industry partnerships The Board takes regular account of It is essential we actively work with our Corporate governance social, environmental and ethical matters key authorities and industry bodies in Our Company is underpinned with concerning the Company through the pursuit of our commitment to responsible a high level of corporate governance and Chief Executives regular reports to the retailing practices.
recognises its role in creating a successful, Board and presentations to the Board at its sustainable and pro table business.
The Company Secretary We are a long-standing member of the have implemented business conduct is responsible for ensuring that Directors British Beer & Pub Association and have guidelines describing the standards of are made aware of and receive training in senior managers and retail business behaviour expected from those working respect of such matters.
managers representing the Company for the Company.
The Board is also responsible for the Companys internal risk management system.
More details can be found in the Risks and uncertainties section of this report.
Mitchells & Butlers plc 15 Annual report and accounts 2010
