27 27 M MIIT TIIE G E Gr ro ou up P p PL LC C A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt t a an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 10 0 Corporate responsibility Our unwavering commitment to CR and the successes we have achieved serve to strengthen our reputation as a responsible Responsible and ethical business.
We utilise our CR capabilities to enhance our working relationships with our clients and suppliers as well as supporting communities and practice across third sector partners, demonstrating to our 01 01 stakeholders that we have a responsible and sustainable business model.
MITIE relies on the knowledge and skills everything of its people to deliver its unique range of services.
Providing appropriate training and development to support our people is vital to delivering the quality of service we do demanded by our clients.
MITIE is one of the largest employers of trade apprentices in the UK, currently employing 419 across our business.
We spent over 4.4m on training this year with over 40,000 training delegate days and we retained 92% of management.
MITIE adopts the highest ethical standards 3 38 8 and understands its responsibilities to all of our stakeholders including our employees, clients, suppliers, subcontractors, investors, competitors and the general public.
MITIE is committed to embedding responsible business practice 1 into everyday operations, policies, procedures and practices, and 7 2 providing opportunities for people to develop their full potential.
60 60 6 3 This year we have refined the links between our corporate and CR strategies by introducing new SMART objectives that 5 4 fully align the five pillars of our CR strategy to our corporate Our strategy strategy.
These objectives appear as KPIs in our CR strategy Responsibility matrix and in our dedicated CR Report which has further detail on all our CR related activities.
A new expanded online account of our CR activities and strategy matrix will be available at www.
com CR 100% The 100% organic fertiliser we make from our waste at Londons iconic Brewery is re-circulated to the farmers in our supply chain.
This is just one of the many sustainable practices weve introduced 100% of the disposable products we use each year are bio-degradable.
Weve also reduced energy consumption in the kitchens by half and lowered our carbon footprint by sourcing locally and cutting transport times.
Erling Rugsten Executive Chef Accounts Governance B Bu us si in ne es ss r s re ev vi ie ew w Overview 28 28 M MIIT TIIE E G Gr ro ou up P p PL LC C A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt t a an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 10 0 Corporate responsibility Our key business principles are published Key Performance Indicators in our policies, which are available at Unit 2010 2009 Difference www.
Total Revenue m 1,720 1,522 13% Our impact on the environment is given Average number of employees Number 53,631 50,054 7% careful consideration across every aspect of the business.
The last 12 months has Total CO2 emissions Tonnes 36,463 34,696 5% seen the Carbon Reduction Commitment Normalised CO2 emissions per employee Tonnes 0.68 0.69 1% CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme Normalised CO2 emissions per m revenue Tonnes 21 23 9% further elevate the issue of energy management onto the boardroom 3 Total water consumption m 18,948 17,843 6% agenda and encouraged businesses Normalised water consumption to reconsider their energy consumption 3 per employee m 0.35 0.36 3% and identify areas to implement carbon Total waste Tonnes 1,168 933 25% management strategies.
Total waste per employee Kg 22 19 16% MITIE is providing strategic carbon management to a broad spectrum Total waste recycled Tonnes 595 411 45% of clients with advisory and practical Percentage of recycled total waste % 51 44 16% support on the interpretation of legislation Percentage of recycled waste including the CRC and the delivery of principal buildings % 72 44 64% energy reduction measures.
We have continued our involvement in landfill This year our emissions have been calculated using the DEFRA Sept 2009 v2 conversion factors to Green House Gases.
avoidance programmes with the In accordance with DEFRA guidelines our 2008 09 emissions have been recalculated for ease of comparison.
development and delivery of a range of recycling and best practice solutions Health and safety has always been a In 2009 MITIE also improved its position on including waste to energy programmes priority for MITIE and we strive to improve the Business in the Community BITC CR to facilities across the UK.
We use Index from 81.5% to 88.7%, maintaining its Since 2006, MITIE has proactively management systems and controls to position in the Silver Category and was publicised its environmental KPIs support our occupational health and awarded a new Big Tick in the Skills in the addressing the five key impacts of safety OH&S targets, providing Workplace category of their National electricity, gas and water consumption, comprehensive training across all levels Awards for Excellence 2010.
And in 2010, transport emissions and waste creation.
of the organisation and implementing an Suzanne Baxter, Group Finance Director, Over the coming 12 months MITIEs focus improvement process to control key risks.
was awarded the ICAEW Inspiring on environmental sustainability will adopt Our health and safety performance Confidence in Business Award by the the CarbonCare philosophy engaging has improved this year to a rate of three FDs Excellence Awards supported by in improved practices and strategies for and a half reportable accidents per one the CBI.
The award recognises an FD who data capture, monitoring and analysis, thousand employees.
has made an outstanding contribution to allowing us to implement environmental their business through linking sustainability MITIE makes a significant contribution to management strategies for all of our activities to organisational performance, a variety of communities across the UK.
office facilities and prioritise appropriate and placing sustainability at the centre This contribution is demonstrated by buildings for attention.
This year our of strategy development.
numerous initiatives including volunteering, normalised CO2 emissions per employee in-kind donations, pro-bono support and CR is fundamental to MITIE as a business and emissions per pound of revenue have sponsorships.
Our charity policy directs our and is a key part of our corporate strategy.
decreased by one percent and nine main fundraising support to six regional This table shows how we link the seven percent respectively.
charities, although we also provide support elements of our corporate strategy for various other charities that are of namely clients, people, risk, responsibility, particular interest to our people.
We integration, profitability and acquisitions contributed over 400,000 to communities to the five corporate responsibility pillars of across the UK during this financial year.
people, service and delivery, environment, Corporate Responsibility report 2010 health & safety and community.
We have maintained and expanded For more information about the great things we do look at our CR report or visit the website www.
com CR our seven Construction Skills Centres at www.
com cr schools across the UK designed to provide craft skills and vocational education to approximately 500 students aged 1419 years and further enhanced our multiaward winning Real Apprentice scheme with a joint programme in partnership with Jobcentre Plus and London Employer Accord in 2009 entitled Raising the Game on Disability.
This programme has been designed to provide training and employment opportunities specifically to unemployed people with physical, mental or learning issues.
29 29 M MIIT TIIE G E Gr ro ou up P p PL LC C A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt t a an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 10 0 CR objectives People Service & Environment Health & Safety Community Business strategy Delivery Two Real Apprentice Engage with Demonstrate MITIE Share best practice Three FM Skills Centres 1.
Clients employability top 50 clients capability for delivering with five clients that at client schools programmes with environmental have significant Satisfy clients Three top 50 client 12 clients, offering improvements operational risks Contribute to business community projects 30 placements Two opportunities for needs Record split of gender clients to improve their Offer value for money and ethnicity through knowledge of MITIEs 01 01 Maintain quality ERP system environmental capability relationships Support energy and waste reduction to reduce costs 10 Diversity awareness MITIEs culture, values Four environmental H&S competency Six World of Work events 2.
People training courses and CR credentials are training courses framework in schools Training & support for communicated via throughout MITIE Pledge for Three environment related Employee talent management career development 100 Apprenticeships, volunteer projects volunteering policy and maximum potential programme, inductions, 530 NVQs and 120 Skills and CR seminars for Life qualifications by Develop and reward to July 2010 improve retention and motivation Reinforce MITIEs culture and values Risk assessments, Undertake 20 CR audit Impact data monitoring Implement division Precautions to 3.
Risk PPE and equipment reviews of suppliers system during 2010 specific requirements mitigate risks with to MITIE employees of MITIE QHSE strategy community projects Strategic Quarterly MI impacts for volunteering e. g. Real Apprentice, reviews across MITIEs Operational programmes Skills Centres, etc administrative offices 3 38 8 Financial Compliance Understand risks and impacts Manage, mitigate or eliminate risks Four CR awareness Climate change event 15% office energy and Four client based Health Environmental audits 4.
Responsibility seminars and for client participation 80% recycling rate by 2013 Awareness Days of MITIEs Construction five inductions Skills Centres Maintain good H&S MITIE family fun day with 10% Fleet fuel reduction performance 60 60 UN International Year by 2013 Sustainability inputs of Biodiversity for Real Apprentice Supporting communities 10% telematic tracker programme Manage and reduce systems in Fleet and reduce average CO2 environmental impacts vehicle emissions from Train, develop and reward 147g km currently our people Contribute to MITIEs success Four joint MITIE and Integration across MITIE Sustainability guidance Integrated H&S plan Four employee 5.
Integration client employee for client CR initiatives for employees for each multi-service volunteer Integration for improved volunteering events FM contract projects New interactive methods efficiency and seamless via MITIE intranet service with common systems and processes Increase financial CR KPIs to enhance Develop and expand Develop best practice Two Real Apprentice 6.
Profitability potential through client social responsibility, CarbonCare, for top three significant programmes in TM participation in four MITIE profitability and reduce TREEHUGGER and operational risks conjunction with Continuous profitable growth with improved volunteering projects environmental impact other MITIE initiatives 12 clients social and environmental impacts Run CR reviews of Verify CR during Acquired businesses Full H&S due Engage acquired 7.
Acquisitions prospective acquisition 100 day integration adopt MITIEs sustainability diligence process businesses in MITIE Selective, value businesses during due commitments Skills Centres CR inductions within three diligence process enhancing acquisitions months of acquisition Environmental Acquire quality and legislation analysis in due diligence complementary businesses Accounts Governance B Bu us si in ne es ss r s re ev vi ie ew w Overview
