qxd 3 7 11 6:45 AM Page 34 Sustainable development review Mondi actively supports the preservation of High Conservation Value HCV areas Sustainable development is integral to our business.
We Managing sustainability aim to create solutions for our customers success, delivering Accountability for our sustainable development policies, exceptional value in a sustainable way.
As such, we recognise standards and requirements as well as our commitments that we need to integrate sound principles governing safety, and actions is provided by the DLC sustainable development business conduct, social, environmental and economic committee, DLC executive committee, the sustainable activities into our business practices and decision-making.
development leadership panel and five global specialist network groups.
Our sustainable development policy outlines Four key objectives underpin our sustainability vision: our overall strategy and is supported by our seven sector producing sought-after products in a responsible manner: policies, which deal with: sustainable forestry: environmental securing continued access to raw materials in a resourceperformance: climate change mitigation: product stewardship constrained world: integration: corporate citizenship responsibilities: global attracting and retaining talented people: and employment standards: and protecting the safety and maintaining our licence to operate within our host occupational health of our employees and contractors.
Our Sustainable Development Management System SDMS This is a brief review of our approach to sustainability and provides a robust and comprehensive mechanism for ensuring effective sustainability governance and implementing our the most material issues facing the Group.
We publish more sustainable development sector policies.
The SDMS detailed information in the sustainable development section of is implemented to different degrees across the Group, our website at www.
com sustainability and in our depending on the nature and level of risks faced in each of printed Sustainable Development Review.
Our printed and our operations.
It also sets out the ways in which sustainable online reports have been developed in accordance with the development risks are managed within the Group.
Our Global Reporting Initiatives GRI G3 guidelines, with Mondi sustainable development risk register is reviewed and updated declaring a B level of reporting.
The compliance of these annually to ensure that action plans are in place to mitigate and reports with the GRI G3 guidelines application level B control all risks with a high impact potential and likelihood.
requirements has been assured by external auditor, ERM.
ERMs assurance statement can be found at In 2010, we reviewed our sustainable development risks in www.
The reports terms of the key impacts that we have on sustainability and have also been reviewed by GRI.
on our stakeholders: and the sustainability trends, risks and opportunities that affect our long-term prospects and While this report is for the 2010 financial year, we also financial performance.
report on our progress against our five-year sustainable development commitments, given that 2010 is the end of our The risk table is divided into two sections.
Section one five-year commitment period.
As a signatory to the UN Global highlights the key impacts that we have on sustainability and Compact, we also report in compliance with its requirements on our stakeholders.
Section two focuses on the sustainability on an annual basis and our latest Communication on trends, risks and opportunities that affect our long-term Progress COP may be found on our website.
34 Annual report and accounts 2010 Mondi AR Director R1 3Mar11.
qxd 3 7 11 6:45 AM Page 35 KEY IMPACTS ON SUSTAINABILITY AND OUR STAKEHOLDERS Potential risk Mitigation and control strategies Employee High inherent risk of fatality, Visible management commitment to zero harm in the workplace contractor serious injury, illness, disease safety is a value and has the same priority as other business objectives safety and health and substance abuse Up-to-date register of significant safety risks Mandatory Group management system, standards and performance requirements Aligned skills training for safe behaviours being based on our Nine Safety Rules to Live By Work within externally accredited safety management systems such as OHSAS 18001 Process safety High inherent risk Clear standards, a regular review of our hazard analysis and an up-toof catastrophic failure date risk register of significant process safety risks of plant and equipment Mandatory Group management system, standards and performance requirements including the safety manual for kraft recovery boiler plant operation Inspections, assessments, audits, assurance reports and improvement plans Rehearsal and drill of local emergency plans and arrangements Combustible High inherent risk of fire due Regular review of fire risks prevention measures materials to combustible inventories at Regular third-party loss prevention programme asset value E5 million operations and in forestry Emergency preparedness and business continuity planning Change in South High inherent risk due to Change from manual to mechanical harvesting in a socially African harvesting public perception of the responsible manner practices change loss of rural support Provision of meals for contractors Food 4 Forests programme mechanisation of and due to chronic ill-health of Mkhondo development programme plantation forestry current contractor workforce Mondi Zimele enterprise development programme Land claims in Continued inherent moderate Continue working constructively with Government and South Africa risk of loss of fibre supply from communities to develop claimant communities into sustainable land claims in South Africa forestry enterprises Environmental Moderate inherent risk due Up-to-date register of significant environmental risks impact from loss to loss of containment in Mandatory Group management system and standards and performance of containment pulp manufacturing requirements that are based on recognised good industry practice Inspections, assessments, audits, assurance reports and improvement plans ISO 14001 certifications Frequent review of Best Available Technique concepts and related emission level values Public health claims Moderate inherent health Nuisance reduction programme in South Africa risks owing to health Active issue management addressing specific concerns and regular effects from plant emissions communication with stakeholders on surrounding communities First phase of odour reduction project in Richards Bay as a nuisance reduction measure RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES FROM SUSTAINABILITY TRENDS Unsustainable High inherent risk of loss of Internationally credible certifications forestry practices access to credible resources Chain-of-Custody certifications for operations TM due to loss of certification Compliance with FSC s Controlled Wood Standard Participation in international forestry dialogues Climate change Moderate inherent risk as Reduction of specific GHG emissions by 23% against a 2004 base year footprint fossil fuel emissions reduce Aim to increase share of biomass in energy generation at a slower pace Provision of product carbon footprint information Mondi Group 35 Directors report Mondi AR Director R1 3Mar11.
qxd 3 7 11 6:45 AM Page 36 Sustainable development review continued In 2005, we established key sustainable development Forests and climate change commitments, addressing the most significant and material Deforestation, which often occurs as land is cleared for other sustainability issues facing the Group.
For a detailed account of our purposes, such as agriculture or urban development, and performance against these commitments, see our online Sustainable forest degradation account for a significant proportion of Development Report at www.
man-made global greenhouse gas GHG emissions.
Forests can help counteract or moderate climate change because of Sustainable, responsible forestry and their ability to absorb and store CO and thus serve as sinks 2 climate change or storehouses within the carbon cycle.
The faster a tree As a significant holder and manager of land, particularly in grows, the more carbon it absorbs.
This means that growing developing countries, and as an operator in an industry that forests contribute to reducing the level of CO in the 2 potentially has a high impact on the natural environment, atmosphere.
Sustainably managed forests maintain a high we are highly cognisant of our stewardship role and our level of tree growth and optimum levels of CO uptake.
2 responsibility to use forestry resources in a sustainable way.
This is particularly so in the context of historical and ongoing Ecosystems and biodiversity conservation degradation of many of the worlds natural ecosystems and Not only do we have an impact on ecosystems and their the potentially devastating impact of climate change.
regulatory climate regulation, flood control, waste disposal and provisioning services fresh water, fibre, food, but we No life without forests also depend on them.
In line with our sustainable Forests serve as habitats for two-thirds of terrestrial animal development commitments we recognise our responsibility to and plant species: prevent soil erosion and water run-off: conserve natural resources and, where possible, to maintain maintain the chemical balance of soil, air and water: recycle and promote biodiversity in our forests.
nutrients: break down pollutants: clean the air and water: are vital to watershed protection and soil formation: and Our operations and their impacts on biodiversity are play a major role in regulating our climate.
monitored to minimise any negative impacts on soil and water resources, and to safeguard functioning ecosystems.
The The main global concerns related to the management of Group has been involved in some of the early, pioneering forests are deforestation through illegal logging: the logging of work on ecosystems playing a key role in wetland, protected or high conservation value HCV areas: and timber grassland and HCV ecosystems.
The development of Ecosystem Management Plans EMPs Although Mondi is involved in the felling of trees, we are not party for all our forestry operations in South Africa and Russia is to deforestation.
For every tree that is felled in our plantation a dynamic process, helping us improve the way we identify, forests, at least one other is planted.
In our natural forests, felled protect, preserve, manage and in some cases restore, areas are left to regenerate naturally and poor regeneration is supplemented with plantings.
Mondi is not involved in illegal functioning ecosystems and biodiversity.
logging and we have strict fibre sourcing requirements.
We identify and protect any ecologically important areas The sustainable development challenge for Mondi, and under our management and actively protect areas of indeed our sector, lies in balancing growing demand for important ecological value such as wetlands, grasslands forestry goods and services with enhanced ecological, and natural forests, our aim being to connect these landscape and social values, and building stakeholder sensitive areas with ecosystem networks to help preserve confidence in the sustainable forest products industry.
In South Africa, we always leave a minimum of 25% of land under management aside Mondis approach: responsible forestry for conservation purposes.
Mondi has developed policies and practices that reflect an While we can only directly influence practices on our approach we call responsible, sustainable forestry.
At the own land, we believe that the work we are undertaking in heart of our approach lies our engagement with stakeholders collaboration with the South African Governments 20-year at a local, regional and global level, both in partnership and Grassland Programme, the Ezemvelo KZN Wildlife Biodiversity multi-stakeholder forums, to inform our practices and actions.
Stewardship Programme and the Mondi Wetlands We collaborate with a number of non-governmental organisations NGOs and participate in international forestry Programme can set a clear direction for other landowners dialogues in pursuit of this goal.
36 Annual report and accounts 2010 Mondi AR Director R1 3Mar11.
qxd 3 7 11 6:45 AM Page 37 large plantation area, is incorporated into the iSimangaliso Third party certification Wetland Park, providing protection for sensitive wetland and Wood is Mondis most important raw material.
It is therefore other HCV areas.
in our interest to ensure that we meet and support the requirements of sustainable forestry practices, from the Economic performance management of our own forests right through to the Creating economic value procurement of our wood and fibre through the supply chain.
As a corporate taxpayer, major employer, investor and Responsible forestry is becoming an increasingly important purchaser of goods and services, Mondi makes a significant competitive tool, and demand for certified wood and forest contribution to the economies in which we operate.
TM products, particularly Forest Stewardship Council FSC - certified, is growing.
Credible certification provides Mondi, Value added statement E million our customers, consumers and stakeholders with assurance 2010 2009 that the wood and fibre it buys is legitimately sourced from Turnover 6,228 5,257 sustainable forests.
Mondi is committed to ensuring that no Purchased materials and services 4,365 3,788 wood is procured from controversial sources, and that all Value added 1,863 1,469 virgin fibre mills are certified to internationally credible Distributed to: Chain-of-Custody CoC standards.
Employees 963 871 In 2010, we reached our target of 60% of wood supplied to Providers of equity capital 72 48 our processing plants being certified.
The uncertified balance Providers of loan capital 117 163 TM meets the FSC Controlled Wood Standard or the PEFCs Direct taxes paid 47 32 Chain-of-Custody Standard and ensures suppliers source Reinvested in the Group 664 355 from legal and non-controversial sources.
Mondis ability to Total 1,863 1,469 achieve increased certified wood percentages on an ongoing basis depends to a large degree upon the availability of certified products from external suppliers, in particular from Transformation and empowerment in small growers, a continuing challenge.
South Africa Supporting the preservation of High Mondi subscribes fully to the tenets of transformation and Conservation Value HCV areas broad-based black economic empowerment BBBEE in South Africa.
Giving life to this at an equity level, is our Mondi actively supports the preservation of HCV areas in both relationship with Shanduka Resources, a leading BEE company South Africa and Russia.
We are engaged in partnerships to in South Africa, which holds a 42% interest in Mondis identify, classify and preserve forest and other ecosystems integrated South African newsprint business Mondi Shanduka designated as HCV areas owing to their ecological or social Newsprint and a 25% interest in Mondi Packaging South Africa.
We track and report on our BBBEE progress as prescribed We support the HCV Resource Network HCV RN, a global by the BBBEE Codes of Good Practice regulated by the network of organisations and individuals, which promotes a South African Department of Trade and Industry.
In 2010 an practical, consistent approach to HCV methodology, and independent verification agency certified Mondi as a Level 3 participate actively in its activities.
BBBEE contributor on a scale of 1 to 8, with 1 being the most-highly rated, noting specifically the Groups New Generation Plantations performance in respect of preferential procurement, Mondi is a partner in the New Generation Plantations NGP enterprise development and socio-economic development.
Project, which is a collaboration between the WWF, This is an improvement on our rating as a Level 4 contributor companies and governments, working together to develop in 2009. sustainable forestry solutions, and to promote management frameworks that create good environmental, social and Social performance economic results.
SiyaQhubeka Forests is a good example People: Safety and health of Mondis support for the NGP approach.
SiyaQhubeka Forests a partnership between Mondi and our BEE In line with our visible management commitment to zero partners, government and local communities has played a harm in the workplace and supported by our Group SDMS, leading role in ensuring 9,000 hectares of land, including a we take positive and proactive actions to improve our Mondi Group 37 Directors report Mondi AR Director R1 3Mar11.
qxd 3 7 11 6:45 AM Page 38 Sustainable development review continued Mondis products are inherently sustainable, based on natural fibres from renewable sources safety and health performance.
We believe that all injuries we recorded an LTIFR of 0.14 against a target of 0.10, are preventable and that no injury should be repeated if we an 18% improvement compared with 2009 and a 53% learn from experience.
We keep an up-to-date register of all improvement compared with the 2005 base year significant safety risks and the improvements we have 60% when excluding the performance of acquisitions.
made in leadership, people involvement, plant practices and infrastructure have led to recent reductions in injuries Lost-time injury frequency rate per 200,000 hours and incidents.
We do, however, recognise that more still 2005 0.30 needs to be done and it is with great regret that we report 2006 0.31 two fatal accidents during the year, both in South Africa one involving a contractor in the forests, and the other an 2007 0.23 employee at the Merebank operation.
2008 0.18 2009 0.17 We measure our overall safety performance for employees 2010 0.14 and contractors using the lost-time injury frequency rate 0 0.05 0.10 0.15 0.20 0.25 0.30 0.35 LTIFR, which is based on 200,000 hours worked.
In 2010 38 Annual report and accounts 2010 Mondi AR Director R1 3Mar11.
qxd 3 7 11 6:45 AM Page 39 Most of our material operations work within externally race, or gender.
Mondi is proud to provide equal opportunities accredited safety management systems and regular to men and women, and we ensure that our policies and practices support this.
inspections, assessments and audits ensure that we devise and implement improvement plans as soon as a safety Although we continue to be faced with many challenges hazard is identified and the risk assessed.
In addition, we in reaching our employment equity objectives at our South conduct extensive safety training and safety drills across the African operations, we remain committed to these and Group and regularly review our fire prevention measures at have training and career development initiatives in place to all our operations and forest areas.
develop previously disadvantaged persons in a manner that is beneficial and meaningful to the Group and employees.
As incidents can involve contractors, Mondi has been focusing on improving the management of contractor People: Land claims and community health safety for many years.
Contractor safety performance in South Africa has consequently improved and an LTIFR of 0.07 was recorded for 2010.
Mondi has developed an innovative model for engaging and settling with land claimant communities in South Africa, and During 2010, additional focus was placed on annual is working constructively with government and communities maintenance outages as well as large projects.
This to develop claimant communities into sustainable forestry additional focus, guidance and coaching resulted in all the enterprises.
Critical to Mondis approach is ensuring that the land claim beneficiaries receive meaningful and sustainable material sites completing their annual maintenance outage benefits, and that sources of fibre are both assured and periods without a single lost-time injury.
TM sustainably managed into the future and retain their FSC certification.
In addition, the Mondi Zimele and Mondi People: Employment and diversity Forestry Partners Division assist new timber farmers from We develop and empower our people to achieve strong claimant communities to win preferential forestry contracts performance and personal growth in a dynamic and trusting by means of providing dedicated business training, culture that embraces diversity.
At the end of December mentoring and funding.
2010, Mondi employed 29,000 people across the Group and provided employment for an estimated average of The primary community health concerns for our South African 21,000 contractors during the year.
employees and communities are malnutrition and HIV AIDS.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are fully Inadequate nutrition, especially in impoverished rural considered.
In the event of an employee becoming disabled, communities in close proximity to some of our operations, is every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the a significant community health issue in South Africa.
In 2008, Group continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is Mondis South Africa Division launched the Food 4 Forests the policy of the Group that the training, career development programme with the aim of ensuring that employees and and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, contractors working in forestry operations receive and consume be consistent with that of other employees.
a nutritionally balanced meal during the course of their days work.
The results have been remarkable with 2010s figures Training and development showing 8,050 workers receiving over 1.8 million meals, via We strongly support the training and development of our 220 drop-off points.
employees and contractors, not only so that they may The HIV AIDS pandemic continues to cause mortalities and undertake their jobs safely and productively, but also so that they may fulfill their potential.
In 2010, a total of 1.65 million illness amongst employees and community members alike, hours of employee and contractor time was devoted to resulting in a significant number of orphans and vulnerable training and development.
Safety training focused on critical children OVCs.
Our efforts focus on improving employees tasks as determined by one of our safety indicators for 2010. understanding of the condition: managing the impact of HIV AIDS in the workplace: offering treatment to those who Mondis leadership development programmes encompass are HIV-positive: and facilitating access to health care for rural local initiatives designed and implemented at site level: and communities.
We are also committed to reducing the spread leadership development programmes designed and of the disease in the wider community and supporting those managed centrally to ensure consistency across the Group.
Our efforts include mobile clinics to take HIV AIDS programmes and primary health care to We encourage and embrace diversity, and are committed to contractor employees and communities living around Mondis the fair and equitable treatment of all, irrespective of origin, forestry operations and the Isibindi Project, a communityMondi Group 39 Directors report Mondi AR Director R1 3Mar11.
qxd 3 7 11 6:45 AM Page 40 Sustainable development review continued based programme which Mondi has rolled out to address Our community investment is focused on the following the needs of OVCs directly affected by the disease.
identified priorities, although we are mindful that there may be site-specific imperatives: Human rights education and training: local economic development: We aim to develop a diverse, multinational workforce poverty alleviation: that accurately reflects the diversity of the countries and healthcare and in South Africa particularly, HIV AIDS: communities in which we operate.
We also endeavour to environmental education and rehabilitation: and ensure that our suppliers and customers operate in line with sports and recreation.
We recognise that issues related to the cultural heritage of indigenous communities affected by our During 2010, Mondi contributed some E12.6 million 2009: operations, particularly those living in or close to forests, need E9.3 million towards charitable donations and corporate to be addressed in a sensitive manner.
We aim to resolve social investment projects.
these issues in a spirit of respect, trust and dialogue.
Corporate social investment expenditure E000 We subscribe to the Universal Declaration on Human Rights 2010 2009 and the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights and Community health and welfare 691 140 ensure the provision of a fair, safe and healthy workplace for all Education and youth 679 596 employees, free from discrimination, harassment or abuse.
Environment 29 69 Community development 6,427 5,133 We are a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact Arts, culture and heritage 146 306 UNGC and ensure alignment of our policies and practices Housing 837 with the Global Compact principles.
Other 3,802 3,101 Total 12,611 9,345 In line with the Fundamental Rights Conventions of the International Labour Organization ILO, to which we subscribe, The Groups policy is that no company in the Group shall all employees are free to bargain collectively and can join a make contributions or donations for political purposes.
trade union of their choice.
Our labour standards ensure that our remuneration systems are fair.
We prohibit the employment Environmental performance of under-age labour and we do not procure goods or services from suppliers who use child labour.
We do not engage in Environmental issues have been integrated into Group and forced or compulsory labour practice and none of our operational strategies and plans.
All mill operations have operations are deemed to be at risk in this regard.
We have environmental management systems certified to ISO 14001 developed a Code of Conduct for Mondi Group suppliers in place, except for Stambolijski in Bulgaria, which is awaiting that requires their adherence to these principles.
certification after being mothballed in 2009 and restarted in 2010: and the Tire paper mill in Turkey, which is a recent Society acquisition and has not yet been certified.
We want Mondi to be a sustainable, socially responsible business that makes a lasting contribution to the communities Wood is an essential raw material for all of our virgin paperin which we operate, both through direct and indirect based products.
From wood fibre Mondi produces pulp, the economic contributions and through community engagement basic ingredient of all paper and paper-based packaging.
Our Socio Economic Assessment Tool SEAT pulp and paper manufacturing process also requires a large programme assists us in developing a structured approach to amount of process water and energy in the form of steam improve the wellbeing of our communities.
SEAT reports drive and electrical power.
our community programmes and facilitate improvements in terms of quality, relevance, scope and effectiveness of our Energy consumption and CO emissions 2 corporate social investment programmes and projects.
We recognise the need to consider and plan for the consequences of climate change, both in respect of the We focus on sustainable community development initiatives physical and non-physical impacts on our business, and the by partnering with other stakeholders and by building human and institutional capacity.
Specifically, we encourage impacts on our markets.
As we operate largely in developing partnerships and consistent dialogue with community economies, we consider the impacts of climate change on change agents and key government officials.
40 Annual report and accounts 2010 Mondi AR Director R1 3Mar11.
qxd 3 7 11 6:45 AM Page 41 In 2010, our energy consumption in primary activities Between 2004 and 2010, we reduced our specific CO e 2 the production of pulp and paper was 86.1 million GJ emissions by 23%, against a 2004 base year.
The increase in energy consumption CO e emissions from fossil fuel combustion are widely was mainly caused by increased production volumes.
Total 2 electricity requirements amounted to 5.6 million MWh accepted to be one of the most significant drivers of climate 2009: 5.0 million MWh, with 79% of this electricity generated change.
Our climate change programme is aimed largely at by Mondis own power plants, using 66.7 million GJ fossil the more efficient use of energy, and increasing our use of fuels and 80.2 million GJ biomass.
A total of 7.3 million GJ of renewable energy biomass, solar and wind and switching to fossil fuels that are less carbon intensive.
energy was sold to third parties, mainly from our operations in Syktyvkar, St et and Ruzomber ok.
Between 2004 and One of the ways in which we optimise energy consumption, 2010, we reduced our specific energy consumption for pulp and hence reduce CO e emissions, is by maximising the use and paper production by 11%, against a 2004 base year.
2 of combined heat and power CHP technology.
In 2010, more than 90% of the electricity consumed by Mondi In 2010, our direct scope 1 Group-wide GHG emissions operations was generated by CHP, with commensurate amounted to 4.45 million tonnes CO e 2009: 4.54 million 2 energy savings of between 30% and 35% when compared tonnes CO e, while our indirect scope 2 emissions from 2 with conventional generation methods.
purchased energy were 1.41 million tonnes CO e 2 2009: 1.37 million tonnes CO e. Our indirect emissions 2 To reduce our CO e emissions still further, we use less scope 3 from transporting our products, employee 2 carbon-rich fossil fuels natural gas to replace coal wherever commuting and business travel reported for the first time possible.
We are also increasing our use of carbon neutral amounted to 0.34 million tonnes.
Responsibility for our products Mondi is committed to developing and delivering cost-efficient, high-performance, environmentally responsible paper and packaging solutions for our customers and users.
We work to make sustainability a reality at every step of the supply chain by providing the products needed at the lowest possible financial, environmental and social cost.
We value mutually beneficial interaction with our customers and strive for lasting business relationships.
Responsible and effective product stewardship involves actively managing the environmental, and safety and health impacts of our products throughout their lifecycles, from our forests to the end product, for all our products.
Our stewardship approach is based on the integrated approach advocated by the Life-Cycle Initiative as set out in the United Nations Environmental Programme.
We have continued our efforts to measure and report the carbon footprints of our primary products.
Since 2004, we have reduced our specific CO e emissions by 23%.
2 A Group-wide tool for calculating our product carbon footprint has been embedded into our sustainable development reporting system.
We have aligned our supply chain management with our environmental commitments, and have started to monitor and calculate the carbon footprint associated with the transport and distribution of our products.
In 2010, we had CO e emissions of 0.27 million tonnes from the transport of our products.
2 Examples of Mondis sustainable, responsible products include our pioneering Sustainex biodegradable packaging a range of sustainable plastics and the Mondi Green Range, where all products are certified by internationally recognised bodies to ensure we comply with our commitment towards conserving natural resources and reducing waste.
For more information visit: www.
More than 95% of our products are made with recyclable fibre.
Our corrugated board can be re-used up to seven times before the fibres become unusable, while fide-inked newsprint can be used up to four times.
Materials that are too degraded for use in paper or board products can provide carbon-neutral energy.
Recovered paper is an indispensable raw material for our business and, in 2010, we used approximately 1.8 million tonnes of recovered paper to produce pulp.
This amounted to 33% of our total pulp used.
Mondi Group 41 Directors report Mondi AR Director R1 3Mar11.
qxd 3 7 11 6:45 AM Page 42 Sustainable development review continued Mondi produces cost-efficient, high-performance, environmentally responsible paper and packaging solutions biomass fuels.
At all of our kraft pulp mills, we use biomass we operate.
To achieve our goal of cleaner production, we for example, black liquor, an aqueous solution of residues focus on three critical areas emissions to air, emissions to water, and the management of waste.
We frequently review from the kraft process used to produce paper and pulp as an Best Available Technique BAT concepts and related emission alternative to fossil fuels, making them energy self-sufficient level values.
Incident reporting systems are in place at all and net energy providers.
Surplus energy is used in paper operations and all environmental incidents are recorded production or by local communities and third parties.
added benefit of using biomass is that this material would have been sent to landfill if not used as fuel.
We understand that water is a scare resource globally and we have committed to its responsible use and custodianship.
Since 2004, Mondi has invested more than E300 million in During 2010, all our operations assessed their water modernising our energy generation mills including projects at consumption relative to local water availability against Syktyvkar, Russia: Richards Bay, South Africa and Ruzomber ok, recognised water scarcity databases.
In 2010, we had a total Slovakia : constructing new biomass installations multifuel 3 3 water input of 309.8 million m 2009: 306.4 million m. boiler in Merebank, South Africa, and Stambolijski, Bulgaria, and to transform some of our fossil-based boilers to biomass Water footprints have been calculated for all our material incinerators Swiecie, Poland.
operations and fibre supply chain and are defined as the total amount of fresh water that is used to produce fibre in forests Since 2004, we increased our use of renewable energy from as well as paper and pulp in our operations.
3 In total, 290m of water was discharged by Mondis material Cleaner production operations in 2010 20% was non-contact water e. g. cooling We recognise that our operations can and do have an impact water which was discharged directly into the aquatic on our surrounding natural environments.
As a minimum environment, less than 1% was used for irrigation and about standard, we ensure that all our operations comply with the 80% was treated in our own or third partys waste water environmental laws and regulations of the countries in which treatment plants.
42 Annual report and accounts 2010 Mondi AR Director R1 3Mar11.
qxd 3 7 11 6:45 AM Page 43 We use two critical indicators to measure our emissions to the concentrations emitted on this scale, even trace amounts water and have reduction targets in place on reducing our are enough to create an odour.
overall impact on receiving water bodies.
These are: We set ourselves a reduction target of 65% in TRS emissions chemical oxygen demand COD, which reflects the to atmosphere by 2010, against a 2005 base year.
By the effluent load for which we set a reduction target of 30% end of 2010, we had more than achieved our target, with by 2010, against a 2005 base year: and TRS emissions in tonnes per annum declining by 70% over adsorbable organic halogens AOX, which reflects all the commitment period.
types of halogen compounds present in the water that can be absorbed, for which we set a reduction target of 30% A significant part of this reduction was achieved by the by 2010, against a 2005 base year.
installation of closed reactors and the collection and incineration of any remaining emissions containing sulphur Good progress was made in reducing COD emissions, with compounds, particularly the modernisation of the Ruzomber ok the Group having reduced COD by 34% over the five-year and Syktyvkar mills, and the project for the reduction of TRS commitment period, from nearly 139,000 tonnes per annum emissions in Richards Bay.
in 2005 to approximately 91,000 tonnes per annum in 2010.
Significant drivers of this reduction include a new waste water In 2005, we committed to reducing our total waste-to-landfill treatment plant at the Richards Bay mill in South Africa and volumes by 20% by 2010.
Through a concerted effort by efficiency improvements at Felixton, South Africa and increasing the recycling and reuse of materials, and by using Syktyvkar, Russia.
more environmentally friendly processes a 36% reduction to approximately 300,000 tonnes of total waste hazardous Similarly, in respect of AOX, significant improvements were and non-hazardous to landfill per annum was achieved achieved, largely as a result of the Groups policy to cease the during this period.
Further, we ceased the disposal of process use of elemental chlorine during bleaching.
A reduction of 63% hazardous waste to landfill at the end of 2009.
Nevertheless, was achieved for the commitment period, from 390 tonnes per in 2010 we reported approximately 800 tonnes of nonannum in 2005 to 143 tonnes per annum in 2010. process hazardous waste mainly in South Africa from decontaminating repairs and maintenance activities.
The most significant impact on air quality by our operations is the emission of total reduced sulphur TRS compounds Research and development from our pulp mills and we communicate regularly with stakeholders to address any concerns.
Concentrated gases Our research and development activities aim to provide are emitted from digesters, evaporation plants and continuous and proactive improvements in processes and condensate strippers, while diluted gases emanate mainly products.
Research is focused on improving the quality and from chip-pre-steaming, screening, pulp washing, smelt range of products in terms of both cost and environmental factors.
Expenditure on research and development during dissolvers and the ventilation of various tanks containing 2010 was E11 million 2009: E8 million.
While they do not pose a health threat at Mondi Group 43 Directors report
