Corporate Responsibility Report The Group operates with an underlying awareness of its wider Environment responsibilities to society.
The Group strives to reduce energy and raw material usage to support environmental and financial performance.
Communities and charities The Groups.
Community initiative was launched in 2008 and has The Group has chosen not to set environmental key performance continued to develop throughout 2009 and 2010.
The initiative is indicators due to its relative size and the limited impact it has on focused on providing support to charities located within a few the environment.
miles of the Groups offices in Ewloe and so support is targeted primarily in Flintshire and Cheshire.
Employees The Group actively encourages employee involvement and A volunteer group of employees meet each month to review consultation and places considerable emphasis on keeping its requests for donations from charities and to allocate funds employees informed of the Groups activities via formal half yearly according to agreed donation guidelines.
Employees are also business performance updates, regular update briefings, regular active in researching and seeking out local good causes that team meetings, the Groups intranet site which enables easy the Group can help support.
The initiative has been effective access to the latest Group information as well as Group policies, at harnessing the energy and enthusiasm of the Groups and the circulation to employees of relevant information including employees to benefit the communities in which it operates.
This also helps to achieve a common awareness amongst employees of the financial and economic In 2010 the Group made 2,000 per month available for the factors affecting the performance of the Group.. Community initiative.
This funding has been channelled via the Charities Aid Foundation, enabling the Group to make gross The Group has an established employee forum through which donations to registered charities.
nominated representatives ensure that employees views are taken into account regarding issues that are likely to affect them.
Over the course of the year the Group has supported A robust employee engagement survey process is also in place to 23 charities including: ensure that employees are given a voice in the organisation and that the Group can take action based on employee feedback.
Clwyd Crimebeat The Group is committed to an equal opportunities policy.
Welsh Scout Council The Group aims to ensure that no employee is discriminated Money Advice Trust against, directly or indirectly, on the grounds of colour, race, Wrexham Group RDA ethnic and national origins, sexual orientation or gender, marital Claire House status, disability, religion or belief, being part time or on the grounds of age.
Save The Family Miles of Smiles The Group recognises the importance of health and safety Samantha Dickson Brain Tumour Trust and the positive benefits to the Group.
Therefore the Groups commitment to health and safety makes good business Pride of Flintshire Childrens Awards sense.
The Group has a health and safety policy which is Hannah Jones for Brain Tumour Trust communicated to all employees through a health and safety North Wales Super Kids Denbigh Home Start handbook, which is regularly reviewed and updated.
The North Wales Chrysalis Trust Supporting students In order to build links between the Group and local schools In addition to the.
Community initiative, the Group and its and colleges, work experience and placements are offered employees continue to select and support a charity on an annual to a number of students.
In doing so, the Group strives to basis.
make work placements positive, challenging and relevant to participants current studies and their future job prospects.
The 2010 Charity of the Year was Hope House Childrens Hospice.
The charity runs two centres, in Shropshire and Conwy, serving Customers the North West of England and North Wales.
The Hospice The Group is committed to providing a high quality price provides free care to terminally ill children and their families.
comparison service to its customers, enabling them to compare Over the course of the year the Groups employees raised 5,729 a wide range of products in the money, insurance, travel and for Hope House with the Group donating 5,729, bringing the total home services markets, and to find the product most suited donated to Hope House during the year to 11,458. to their needs.
Employees have selected Wales Air Ambulance as its 2011 Charity To maintain high levels of customer satisfaction, the Group of the Year.
The charity provides emergency air cover for is constantly assessing the views of its customers and individuals who face life threatening illness or injury via the undertaking customer testing of its websites and any new operation of three helicopters.
The Group provides customers with information from a wide variety of sources such as editorial content, customer and expert reviews, forums and community features to enrich their experience and to help them find the product most suited to their needs.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2010
