Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Corporate responsibility Introduction Core values Community At Morgan Crucible, corporate responsibility Morgan Crucibles approach to corporate Our practice is to engage with local is integral to our business, supporting each responsibility is encapsulated in our Core communities in relation to matters of of our five strategic priorities.
In this section Values Statement, which was first published mutual interest and concern.
At a local we report on our Responsible Business in 2004 and is regularly reviewed.
As we level, where Morgan Crucible often has Programme and our policies, procedures work to implement our strategic priorities long-established roots and is frequently and performance in respect of business our Core Values Statement provides the a major employer, this helps to foster ethics, community relations and suppliers framework for our policies, programmes mutual understanding and credibility.
Subsequent pages cover and relevant procedures.
The statement is In addition, Morgan Crucible engages Environment, health and safety EHS and available on our website and applies to all with local and national governments Our people.
In addition, our 2010 EHS Morgan Crucible businesses and employees and agencies, both directly and through Report, planned for publication on our worldwide.
Donations to political website in April 2011, will provide a more parties or causes are prohibited.
Business ethics comprehensive review of our 2010 EHS The Audit Committee is responsible for Customers and suppliers performance.
overseeing the Groups Ethics Policy, and Morgan Crucibles customer service strategy The Board is accountable for corporate reports to the Board on its effectiveness.
is to respond quickly to changing customer responsibility policies and procedures.
The demand, to identify emerging needs and Our Core Values Statement and Ethics Policy Chief Executive Officer, Mark Robertshaw, to improve product availability, quality and oblige all employees to operate in is the executive in charge of all corporate value.
We stay close to our current and accordance with applicable laws and responsibility matters including internal potential customers, building long-term regulations and specifically prohibit the and external stakeholders.
giving or receiving of bribes.
These policies As detailed in the policy implementation apply, so far as is appropriate, to our Over 90% of the Groups manufacturing section below, during 2010 the Group business partners, including contractors, capacity is accredited to ISO 9001 and our rolled out its Responsible Business agents, joint ventures and suppliers.
The quality management systems help ensure Programme.
At least one of the executive Company also requires that no employee that our products meet or exceed customer Directors and or a member of the Executive shall suffer discrimination as a result of requirements.
Management of the supply Committee participated in each of the refusing to pay or receive a bribe.
chain is a key part of ISO 9001 and Responsible Business Programme Anti-bribery and corruption training is ISO 14001 accreditation and includes train-the-trainer sessions during the year.
covered by the Responsible Business supplier questionnaires as appropriate.
The Group also updated its whistleblowing Programme further detailed below.
We aim to work with our customers, procedure and the new ethics hotline was Our Anti-Trust Compliance Programme suppliers and other partners in mutually launched in early 2011. helps ensure that we comply with anti-trust beneficial ways and, so far as is practicable, Corporate responsibility policies and competition laws around the world.
require that our customers and suppliers, and procedures The programme has been in place since joint venture partners and contractors The Companys Group-wide intranet 2002 and was updated in 2008 to include throughout the supply chain act in provides employees with online access to new training materials and an updated accordance with our policies and values.
the Groups policies and related procedures programme structure.
A further update Our support for the Universal Declaration of and guidance notes.
Key policies are also is planned for 2011 as part of the Human Rights, referred to in the Our people published on the Group website.
development of the Responsible Business section on page 52, commits us in respect Programme.
of all those who work for the Company and those who have dealings with it, including suppliers.
46 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2010 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Corporate responsibility policy During the year, train-the-trainer sessions Morgan Crucibles global Anti-Trust implementation were held in nine different locations Compliance Programme is ongoing, with The implementation of our corporate in the Middle East, Asia, Europe and regular training for relevant employees  policies and South America.
Each was attended by one across the Group.
Anti-Trust Compliance procedures is aligned with the overall or more of the executive Directors and or Officers within each business report to the governance structure of the Group.
The a member of the Executive Committee and Company Secretary, as Global Compliance implementation of our EHS and peoplesenior Divisional management.
Site-level Director, on the continuing effectiveness of related policies is covered in more detail training is underway and further train-thethe programme.
The Anti-Trust Compliance on pages 49 to 53. trainer sessions are being held in Africa, Programme includes independent audits, North America and the UK in early 2011. the results of which are considered by the We describe below some of the processes Company Secretary who reports to the for implementing and monitoring our Business ethics Executive Committee and the Board on key corporate responsibility policies and The Board of Morgan Crucible is committed the effectiveness of the programme and procedures and those in respect of to ensuring that the Companys policies on any issues arising.
verification of our environmental, social relating to business integrity are upheld.
Our Core Values Statement and Ethics Policy Community are translated into appropriate languages The implementation of our communityThe Groups Responsible Business for our sites worldwide.
The statement and related policies and procedures is aligned Programme was rolled out during the year.
policy are promoted to employees globally, with the management of our overall Complementing the Groups existing in particular through coverage in the global business and is focused at site level on Anti-Trust Compliance Programme, the employee magazine, which is available in engagement and initiatives which are Responsible Business Programme also 13 languages.
Appropriate induction relevant to the local community and to covers human rights, legal and contract risk training is provided for new employees in our business.
Divisional and Group support management and ethics and anti-bribery.
addition to training under the Responsible is made available where appropriate.
The roll-out of the programme includes Business Programme referred to above.
All charitable and other donations are train-the-trainer sessions for some fully accounted for.
180 general managers, compliance officers The Morgan Crucible whistleblowing line and other key staff worldwide.
The general enables employees and other stakeholders Customers and suppliers managers then deliver the training on who are aware of, or suspect, misconduct, The Chief Executive of each of our Divisions a site-by-site basis to over 1,200 relevant illegal activities, fraud, abuse of Company have specific responsibility for customers employees.
The face-to-face training assets or violations of Morgan Crucibles and suppliers and the related policies and includes dilemma and scenario-based Ethics Policy to report these confidentially procedures within their respective Divisions.
discussions complemented by e-learning without fear of retribution should they Verification of ESG disclosures modules.
The training materials and feel they cannot use a local channel.
The Our Company Secretary and the Director e-learning modules are available in English Group is in the process of updating its of EHS work with independent external and eight other languages.
Participation whistleblowing procedure and the new consultants to review and where in the programme and implementation of third-party-operated ethics hotline was appropriate verify our ESG disclosures.
the site-by-site training are monitored at launched in early 2011.
This includes This process covers the environmental a Group level with participants required to local free-phone numbers in each of the and health and safety-related non-financial achieve a 100% score in each e-learning countries in which the Group operates with key performance indicators included in module in order to pass.
real-time translators available as necessary.
Posters for site noticeboards and other promotional materials for the new hotline are available in 17 languages.
Annual Report 2010 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 47 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Corporate responsibility continued All Morgan Crucible businesses are regularly Community As part of the 650th anniversary reviewed under the Groups EHS Compliance During the year the Groups charitable celebrations of the town of Berkatal, Audit Programme and those sites and donations were 250,229 2009: Germany, the MMS Business Carl Nolte businesses certified to ISO 9001, ISO 14001, 302,232.
This is in addition to the Shne made special small crucibles OHSAS 18001 and other standards have time given and donations made by which were sold to raise money for regular external audits.
The Group also Morgan Crucible employees around a nearby home for children living with uses external professional advisers in the world.
relation to specific EHS matters as required During 2010, Morgan Crucible supported and is considering the potential for external Our staff also support a variety of local and a number of initiatives at Group, Divisional assurance of its EHS key performance national initiatives and projects, helping to and site level.
The main emphasis of this indicators in 2011. raise funds and giving their time.
Examples support is to help disadvantaged young of employee activities include: The Board considers that these procedures people and sponsor local community provide a reasonable level of assurance that projects which can also engage and involve Employees at the Thermal Ceramics the Groups ESG disclosures are free from employees.
Example initiatives include: plant in Augusta, GA, USA supported material misstatement, whether caused the local Stop Hunger Now project.
The Group continued its three-year, by fraud or other irregularity or error.
The team joined 600 local volunteers 60,000 programme to support the at Augusta State University to help Corporate responsibility policy Army Cadet Force Association ACFA package 80,076 meals to be sent to effectiveness Outreach Project.
Haiti to feed earthquake victims, Business ethics Morgan Crucible continues to support particularly children in schools and During the year ethics-related issues raised the joint Barnardos Outward Bound orphanages.
The company also through the whistleblowing line, the initiative which provides opportunities sponsored the activity through the dedicated ethics email facility or via other for young people to develop life skills Rotary Club.
channels were followed up by the Director at a centre in Ullswater, UK.
A long-serving employee at the of Risk Assurance in consultation with the Our Divisions sponsor a number of local Technical Ceramics site in New Bedford, Company Secretary.
Further investigations sports facilities and the teams that use MA, USA introduced her colleagues to are conducted through the Audit them.
For instance, NP Aerospace is a the charity Knit-a-Square, which helps Committee as required.
Where appropriate, major sponsor of the Godiva Harriers, less fortunate African children stay disciplinary action is taken and or additional the oldest athletics club in Coventry, UK.
After first guidance and training provided.
As detailed The Technical Ceramics Business in knitting small squares they progressed on page 47, a new third-party-operated Stourport, UK provides support to the to blankets, gloves and hats and held ethics hotline was launched in early 2011. local football team, and in the USA, raffles to raise money for shipping.
In respect of the Anti-Trust Compliance the Morgan AM&T Business supports To support victims of the Qinghai Yushu Programme, the independent audits a number of athletic teams in St Marys, earthquake, some 200 employees at the referred to above confirm the continued PA, USA.
Morgan AM&T plant in Shanghai, China effectiveness of the programme.
NP Aerospace also supports Help for raised 20,250 RMB.
Heroes, the UK-based charity which In the UK a number of Morgan Crucible Customers and suppliers helps wounded servicemen and women, employees sponsored one of their Morgan Crucible continues to benefit as well as a number of related charitable colleagues in the Cardiff half-marathon from long-term relationships with many causes.
to raise money for Education Towards customers and suppliers, reflecting the The Group also supported the Royal a Future.
This charity supports Kenyans effectiveness of our customer service and National Institute of Blind People and who cannot afford a university supplier-related strategies.
Some examples a number of other sports and healtheducation but would use a degree of the products and markets we serve related charities and appeals.
are included on pages 1 to 23 of this After Februarys Chilean earthquake, Annual Report.
employees of the Thermal Ceramics Business in Chile organised trips in company vans to the affected areas, delivering donations from employees and the Company.
48 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2010
