46 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Operational Review Corporate Sustainability To see this report online go to: www.
co. uk Sustainable development Sustainable development forms an integral part of the Groups decisionmaking process and supports achievement of our business strategy.
The Board continues to place importance on a range of considerations including health and safety, management of human resources, environment and community relations.
Effective management of social and environmental issues reduces costs and risks to our business, supports our reputation, underpins our relationships with key stakeholders including investors, regulators, employees and communities, and helps us to maintain our social licence to operate and grow.
Principles and strategy The Board has 10 Sustainable Development Principles to guide the decisionmaking and actions of its employees and contractors and to help embed sustainability into the business.
The principles and a number of social and environmental policies are included in The Way We Think, The Way We Act which is available on the Groups website.
co. uk pdf social 2008 principles en.
pdf In support of its strategic plan, the Group has also approved a social and environmental strategy for the mining division.
The strategy defines how the Group intends to generate economic, social and environmental value, and has two core elements: Strategic Review Operational Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 47 Effective management of social and environmental issues reduces costs and risksto our business, supports our reputation, underpins our reputation with keystakeholders and helps us to maintain oursocial licence to operate and grow.
To build relationships of trust and mutual benefit Material issues, withstakeholders by taking action in three areas: Responsible behaviour The Group will prioritise the health and safety of  employees and contractors, maintain a beneficial work environment, minimise The Groups strategy focuses on the risks and opportunities that are most negative impacts on society, engage with key stakeholders and monitor material to its business and its stakeholders.
These are identied through its risk progress against commitments.
management and engagement processes, see below.
The sustainability issues Risk management The Group will seek to identify, minimise and manage currently considered to be most material to the Group are: socio-political risks and be prepared to professionally manage any crises orincidents that occur.
Social Environmental Safety Resource use efficiency including Developing local human capital The Group will seek to contribute to local energy, fresh water, fuel, land use and Talent attraction, development development in the communities near its sites through job creation and local wasterecycling andretention sourcing, and by supporting local education.
The Group will seek to implement Minimising environmental impacts including Labour relations initiatives to improve local quality of life and support the development and air quality, water quality and availability, Community relations growth of other economic activities.
greenhouse gas emissions, biodiversity Community development andheritage 2.
To protect the environment and natural resources by taking action in three areas: Risk management Operational efficiency including managing tailings and other waste, Risks to each operating company, including social and environmental risks are water, electricity, fuel consumption and land use.
identied and monitored through the Groups central risk management system.
Controlling environmental impacts including air and water quality, This is informed by the findings of stakeholder engagement activity see page wateravailability, biodiversity, greenhouse gas emissions and 48.
The key risks for each division are mapped, and processes are put in place .
to manage and mitigate these.
The current main sustainability risks and mitigating measures are: Environmental benets including providing environmental education, usingrenewable energy, enhancing biodiversity, protecting cultural heritage Risk Mitigation anddeveloping beneficial new technologies.
An operational incident which damages A comprehensive approach to incident The Group is working to embed sustainability issues into management systems theenvironment could affect the Groups prevention has been put in place.
relationships with local stakeholders and Relevantriskshave been mapped and and decision making to ensure delivery of its strategy.
See Management Systems ourreputation, and ultimately undermine aremonitored.
The Group approach includes and Stakeholder Engagement on page 48. itssocial licence to operate and to grow.
raising awareness among employees and providing training to promote operational excellence.
Water is a strategic resource for the Groups The Group has pioneered the use of sea water mining operations and water scarcity is a in Chile and strives to ensure maximum particular risk to projects located in dry efficiency in the use of it, achieving high rates areas such as the Atacama desert.
Esperanza is the first major operation in Chile to use untreated sea water on a large scale.
Lack of compliance with newly introduced New and proposed legislation is monitored environmental regulations.
toenable the Group to anticipate, mitigate orreduce negative impacts to our operations.
Failure to identify social and environmental New investments are now subject to a social risks that can impact the viability of due diligence process as well as economic newventures.
48 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Operational Review Corporate Sustainability continued Corporate sustainability governance Stakeholder engagement The Board has put in place procedures and management structures including The Group recognises the importance of stakeholder engagement at the local, risk management procedures at Group and business unit level to ensure the national and international levels.
Regular dialogue helps to identify and address implementation of its sustainable development principles and AMSAs social sustainability risks and opportunities and to build strong relationships with key andenvironmental strategy.
These arrangements are part of the overall Group stakeholders based on trust and mutual benefit.
It helps us to avoid conict governance arrangements described in the Corporate Governance Report.
andcontributes to the long-term success of the business.
The Directors responsibilities, including those relating to risk management The Group has identied its key stakeholders as: investors, employees and andcontrol, are described in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
contractors, communities, local and national governments and regulators, andthemedia.
The Corporate Sustainability Committee was established in 2008 and has threemembers: Mr. J-P Luksic, the Group Chairman, and Non-Executive In 2010, regular meetings with key investors were held as well as a series Directors Mr. G SMenndez and Mr. R F Jara see Directors biographies ofinterviews with responsible investors to get feedback on the Groups onpage70.
The committee met once in 2010.  issues.
The Group also participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project.
Reporting The Group interacts with communities near its sites at all stages of project The Group reports its sustainability performance through a number of channels development and operation.
The mining division also conducts an annual including this Annual Report and the Groups Sustainability Report.
The Groups employee perception survey.
The results are reviewed by senior management two largest mines, Los Pelambres and El Tesoro, also publish annual site reports.
who develop action plans to respond to key findings.
An annual reputation Antofagasta Minerals provides information for the Mining Social and surveywas conducted where the views of social and political leaders, local Environmental Report published by the Chilean Mining Council, a national communities, employees and contractors were noted.
The 2010 results will industry organisation.
besummarised in its Sustainability Report 2010.
A new task force was established in 2010 to oversee reporting of the Groups ADASA, the water business was included in the annual customer surveys sustainability performance.
Its members include deputy managers from the conducted by SISS, the regulator of the sanitary services industry.
This assessed business units as well as key functions such as human resources, environment, issues such as water quality, customer service, billings and service continuity.
external affairs, operations, finance and audit.
The task-force will help to improve the quality and consistency of reporting among different business units and Management systems functions and raise sustainability awareness across the Group.
AMSA uses an Assessment of Environmental Performance AEP tool to monitor progress against its performance indicators.
These cover operational efficiency, impact control and environmental benets.
The Group will further strengthen the AEP this year and add more information on how environmental benets can be generated.
The Group is also developing an Assessment of Social Performance tool that includes performance indicators on issues such ashealth and safety, employee development and diversity, stakeholder relationships, grievance procedures and community investment.
Each operation uses these frameworks to set its own goals reecting local priorities.
Key environmental indicators are now included in the monthly performance reports submitted by the mining businesses, and are reviewed byAMSAs environmental manager.
The Group plans to integrate key social indicators into these reports during 2011.
Strategic Review Operational Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 49 The Group produced a Corporate Environmental Best Practices Handbook that Activity in 2010 contains the key frameworks and standards, including those of the International Finance Corporation and International Council on Mining and Minerals, Safety relevantto the exploration, construction, operation and closure stages of Protecting the safety of employees, contractors and local communities is a miningoperations.
Itaims to ensure a consistent approach to environmental priorityfor the Group.
The Group focuses on identifying, mitigating and managing management and decision making across the business.
The Handbook will be the safety risks inherent in its different operations and development projects.
TheGroup requires all contractors to comply with its Occupational Health The Group has achieved accreditation to the international management andSafety Plan.
standards ISO 14001, ISO 9001 and OHSAS 18001 at a number of our sites.
The Groups goal is to create a safety culture through regular training and See table below.
During 2011, it plans to achieve accreditation to ISO 14001 awareness campaigns for employees and contractors.
It also aims to reach atEsperanzas port facility located in Michilla, with a view to extending it to workers families and local communities particularly on issues of road safety.
therest of Esperanza in future.
Antofagasta Minerals has a team of safety experts that train and supervise Certication ISO 14001 ISO 9001 OHSAS 18001 workers and contractors.
All new workers, contractors and visitors must Los Pelambres complete a health and safety induction course before entering one of the Groupsmining operations.
Employees and contractors must also attend El Tesoro refresher workshops on our safety policies and procedures at least every other Michilla year.
TheGroup operates personal identication systems for machinery, so Antofagasta Railway Company thatitcanonly be operated by authorised and appropriately trained personnel.
Allfacilities have been constructed to withstand the impact of earthquakes Aguas fide Antofagasta andevacuation plans have been put in place.
Contractor safety practices are monitored through monthly audit processes.
Audit and performance assessment Contractors are required by law to establish worker-employer accident preventioncommittees.
Regular internal and external audits are used to assess performance and implementation of our management systems and our compliance with the law As well as operational safety, Antofagasta Minerals focuses on road safety inregard to labour, social security and occupational health issues as well as training and awareness to prevent transport accidents.
contracts include strict requirements on safety.
Compliance with standards ismonitored through speed controls and random breathalyser tests.
External auditors are commissioned to assess contractor compliance with our safety, human rights and labour standards.
This includes Group policies on fair All incidents are investigated and action plans put in place to prevent recurrence.
wages, collective bargaining, paid overtime and vacations, and those prohibiting This may include: redesigning procedures and or maintenance programmes, child labour and forced labour.
revising equipment control, protection and blockage systems and providing increased training for workers.
During 2010, independent external auditors assessed environmental performance at each of the operations.
They identied and classied a number Safety and health management systems are established across the Group, of risks and made recommendations for improvement.
The operations have andthe majority of its mining operations and the Railway are certied to OHSAS developed action plans to implement these recommendations.
Los Pelambres is also making certication to OHSAS 18001 a have included the introduction of additional safety measures to prevent water requirement for contractors and is helping them to achieve this.
pollution at the port in Punta Chungo and new measures to reduce dust The Board has a clear target of zero fatalities and considers any fatality to emissions and protect worker safety at Tesoro and Michilla.
In response to the four fatalities at Los Pelambres in 2009, LosPelambres introduced changes that link workers remuneration to safety performance.
25% of the workers bonus is now awarded based on whether thesites lost time injury frequency target has been met.
AIFR Number of accidents with and without lost time during the year per million hours worked.
C hilean mining industry source Servicio Nacional fide Geologa y Minera.
2010 full-year gures have not yet been released by Servicio Nacional fide Geologa y Minera and therefore arenotshown above.
Data from the Chilean Mining Council Consejo Minero, an industry association which represents a number of large mining companies in Chile.
n a Figures for Chilean Mining Industry and Mining Council 2010 are not currently available.
The Board deeply regrets the death of two contractors at Los Pelambres during The management systems put in place by the operations have allowed the 2010.
Following these incidents further safety training and awareness raising Groups indicators to remain stable and with a tendency to decrease, despite has been provided for workers.
The Group audited relevant systems at theoperations sustained growth and growing complexity of processes that have LosPelambres and inspected all other facilities using similar systems.
augmented the demand on structures, systems and people.
This effort has been recognised by the Mining Ministry who in 2010 granted Minera Esperanza the Protecting workers and contractors health is also a priority.
As well as Benjamn Teplizky annual prize on excellency in environmental, health and implementing high standards on issues such as dust control and the use of safety management.
It must be noted that through 2009 and most of 2010, protective equipment, the Group provides a yearly preventative health check thissite was under construction, a stage normally associated with an increase forworkers and runs programmes on issues such as healthy eating, combating insafety risks.
Many of its operations provide gyms and other sporting facilities for workers and offers healthy eating options in cafeterias.
Nevertheless, the two fatal accidents in 2010 emphasise the need to continually improve the system despite improvements in standards to date.
In order to The Groups lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR was an average of achieve this, the mining operations plan to introduce global operational excellency 1.9injuriesper million hours worked in 2010 compared with 2.8 the programmes combined with risk management models that help make previousyear see above.
Strategic Review Operational Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 51 The Group has introduced a number ofinitiatives to increase representation ofwomen, including a training plan for localwomen near to the El Tesoro and Esperanzamines.
There were no labour disputes and no strikes among our employees or Employment contractors during 2010.
The operations received a positive rating in the compliance audits conducted by the government agency responsible for Training and development monitoring compliance with Chiles labour laws.
Audits cover issues such as There is a growing talent shortage in Chile, making it more difficult and health and safety and remuneration.
expensive to recruit and retain skilled employees.
This particularly affects The Group complies with legal requirements relating to employment in Chile, themining industry, which may soon experience a shortfall in the number including those concerning child labour, discrimination and equal opportunity.
ofqualied mining professionals available for new projects.
The Group is Asin previous years, no cases of human rights breaches were identied in 2010. participating in a survey commissioned by the Mining Council to obtain more detailed data on this issue.
Diversity The Group increased its focus on training and development during 2010 to The Group is committed to equal opportunities in all areas of employment ensure it continues to develop the skills and expertise the business needs.
including recruitment, employee development and remuneration.
Data on gender Thisincluded: diversity will be available in the Groups Sustainability Report.
The Group has introduced a number of initiatives to increase representation of women including The launch of the Antofagasta Minerals management diploma in partnership a training plan for local women near to the El Tesoro and Esperanza mines.
with the Adolfo Ibanez University School of Business.
This is designed to help Women account for 14% of the workforce at Esperanza, compared with the trainees, first-time managers, middle managers and senior managers develop national average for the mining industry of 6%.
their leadership capabilities and was completed by 120 employees.
A graduate trainee programme was completed by 15 graduates, most of Internal communication whom have been offered full-time positions with the business.
We will expand The Group aims to keep employees informed about the business through a range the programme to 30 graduates in 2011. of channels including the intranet, newsletters, bulletin boards and social events.
The new Leaders for Change two-day workshop, completed by 30 leaders The Group seeks feedback from employees in our mining division through regular and potential leaders in 2010. employee surveys.
In response to the findings of our 2010 survey we will be focusing on training team leaders to give feedback to employees and introducing Labour relations new systems for recognising employee achievements.
The Group aims to build constructive relationships with employees and the 13labour unions that represent them, and to resolve any issues that arise through regular dialogue.
This contributes to the productivity and efficiency of ourbusiness and helps us to avoid the disputes and strikes that have affected much of the Chilean mining industry in recent years.
Collective agreements are in place at all mining operations covering remunerationas well as terms and conditions of employment.
There were twocollective bargaining processes in 2010 with unions at Los Pelambres andMichilla.
Thenegotiations were successful and new contracts were agreed for the maximum period allowed under Chilean law, well ahead of the expiration of theprevious agreements.
Contractors made up a significant proportion of the workforce of the Groups mining division in 2010.
The Group requires its contractors to meet high employment standards in line with our own.
This includes offering a minimum wage that exceeds legal requirements and passing on a portion of any bonuses they receivefrom Antofagasta to their employees.
Their approach is monitored through the Groups annual performance agreement system and regular audits.
52 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Operational Review Corporate Sustainability continued Engaging with indigenous communities Our Mulpun coal gasication project is located adjacent to a Mapuche community.
We have also launched a number of projects to bring sustained benets to local people.
This has included bringing electricity to the community for the first time.
This is the first time a Group project has been located next to an indigenous We have nanced and overseen the installation and also educated local families community.
We have taken a proactive approach to engagement and, to date, onhow to use energy efficiently and how to budget for their electricity bills.
The Mapuche community has not opposed development of the site and have become willing to engage with us.
We are using our experiences at Mulpun to inform our approach to engagement with native communities in other locations.
Our approach at Mulpun has included demonstrating our goodwill by providing information on the project from its earliest stages, before applying for environmental approval.
Ethical conduct Community relations The Group is committed to meeting high ethical standards in its work.
The Ethics Committee oversees approach, monitors compliance with the Groups andengagement policies and investigates any reports of suspected unethical conduct.
The The Groups businesses make a significant contribution to economic Committee is made up of the Vice-Presidents of Risk, Human Resources and development but it recognises that mining operations can also negatively Corporate Affairs and its work is overseen by the Audit Committee.
On issues impact local communities.
It seeks to maximise our positive contribution relating to the mining division, it reports to the Chief Executive officer of andtominimise negative impacts, as well as fostering good relations with Antofagasta Minerals.
thecommunities near its sites through regular dialogue.
This helps to avoid The Group has an Ethics Code which applies to all its operations and projects conict, contributes to the efficient running of operations and helps protect in Chile and abroad.
It emphasises the Boards commitment to carry out theGroup social licence to operate and to grow.
business in a responsible and transparent manner.
It sets standards on a The Group engages with local stakeholders at our sites and development rangeof issues including respect for human rights, local customs and values projects, in a variety of ways including through face-to-face meetings, and the rights of neighbouring communities, as well as the Groups procedure newsletters and radio broadcasts.
It often establishes joint communityfor identifying and managing potential conicts of interest.
It demands honesty, company committees to address specic issues such as air quality, integrity and responsibility from all employees and contractors.
Employees may report any unethical behaviour, anonymously if necessary, The Group respects the culture, customs and values of indigenous groups.
There were no reported cases of suspected Fordetails of our approach to engagement with indigenous communities, misconduct that required investigation by the Ethics Committee during 2010. seecase study.
During 2010 further revisions were made to the Code and other internal controlprocedures toensure compliance with Chiles new relevant legislation.
The Group conducts regular surveys to get feedback from local people and An updated code is expected to be rolled out in 2011. tohelp us better understand their views.
More details are available in the sustainability reports of Los Pelambres and Tesoro operations.
Strategic Review Operational Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 53 Five days after the earthquake Antofagasta Minerals had a team working in the severely affected town of Curepto.
Simultaneously it established a recovery fund, and provided management expertise to implement and runthe scheme.
Supporting communities affected by the Chilean earthquake The earthquake and tsunami which shook the central-south zone of Chile in February 2010 devastated the coast of the regions of Maule and Bio-Bio.
Five days after the earthquake, Antofagasta Minerals had a debris clearing team andequipment working in the severely affected town of Curepto, in Maule region.
Simultaneously, it engaged with the authorities to offer support for the reconstruction and established a US$10 million recovery fund and the management expertise and standards used in its large mining projects toimplement and run the scheme.
The joint decision was to invest the fund in the recovery of the infrastructure used by local artisanal shing in Maule, an important source of revenue for the area.
Antofagasta Minerals Coastal Route project is supporting the recovery of artisanal shing and using the redevelopment as an opportunity to further develop local tourist infrastructure.
As well as a US$10 million donation, we are applying our project-management expertise, and the standards and practices used in our large mining projects to implement and run the scheme.
This has included working in partnership with key stakeholders and promoting the involvement of local people, as well as integrating sustainable solutions for energy use and waste management into the project design.
Both the public national, local and regional authorities and the private sectors were involved in the design and implementation of this initiative.
The Chilean Architects Association and World Wildlife Fund WWF advised on the reconstruction of coastline shing coves to ensure their sustainability and to incorporate improvements that will add environmental value.
Local communities and organisations were given opportunities to review the project plans.
After nearly one year of work, 190 shermen have received new boats and or engines through a support programme implemented jointly with government agencies.
Along the 160 km coastline, six small ports have been rebuilt, including community centres, warehouses and restrooms.
New restaurant infrastructure has been developed to support the tourist industry, capable of servicing 1,000 tourists per day, and 141 people trained to work in them.
During 2010, 11 members of the Caimanes community initiated a hunger strike El Mauro tailings dam in the context of this litigation demanding a number of measures including The Mauro tailings dam, for which environmental permission was received financial demands.
The strike ended without incident in December 2010 in2004, is located 12 kilometres from the town of Caimanes which has a without financial settlements or impact to the health of the strikers.
In 2008, when the construction of the dam was LosPelambres maintained open dialogue with the community and authorities initsnal stages, Los Pelambres entered into binding settlements in respect throughout the incident.
The Group strongly believes it has taken all appropriate oflitigation relating to the tailings dam which had been initiated after the steps at the Mauro tailings dam both in terms of environmental and community environmental impact study had been approved and which enabled measures both during construction and operation.
The construction of the dam construction to be completed.
In December 2008, after operation of the dam was developed in accordance with all legal and administrative requirements had commenced, Los Pelambres became aware of further legal proceedings and complies with international standards of design and operation.
that had been initiated by further members of the Caimanes community, which seek to prevent the operation of the dam.
A number of these proceedings have since been rejected by the relevant courts.
54 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Operational Review Corporate Sustainability continued Contribution to socio-economic development Environment The Group makes a positive contribution to socio-economic development The Group recognises the environmental impacts of its mining operations and through the taxes paid, the employment created, the products and services aims to reduce these as far as possible during the development, operation and purchased and through the social investments made to enhance the closure of its sites.
When impacts are unavoidable, it strives to mitigate and development of local human capital.
This supports relationships with local communities and The Groups Social Strategy aims to provide training and other support to help contributes to operational efficiency, reduces costs and ensures compliance local people access employment opportunities at our sites.
Esperanza has committed to hire at least 30% of construction and operation The Groups key environmental impacts include water use, water quality, workers from the Antofagasta Region.
Its approach includes training to give airquality, waste, biodiversity and greenhouse gas emissions.
Antofagasta 800 residents the skills they need in areas such as safety, quality, environment Minerals uses an Assessment of Environmental Performance AEP tool to and community relations to work at the mine.
monitor progress against its performance measures.
Antofagasta Minerals mining companies voluntarily elected to accept The Group aims to raise the environmental awareness of employees through amendments to the Chilean mining tax introduced in 2010.
These were training and communication.
During 2010 it held a series of events around established to contribute to the nancing of reconstruction costs following the World Water Day and Chiles Environment Month and distributed a bi-monthly severe earthquake which affected the country in 2010.
In exchange for waiving newsletter with updates on its progress and tips to help employees protect protection under existing invariability agreements for a three-year period from theenvironment.
20102012, the companies will be granted an additional stability period of six years at the end of their existing stability agreements, during which any Energy and climate change connected projects will also benefit from tax invariability.
Further details are Climate impact given in the Financial Review on page 63.
The Group recognises the need to conserve energy and develop a strategic Community investment response to climate change.
This will protect the business from future cost The Los Pelambres Mining Foundation continued to support initiatives in the increases associated with energy supply and carbon emissions reduction.
areas of education, water resources and productive development during 2010.
TheGroup intends to play its part in helping Chile achieve its target to reduce See www.
national greenhouse gas emissions by 20% by 2020.
Operations are already implementing energy efficiency projects and investigating opportunities to use renewable energy where possible.
During2011 Antofagasta Minerals will undertake a study of the potential effects of climate change on its operations and develop a climate change policythat will be presented to the Board.
In line with the agreements reached at the UN Climate Change Conferences, Chilean law demands that the proportion of energy generation from renewable sources should rise from 5% in 2010 to 10% in 2024.
Antofagasta Minerals is exploring a number of new renewable energy alternatives to increase the proportion of renewable energy in its total energy supply.
Currently, renewable energy accounts for around 10% at the Los Pelambres site.
Data is not currently available for other sites.
At the end of 2010 El Tesoro issued a tender for a major solar thermal plant to provide heat to the electro-winning plant and reduce dependence on diesel.
A decision on whether to progress with the project isexpected early in 2011.
The Group measures and manages its CO emissions according to the GHG 2 protocol of the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP.
In the latest year for which CDP data is available, 2009, Group total CO emissions were 1.12 million 2 tonnes.
Further data will be published in the Groups Sustainability Report.
Strategic Review Operational Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 55 Energy security The Group monitors water consumption and efficiency at each operation.
Water use levels remained steady this year, except at Los Pelambres where Antofagasta Minerals continues to work towards securing alternative levels went up due to an increase in production.
Data on water consumption energysupplies and establishing longer-term agreements and contracts bysource and water use efficiency will be published in the Sustainability withenergy suppliers.
The possibility of new regulations applying to emissions from coal red power ADASA is seeking to increase the supply of desalinated water for domestic stations from 2012 might result in a shortage of supply in the Antofagasta consumption in the Antofagasta Region to 50%.
Region if older plants are closed which could impact market prices for energy.
Energa Andina S. A, the joint venture between the Group and the Chilean Environmental incidents and fines state-owned Empresa Nacional del Petrleo ENAP, is continuing with its The Group aims to prevent environmental incidents at our sites.
Chilean activities for the exploration and development of geothermal energy prospects environmental law provides a wide denition of environmental impacts, so in Chile.
Energa Andina has been granted 13 concessions to date, grouped in2010, the Group developed a corporate protocol for identifying, classifying intosix projects, and is engaged in the bidding process to acquire a number and reporting incidents at its mining sites, to help address these and offurther concessions.
Exploration activity to date has focused on surface preventrecurrences.
exploration, and drilling is expected to commence in 2011.
Depending on the The following environmental incidents were reported in 2010. results of this work, it is anticipated that drilling of the first geothermal well could commence in late 2011, allowing feasibility work to be undertaken There was an oil leak from a tank at El Tesoro.
removed and disposed of according to regulations.
An improvement plan was developed which included building a containment platform, improving loading Work is continuing on the potential underground coal gasication project and unloading procedures and reviewing the leak control system.
UCG at the Mulpun coaleld, situated near Valdivia in southern Chile, alongwith the Groups partner in the project Carbon Energy Limited At Los Pelambres, there was a tailings spill in the Polcura ravine due to a CarbonEnergy of Australia.
In August 2010 the Group received drainage gutter becoming blocked.
The ravine has been thoroughly cleaned environmental approvals for the first stage of the project, which allows and the gutter has been strengthened to prevent a recurrence.
construction and operation of a pilot scheme including the first UCG panel Also at Los Pelambres, there was a water discharge from the mine tunnel andon-site facilities, and engineering studies in relation to the trial project evacuation system into the Borrega ravine.
The operation informed the local wereundertaken in the second half of the year.
authorities, the neighbouring Cuncumen community and the local channel Water resources irrigation association a community organisation which ensures the fair distribution of water resources who investigated the incident.
The local The Groups mining operations use significant volumes of water.
Water use is watercourses were monitored and water quality was found not to have been aparticularly important issue for the Group due to its location in areas of water affected.
The affected area has been thoroughly cleaned and the water scarcity.
The Group needs to use water efficiently and recycle it where possible evacuation system was reviewed.
to ensure its continued availability for our operations and local communities.
The Group must also protect the quality of fresh water sources near its sites.
The Group was ned US$35,240 in 2010 in relation to a tailings spill at LosPelambres in February 2009 which affected the Polcura ravine.
All mines have water management plans in place to reduce and monitor water use and ensure that emissions of wastewater meet relevant quality standards.
To reduce demand on fresh water sources, Michilla has pioneered the use ofnon-desalinated sea water in its operations and a similar system will be implemented at Esperanza where use of thickened tailings also increases waterrecovery, see page 37.
Los Pelambres uses a system of industrial water recirculation which recycles a high proportion of water used in its processes.
The Group is reviewing whether implementation of the water accounting framework developed by the Sustainable Minerals Institute at the University ofQueensland would help to better audit Group water consumption.
56 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Operational Review Corporate Sustainability continued A sustainable approach to the site closure When closing Group facilities we aim to work closely with local people to nd safe and sustainable solutions.
For example, in 2010 Los Pelambres began the process of closing a tailings dam at Los Quillayes.
The Group has worked closely with local people since 2008 to jointly develop aclosure plan for the site.
This includes an innovative remediation programme, known as phytostabilisation.
The 400 hectare site is being covered with a thick layer of topsoil and planted with native species.
This will reduce the risk of pollution and leaching due to wind or water erosion.
Over the life of the project, estimated to be 1015 years, it will also create employment opportunities for local people in planting, irrigation and cultivation.
Biodiversity Waste The Group recognises the importance of protecting local ecosystems and Mining operations produce significant amounts of hazardous and nonbiodiversity.
Biodiversity protection plans are developed for every mine in hazardous waste including waste rock, spent ore and tailings waste from compliance with regulations and take into account the interests of different processing ore and concentrates.
Hazardous waste consists mainly of stakeholders including farmers and landowners, local communities and usedoils, rags and containers with the remains of oil, lead-contaminated non-governmental organisations.
Waste is also an issue for the transport and waterbusinesses.
The Groups efforts to promote biodiversity focus in particular on the Choapa valley where our Los Pelambres mine is located.
Los Pelambres restored and The Group aims to reduce the amount of waste it produces, to reuse resources manages a nature sanctuary at the Laguna Conchal wetlands which has where possible and to dispose of waste according to legal requirements.
It has also put in place programmes to protect Tailings peat lands and one of the few remaining Chilean Palm forests.
All these sites It is particularly important that tailings are managed safely to prevent leakages provide habitats for endangered species.
which could impact water quality.
The failure of a tailings dam could have a In the Antofagasta Region, operations are located in the Atacama desert, the major impact on local communities, the environment and the Groups workers.
driest desert in the world, where there are very few animal and plant species.
All dams are designed to resist extreme weather and high-magnitude In 2010, El Tesoro nanced a survey of biodiversity around its fresh water earthquakes.
They are carefully maintained and monitored during use.
source at Ojos fide Opache.
This found that the area is home to one vulnerable Taking advantage of its geographical location, at our Esperanza mine we have species, the Atacama Runner a type of lizard.
This will reduce water consumption There were also two incidents one at Esperanza and one at El Tesoro involving and the risk of soil contamination, and mean that the tailings are more stable foxes found drowned in evaporation pools.
The operations have improved during operations and after the mine has closed.
It will also reduce dust levels.
fencing round the sites to prevent other animals getting in and reminded At the Los Pelambres mine, the Mauro tailings dam is now operational, workers of the importance of taking steps to avoid attracting foxes to the area.
whichwillprovide enough waste disposal capacity for the remaining The Group monitors marine and bird biodiversity at Michilla Bay and contributes 26yearsminelife.
to the protection of marine biodiversity and the development of sustainable shing through the Fundacin Minera Los Pelambres charitable foundation.
Strategic Review Operational Review Financial Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 57 Assessing social and environmental impacts at Reko Diq Reko Diq is a copper and gold deposit located in the state of Balochistan in Pakistan.
The Group has been a joint venture partner in the project since 2006.
An Environmental and Social Impact Assessment ESIA has been undertaken for the site and will be presented to the Balochi and Pakistani environmental authorities in 2011.
Stakeholder engagement was a key part of this process andfeedback covered issues such as water use, employment and economic growth, transportation, air quality, biodiversity and the impact of the pipeline onlocal agriculture.
A social investment plan has been developed for the site which will form part ofthe social management process for the project, and reects the commitment of the joint venture partners to provide lasting benets to local communities.
The Group meets all GHS requirements.
Its concentrates were evaluated Closure provisions underGHS and found not to be classiable as they do not contain impurities.
The Group aims to close and decommission our facilities safely and in ways Clients and traders are provided with safety data sheets.
that protect the environment and the interests of local people.
It has closure plans and provisions in place for all its operations in accordance with Other regulations.
These are regularly updated, often in consultation with local The Group reviewed its processes and updated them where necessary people.
The Group includes closure plans within the environmental impact toensure compliance with updates to Chiles environmental law 19.300. assessment reports submitted to authorities for all new projects.
It is Groupcompanies are also preparing to meet proposed new standards contributing to development ofthe new law on mining closure being onairquality.
discussedby the Chilean Congress andwill comply with its requirements.
Making mining projects sustainable Developments in environmental law Since 2009, the Group has been dening the social and environmental REACH criteriaituses when deciding whether to proceed with a new project, and The European Unions REACH Directive requires companies to collect or whendeveloping the terms of reference and design criteria for new ventures.
generate toxicity data on chemicals manufactured in or imported into the EU.
Thisprocess was completed in 2010 and the criteria will be incorporated intoAMSAs due diligence and project design processes in Chile and abroad.
Antofagastas molybdenum and copper products are covered by REACH.
Thecriteria reect current best practice and relevant international standards The Group met the November 2010 registration deadline for its Michilla and such asthose of the International Finance Corporation and International Tesoro sites.
Copper concentrates do not need to be registered under REACH Councilon Mining and Minerals.
but must undergo a toxicity and danger evaluation.
The findings of this It also has a Social and Environmental Best Practices Handbook for evaluation showed that no special measures are needed to ensure the Explorationand Projects that includes guidance on stakeholder engagement.
compliance of copper concentrates from Los Pelambres.
The Group focuses on stakeholder engagement from the start of new projects.
Global Harmonising System This enables understanding in local concerns and expectations and this is The Global Harmonising System GHS is intended to create an internationally considered in the project design even before undertaking the ofcial social consistent system of chemical hazard management and reporting through andenvironmental assessment process.
standard product labelling and Safety Data Sheets.
