Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Corporate responsibility continued Our people The year has seen Morgan Crucible make Our global Human Resources Policy provides a formalised performance management good progress through improvements in the an infrastructure of human resource system cascaded through the businesses financial performance of the business with activities that enables the business to that focuses on setting clear results-based increased levels of revenue, of profits and attract, retain and engage people with the objectives directly linked to the strategic of profit margins.
The year also saw the skills and capabilities to deliver its business goals and annual objectives of the business.
Company streamline its organisational plans and outperform the competition.
Providing people with the skills to perform structure creating two Divisions, Morgan at a superior level is also critical, and we Key to building and maintaining the trust Ceramics and Morgan Engineered Materials, see continuous learning and professional and respect of our people and growing their which has reinforced the strategic development as a major investment in our understanding and motivation levels is positioning of the Company globally and future.
open, timely and factual communication.
These Our systems provide two-way We recognise and celebrate the changes in the business have enabled us communication forums through online accomplishments of our people individually to further enhance the positive working working areas encouraging greater or as teams.
In acknowledging and environment for employees and create new collaboration.
The Divisions communicate celebrating achievement, loyalty, innovation and exciting challenges all over the world.
regularly through employee forums, team and creativity, we strive to motivate and During this period we have continuously briefs and Divisional magazines.
We inspire employees towards the pursuit of worked to develop the skills of individuals regularly request feedback from employees performance excellence, creating a sense of and the capabilities of the organisation on many different aspects of our business.
pride in their work and in Morgan Crucible.
as a whole to meet these challenges as Our compensation systems reward people the performance of our people is critical Demands on the business are continuously who apply their knowledge, skills and to our success.
changing and we see our businesses moving talents to support the achievement of in different directions as they evolve into Our people performance is evaluated business goals.
We pay for performance in new markets and industries.
This raises monthly, quarterly and annually through all our compensation practices.
The total significant challenges in the placement of the collation of key performance indicators, reward package includes a mix of base pay, current and new talent into jobs that fit which are summarised in the sections variable pay and benefits.
We establish those business requirements, at the time below.
compensation levels that are both competitive they are needed.
We review shortand and affordable to Morgan Crucible.
We People Policies long-term business needs on a regular basis have the flexibility to respond to changing We support the Universal Declaration of and carry out succession planning and talent market conditions and competition for Human Rights and our Human Rights Policy reviews to identify any skill gaps.
When high-demand skills, while maintaining commits us to protect the rights of everyone recruiting for a vacant position we will draw equity in salary ranges and pay levels.
who works for the Group and all those who from internal talent and where necessary have dealings with it.
The principles of the seek external candidates.
Selection is based Implementation of our policy cover child labour, forced labour, on many factors including a candidates People-related Policies health and safety, freedom of association, relevant education, work experience, This year the Company launched its discrimination, discipline, working hours competencies and performance record.
Responsible Business Programme which is and compensation and the policy is We provide equal opportunities in a blended learning programme focused on published on our website.
The Director recruitment and employment, ensuring human rights, anti-bribery and corruption, of Human Resources reports to the Chief we do not discriminate against any person and contract risk awareness.
The programme Executive Officer and is responsible for the based on sex, race, caste, origin, religion, covers direct training of general managers development of the Human Rights Policy disability, gender, sexual orientation, age and compliance officers, utilising our online and related matters, with the Chief or any other status protected by law.
Should training programmes in these areas, Executives of each Division having existing employees become disabled, our providing them with the skills to cascade responsibility for policy implementation policy is to provide continuing employment this training through their respective parts within their respective Divisions.
The and training wherever practicable.
This programme will evolve Morgan Crucible ethics hotline enables with the changing demands of the business For the business to achieve superior employees who are aware of or suspect and regulatory frameworks around the performance there is an expectation that issues under our Human Rights Policy world.
All our businesses must complete our people need to operate at superior to report these confidentially.
an annual certification process confirming levels.
We aim to support them through their compliance with the Morgan Crucible Policies.
52 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2010 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Total lost time During the year MorgaNet, our intranet In pursuit of growing capability in the labour % of working time site, has grown to provide faster and more market, Morgan Crucible continues to efficient access to information from diverse sponsor annually the Science, Engineering 2.6 2010 sources across the globe.
It has enabled & Technology Student of the Year awards.
2.7 2009 forums to be set up where people can We are proud to sponsor this event as we 2.4 2008 connect and collaborate on many different believe it allows high-calibre students to areas of the business cross-divisionally showcase their remarkable research work Employee turnover and globally.
Early in the year we set up and demonstrate the depth of ability of % per year a global project team to analyse business graduates in the UK.
In 2010 the winner opportunities in the energy market.
of the Best Materials Student award was 13.7 2010 The project team collaborates through Rowan Leary from Leeds University.
16.7 2009 MorgaNet and regularly reports its findings 14.2 People Policy effectiveness to the Executive Committee.
2008 At the end of the year, Morgan Crucible Our employees tell us that they like to hear employed 9,844 people.
Additionally, Training about whats happening in other parts of we employ 1,175 people on short-term hours per employee the Company and enjoy reading our global contractual arrangements to provide the 19.4 2010 360 e-magazine.
In 2010, we launched numerical flexibility for our businesses 12.4 an online version in Chinese in addition to react quickly to changes in market 2009 to having hard copies available in conditions.
Our geographic coverage has 14.9 2008 13 languages.
The Divisions continue to 33% of employees in Europe, Middle East issue regular Divisional newsletters in both and Africa, 36% in the Americas, and 31% soft and hard formats.
In Europe we have in Asia Pacific.
Of these employees 74% an established consultative arrangement are male.
Lost time as a proportion of total that provides an arena for the exchange of working time was 2.6%, with lost time relevant and appropriate information across due to accidents in the workplace of 0.1% the European region.
We also held our of total working time.
Training hours per 14th annual European Employee Forum employee were 19.4.
Our employee in April 2010 where site representatives turnover was 13.7% in 2010.
2.1% of the attended from France, Germany, Hungary, workforce was made redundant during the Italy, the Netherlands and the UK.
year with high levels of natural turnover coming from China and Mexico where In 2010, we made significant progress with the labour markets are exceptionally fluid.
our online Developing for Performance system.
The system focuses on developing During the year 23 employees around the the skills of our employees through world celebrated 40 years of loyal service performance management, goal-setting, with Morgan Crucible, with 218 employees competency assessment and development celebrating anniversaries of 20, 25 or planning.
It has a Development Centre 30 years service.
We are always hugely where Group and Divisional training impressed by the number of employees who programmes are located.
The system remain in our employment for significant enables managers and employees to track periods of their lives.
The average length and record their learning and development of service of our employees is 11.3 years.
and link specific development to the achievement of business goals and objectives.
In addition, our businesses continue to support local learning initiatives.
Annual Report 2010 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 53
