Another important indicator is our staff working alongside our buyers in India Whilst we continue to grow our expert turnover, which we believe to be among and Hong Kong, which this year has team, we believe that it is vitally important the lowest in the retail sector.
Our long been strengthened with the addition that everyone at Mothercare understands service records also demonstrate the of a responsible sourcing manager their role in improving supplier standards.
267 people for the UK and Europe.
To this end we continue to provide training, 3.6 per cent in the business have 20 years particularly to our buying sourcing Our suppliers are required to register or more service and six have over 35 years team members and have developed on Sedex if they are not already service.
Our longest-serving employee a key issues checklist which anyone members, complete a self-assessment of has been with us for 43 years.
from Mothercare can use to check on their employment practice and upload a compliance with ethical standards when third-party audit and corrective action plan Our approach to motivating and visiting a factory.
It is important that buyers rewarding staff is based on recognition for us to review.
In this way we gain a good or anyone from the Mothercare group overview of the general conditions and for effort and achievement.
Each employee who visits a factory reinforces the principles has objectives set at the beginning of potential problems in our supply chain.
of our ethical sourcing policy.
the financial year and these are revised But this type of approach alone drives only and updated during the year at regular limited improvements in working conditions.
performance reviews, to ensure that they Case study To be effective, it must be supported by are realistic, challenging and achievable.
India Business Incentives Model Project dedicated staff with a deep understanding At the end of the year each employee To effectively and sustainably improve the of local culture and practice.
is rated against their performance, and working conditions in the factory of a key Our teams based in India and China training and development requirements Indian supplier, we have been engaged are identified through a personal carry out in-depth investigations and, in a project focused on: where necessary, offer support and development plan.
Fast Track is a production management and systems: store-based 12-week programme training to factory management and workers to build local capacity.
They spend designed to promote retail employees human resources management: and through the management chain.
Launched a lot of time talking to suppliers: offering worker welfare systems.
advice and guidance and helping them in October 2009, this has recently completed its first cycle with 18 employees taking part.
develop appropriate corrective action The project has attempted to solve plans within a reasonable timetable.
problems in these systems often called We have also introduced a number of This approach has improved our supplier the root causes of labour standards issues employee benefits and initiatives this relationships, transparency and trust.
thereby improving working conditions as year which have proved very successful.
We also have a number of projects that a whole.
For example, by understanding are focused on understanding the root People making our products why workers are absent from work in this We aim to ensure that our suppliers and causes of the most prevalent issues, which case because the process for applying are usually long working hours and low partners respect human rights, offer decent for leave was not easy or understood working conditions and pay attention to wages.
We reported last year on our by the workers it was possible to improve project in India which has since expanded environmental issues.
Specifically we want the relevant process, which resulted in to ensure that we are a fair and honest to become a collaborative project with improved attendance and provided another ETI member see case study.
company to deal with and that we and workers with increased access to paid our partners provide safe, good quality A similar project in China is in its initial annual leave.
stages and we will report further on this products to our customers.
The project has been running for ten months initiative next year.
Whilst we have achieved much in this and we have been able to see significant challenging area we recognise that it is We have also begun to address issues progress in management systems, a continuing journey.
We continue to learn that have not traditionally been covered especially in production.
Our next and share best practice through our by Ethical Codes of Conduct including challenge is to track the effect that these membership of the Ethical Trading Initiative financial literacy in China and crche improvements have had on the working ETI, and share information with other facilities in India see case studies these conditions and daily lives of the workers, retailers using the Sedex Supplier Ethical projects have directly helped improve and make sure that these improvements Data Exchange system.
We have a the lives of workers: one of our key goals.
are built upon in the coming year.
