Being responsible Corporate responsibility review Corporate responsibility is about what you do and how mass public transport services.
Four values: people, customers, you do it.
It is an integral part of the way a company community and, most importantly, safety, underpin this vision.
operates, and should not be seen as an add-on.
Safety What National Express does is to provide essential public More than anything else, we value the safety of our customers, services.
They are provided at low cost for consumers and at employees and the public generally.
Nothing we do is worth very low levels of carbon emission.
getting hurt for and we will not do anything which causes harm.
They are services that are key to the socio-economic well-being To achieve this, we are embedding a renewed safety culture within of communities: enabling people to get to work and to school, to the Company.
This has been initially driven from the top, with all the shops or to hospital.
They are services that improve the quality senior managers required to demonstrate leadership on safety.
of life for millions of people, ensuring that individuals or localities During 2010 a new Group-wide safety programme was developed, do not become isolated.
This is particularly true at a time of called Driving Out Harm.
It is being led personally by our Group rising unemployment.
Chief Executive and, during the year, all 234 senior managers in the Group attended safety leadership courses.
National Express directly employs more than 38,000 people worldwide.
In Spain and the UK we are major employers in the During 2011, all middle managers and supervisors will take cities where we are based.
In Birmingham, the home of our part in safety training designed to embed our new global safety UK operation, we employ over 5,000 people or 1% of the citys standards in the culture of the business worldwide.
Indirectly we support many thousands of other jobs in be the personal responsibility of all staff.
Our Intercity services are, for example, important We have introduced new safety Key Performance Indicators to in supporting the local tourist industry: in the UK we estimate that measure, consistently, how we are doing.
And the rules governing our national coach network supports some 3,600 jobs in the bonus payments have been changed.
In future, bonus payments will South West of England alone.
be even more closely aligned to both profit and safety performance.
Public transport reduces congestion and environmental damage We expect substantial improvements in 2011 based on what has in our cities making them more attractive places to live.
The CO 2 been put in place, and aim for our safety record to be the best in emissions per passenger kilometre in coach travel are around the transport sector.
80% less than those of the average new car.
People So this is what we do: and the better we are at what we do, the Our People value seeks to enable all of our staff to reach their full more people use us and the greater the benefits.
potential and to give of their best as individuals and in teams.
Vision and values We are establishing people management principles which will act How we do it is linked to the core values of the Company.
We as global minimum standards in HR.
have re-invigorated the business, defining a new framework of In 2010 we focused on talent management: creating individual corporate values that will become central to the way National development plans for senior managers: succession plans for Express works.
each business unit: establishing a high potential scheme to Our vision is to earn the lifetime loyalty of our customers by identify leaders of the future: and emphasised the importance consistently delivering excellent value, frequent, highly performing, of continuous learning and development.
Award-winning coach station Our new Birmingham coach station was the first such building to achieve the BREEAM standard.
BREEAM is the definitive method for assessing a buildings environmental performance, and the organisation had to write a bespoke assessment to enable them to rate the property.
The coach stations red boundary screen also won an important art award specifically for its community engagement and its contribution to regeneration and sustainable growth.
36 National Express Group PLC Business review What National Express does is to provide essential public services.
They are provided at low cost for consumers and at very low levels of carbon emission.
Middle managers will be included in an extended talent management Around the world our businesses support those who most clearly programme in 2011 as it is rolled out throughout the organisation.
benefit from what we offer in cash and kind.
And, as an international company, we are also keen to put in In the US, we have a long standing relationship with the Special place an exchange scheme as a forum for learning across Olympics which includes providing buses for competitors.
Our Spanish business makes substantial donations to road safety organisations.
UK Coach provided a branded vehicle for the Customers Little Princesses charity, while UK Rail is a long-term supporter of We will place customers at the heart of our business.
In short: The Railway Children charity which helps runaway and street kids nobody will try harder for our customers than we do.
around the world, particularly those who live near railway stations.
We are establishing customer panels across each division, to Our UK Bus business is developing links with Transaid to help ensure we hear regularly from customers.
improve bus driver training in Tanzania, through a programme that Our services are key to the well-being of the individuals and can be delivered by local teams.
In the UK and Spain around a quarter of We continue to encourage our employees to get involved with households do not have access to a car.
The lives of these people fundraising or volunteering in their own communities, by awarding would be adversely impacted if our services did not exist.
grants through our Employee Charity Panel.
We are committed to making our services ever more attractive, Government policy to ensure that more people use them and enjoy greater value for The UK Coalition Governments key priority is deficit reduction.
Our starting point is operational excellence: the better While this meant the reduction in some public transport subsidies, our services are, the stronger our business and the greater the the Comprehensive Spending Review also confirmed that the UK benefits for our customers.
Indeed, we believe the switch from Government see transport as critical to economic growth.
private to public modes of transport, and to low carbon from high carbon modes such as car or air travel, benefits everyone.
We firmly believe that public transport supports key government priorities by reducing congestion, and enabling economic growth We are also very interested in the role new technology, including and productivity in local communities in a low carbon way.
For social media, could play in improving our services.
example, almost 150,000 new jobs are forecast to be created in Community the West Midlands between now and 2030.
Many of them will be Our policies and practices will advance the social, environmental in sectors, such as business services, which favour a city centre and economic conditions in the communities in which we operate.
Our vision of excellent value, highly performing services, Over the next 12 months we will proactively promote the social, consistently delivered will be crucial in connecting people to these economic and environmental benefits of what we do in the jobs in a low carbon way that minimises congestion.
communities in which we operate.
Public transport is well placed In 2011 we will seek to promote the benefits of our services more to meet the climate change challenge as it is a low cost solution clearly and we will keep the communities we serve moving.
to reducing carbon from transport.
We are investing significantly in new fleet, including hybrid buses in the UK and Spain.
No1 Award winning National Express was named the Best Company in the Transport Sector 2010 by the Spanish business daily El Economista.
National Express coach driver Mark Dean from Transdev Yellow Buses in Bournemouth won the 2010 UK Bus Driver of the Year award.
