Directors Report and Business Review 16 SOCIAL & ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS Next is committed to the principles of responsible business.
For Next this means delivering value to customers and stakeholders, recruiting and retaining the best people to work for the Group, developing positive relationships with suppliers and developing healthy links with the communities in which it operates.
Next has a Corporate Responsibility CR forum of 15 senior managers and directors representing key areas of the business, co-ordinated by a CR Manager, to develop and implement its strategy.
The forum identifies potential issues and opportunities and evaluates the success of Nexts response.
The CR Manager holds regular updates with the executive director responsible for CR matters.
A third party provides independent assurance on the content of the Groups CR report which is published on the Companys website each year.
Nexts commitment to CR matters is also recognised externally by its continuing membership of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
Suppliers Next is a member of the Ethical Trading Initiative and operates a Code of Practice COP, an established set of ethical trading standards which forms an integral part of the Groups operations.
The Next COP has ten key principles that stipulate the minimum standards with which suppliers are required to comply in relation to workers rights and conditions of work including working hours, minimum age of employment, health, safety, welfare and environmental issues.
Through its COP, Next seeks to ensure all products bearing the Next brand are produced in a clean and safe environment and in accordance with all relevant laws.
Next is committed to its internal supplier audit and management programme and has a COP audit team of 40 staff 2009: 37.
The COP team works directly with suppliers to identify and address causes of non-compliance.
Each audited factory is measured against the COP and is graded against its six tier rating system.
The supplier is made aware of its rating and what is required to improve that rating via a corrective action plan.
This direct approach also allows Next to build knowledge and understanding in the local communities, as well as monitoring suppliers through its auditing process.
Nexts policy for the payment of suppliers is either to agree terms of payment at the start of business or to ensure that the supplier is aware of the Groups payment terms.
Payment is made in accordance with contractual and other legal obligations.
Trade creditor days of the Next group at 30 January 2010 were 26 days 2009: 27 days based on the ratio of the trade creditors at the end of the year to the amounts paid during the year to trade creditors.
The Company had no trade creditors at 30 January 2010 or 24 January 2009.
Customers Next is committed to offering stylish, excellent quality products to its customers and aims to ensure they are safe and fit for purpose and are sourced in a responsible manner.
Its team of technologists works closely with buyers, designers and suppliers to ensure Next products comply with all relevant legislation.
The expertise of independent safety specialists for clothing, footwear, accessories, beauty and home products is used where required.
Next endeavours to provide inclusive, high quality service to all customers, whether they are shopping through its stores, catalogues or website.
The different methods of shopping must be easily accessible for all customers and be responsive to their particular needs.
Next Customer Services interacts with Retail and Directory customers to resolve enquiries and issues.
Findings are documented and the information is used by other areas of the business to review how a product or service can be improved.
Health and safety Next recognises the importance of health and safety at work and its management is designed to contribute to improving business performance.
Policies and procedures are reviewed and audited regularly to make safety management more robust and fully up to date.
The Groups objective is to manage all aspects of its business in a safe manner and take practical measures to ensure that its activities and products do not harm customers, employees, contractors, sites or equipment.
Procedures are in place to enable effective two way communication and consultation about health, safety and welfare issues in order to achieve a high level of safety awareness.
Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 January 2010 Directors Report and Business Review 17 Environment Next recognises that it has a responsibility to manage the impact of its business on the environment both now and in the future.
Key areas of focus continue to be: n energy use and emissions from stores, warehouses, distribution centres and offices: n fuel emissions from the transportation of products to either stores or customers homes: and n waste created in stores, warehouses, distribution centres and offices.
Next is committed to reducing its carbon footprint by reducing energy consumption throughout its operations, minimising and recycling waste, cutting transport emissions and reducing the packaging in our products.
During the year, all areas of the business have implemented energy saving initiatives and undertaken employee training to reduce energy consumption.
Examples include replacing existing lighting schemes with more efficient bulbs, installation of occupancy sensors to dim or turn off lights when areas are unoccupied and interrogation of store energy consumption to identify, investigate and correct unusual consumption patterns.
As a result, the Group was able to reduce its combined UK consumption of electricity and gas by 15% in the year to January 2010.
During 2008, Next began the construction of its own recycling centre to process cardboard and polythene waste created in the business, which became fully operational in 2009.
To achieve the long term aim of no operational waste being sent to landfill, further streams of dry waste materials have been identified that can be segregated and collected for recycling, such as tissue, paper, plastic bottles, timber and metals.
Next complies with the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment WEEE Regulations through participation in a UK wide WEEE collection system to enable its customers to recycle electrical products free of charge at UK recycling sites.
Community Next aims to make a positive impact in its local communities through a programme of support involving sponsorship, donations and employee time.
Next has offered the following financial support: 2010 2009 000 000 Registered charities 903 839 Individual requests, local and national groups and organisations 87 57 Commercial support 61 54 This support has been complemented with the following fundraising activities to generate additional funds for registered charities, groups or organisations: 2010 2009 000 000 Next charity events 20 24 Gifts in kind product donations 601 764 Charity linked sales 404 182 Employee fundraising 40 21 Ventura fundraising 6 12 Next is working with a number of charities both in the UK and overseas to raise funds through the sale of specific products where a donation from the sale of each product is passed to the charity.
We have continued to support Soul of Africa, an imaginative self-help initiative which resources groups of unemployed workers in Africa with materials and skills to make hand-stitched shoes and t-shirts.
In addition we have continued to support a number of health charities through the sale of Next Christmas cards and clothing products.
No donations were made for political purposes 2009: nil.
