Directors report Introduction Business strategy Operating Financial Operational Risks and Appendix Board directors and business environment performance performance resources biographies review Risks and resources continued Work is progressing on increasing the capacity of our Abberton Reservoir near Colchester by 58%.
The one remaining part of the overall Abberton Scheme that requires permissions is the variation of abstraction licences at Denver and Blackdyke in Norfolk.
We are working closely with the EA on progressing this.
Once this scheme is in operation in 2014, it is unlikely we will need to develop major resources in Essex for the next 25 years.
We will continue to play a leading role in the industry on water efficiency measures and to encourage customers to use water wisely.
We will work Weather radar at High Moorsley, near with other stakeholders to develop a coordinated strategy for reducing Durham City, with David Chapman water use to sustainable levels.
NWL, Graham Butler Met Office, and Phil Marshall EA In areas where water is scarce, water meters have a key role to play in reducing demand.
We aim to achieve as near to universal metering as possible in Essex by 2020 and in Suffolk by 2023.
On current policies it will take considerably longer to achieve full metering in the north east as there is no economic, environmental or social driver to move more quickly.
Changing weather patterns The water cycle and the changing weather has a direct influence on the provision of water and waste water services.
NWLs employees are experienced in managing the effects of too much or too little rainfall, but changing weather patterns will present a growing challenge for the business.
In past years, we have carried out research into the likely impact of climate change on all our assets and water resources and this has been incorporated in our climate change policy as part of our corporate responsibility work.
This work is continuing, based on the latest UKCP09 projections published last year by the UK Climate Impacts Programme.
Over the course of the year we will be doing more work in this area as we respond to the new adaptation reporting power granted to the Government by the 2008 Climate Change Act.
This will set out in the public domain the extent to which the changing climate is likely to impact on the business and what actions we are taking to meet the challenge it represents.
Employees If we are to continue to optimise our assets, offer an excellent service to our customers, and achieve our regulatory obligations, we need to continue to recruit, retain and develop talented people as a leading employer in our regions.
We will continue to offer all our employees terms and conditions at least commensurate with other major employers as well as appropriate training and development to support their ongoing performance and career progression.
This includes the comprehensive management development framework, graduate and apprentice programmes, as well as initiatives such as the NVQ programme which reach many employees.
