Directors report and business Operating Financial Operational Risks and Board directors review Introduction Business strategy environment performance performance resources Appendix biographies Quality NWL has maintained its certification to the international quality standard ISO 9001:2000 and to the international environmental standard ISO 14001:2004 across all areas of the business, including operational sites and office based teams.
The company also achieved companywide certification to the international occupational health and safety management standard OHSAS 18001 in 2007.
Employees Throughout the Group we have 3,105 employees, as set out below: Average number Group business unit of employees % Northumbrian Water Limited 2,930 94 Water and waste water contracts 151 5 Other 24 1 Total employees 3,105 100 NWG ensures its terms and conditions both attract and retain the best employees in the areas it serves.
NWL employee turnover is relatively low at 6.4%, below the UK water industry average of 9.2%.
NWG places great emphasis on health and safety and employees are actively encouraged to be involved in identifying and eliminating hazards in the workplace.
This has resulted in a significant reduction in accidents over recent years.
NWLs current level of sickness absence is 3.18%, which is the lowest ever achieved and well below the norm for the sector.
North N Target Performance South S 2009 10 2009 10 1 Employee turnover rolling % N S Industry 6.5 average 9.2 Lost time reportable accidents per 1,000 employees N S 10 5.7 Sickness absence % N S 2.85 3.18 Notes: 1.
No target set, data for information.
37 Directors report Introduction Business strategy Operating Financial Operational Risks and Appendix Board directors and business environment performance performance resources biographies review Operational performance continued The active involvement and engagement of everyone across the business is Over 80% of an important part of delivering performance and NWL continues to formally employees would seek the views of employees through an annual employee engagement recommend working survey.
This years survey had the largest response rate ever at 71% and for NWL and 77% the feedback covered working life, training, communications, managers and the company.
All employees were invited to workshops to consider the believe that NWL results and identify areas for improvement in their working practices and is a great organisation environment: the outputs contributed to the development of departmental to work for.
Overall, employee satisfaction levels remain very high with the company achieving its Engagement & Satisfaction Index targets this year.
In addition, 80% of respondents told us they are proud to work for the company, 82% would recommend working for the company and 77% believe that NWL is a great organisation to work for.
NWL employees also have access to a scheme which provides a wide range of benefits including tax efficient benefits such as childcare vouchers, water services, cars for personal use and discounted store vouchers.
Currently 72% of employees participate in the scheme, up from 62% last year.
Training and development Our people are the key to our business success.
NWL continues to implement its Management Development Framework which is structured see diagram below to cover the training needs of those who show the potential for management right through to development at director level.
As part of this framework we are working in partnership with Newcastle Business School to provide qualifications from a Diploma to a Masters degree in leadership and management.
In 2010, we are planning to roll out a new step in our Management Development Framework to some of our operational departments.
This development programme for supervisors, team leaders and works managers includes assessment against NQF Levels 2, 3 and 4 management standards, as appropriate, supported by formal development and coaching.
Further information on developing our people can be found on page 40.
NWLs Management Development Framework model 38
