Directors report Introduction Business strategy Operating Financial Operational Risks and Appendix Board directors and business environment performance performance resources biographies review Operating environment continued Employees NWL aims to be Each company within the Group has developed its own employee policies, recognised as an reflecting the framework set out in NWGs Our Code of Conduct.
policies are tailored to specific business objectives and operating environments.
Each company aims to recruit and retain the best people, with a diverse range of skills, experience and backgrounds, who are committed to making the company successful.
In return, each company aims to provide opportunities and training for employees to develop their skills and capabilities to equip them to meet the challenges of their roles, while rewarding the contributions of both teams and individuals.
Equality and diversity The Group operates an equal opportunity policy designed to ensure that no job applicant or employee receives less favourable treatment on the grounds of age, gender, marital status, disability, race, ethnic or national origin, religion or sexual orientation.
NWL monitors its workforce profile against census and sector data and aims to be recognised as an employer of choice within the diverse communities it serves, ensuring it takes full advantage of the rich backgrounds and abilities of current and potential employees.
NWL welcomes employment applications from people with disabilities and, where existing employees develop disabilities, they are supported to remain in employment, wherever practicable, by providing appropriate adjustments to their roles and or effective redeployments.
Occupational health physicians assist this process with professional medical advice.
Consultation and engagement Each company engages with its employees through a variety of means appropriate to its working environment.
The importance of an inclusive and engaging management style is fully recognised.
In 2009, NWL continued to build on its award winning approach by engaging with all employees over some 120 workshops in a dialogue on improvements to our working practices and environment and to seek their views on the areas that should be covered in the 2010-15 People Plan.
16 Directors report and business Operating Financial Operational Risks and Board directors review Introduction Business strategy environment performance performance resources Appendix biographies Training and development All Group companies train and develop their employees to benefit both the company and the individual.
Annual appraisals are given high priority, as is the identification of training needs, in recognition of the importance of training and development in achieving the Groups goals and policies.
Communication The Group uses a wide range of communication methods including magazines, newsletters, intranet, notice boards and regular team meetings.
Unplugged, NWLs magazine, contains articles on activities and news from across the business, focusing on employees and their achievements.
NWL issues all employees with a series of information booklets clearly explaining areas such as the companys mission and values, terms, conditions and benefits of employment, occupational health and wellbeing programmes and People Plan objectives.
Disclosure Whistleblowing The Group encourages open feedback and is committed to protecting employees who wish to voice concerns about behaviour or decisions that they believe to be illegal or unethical.
The Audit Committee regularly reviews the disclosure policy.
Health and safety A safe working environment is given high priority across the Group.
A health and safety policy is maintained and implemented at each subsidiary.
Further details of health and safety can be found in the operational performance section.
Employee Share Incentive Plan SIP The directors believe that employee investment strengthens the ties between the Group and its employees.
More than a third of employees participate in the SIP, with an interest in 0.5% of the issued share capital.
The scheme provides one free matching share for every three shares bought by an employee.
Shares for the SIP are purchased at market price by the Trustee and dividends are paid in cash directly to participants.
There are no performance conditions attached to the SIP but free shares not held in trust for at least 12 months are forfeited.
Employees participating in the SIP are given the opportunity to exercise their voting rights through the Trustee of the SIP.
