Directors report Introduction Business strategy Operating Financial Operational Risks and Appendix Board directors and business environment performance performance resources biographies review Operating environment continued Corporate responsibility Our aim of balancing NWL is expected to provide a secure supply of water, a basic necessity for economic, social health, and to protect or enhance the environment when we return waste to and environmental it.
However, our stakeholders also expect us to: priorities underpins all behave fairly and responsibly: use resources wisely: of our activities and is improve quality of life: and an integral part of the contribute to economic development.
We take our corporate responsibilities seriously.
Our aim of balancing economic, social and environmental priorities underpins all of our activities and is an integral part of the way we do business.
We have significant resources in our assets, land and employees and believe we have a responsibility to use these resources for the benefit of our customers, our shareholders and the wider communities we serve.
The Chief Executive Officer is directly accountable to the NWL and NWG boards for both the environment and sustainable development policies.
We have developed our own model to integrate corporate responsibility as an essential part of normal business practice in NWL.
This model is published on our websites with links to our policy, action plan, key performance indicators, trend data and case studies for 25 key areas of our business.
NWLs corporate responsibility model 18 Directors report and business Operating Financial Operational Risks and Board directors review Introduction Business strategy environment performance performance resources Appendix biographies The Corporate Responsibility Committee CRC is a subcommittee of the NWL board and comprises non-executive directors, management team members and senior managers from the business.
The CRC maintains a strategic overview of corporate responsibility policies and issues.
Within the business, a Corporate Responsibility Management Group CRMG drives and manages our corporate responsibility programme both prioritising activity and facilitating reporting and monitoring.
The CRMG is supported by two regional groups and by teams of community and environmental champions drawn from across the business to ensure communication and influence is as effective and widespread as possible.
We also have specialist working groups responsible for investigating, advising on and driving change on specific projects, such as climate change, energy use, transport, waste and recycling.
The Corporate Responsibility Advisory Group CRAG is made up of senior representatives from partner organisations in the key areas of our partnership strategy: environment, community, health, regional support, education and WaterAid.
The CRAG acts as a critical friend, helping to validate, guide and challenge NWLs CR strategy and activities.
19 Case study Sustainable Development The Queens Award for Enterprise Sustainable Development The Queens Award for Enterprise Northumbrian Water Limited was Since the award, work has continued awarded the Queens Award for with our long term partnerships: for Enterprise in the category of Sustainable example, Castle View Enterprise Development.
This award recognises Academy opened to pupils in our ongoing commitment to best September 2009 and phase two of practice and continual improvement in Healthworks was opened in November the areas of environmental performance, 2009.
Further developments in community investment and sustainability corporate responsibility agenda and recognition in this category is rare.
highlights can be viewed at www.
aspx The Queens Award for Enterprise: Other examples are outlined below: Sustainable Development 2009 citation: Sustainable procurement Northumbrian Water Ltd receives The Our top suppliers participated in a Queens Award for Enterprise for its project called Making a Difference ongoing and impressive commitment Together.
Each was subject to a half a to sustainability.
day interview and an in depth corporate responsibility questionnaire.
The analysis It has actively striven to promote will be used to further drive sustainable best practice within its sector and procurement through our supply chain.
is committed to ongoing review and continuous improvement.
People Plan During workshops, employees were With a commendable and ever given the opportunity to influence the improving environmental performance development of the 2010-15 People Plan in place, it is, however, Northumbrians and to respond to the employee survey extremely impressive social and results.
This involved all employees economic initiatives which elevate and allowed them to highlight both it to the status of sector leaders.
positive and negative aspects of working for NWL.
This was the first time A diverse suite of programmes have that employees on a large scale have been implemented, encompassing local participated in the strategic development procurement, strong apprenticeship of the business and this engagement, programmes, individual up skilling at every level in the business, resulted and the continuous leverage of their in valuable new ideas which have been spending power, employment and incorporated into our forward planning.
wider economic presence to ensure maximum benefit for local communities.
Northumbrians driving commitment to sustainability governance provides an example and benchmark across sectors, demonstrating that strong leadership and ambition can make a tangible difference to communities both local and more widely.
20 Sustainable Development The Queens Award for Case study Enterprise 21
