Directors report and business Operating Financial Operational Risks and Board directors review Introduction Business strategy environment performance performance resources Appendix biographies The most significant new contracts signed during the year include: economic studies and statistical surveys in Algeria 1.9 million 18 months : consolidation of conflict affected populations in Congo, Brazzaville 0.9 million 24 months : information systems for rural development and country planning in Chad 2.5 million 42 months : water management and irrigation component of the agricultural development programme in Burkina Faso 3.2 million 60 months and a new Framework Contract for Lot 1: Rural Development 48 months.
Corporate responsibility NWL supports the communities we serve in a number of different ways.
As well as providing financial support and facilities, we encourage employees to volunteer their time, skills and expertise through our Just an hour scheme.
These activities generally support projects that make the areas we serve better places in which to live, work or invest.
The programme focuses on key themes throughout these communities but, increasingly, we are developing initiatives designed to tackle lasting and sustainable change in specific areas.
In April 2009, NWL received the Queens Award for Enterprise in the category of Sustainable Development.
Additionally, we were: members of the FTSE4GoodIndex: one of only seven companies nationally to achieve the new highest platinum plus ranking in the Business in the Community BITC Corporate Responsibility Index.
The new platinum plus process evaluated the extent to which our business strategy is underpinned by a focus on long term sustainability.
This improves on our platinum status in 2008 as one of the top 100 Companies for corporate responsibility: awarded the BITC Big Tick award for its impact on society, power in partnership and for being a healthy workplace: the employee engagement winner at North East of England Chartered Institute of Personnel Development HR&D 2009 awards: the category winner of Culture for Success Large Employer Award for employee development, customer service, business growth and the contribution we have made to the community: holders of the Payroll Giving Quality Mark Gold Award: Beyond Sport Award finalist best corporate responsibility in sport: and winners of the Waterways Renaissance Awards natural environment category for the Trinity Broads Restoration Project.
Over many years, we have contributed resources with a value equivalent to at least 1% of our annual pre-tax profits through cash, employee time and expertise, or use of our facilities to projects which benefit the communities we serve.
The Group made charitable donations totalling 156,517.
43 Directors report Introduction Business strategy Operating Financial Operational Risks and Appendix Board directors and business environment performance performance resources biographies review Operational performance continued Community support Employees and volunteering Currently 26% of employees participate in the Just an hour volunteering scheme and last year gave over 7,890 hours to the community.
Over 600 different organisations were given financial and in-kind support during the year.
The Care for safety scheme, which encourages employees to reduce accidents and associated lost time, has triggered payments totalling 49,605 for our nominated charities Great North Air Ambulance Service, Just an hour employees at RNLI, Essex Air Ambulance, Myelin Project, Zoes Place, Macmillan Cancer Sunningdale School to give the Support and St Cuthberts Hospice.
Since it began almost 310,000 has sensory garden a makeover been raised for charity.
Education Further to the launch of the Northumbrian Water GLOBE programme, which saw us link up with the international environmental education initiative set up by Al Gore in 1996, we donated 85 fully automated weather stations and associated training to schools throughout the northern region, to collect weather data in areas where Meteorological Office coverage is poor.
This data is now helping to increase understanding of the impact of climate change and is a valuable curriculum tool.
The Northumbrian Water Schools Awards, now in their fourth year in the northern region, are designed to recognise and celebrate the achievements being made by our schools.
They cover both community and curriculum based projects and honour whole schools, classes and individuals.
Over 600 different In our southern operating area, we support Cash for Schools along with organisations were the Essex Chronicle.
This recognises excellence, with a focus on given financial and environmental projects from primary and secondary schools within the in-kind support during newspapers distribution area.
the year through Work with Colchester Borough Council, Essex County Council, Essex NWLs employee University and the Essex Wildlife Trust is ongoing to use Abberton Reservoir volunteering scheme, and the enlargement project to further education.
A study will look at the Just an hour.
need for further education facilities in the vicinity of Abberton Reservoir.
Depending on the studys findings, NWL will provide accommodation for use as an education centre.
A wide range of educational materials are available on our websites for children and teachers.
Partnerships Water for health NWL continues to promote the health benefits of drinking tap water.
To date, over 306,000 has been provided for mains-fed water coolers in schools and around 675 have been supplied in nearly 350 schools.
We also continue to promote bottle-free water coolers as a sustainable alternative to bottle-fed coolers.
44 Directors report and business Operating Financial Operational Risks and Board directors review Introduction Business strategy environment performance performance resources Appendix biographies Environmental Key partnerships have been developed with NWL to help the conservation of biodiversity on our sites.
Our contribution includes funding project officers and current partnerships include: Northumberland Wildlife Trust Kielder and Bakethin : Durham Wildlife Trust: Essex Wildlife Trust Hanningfield : Broads Authority Lound and Trinity Broads : and Davy Down Trust North Stifford, Essex.
Sir Derek Wanless at Healthworks phase two launch Sustainable communities NWL has developed some longer term projects to help build sustainable communities in the areas it serves.
These projects are developed with partners to help bring about lasting change and some examples are given below.
Healthworks NWL granted a 99 year lease to County Durham Primary Care Trust PCT on a redundant building at our Easington waterworks and worked in partnership with the PCT, the District of Easington Council, the Neighbourhood Management Pathfinder and other stakeholders to develop services for the local community in an area where census records show one of the worst health records in the country.
Beyond providing the building, we contributed research, marketing and communications support to improve awareness of the centre and helped with events to promote healthy living, targeted at primary and secondary schools and day centres, and linked to our Water for health campaign.
We sit on the steering group for Healthworks which achieved almost 10,000 visitors in its first year alone and now provides over 45 health and community support services.
It acts as a community focal point where service providers and community groups can come together to address issues that affect the quality of life in the local community.
Facilities range from a juice bar to a gym and information kiosks, some of which can be used in a privacy setting with many more planned.
Healthworks has been so successful that the plans for phase two were brought forward and this was opened in November by the Chairman, Sir Derek Wanless.
Healthworks now includes a GP led walk-in health centre open from 8am to 8pm, 365 days a year, thus securing the future of Healthworks for the community, which is a unique approach to tackling the poor long term health of the residents in Easington.
45 Directors report Introduction Business strategy Operating Financial Operational Risks and Appendix Board directors and business environment performance performance resources biographies review Operational performance continued Sporting partnerships NWL prides itself on being immersed in the community and working with a wide and diverse range of sporting partners is a natural extension of our Water for health campaign, which encourages people to lead a healthy lifestyle.
Working with our sporting partners we support a diverse range of sports to get people active as well as educating them on healthy eating and good hydration.
Through our partnerships we have reached over 60,000 children and adults.
We provide: links and networks to enable sporting partners to get together to share ideas and resources: financial support of over 56,000 per annum which then levered over 2.0 million 1.3 million of this was due to the phase two extension of Healthworks which is on our former site from other sources: advice and marketing support on programme development: bottled tap water, sports bottles or mains-fed bottle-free coolers to reinforce the importance of drinking tap water to re-hydrate during sporting activities: and help with fundraising and raising the profile to attract additional investment.
We can generate wider support for projects by adding our name and commitment to them and by encouraging others to get involved thus generating additional funding sources for projects.
Our involvement acts as a key catalyst to raise confidence that projects present real opportunities for the private sector.
Education NWL is lead sponsor of Castle View Enterprise Academy, a new and exciting independent school for 11-16 year olds serving the areas of Castletown, Town End Farm and Hylton Castle in Sunderland.
The area contains some of the most deprived wards in the region and 61-80% of the school catchment population is categorised as struggling families.
The Academy opened in September 2009 and offers a new approach to education.
It is one of three academies created in Sunderland with the City Council as co-sponsor using a unique model under the Building Schools for the Future programme.
Our aim as lead sponsor is to create a centre of excellence with a clear focus on raising standards of academic performance and enabling every student to achieve their personal best in all areas of academy life within a safe, secure and stable environment.
The project has been almost four years from planning to opening and our employees have helped in the design, build and management arrangements.
The company will use its business networks to complement the Academys specialism which is business and enterprise.
Castle View Academy, Sunderland 46 Directors report and business Operating Financial Operational Risks and Board directors review Introduction Business strategy environment performance performance resources Appendix biographies Economy NWL prides itself on North East Enterprise Bond being immersed in Our investment in the bond is a five year interest free loan, which helped the community.
fund the purchase and running of a number of Launch Pads mobile vehicles that tour the region to help trigger and encourage enterprise start-ups.
Working with creative enterprise promoters such as Big Ideas, People into Enterprise and Newcastle Education Business Partnership, the bond serves as a catalyst to encourage people to set up their own business or social enterprise.
NEL Growth Fund Our investment in the fund is to provide start up capital in eligible high growth businesses based in the north east of England.
The fund is managed by NEL Capital the specialist venture capital division of NEL Fund Managers.
Affordable housing NWL has been working for the last five years with Hastoe housing on an affordable rural housing project as part of our Good Moves programme.
Planning permission has been granted for 12 affordable rural houses on a piece of land that is no longer required by NWL close to the companys Hanningfield water treatment works in Essex.
The homes will be located in a rural area where a significant need for affordable housing has been identified.
WaterAid NWL has continued to raise funds and awareness for the work of WaterAid which brings sustainable water and sanitation solutions as well as hygiene education to the poorest parts of Africa and Asia.
The employee fundraising committee has raised more than 3.0 million, since 1997, with the help of the company and last year focused its fundraising support on specific projects in Tanzania.
Community Foundations Community Foundations covering our areas of supply hold endowment funds totalling nearly 1.0 million contributed by NWL over the last 18 years.
These are long term investments with the income from the funds used to support community initiatives.
Recipients are chosen by committees of our own employees 39 groups this year.
47 Case study Kielder Partnership Kielder Partnership Kielder Water & Forest Park includes needs and we supported this the largest man-made reservoir in the development by the Home Housing UK and is surrounded by Kielder Group in Kielder village.
Four of our Forest, the largest man-made employees live in these houses which woodland in Europe.
We have are fully sustainable too, thanks to a worked with partners in the Kielder pilot project which uses wood chip Partnership to develop and regenerate technologies to heat the home.
the economy of this rural area through tourism development.
Artwork and observatory The art and architecture programme The Kielder Partnership is continuing has been developed over 15 years to benefit from the impact of the 5.4 and there are now more than 20 million capital investment at Kielder innovative contemporary landscape Water & Forest Park between 2007 art and architecture pieces to see, or and 2010.
Key developments include interact with, making Kielder Water & the Kielder Observatory, Lakeside Way Forest Park the largest outdoor public trail, six new art installations and five art gallery in the UK.
Kielder also has flagship mountain bike trails.
As a result: the darkest night skies in England with five direct jobs have been created: minimal light pollution and the Kielder tourism days have increased Observatory, which was designed by 62,000 26% to 300,000 to rise like the deck of a ship sailing with 60% of these from outside above the landscape, offers exciting the north east region: and opportunities to those with an interest direct and indirect spend in learning more about the night sky.
has increased by 3,169,000 33% contributing 12.6 million Lakeside Way to the local economy.
This year has seen the completion of a 26 mile lakeside multi-user trail, with The visitor economy is pivotal for a water access points that encircles sustainable future as it is the key source the shoreline of Kielder Water.
of employment and income generation in an area with few opportunities due Britains most beautiful marathon to the decline in traditional economic In February, we launched the sectors such as agriculture and mining.
Kielder Marathon which will take place this autumn and is billed as The partners have established the Britains most beautiful marathon.
Kielder Water & Forest Park brand It will use the Lakeside Way and, and the Big Picture Development Plan with over 1,500 runners, it will help provides a long term vision for the to promote the profile of the area.
area, including a range of sustainable solutions to attract new audiences.
Ospreys In 2009, a long term project to It builds on the strengths of Kielder encourage Ospreys to return to the to create a destination which region was rewarded when a pair adds critical mass to other iconic of first time parent birds nested on attractions in the north east, as part a specially erected platform and of One North Easts promotion of successfully reared a brood of three the region.
Work is well under way chicks: the first born in Northumberland and examples of significant recent for at least 200 years.
Controlled achievements are provided below.
access encouraged visitors to the site and this will be developed now that Affordable rural housing the birds have returned this year.
There is a need for affordable rural housing to meet local employment 48 Kielder Case study Partnership 49
