Case study Developing our people Developing our people NWL introduced an extensive We signed the Governments Skills People Plan in 2005 06, as part of Pledge at the end of 2007, publicly a human resources strategy for the committing to develop 90% of the following five years.
This outlined the workforce, around 2,600 employees, to organisations aims up to 2010 and at least National Qualification Framework set out a schedule of programmes Level 2 the equivalent of five GCSEs and matrices in support.
Training at grades A to C by the end of 2010. and development and supporting the performance and aspirations of our An ambitious NVQ programme has people are key elements of the plan.
been rolled out in our customer and operational areas.
Funding has One of the objectives of the People been secured from the Learning and Plan is to develop leadership skills in Skills Councils Train to Gain fund current and potential managers and and also through Business Link.
the People Development Framework provides an integrated range of flexible NWLs successful four year training options and learning ideas.
apprenticeship scheme began in September 2007.
We now have Everyone who joins NWL receives a three intakes of mechanical and personalised induction plan providing electrical apprentices at different their familiarisation and training stages in their training with all of the programme for the first few weeks of apprentices guaranteed jobs on their employment.
In addition, they are successful completion of the bespoke invited to a corporate induction day programme.
In 2009, for the first where they meet senior managers and time, we introduced an information are introduced to the company and technology telecoms apprenticeship our approach to key areas including further developing the range of jobs health and safety, terms and conditions, available to young people in our regions.
Our Graduate Development We recognise the vital contribution Programme has been re-launched that training and management to provide potential leaders for the development can make to fully realise future.
Candidates undertake a both organisational and individual two year programme with three to potential.
Our approach focuses on six month placements in different giving the skills and competencies parts of the business.
In addition to needed for role and job objectives, a line manager they are also given a to ensure people are working safely senior manager mentor.
Employment and competently with the potential is also guaranteed on successful to develop and attain aspirations.
We currently have eight graduates on Our aim is to build and maintain a the programme and plan to recruit culture which values, encourages and an additional three during 2010. recognises outstanding performance, where we share a commitment Recognising our employees academic to our objectives and to delivering achievements, the fourth annual skills our personal best.
From corporate awards were celebrated this year.
induction day and induction planning, Attended by senior managers from to individual coaching, accreditation around the business, and with guest of skills through national vocational speaker Kriss Akabusi, the events were qualifications, to management and again motivational and memorable.
leadership programmes, we provide the resources needed to help employees reach their full potential.
40 Developing our Case study people 41
