26 26 Ocado Gr Ocado Group plc oup plc Ann Annual repor ual report and accounts f t and accounts for the 52 w or the 52 weeks ended 28 No eeks ended 28 Nov vember 2010 ember 2010 Corporate social responsibility report Environment CArBON FOOTPrINT CONSTITUENTS Ocado aims to provide a greener, more sustainable alternative to store-based supermarkets.
Electricity Hatfield 29.6% Gas 0.5% A traditional supermarket requires deliveries first to be made to a Diesel vans 48.2% regional distribution centre and then to the supermarket itself.
Diesel LGv Tractor 15.5% Customers will often drive to the supermarket in order to shop, and Diesel LGv Trailer 2.5% the supermarkets themselves require energy to be lit and heated Spokes 3.2% and tend to have open fridges and freezers in an otherwise ambient Other 0.5% environment.
Ocado delivers from the CFC sometimes via a Spoke to a customers home, which eliminates much of the carbon emissions generated by traditional supermarkets and their stores, and also reduces the number of cars on the road.
Each Ocado delivery van The Directors believe that the carbon footprint of the Groups replaces a significant number of car journeys every day.
operations have been considerably lower carbon intensity than that of many of its competitors taking into account the relative size of each This sustainable alternative has been reflected in awards made to operation because the Groups business model is more efficient than Ocado in recent years.
Ocado was voted Green retailer of the Year that of the traditional store-based model.
2009 in The Grocer Gold Awards, Large retailer of the Year 2008 in the Online Green Awards and won Ethical Green Practice 2009 at the To continue to reduce its carbon footprint, the Group is IMRG E-Commerce Awards for Excellence.
implementing measures such as van monitoring devices which help identify areas for reducing fuel use in delivery vans for example, as a result of vans sitting idle.
The Group has taken a number of other steps in response to new carbon reduction legislation and to address the lessening of its carbon footprint, as set out below.
Climate Change Agreement: Ocado has signed up to the Climate Environmental management Change Agreement with the Carbon Trust, which places certain Ocados management is conscious that the Companys operations obligations on the Group to monitor and lower carbon usage.
have an impact on the environment and will regularly consider new measures and innovations to make the business more 10:10 campaign: In 2010, the Company signed up to the 10:10 environmentally friendly.
campaign, which is a campaign run by an independent UK charity, the 10:10 Trust, aimed at reducing carbon emissions by 10% in a In early 2008, the Company established a green team comprising year.
The Company has not had its carbon emissions audited for the over 40 staff members from across the business.
This team has period since signing up to the 10:10 campaign, so cannot yet measure introduced new initiatives to reduce the impact of the business whether it has met this target.
However, as noted above, Ocado has on the environment and raised awareness within Ocado of shown it has been reducing its carbon emissions against previous environmental issues.
periods when measured as a percentage of sales.
Electric vans: Ocado has co-developed two prototype electric Carbon Reduction powered vans, which are currently being trialled in central London as Ocado is seeking to minimise the environmental impact and carbon part of Ocados delivery fleet.
footprint associated with its operations.
Green van deliveries: Customers can choose a green van slot when Ocado has had its operations independently audited to measure the booking a delivery time that is, when a delivery van is already extent of its carbon footprint.
Ocados total emissions for the period booked in that customers area which helps minimise the carbon from July 2009 to June 2010 were 37,532 tCO2e.
In this period, the impact of that customers delivery.
Groups normalised emissions normalised by the total value of the Groups sales decreased from 84.9tCO2e per million of sales in Energy efficiency project: Ocado invested about 200,000 in 2010 on a pounds in September 2009 to 71.5tCO2e per million of sales in project aimed at making the Groups operChair Chair ations more ener man man gy efficient.
s Statement s Statement pounds in June 2010.
So while the Groups absolute energy emissions The investment included the purchase of energy saving equipment and have increased as its sales have increased, the actual carbon emissions facilities for the CFC, such as the modernisation of the lighting systems, attributable to each order has decreased with the greater efficiency of installation of more energy efficient chilling equipment and improved the Groups operations.
Part of the improved efficiency is due to the door seals and automated controls.
Ocado makes it a standard opening of a new Spoke which resulted in some shorter van routes requirement for new sites and new fit-outs of existing buildings that as well as continuing improvements in the Groups delivery routing they use energy efficient lighting, motion detectors and daylight controls software which optimises the delivery route for each van journey.
A as part of its energy saving commitments.
breakdown of the source of the Groups carbon footprint is set out in the diagram below.
20177-04 22 03 2011 Proof 12 Stock code: Stock code: OCDO OCDO www www.
com 27 27 Environmental initiatives undertaken or produced it.
Since its beginnings in South Africa in 2005, the The Group has taken a number of measures to reduce its Waitrose Foundation has raised nearly 3 million and launched over environmental impact, as set out below.
Ocado has already contributed over 115,000 to the Waitrose Foundation.
These projects are diverse and reflect the Responsible bag recycling: The business has a closed-loop grocery bag individual needs of the communities, ranging from supporting crches recycling system, whereby when making a delivery, CSTMs offer to to adult literacy programmes, and from supporting sports teams to collect used bags both Ocado bags and any other companys plastic provision of equipment for medical clinics.
bags from customers which are then recycled within the UK to make new Ocado grocery bags.
Duchy Originals products: Ocado makes a significant charitable donation to the Princes Charities Foundation, a group of 20 non-profit Reducing food wastage: The Groups food waste as a percentage organisations, through its sales of Duchy Originals branded products.
of gross sales 0.61% for the period is significantly less than any of its competitors.
Food wastage is an important key performance Fair trade: Ocado aims to trade fairly with its suppliers and supports indicator measured by the business, as noted in the Chief Financial established schemes such as Fairtrade and Traidcraft, which contribute Officer's review.
Ocado also helps customers to reduce their food to the sustainable development of the communities where farmers waste, by being the first online food retailer to show guaranteed and workers live.
Ocado has one of the largest Fairtrade range of product life on the website and by including use-by dates on each products of all UK grocers.
order receipt which assists customers to plan meals and reduce Organic farming: Ocado has a large selection of organic groceries.
Food that is beyond the guaranteed product life but Organic farming helps promote biodiversity by using crop rotation within the use-by date is often donated to various charities including and clover to build soil fertility.
With organic farming there are strict vineyard in Southend, YMCA in Watford, and New Hope in Watford.
rules around animal welfare and how food is produced.
Any food that isnt fit for Ocados company shop or charities, but is suitable for animals, is sent to Paradise Wildlife Park in Broxbourne.
People Anaerobic digestion: Ocado recently completed a trial of a process Ocados employees are key to its business and are the most visible called anaerobic digestion.
That is a process whereby any food part of the business to its customers.
Management is committed supplied that is no longer edible is mixed with bacteria and burnt to to high standards of employment practice and to providing equality produce electricity.
Ocado expects to implement this means of food of opportunity, training and development and a safe workplace, in waste disposal as part of its operations.
addition to developing initiatives which encourage innovation.
Meat Free Monday: The Company supports the Meat Free Monday Ocado aims to be an exceptional employer: one that recognises campaign which raises awareness of the climate-changing impact of talent and develops people to the best of their abilities.
We ask our meat production and consumption.
The Meat Free Monday campaign people to share our determination to succeed.
We deliver superior encourages people to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions by customer service and business success through our people which is having at least one meat-free day every week.
why it is important for us to appropriately reward, engage, listen to and develop our employees.
Recycled office furniture: Ocado fitted out much of its new head office space in January 2010 with used office furniture.
The benefits of this Rewarding our people for the environment were that Ocado helped divert a large amount Since its commencement as a privately owned business, Ocados policy of used furniture from being disposed of in landfill sites and that there has been to issue share options to its employees.
The rationale is that was no environmental impact related to the production and delivery we want to give all of our employees the opportunity to own a part of new furniture for Ocado.
We continue to grant share options in the Company to each new employee as part of their employee benefits package.
Suppliers and products Product range: The Ocado own-label product range has been To continue our philosophy of employee share ownership we introduced to broaden the choice for our customers and offers established the Groups Sharesave Scheme after the Companys good quality at competitive prices.
One of the key criteria when Admission.
A large number of our employees have chosen to developing the Ocado own-label range is that it be responsibly participate in Ocados Sharesave Scheme, which is the savings-related sourced.
The Company supports British and EU farming and, where share option plan where each participating employee is granted possible, sources relevant Ocado own-label products from the options over shares in the Company in proportion to the amount Chair Chairman mans Statement s Statement British Isles when in season and available.
Ocado fish is responsibly saved by that employee.
caught, Ocado fresh meat and poultry is raised to British, EU or New Zealand welfare standards, Ocado boxed eggs are free-range and all We expect that in future, Ocado will introduce additional share of the Ocado own-label bread is made using British wheat.
schemes to both reward employees and to offer employees further opportunities to become shareholders in the Company.
Waitrose Foundation: Through its supply agreement with Waitrose, Ocado supports the Waitrose Foundation.
The Waitrose Foundation In addition to share schemes, we provide a range of employee is a supply chain partnership that returns a percentage of profits benefits including a staff discount on orders with free deliveries on from the sale of produce, flowers and prepared fruit to fund certain days, discount shopping membership, pension, life assurance, projects chosen by the farm workers and smallholders who grew healthcare and an employee assistance programme.
20177-04 22 03 2011 Proof 12 Getting to Kno Getting to Kno Our responsibilities w Ocado w Ocado 28 28 Ocado Gr Ocado Group plc oup plc Ann Annual repor ual report and accounts f t and accounts for the 52 w or the 52 weeks ended 28 No eeks ended 28 Nov vember 2010 ember 2010 Corporate social responsibility report continued Engaging our people Ocado creating new jobs Engaged staff help us to continue to be successful and grow.
We have During the period the Group created an additional 883 jobs.
The average number of employees employed by the Group for the period this year launched our first formal employee survey across the whole was 4,252 2009: 3,494. business.
This will measure current levels of employee engagement and identify the areas where we can become a better employer.
The Group purchased a 35.2 acre site in Dordon, Warwickshire on which the second CFC will be built.
When this second CFC is at full We continue to hold regular events to connect with our people, operational capacity, Ocado expects that it will have created in excess such as our annual family fun day, inter-Spoke football tournament, of 2,000 jobs in the region.
charity golf day, Woodland Trust tree plant team days, business results briefings and our Christmas parties.
These reinforce our informal, relaxed culture and promote our family and community focus.
Diversity of our people We are committed to equal opportunities for all of our people, Our unique and informal culture means that many of our people regardless of disability or background, from recruitment and selection, have direct access to our senior leaders, but as we continue to grow through training and development and promotion.
we know this will be more challenging.
We hold weekly board lunches with employees from across the whole business to increase It is the policy of the Group that applications for employment by dialogue between staff and business leaders.
Ocados employees disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the are kept well informed of the performance of the Group and key respective aptitudes and abilities of the applicant concerned.
In the event of employees becoming disabled all reasonable effort is made events concerning the business through regular staff briefings done to ensure that their employment within the Group continues.
It is by management and through communications via the internet, email the policy of the Group that the training, career development and and video and audio recordings which are particularly helpful for promotion of a disabled person should, as far as possible, be identical communicating with our large number of CSTMs.
to that of an able bodied person.
Giving our people a voice Social and Community Issues In order to better facilitate employee involvement and feedback in our rapidly growing business we have introduced the Ocado Making a positive difference in the community: Ocado supports a Council, which is a representative forum for dialogue between number of community projects.
One of these is the Woodland Trust, Ocado employees and leaders of the business.
The Ocado Council which is aimed at restoring and protecting ancient woods and was formed in January 2010 when elections were held to select native trees.
47 council representatives from across the business.
The Councils Charitable and political donations: Ocado has a charity committee achievements over its first year of existence include involvement in made up of a number of employees, with the aim of encouraging changes to terms and conditions of employment, pay and bonus support of certain charitable organisations by Ocado employees awards, performance reviews, organisational changes and physical through the organisation of various fundraising initiatives.
During the working environment improvements.
period Ocado employees raised more than 15,000 for a number of charities, the details of which are set out below: Developing our people British Heart Foundation 6,190 Every employee plays a part in the Companys success and we are NSPCC 4,143 focused on developing our people to the best of their abilities.
When MacMillan Cancer relief 2,493 joining the business employees undertake a thorough induction which Cancer research UK 990 includes training on how to do their new job and orientation around The Harry Christie Surgery Fund 820 different areas of the business.
Paul Dix Appeal Princess Alexandra Hospital 650 Ocado's people have a range of backgrounds and we work hard Kent Air Ambulance 361 to provide opportunities to move around the business where Sick Childrens Fund Coventry 117 appropriate and provide training to develop skills for current and Ocado made charitable donations during the period of over 14,000 future roles.
Our excellent in-house training team deliver customer 2009: 2,000.
Included in the amount for the current period is a focused training that prioritises the health and safety of our people donation of 10,000 to the 10:10 Trust, which as noted above, is a and meets individual needs.
charity committed to reducing carbon emissions by 10% a year.
Attracting talent Chair Chairman mans Statement s Statement No political donations were made during the period by the Group We rely on talented people with drive and dedication to deliver 2009: nil.
This is why we are careful to recruit the right people for the right roles.
Our graduate programme plays an The Group also donates money to the Waitrose Foundation and the important part in developing talented people for our future, and our Princes Charities Foundation, as noted above.
newly launched careers website allows timely recruitment of talented people for business growth.
