IntroductIon our strategy our performance our Impact on socIety governance fInancIal statements section 4 Our impact on society 43 case study: Btec increasing earning potential responsIBle BusIness practIce London Economics research commissioned by We believe Pearson has a unique opportunity to make Pearson found that achieving a BTEC National can a positive impact in those three focus areas literacy, increase the lifetime earnings of an individual by up efficacy and competitiveness.
to 92,000, while a BTEC First can increase lifetime earnings by up to 42,000.
In addition, we adopt a broad and holistic definition ofresponsible business that captures a series of priorities that are common across many industries and individual companies.
These include commitments to: Doing informed business.
The FT Group is the leading deliver against stakeholder expectations on the key provider of essential information, insight and analysis area of climate change and to seek to make better use to the global business and opinion-forming community.
of resources: Access to trusted and informed information is the basis extend our principles on labour standards, human on which businesses make effective decisions.
The FT rights and environmental responsibility to include our plays a unique global role in providing that information.
suppliers and business partners: ensure that our products and services are appropriate case study: ft tilt in content to the age and location of the student and The Financial Times has launched FT Tilt, a premium are safe to use: online financial news and analysis service focused provide a safe, healthy workplace, where our exclusively on the emerging world.
It serves finance employees are able to realise their own individual professionals who have a direct interest in Latin potential and aspirations and where there is respect America, Africa, the Middle East, South and East for their privacy, dignity and life outside work: Asia, Russia and Eastern Europe and business professionals who need a deeper understanding provide opportunities for Pearson people to be good ofthese fast-growing regions.
citizens and to get involved in their local communities.
Responsible business practice cuts across all aspects of our company and our focus is to integrate this into the way we manage our businesses.
Highlights of our activities in 2010 include: environment: a focus on climate change A particular focus for us is climate change, as one of the most serious issues facing the planet.
Minimising our own environmental impact is not only the right thing to do: it is fundamental to our future as a sustainable business.
Our climate neutral commitment has helped us to achieve three times the level of carbon reduction we were previously reporting.
It has also helped us do new things, such as to start to invest in renewable energy generation both wind and solar at our sites.
Pearson was named as a 2010 Green Power Leadership Award winner by the US Environmental Protection Agency.
We offset 100% of the energy we use in North America by purchasing wind power credits.
44 pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2010 our impact on society continued Pearson businesses in the UK achieved Carbon Trust Pearson hosted a debate on what represents good Standard accreditation, which recognises organisations corporate citizenship in a 21st century media for real carbon reduction.
The event was run in partnership with JustMeans, the online social media platform, and made Work started on our second solar energy project at available to its 70,000 members.
our Distribution Centre in New Jersey.
It is among the largest company-owned single roof solar installations Our first site in the UK has been accredited against intheworld.
ISO 18001, the international health and safety management standard.
We established the Pearson FT Rainforest in Costa Rica to offset emissions we could not eliminate through Pearson was again named joint winner of the FTSE other means.
Executive Women Award by Opportunity Now.
CO emissions relating to our US Sales car fleet were Pearson in the US was named one of the top 100 2 reduced by 20% since 2007 by moving to more efficient employers by Working Mother magazine and by vehicles and introducing over 200 hybrids.
TheHuman Rights Campaign, which campaigns forequal rights for lesbian, gay, bisexual and Penguin was recognised in the Forest Stewardship transgendercitizens.
Council FSC Global Partner Awards for outstanding achievement in promoting the FSC brand worldwide.
The Financial Times seasonal appeal raised $1.6 million on behalf of Action Against Hunger ACF International, The Financial Times has reduced the volume of to help fight child malnutrition and its causes.
newsprint it uses by 25% over the past two years, primarily by reducing the base weight of paper used.
Pearson VUE helped to bring over 550 Insurance Jobs to Twin Falls, Idaho.
To secure the jobs, Pearson VUE As part of a three-year environmental plan, the helped to deliver nearly 900 insurance licensure exams production department of Pearson International and follow up background checks in less than 30days.
surveyed all printers and binders whose turnover with Pearson exceeded 100k.
Penguin Group held its second global walk involving more than 1,000 employees.
Walkers raised funds for our customers, our people and our communities a national charity of their choice including the Nature Highlights in 2010 include: Conservancys Plant a Billion Trees campaign in the The Pearson Foundation launched The Million Voice USand Save the Kiwi in New Zealand.
project to improve education by listening to students.
A new partnership between the Global Fund and With the support of thousands of schools and Penguin saw 50% of the profits from the new Penguin communities from across the US, the project aims Classics RED series go towards the fight to eliminate tocapture the perspectives of one million students AIDS in Africa.
Pearson continued with its programme of Student Advisory Boards in the US and the UK.
Members ofthe Boards provide input to Pearson in return formentoring and internships.
IntroductIon our strategy our performance our Impact on socIety governance fInancIal statements section 4 Our impact on society 45 Each of these areas is underpinned by measures of performance.
Indicators of responsible business performance progress our responsible business priorities aim 2010 2009 2008 2007 Environment Maintain percentage of electricity we use from Yes Yes N A N A 1 renewable sources at over 75% of total 170,700 170,229 3,255 2,594 measured in Mwh Maintain commitment to climate neutrality % 100 100 0 0 ofremaining emissions offset Suppliers Ensure our suppliers share our commitment toresponsible business practice: 2 Number of significant global suppliers with material 1,882 N A 1,702 750 spend advised of Pearson commitment toUN Global Compact social responsibility principles External Maintain our position in key indices of social benchmarks responsibility: Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes Global Global Global Global Sector Sector Sector Sector Leader Leader Leader Leader BITC Corporate Responsibility Index Platinum Platinum Platinum Platinum Retained Retained Sector Joint Leader Sector Leader Inclusion in FTSE4Good Yes Yes Yes Yes Community Grow our total community investment and 13.1m 10.5m 7.7m 7.2m maintain at 1% or more of operating profit 1.6% 1.4% 1.1% 1.3% 1.
Final number subject to confirmation by separate environmental audit.
2009 focus was on business continuity planning.
values, principles, behaviour and governance be raised with a line manager or through a free, confidential telephone line website.
The bedrock of corporate responsibility is the culture of the company.
We are defined by our values in We are committed to making sure our people everything we do, we aspire to be brave, imaginative understand how we are doing as a company, including and decent.
how world trends might affect both them and the businesses.
This means providing comprehensive In turn, our approach is underpinned by our code relevant information in a variety of ways including ofconduct that covers, among other things, the regular presentations from senior executives and environment, employees, individual conduct, consulting where appropriate so that we can learn and community and society.
take into account the views of our people.
We will We make sure everyone is aware of and understands always aim to seek the best candidate for a role: career the code.
Once a year, everyone working for Pearson progression will be without regard for race, gender, gets a copy, either electronically or on paper, and is age, physical ability, religion or sexual orientation: asked to read it: to confirm to the Pearson CEO that andwe will continue to monitor and benchmark our they have read it and understood it: and in doing so, progress on diversity and inclusion, as well as providing toprovide a check that the company complies with it.
opportunities for our people to benefit from our The code forms part of induction and an online training performance, such as through our WorldWide Save module is available.
If anyone has concerns, these can for Shares plan.
