38 pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2010 our impact on society strategy and the implementation of our plans.
We have our premise is that for the first time appointed a senior executive to lead that work across the company.
And weve begun to being responsible is develop a clear framework to articulate our goals and guide our activities.
We intend to use this framework as the basis for our reporting, so its worth setting out fundamental to our the major elements: success as a company.
We start with our corporate strategy and purpose: tobe the worlds leading learning company and to help people make progress in their lives.
We focus on three key issues of social and economic importance, where we believe Pearson has a unique role to play.
These are literacy, efficacy and competitiveness.
In addition to those key Pearson-specific issues, we have a wide agenda for responsible business activities that covers a range of disciplines from environmental sustainability to supply chain management to diversity policies to the work of the Pearson Foundation.
And we recognise that any definition of responsible business is built on and contributes to our company robin freestone chief financial officer culture, values and behaviour.
In addition to refining our overall approach, Im Pearson is a company with a strong sense of purpose.
pleased to report that we have continued to expand As Marjorie sets out in her strategy review, it is to help the reach and impact of the many activities that fall people get on in their lives through learning.
We are under our broad definition of responsible business.
Always learning, as the tagline says.
We summarise a sample of them in this report: we Thats a social purpose.
It sets the stage for our hope that you enjoy reading about them as much approach to responsible business and shines a asweenjoy and value being actively engaged in them.
spotlight on the deep connection between strategy Weve been honoured this year to receive many and responsibility.
awards for our approach to responsibility.
But Our premise is that being responsible is fundamental wewantto do more, and better.
So we always to our success as a company.
Theres nothing new welcomecomments, observations and suggestions about that: our heritage draws on Weetman Pearson, about this aspect of Pearson just as we do about who more than a century ago had a reputation as one allthe companys activities.
So please feel free to of the most enlightened employers of his time.
com or PeterHughes, our new head of corporate responsibility, Building and maintaining trust remains essential to our at peter.
com business: we recognise that many people our shareholders, customers, employees, suppliers and communities have high expectations of us.
Wewelcome those expectations, and intend to live upto them.
By being clear about our strategy, setting objectives and targets, we build and sustain that trust.
robin freestone chief financial officer This past year, weve made some important progress and Board member responsible for in the way that we manage our responsibility to the  communities we work in.
Weve formed a corporate responsibility steering group, bringing together senior business leaders to oversee the development of our
