PennOn GrOUPs COrPOrAte resPOnsiBility OUR OBJECTIVES its operations, landfill generated leachate Minimising resource use has become a We have the following corporate responsibility and gas.
Since 2002 Viridor has invested major priority for society.
Viridor has objectives, to which the targets of South West 13 million in leachate control systems invested heavily in maximising recycling Water and Viridor are aligned to: and 80 million in landfill gas control and and composting, at a value approaching power generation.
200 million in the past three years.
We manage Pennon Group as a sustainable and are convinced that such investment makes successful business for the benefit b.
Climate Change Greenhouse Gases long-term economic and environmental of shareholders Both our two main subsidiaries generate sense.
Our total recycling traded volumes aim to ensure that all our business activities significant amounts of CO and are and composting have grown from about 2 have a positive economic, social and striving to reduce this.
Viridors strategy 100,000 tonnes in 2001 to 1.4 million environmental impact on the communities is based upon helping the UK to meet its tonnes in 2010.
The supply of good quality in which we operate landfill diversion, recycling and renewable recyclate is a profitable business yielding engage with all our stakeholders and to energy targets which are in turn driven, twice as much profit per tonne for Viridor foster good relationships with them in significant part, by climate change as does landfill.
This is an example of where strive for the highest standards of health considerations.
Methane emissions from the interests of shareholders and the needs and safety in the workplace so as to landfill are the most important greenhouse of the environment are aligned.
minimise accidents, incidents and lost time gas pollutant source for Viridor and for develop and motivate our employees, to the waste industry as a whole, methane The best use for low quality residual treat them fairly and ensure that they being 21 times as harmful as CO.
Huge waste, after recycling has been optimised, 2 are fully engaged in all aspects of the achievements have been made in the waste is to generate renewable energy either Groups objectives industry in reducing methane emissions by anaerobic digestion of organic wastes aspire to leadership in minimising from landfill and putting it to beneficial use or through controlled energy from waste emissions that contribute to climate in the generation of renewable electricity.
These are the main current change, and to develop climate change This is the key factor behind the waste alternatives to landfill with methane adaptation strategies industrys 57% reduction in CO emissions capture and utilisation.
Including its Bolton 2 aspire to leadership in all aspects of since 1990, the best of any sector in EfW plant and its 50% share in the recently resource efficiency the UK.
At the same time the waste opened Lakeside EfW plant, as well as comply with all legislative environmental industry has increased renewable energy landfill gas utilisation, Viridor now has a standards and to exceed them where generation from landfill gas by 600% which total renewable energy capacity of close appropriate.
now provides nearly 25% of the total to 130 MW and plans to increase this to renewable energy in the UK.
Viridor has 300 MW in the next five years.
Pennon OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY increased its landfill gas renewable energy is pleased that the Government now Sustainability in all its three aspects generation capacity from 27 MW in 2002 recognises the significant contribution that environmental, social and economic is to 100 MW in 2009 10 and it captures energy from waste in all its forms can make fundamental to the Groups business models 90% of the methane from its landfills for to UK renewables and energy production.
and is reflected in our corporate responsibility power generation.
This provides major Energy from waste currently accounts objectives listed above.
We believe that green environmental benefits and produces a for 1.5% of the UKs total electricity business is good business.
As the energy generated is a by-product of required waste treatment it 1.
Environmental Sustainability South West Water recognises that the is cheaper than other forms of renewable The key linked environmental issues facing the water industry is a major user of energy, energy.
It also provides base load energy world are climate change, excessive resource requiring 2% of the UKs total consumption.
distributed round the electricity grid, which use, environmental degradation and loss of Following a successful submission in is a significant advantage over wind power.
The Pennon Group has a role to South West Waters price setting to Our estimate is that energy from waste play in all these areas and is concerned that Ofwat, moorland restoration through the could provide 6% of the UKs electricity the high profile rightly given to climate change companys Mires programme is being by 2015 and we have called upon the may lead to the other equally pressing and undertaken.
One of the most valuable Government to set this as a specific target.
outputs is the ability of wetted peat to capture significant quantities of CO. South South West Water is ensuring, as part of 2 a.
Environmental Improvement West Water secured in Ofwats Final its environmental and quality management South West Waters 2 billion Clean Determination 5 million of funding to systems, that all wastes are minimised and Sweep programme has transformed the increase its renewable energy output from segregated for recycling so that wastes coastal and estuarial environment of the 15 GWh in 2010 to 30 GWh by 2015.
This taken off site for disposal are kept to South West, which has over 30% of the investment will help South West Water the absolute minimum.
We work with bathing waters of England and Wales.
With to meet its CO emissions reduction contractors and our partners to minimise 2 other improvements carried out by South target by 18% over the five-year period.
the quantities of waste produced.
Site West Water under the Urban Waste The companys longer term targets are to waste management plans are in place for all Water Treatment Regulations to protect produce 50 GWh from renewable energy capital schemes.
river quality, the companys operating area by 2030 and to reduce energy consumption now has the best river quality in England.
Social Sustainability The investment made since 1989 has Both our businesses strive to be good also largely met the Water Framework c. Resource Productivity neighbours and to show exemplary concern Directives first cycle of requirements It is generally believed that the world has for our employees.
It is acknowledged that for 2010-2016. used as much resource since 1950 as in required waste water or waste management all previous history.
There are developing installations may be opposed in certain Similarly Viridor has invested heavily to shortages in a number of key areas locations.
Our policy is to consult and engage control and mitigate the two most serious including hydrocarbons, water, topsoil and fully with communities and stakeholders on potential adverse environmental effects of in a number of key metals.
P. 32 | PENNON GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS | 2010 DireCtOrs rePOrt | BUsiness reVieW Where new infrastructure is built we work membership of the FTSE Environmental making non-operational land accessible to closely with the communities in which we Opportunities All-Share Index the public where practicable to satisfy, as operate to be as good neighbours as possible.
continued participation in the FTSE4Good a minimum, the Groups obligations under Index which measures corporate responsibility.
the Countryside and Rights of Way Act.
Viridor continues to benefit from the high levels Wherever possible additional opportunities of skill and expertise amongst its workforce For 2010 11 the Board has agreed the for conservation, access and recreation are and acknowledges their valuable contribution.
following six KPIs for the Pennon Group.
provided for, subject to health and safety The company employs around 3,000 people at Performance will be measured and reported and environmental considerations.
all levels and across all socio-economic groups.
against them: During this recessionary period we have striven OUR ETHICAL BUSINESS POLICY to maintain morale and motivation despite capital investment Alongside our social and environmental policy having to implement a modest programme community support and donations is our ethical policy.
The preservation of a of downsizing and restructuring.
We have RIDDOR statistics reputation for integrity and fair dealing is of maintained our training programmes and are renewable energy generation paramount importance to the Group.
Such a confident that as the recession lifts we will still CO emissions data reputation is essential to the long-term well- 2 have first class, well qualified teams of capable recycling volumes achieved.
being of the Group itself, its shareholders, people ready to meet future challenges.
employees, customers, suppliers and OUR SOCIAL AND the communities in which it operates.
South West Waters focus is on achieving an ENVIRONmENTAL POLICY To maintain this reputation, our Group appropriate balance for customers, investors Our objectives demonstrate that we are companies are required to: and other stakeholders.
Costs are being committed to exemplary engagement rigorously controlled to outperform the with society and to the conservation and conduct all transactions with fairness and Regulatory Contract.
Capital is being invested enhancement of the natural environment.
honesty and in a professional manner in assets to secure operating cost savings build and maintain relationships with all and to protect the improvements made over Our social and environmental policy ensures parties based on trust and the treatment of the last 20 years through increased capital that these activities are pursued.
Particular everyone with respect and dignity maintenance expenditure.
The combined effects attention is given to: not make any promises and commitments of these approaches are to ensure long-term which our businesses do not have the improvements in quality of service for our operating through best practice to ensure intention to fulfil or which they do not customers, supported by enhanced employee the sustainability of our activities by believe they have the resources to meet training and development programmes for our maximising the efficiency of resource carry out all financial transactions and managers and staff.
uses: effective project and programme financial reporting with due observance delivery: and minimising waste of all relevant laws, regulations and 3.
Economic Sustainability ensuring compliance with all health and financial standards This involves having business strategies and safety and environmental legislation, avoid any activities that could involve or lead policies which are geared towards long-term regulations and codes of practice so to involvement in any unlawful practice or shareholder value creation.
The Companys that our conduct is of the highest harm the Groups reputation or image.
strategy is to aim for long-term shareholder possible standard value creation while being fully aware of our undertaking our activities in a way that We have a whistleblowing policy which environmental impacts.
Both businesses are minimises potential adverse effects on supports our approach to ethical employment planning and investing on a 25-year basis.
Our society, the environment and those practices by encouraging employees to raise, financial policies are designed to avoid shortliving or working in proximity to the in accordance with a formalised procedure, term gains which might damage long-term Groups sites concerns which relate to potential unlawful shareholder value creation.
Debt funding is an procuring goods and services through conduct, financial malpractice, dangers to important component of South West Waters approved suppliers and contractors the public or damage to the environment.
capital structure and its debt RCV ratio whose products and services meet the This policy is reviewed regularly.
and other financial ratios remain well within Groups requirements and whose quality Ofwats guidelines.
and environmental practices correspond Through our Corporate Responsibility with our own Committee, we monitor performance against Our Corporate Responsibility objectives undertaking longer term strategic our ethical business policy, our social and link with our sustainability aims.
Progress is assessments of our activities and environmental policy and our health and monitored by measuring performance against opportunities and adopting whole life safety policy and related targets.
Further a number of associated KPIs listed below.
assessment methods for approaches details of the work of the Committee are set which are designed to benefit society: out on page 51.
Both South West Water and Viridor publish customers of the Group: suppliers and detailed verified corporate responsibility partners: all other stakeholders: and CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY reports which support and amplify the Groups the environment HIGHLIGHTS overall objectives.
The 2010 Corporate the challenges of climate change involve Both South West Water and Viridor have Responsibility Reports, which will be available action to optimise energy and resource continued to advance their environmental at the end of August, will include an audited efficiency: maximising opportunities performance, and their engagement with the assessment of the businesses performance for renewable energy generation: community, as detailed in their respective against published targets for 2009 10 and will and reducing the emissions of Corporate Responsibility Reports which will set out their new targets for 2010 11. greenhouse gases be available online in August on the Companys reporting openly and transparently on website pennon-group.
co. uk OUR KPIs Group performance: setting targets for The target for 2009 10 of maintain continuous improvement and monitoring ENVIRONmENT AND CLImATE corporate standing of Pennon Group Plc on progress: and addressing risk and adopting CHANGE sustainability credentials was measured by: policies related to wider sustainability The Groups strategy to combat climate considerations in relation to our key change is to maximise its opportunities for the Carbon Disclosure Project awarded activities of water supply, waste water renewable energy generation, to promote Pennon Group of 55th place out of the treatment, waste management, recycling energy efficiency and to reduce its emissions of FTSE350 in the 2009 Carbon Disclosure and renewable energy generation greenhouse gases wherever possible.
In planning Leadership Index for the Groups ability regularly assessing the Groups built for the future it strives to ensure that it can to log its carbon footprint and assess how heritage and ensuring its long-term adapt to the impacts of a changing climate while climate change will affect its business preservation maintaining high standards of customer service.
PENNON GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS | 2010 | P. 33 Green energy generation Greenhouse gas emissions GREEN ENERGY GENERATED Renewable energy is generated by both Pennon has registered for the Carbon subsidiaries.
Viridors renewable power Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency south West Water generation capacity from landfill gas at 31 Scheme which puts the Governments KPi Viridor March 2010 was 100 MW.
In addition during carbon reduction scheme in place for 5,000 the year the Lakeside joint venture EfW UK companies in the mid-range of CO 700 2 plant commenced operation with a total producers.
Pennon will be purchasing its 650 power generation capacity of 37 MW 50% first allowances in April 2011.
The price of Viridor and Viridor also took over the 9 carbon will be fixed at 12 per tonne for 600 MW Bolton EfW plant bringing Viridors the first three years of the scheme: active total renewable energy capacity to 127.5 trading is expected to follow.
Its Greater Manchester combined waste and renewable energy project has the Pennon Group made its third submission 500 potential to provide a further 130 MW of to the Carbon Disclosure Project in 2009 power generation capacity making a total of and was placed 55th in the report.
The 450 around 140 MW including the Bolton EfW.
reporting criteria differ from one year to 400 Viridor captures nearly 90% of the methane the next making annual score comparisons arising from its landfills and uses 70% of this unreliable.
However, year by year scores 350 for energy generation.
within a sector are made and the Pennon Groups perfomance in relation to its 300 South West Water generates renewable peers in 2009 was good it achieved third energy from hydropower facilities in dams place amongst the six water companies and other structures.
Combined heat and who responded.
power is available at nine waste water Financial year treatment works.
South West Water has a Greenhouse gas emissions reporting total installed capacity of 7.4 MW.
requirements have changed since last year.
The Group is reporting against the Net electricity export Greenhouse Gas Protocol, with different ON-SITE ELECTRICITY USE IN Since 1999 2000, the Group has exported methodologies used for South West Water PENNON GROUP more electrical energy each year than it and Viridor to match each companys has consumed.
Recent renewable energy operating characteristics.
south West Water projects commissioned by the Groups Viridor operating companies have surpassed Group transport the milestone of 200% generation to South West Water and Viridor review their 300 consumption for the first time.
In 2009 10 transport fleets regularly to meet their Viridor and South West Water generated operational requirements.
Environmental 652.0 GWh of renewable energy through criteria such as clean engine technology, 250 their operations.
This is 223% 2009: fuel efficiency, reliability and end-of-life 188% of the Groups on-site electricity recyclability are considered during the 200 consumption of 291.7 GWh.
150 Financial year ELECTRICITY CONSUmPTION AND GENERATION On-site electricity consumed GWh South West Water 1 3 265.2 Viridor 26.5 Total consumed 291.7 Electricity generation No of sites Capacity MW GWh South West Water Hydro 7 5.7 11.3 Biogas from combined heat and power 9 1.7 3.5 Viridor Landfill biogas 2 27 100.0 555.0 Energy from waste combustion 2 27.5 82.2 Total generated 652.0 Generated consumed ratio 223% 1 Includes activity of Pennon Group Plc and partners working from Pennons locations 2 Excludes sub-contracted sites in Suffolk 3 South West Water on-site electricity consumed includes electricity generated and used from on-site renewable plants and stand-by diesel generators and excludes non-electrical sources of energy such as the consumption of natural gas and LPG used for heating P. 34 | PENNON GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS | 2010 DireCtOrs rePOrt | BUsiness reVieW Gigawatt hours Gigawatt hours 14.80 421.51 15.73 255.99 2005 06 2005 06 268.28 21.70 444.29 15.98 2006 07 2006 07 2007 08 258.63 10.94 2007 08 499.07 17.04 2008 09 19.00 2008 09 18.07 260.70 505.02 265.20 26.50 637.20 2009 10 2009 10 14.80 Pennon Environmental Awards In 2009 the winning prize was awarded to the operating team at Tottiford Water Treatment Works for enhancing wildlife and amenity on site.
The project subequently won a Green Apple Award and was chosen as a finalist in the Water Industry Achievement Awards Community Campaign of the Year category, as a number of the site features had been provided by a local business which employs adults with learning difficulties.
PEF Award Photo: the Tottiford team receives the award from Ken Harvey, Pennon Group Chairman.
PEF Award Photo: former process tank converted for wildlife and amenity use.
EmPLOYEES Pennon Group and each of its operating subsidiary companies: Health and Safety Policy Pennon Group Board and the Boards of each subsidiary company have has prepared a statement on their organisation and responsibilities established health and safety policies which are reviewed annually to in respect of health and safety which, together with this policy ensure the health, safety and welfare at work of all their employees.
statement, is brought to the attention of all employees and is These focus in particular on the: displayed on notice boards and each companys intranet complies with all legislation, regulations and codes of practice relevant provision and maintenance of a working environment for our to their business and consults employees on measures for promoting employees that is safe, prevents injury and ill health and is adequate health and safety at work as regards facilities and arrangements for welfare requires its contractors and consultants working for each company protection of members of the public who may be affected by within the Group to comply with each companys health and safety our work policy.
Each company communicates openly its policy, related promotion of an improved health and safety culture by consulting objectives and performance to stakeholders.
with and training the workforce and by making all employees and contractors aware of their individual responsibilities International Labour Organisation core conventions setting of health and safety objectives and targets within a We support the principles of the International Labour Organisations continuous improvement framework that will be used to monitor eight core conventions for the protection and safety of workforces.
and measure performance Details of our employment practices are set out on pages 18, 20 and 24. continual improvement of our health, safety and security performance through the revitalisation of our health and safety management systems.
PENNON GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS | 2010 | P. 35 COmmUNITY ENGAGEmENT STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEmENT Pennon Group and its subsidiary companies aim to be good neighbours in all the communities in Pennon Group maintains a regular dialogue which they operate.
An important element of this is to provide support to projects which bring with institutional investors, City analysts, lasting benefit to local communities and which are aligned with the Groups business.
retail shareholders, local stockbrokers and the financial press through its proactive South West Waters support focuses on water, the environment and youth education in the investor relations programme.
A small proportion of its support also goes to Water Aid, which assists water stakeholders are our customers and our projects in developing countries.
regulators, including the Environment Agency, local authorities, the Drinking Water Viridors business is UK wide.
Its community support focuses on environmental and science Inspectorate, Natural England, the Consumer education, and on engagement with the communities in which it operates.
Consumer Council for Water and English Heritage.
Viridor has on-going stakeholder Pennon Charitable Donations and community relations programmes The Pennon Charitable Donations Committee made 199 donations including pledges to with local liaison groups in place for all individuals, local charities, volunteer groups and small community organisations in the South major operational sites.
South West Water West Water and Viridor service areas.
63,784 was awarded in 2009 10 2008 09 65,624. proactively worked with customers to identify their priorities for investment from 2010 to Pennon Environmental Fund 2015 as part of the recent Periodic Review The Pennon Environmental Fund allocates awards derived from the Landfill Community Fund to process, and surveys 130 customers opinions qualifying projects developed by local community bodies based in South West Waters operating every month to assess their perceptions of area.
In 2009 10 it awarded 68,443 to 15 projects, including to church repairs, community overall service, value for money, quality and amenities, and a number of habitat creation schemes in Devon and Cornwall to benefit biodiversity reliability of drinking water supplied.
South West Waters Chief Executive chairs Viridor Credits Environmental Company Water UK, the representative organisation During the year Viridor donated 9.4 million 9.7 million in the previous year via the Landfill which brings together all of the UKs water Communities Fund to Viridor Credits Environmental Company, an independent charity and waste water utilities.
He also represents established to distribute LCF funding in areas close to landfill sites.
Decisions on funding use the regulated industries on the Environment criteria of sustainability, value for money and proven need are made at grass roots level by Agencys Regional Environmental Protection established local steering groups for each area.
Projects supported during the year included Advisory Committee.
creating, improving and restoring important habitats, new and improved village and amenity halls, sports and playgrounds, vital support for local museums and similar community assets.
Viridors Chief Executive chairs the For further details see Viridor Credits website viridor-credits.
co. uk Governments Living with Environmental Change Business Advisory Board and its Environmental Sector Advisory Group, which Back from the Brink, Slimbridge Wetlands Centre, Gloucester.
Viridor Credits granted provides strategic advice to the Government 106,500 for new wetland homes for once abundant mammals.
on the promotion of exports and inward investment in the UK environmental sector.
He is also chairman of the UKs Environmental Sustainability Knowledge Transfer Network, which improves the competitiveness of UK environmental industries, a Director of Sustainability South West, past Master of the Worshipful Company of Water Conservators, a senior visiting research fellow in Earth Sciences at Oxford University and a patron of Energy and Utility Skills.
Pennons Group Director of Finance is a member of the CBI Environmental Affairs Committee and the CBI South West Regional Council.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY VERIFICATION Pennon Groups corporate responsibility performance for 2009 10 will be audited by Acona Limited, an independent risk and Cricket for Change, Wallington, Sutton.
Viridor Credits granted 60,000 towards a new compliance management company.
The indoor school for young cricketers from mixed backgrounds.
verification statements for South West Water and Viridor will be provided on their respective websites with their Corporate Responsibility Reports.
P. 36 | PENNON GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS | 2010 DireCtOrs rePOrt | BUsiness reVieW
