ENVIRONmENT Viridors reportable accident and incident rate CUSTOmERS, COmmUNITY Viridors operations create significant positive per 100,000 employees is an important KPI AND EmPLOYEES environmental impacts including: safe and and is set out below for the period 2005 to efficient treatment and disposal of societys 2009.
The company is very disappointed that The company employs a comprehensive range waste materials: increased resource and the rate rose from 1,505 in 2008 to 2,445 per of technical and professional managerial and energy efficiency from its recycling and energy 100,000 employees in 2009. operational and support personnel.
Many recovery operations: the capture of methane are vocationally trained and have extensive a greenhouse gas 21 times as potent as This increase in reportable accidents to operational experience.
Membership of carbon dioxide CO : the generation of 67 in total was due primarily to manual 2 relevant trade unions and professional bodies renewable energy: and the restoration of handling type injuries and slips, trips and falls is widespread and is encouraged.
despoiled landscapes such as disused mineral which are the companys largest cause of workings through the controlled deposit of accidents.
Despite comparing favourably with Viridors equal opportunities policies and waste materials.
Significant negative impacts industry averages in previous years, Viridors procedures seek to ensure that bias and include: transportation and associated focus on health and safety improvement and discrimination in the treatment of job emissions: methane production where not performance has been further strengthened.
applicants and employees are eliminated.
harnessed for energy generation or flared : The company has recruited additional health Training and appropriate support is provided leachate production: energy use in materials and safety professionals and continues to raise to implement this throughout the company.
processing: and potential local impacts such as the level of training and support available to Every effort is made to accommodate any dust, noise, litter and odour.
Particular efforts are being made form of disability by the use of reasonable to reinforce strong positive attitudes to adjustments in the workplace.
Having led the industry in the development health and safety at all levels in the company and implementation of an Environmental and health and safety is a key aspect of Viridor is pursuing a number of occupational Management System, Viridors integrated management incentive schemes.
health and safety initiatives, particularly Business Management System BMS focusing on reducing slip, trip and fall type now incorporates externally accredited accidents, continuing improvements in environmental, quality and health and safety transport management, reducing vehicle systems.
This allows clear targets to be set RIDDOR ACCIDENT AND personnel interfaces and improving manual and met to maximise benefits and positive handling performance.
Accreditation to the INCIDENT RATES impacts and reduce and prevent adverse KPi OHSAS 18001 international health and safety impacts, resulting in continuous improvement standard has been achieved across all sites in these key areas.
with the exception of two electrical recycling sites which are planned to be certified by Accreditation to the BMS across all sites and the end of this year.
This accreditation is 2500 operations has been retained during 2009 10, part of the companys integrated business 2250 accredited shortly.
The company continues to management system BMS, which provides report against the environmental performance 2000 the vehicle for delivering health and safety indicators for the waste industry which it standards and procedures.
1750 helped to develop and which are endorsed by 1500 the Green Alliance.
1250 The amount of waste recycled and traded by 1000 the company grew by 3.5% to a little over 1.4 million tonnes.
Calendar year Accreditation to OHSAS 18001 international health and safety standard planned across all sites P. 24 | PENNON GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS | 2010 DireCtOrs rePOrt | BUsiness reVieW incident rate per 100,000 employees 1,809 2005 1,818 2006 2007 2,142 2008 1,505 2,445 2009
