Corporate Responsibility Sustainability in our business Sustainability forms part of our day-to-day business activities and we aim to have an integrated approach.
Persimmon has developed six key corporate responsibilities which provide a consistent strategy and understanding for our business, underpinning many of the decisions that we take each day.
We report on these responsibilities below.
Building sustainable homes 2,077 As a leading housebuilder we are constantly Code for Sustainable Homes 2009: 1,720 reviewing how we can build homes that are inherently energy efficient and appealing to 82% our customers.
In the recent economic of construction waste recycled climate, perhaps more than at any other time, our customers want to live in homes 93% that are affordable and cost effective to run.
of our customers would recommend We are responding to these expectations with us to a friend innovation and research and development.
Since its introduction in 2006, the Code for Sustainable Homes the Code has become an important factor influencing how we design and build our new homes.
Progressively all our developments will include some Code requirements.
During 2010 we built more homes than ever before to the Code standard, accounting for 22% of all homes we sold.
We are part of the Zero Carbon Hubs Carbon Compliance Standard Working Group www.
org set Ground source heat pump at Ravenswood, uptofind a sensible balance between Ipswich, Suffolk and high thermal U valves meant homes complied with Code level 4 sustainability and energy efficiency and affordability for customers.
Our research and development has led us to the conclusion that the best way to build homes that are truly sustainable is to ensure that the building fabric is as energy efficient as possible.
Ifwecan develop this approach based onmodern methods of construction, then we will avoid any potential issues of newtechnological products failing or becoming obsolete.
24 Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2010 Directors Report: Business Review Overview KPIs Strategy Operations and Finance Responsibility Governance Financial Statements Company Information Waste to landfill reduced by 20% per home.
Code level 3 homes with solar panels at Linton Grove, Carlisle At the forefront of our sustainable house amount of waste sent to landfill reduced to Operating efficiently design and construction is our innovative 1.24 tonnes per home sold in 2010 2009: We have an integrated environmental Space4 timber frame technology.
management system which specifies good OurSpace4 manufacturing plant is certified During 2010 we developed and launched environmental practice associated with land to ISO14001.
During 2010, 29% of the our Working Green environmental appraisal, remediation, purchasing, homes we sold used Space4 products.
awareness campaign which aims to further manufacturing and construction.
For a Asaconsequence, the average energy encourage our employees, particularly those number of years we have undertaken efficiency of our new homes as measured based at our regional offices, to consider our combined health and safety and bythe SAP rating scale 1100 has six sustainability responsibilities as part of environmental site audits.
During 2010 increased to 83 against the housebuilding their day-to-day work.
werevised and updated our detailed industry average of 79.
Our SAP rating construction manual with the aim of further compares favourably with an average SAP For the first time in 2010 we have been able embedding environmental thinking into all rating for existing UK housing stock of 51. to collate reliable data for our onsite energy our site construction activity.
This combined with our energy We have also established a working group consumption data relating to our offices and During 2010 we had set ourselves a target of toevaluate the growing list of technological our vehicle fleet has enabled us to provide reducing the amount of waste we generated products being marketed to increase the comprehensive information on our carbon per home sold by 5%.
Unfortunately we energy efficiency and sustainability of new emissions for the first time.
In 2010 our total didnot achieve this target primarily because homes.
Our research evaluation and trialling energy consumption was 24.7 million kilowatt we started a higher number of new of these new energy efficient products is hours and our CO2 emissions 14thousand developments c. 165 which tend to produce providing clear evidence of which are the tonnes.
Our energy use per home more waste in their early stages.
This information is completed has remained broadly consistent per home sold increased to 6.9 tonnes disseminated to our operating businesses with previous years.
We continue to monitor 2009: 6.1 tonnes.
toenable them to select the best products our total energy use and identify ways in for their developments.
A form of renewable Although our overall waste has increased, which this can be reduced.
energy was installed in 12% of the homes we weare pleased to report that the proportion sold in 2010.
In addition, we have a range of of waste we recycled increased from 75% eco-products available to customers through in2009 to 82% in 2010.
This means that the our Finishing Touches range that reduce energy, water and waste in the home.
Directors Report: Business Review Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2010 25 Corporate Responsibility continued oftentransforms previously derelict or We have strengthened the audit criteria usedto Community engagement contaminated land reinvigorating the measure our health and safety on our sites, to From the very first stages of designing each urbanlandscape of our towns and cities.
drive better practice amongst our operating new development we take into account the businesses, employees and subcontractors.
needs of the local community and how our Prioritising health and safety We have also provided significant investment activities will affect them.
On our larger sites in health and safety training for our employees Our South Division Chief Executive Nigel we undertake detailed consultation with the and subcontractors, including onsite training Greenaway is responsible for Group health local community prior to finalising and toolbox talks reinforcing our culture of and safety matters and he is supported by development plans with the local authority.
the Group Health and Safety Director and a We build our larger sites in accordance with team of 12 internal regional health and safety During 2010 with our increase in productivity, the Considerate Constructors Scheme.
Ensuring the health and safety of the number of reportable incidents under the Development requirements for our sites are our employees, subcontractors and visitors UK Reporting of Incidents Diseases and set out in planning agreements with local to our development sites is a key priority for Dangerous Occurrences RIDDORS rose authorities.
Underpinning our approach is from 47 to 59.
This equates to 6.5 RIDDORS in community infrastructure projects as part instilling a culture of health and safety which per 1,000 workers in 2010 2009: 5.8.
The of our developments, including building new ensures that all employees, but particularly increase in our RIDDORS was as result of schools and community centres.
We also our management, have a responsibility for more recorded incidents of slips, trips and built 1,779 2009: 1,622 new affordable homes health and safety on all our sites.
Reversing this increase for housing associations for both rent and is a top priority for us over the next 12 months.
During 2010 we trialled a new Smart Pen shared ownership, a 13% increase on 2009.
We have implemented measures across system which has now been rolled-out thebusiness to minimise the risk of these During the year we built 5,716 new homes on across the business.
This system has incidences occurring, including a more land which had been previously used, known revolutionised the way we work, allowing our stringent auditing regime to ensure our as brownfield land, equating to 61% of all safety advisors to file reports, information and standard operating procedures are closely homes completed by the Group.
data electronically and enabling them to adhered to.
Theredevelopment of brownfield land spend more time on site based activities.
Richard Cottier at the Space4 modern construction plant, Castle Bromwich, Birmingham 26 Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2010 Directors Report: Business Review Overview KPIs Strategy Operations and Finance Responsibility Governance Financial Statements Company Information We measure our customer satisfaction Investing in our people through our own internal Customer We have maintained our training focus on Satisfaction Surveys which are sent to those areas most important to our business, customers four weeks after they move in and primarily health and safety, customer care through industry wide surveys undertaken by and information technology.
In 2010 we the Home Builders Federation and the NHBC.
delivered 5,359 days of training to our We are pleased to report we have again seen employees, equating to 2.2 days per an increase in the level of satisfaction of our employee.
We have continued to support customers, with 93% 2009: 91% of our theConstruction Skills Certification Scheme customers stating that they would CSCS which was set up to help the recommend Persimmon to a friend.
construction industry to improve quality As a result of reduced mortgage availability andreduce accidents.
Over 98% of our for first time buyers without substantial workforce now meets the basic deposits, Persimmon has supported around requirements of the Scheme.
28% of its customers in 2010 with a shared Over the past year Persimmon has equity loan to enable them to buy their first promoted two initiatives to encourage property.
Shared equity has been provided careers in housebuilding.
Our First by Persimmons Helping Hand shared equity Management Training Scheme is aimed scheme and jointly under the Governments atrecruiting and training our future HomeBuy Direct Schemes.
management and Directions is designed to We have also launched our Living Green encourage young people and school leavers Kylie Monks and Brody at The Vale, Portishead campaign and our online Buyers Guide to to choose a career in housebuilding.
We now encourage sustainable living amongst our have 48 trainees and apprentices in our customers.
All customers reserving operating businesses.
properties are supplied with advice and Persimmon has a robust policy framework guidance in their Masterfile on the energy relating to equality issues.
During 2010 we efficiency of their new home and how to save are pleased to report that our Group Head energy and minimise their impact on the Office and two operating businesses were environment.
certified to the C2E Diversity Assured 5,359 training days Equality Standard.
We expect the C2E Conclusion standard to be extended to other operating delivered to our As the sustainability agenda continues to businesses during 2011. employees.
evolve, Persimmon is well placed to take For an unprecedented third year running advantage of the benefits and opportunities Dave Bullock, Senior Site Manager at our that it offers.
Our robust approach to these Wyncliffe Gardens development in Cardiff, issues will contribute to the progress of a collected the NHBC Pride in the Job strong business where talented people want Supreme Winner award in 2010.
It is a to work and which builds homes that our testament to Dave and his team that he has customers want to live in.
been recognised as the best site manager Further information on our management from the housebuilding industry against structure, policies and procedures together some very strong competition.
Overall with our 2010 Sustainability Report can be Persimmon won 30 NHBC Pride in the found on our website at www.
Putting customers first Neil Davidson Our customers are the most important Chairman aspect of our business and we invest heavily Corporate Responsibility Committee in training our staff to ensure that our customers are provided with a quality home 28 February 2011 and excellent service.
At the heart of this process is our customer charter, the Persimmon Pledge, which fully complies with the Consumer Code for Homebuilders introduced in April 2010.
Directors Report: Business Review Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2010 27
