62 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Environment Reducing...
Monitoring for customers In 2010, Petrofac acted As well as measuring our own carbon to both limit our impact emissions, Petrofac monitors and collects carbon data for the facilities we manage for on the environment and to customers.
We also perform more extensive work with stakeholders to monitoring for customers of the North Sea facilities that we operate, under the Oslo-Paris protect the natural world.
Additionally, under the terms We appointed a Group Head of Environment, of the European Environmental Emissions to help raise standards across the Company Monitoring System, we monitor discharges and lead strategic environmental initiatives.
of hydrocarbons, heavy metal and radiation The new role complements the environment contamination and for air emissions of teams already active in our business units.
sulphur dioxide, oxides of nitrogen and volatile organic carbons, as well as for carbon We also developed plans for a company-wide dioxide.
We also segregate all waste leaving environment steering group, involving senior operated facilities and report it by category.
business heads and functional environment managers.
This group will focus on strategic Environmental standards issues, such as pollution prevention, waste Comprehensive environmental impact management and resource consumption, assessments are carried out prior to all new and will be supported by an environmental projects.
We follow a systematic approach working group.
to environmental management, even in geographies where such high standards Our carbon footprint are not required by law.
Around 95% of Our operations, including joint venture work that we do, calculated by man-hours operations but excluding customer-owned expended, is covered by the independently facilities, emitted 205,695 tonnes of CO2 verified ISO 14001 international standard.
This reduction is due to the fact that our share of the CO2 emissions for the Dons field was lower as the asset was transferred to EnQuest PLC in April as a result of the demerger of our UKCS assets.
Petrofac is proactive in sharing carbon Contributing to communities Carbon emissions generation data.
In 2010, we contributed We aim to bring Petrofac people and to the worldwide Carbon Disclosure the community together to make a positive Project and, in the UK, participate in difference to our environment.
the Governments Carbon Reduction 205,695 Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme.
Our third annual Planet Petrofac environment month celebrated bio-diversity, in support tonnes of carbon emissions of the United Nations International Year generated in 2010. of Bio-diversity.
Thousands of employees at 17 locations took part in such activities as Tonnes of CO2 emitted mangrove and native tree planting, collections thousands for orphanages, guided nature walks, community lectures and litter-collections 208 206 185 on beaches and seabeds.
As part of our partnership with local 1,650 communities, we are a member of the Arab Forum for Environment and Development and, within the UAE, work closely with the trees were planted as part of environment Emirates Environmental Group and sponsor month campaign in 2010.
08 09 10 a renewable energy research programme at the American University of Sharjah.
Corporate social responsibility 63 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Corporate social responsibility... our global carbon footprint
