56 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Our CSR strategy...... allows us to grow our reputation as a socially responsible company Due to our rapid growth our approach to Planning for corporate social responsibility CSR has not been as coherent as we would have wished, a better future but this is something we are proactively Petrofac works in partnership with the addressing.
In 2010, our Board committed Health, safety, communities in which we operate.
From to the development of a new CSR strategy, our strategic commitment to training local aligned to the ten principles of the UN Global security and workers to our joint business ventures Compact, to which we became a signatory with customers and sponsorships of schools, in 2009.
We also worked to strengthen the integrity assurance we work hand-in-hand with our stakeholders.
strategic focus, senior management and The safety of both our operations organisation of the areas that are particularly and our people is a strategic priority: Such close partnerships underpin our linked to the wider CSR arena: health, safety, in 2010, we took systematic steps to business strategy.
Our relationships with security, environment and integrity assurance further protect both.
Action included customers reflect, and depend upon, our HSSEIA, human resources HR, compliance an international programme to assess respect for their communities and to recruit and community investment.
and develop our oil spill response and retain exceptional people, we must be a capability, comprehensive security responsible employer.
To remain successful, We are now embarking on a well-planned arrangements in high-risk countries we need to make responsible business CSR journey: we still have a long way to and a group-wide employee road safety practices which to us mean achieving go but believe recent activities have set us awareness campaign.
commercial success in ways that respect on the road to becoming the truly socially Turn to page 60 to find out more people, communities and the natural responsible company we want to be.
environment part of our culture.
Corporate social responsibility 57 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Corporate social responsibility Marketplace Community Ethical behaviour is promoted and We want every community in which encouraged right across Petrofac.
In Petrofac works to feel included and 2010, we commissioned Transparency respected and for our legacy there to International to review our bribery and be greater self-sufficiency, increased corruption risk management strategy and business opportunities and new, emphasised our commitment to human locally-developed skills.
We sought guidance on how we in education involves assisting young could improve, manage and integrate people at all levels, from primary school CSR practices within our organisation funding to scholarships in India and and carried out a targeted survey of engineering fellowships in the UK.
Turn to page 66 to find out more Turn to page 58 to find out more Our people Petrofacs success is rooted in its exceptional people.
In 2010, we acted to ensure our global workforce continued to have the right technical and leadership skills to serve our customers and grow our business.
Group-wide HR initiatives included the launch of a global Environment performance management capability and the introduction of a consistent Limiting carbon emissions, meeting employee grading system.
exacting environmental management Turn to page 64 to find out more standards and monitoring customer discharges are just some of the ways we limit our impact on the environment.
We also seek to enhance the natural world: in 2010, our third Planet Petrofac month mobilised thousands of staff, in environmental activities ranging from mangrove planting to litter collection.
Turn to page 62 to find out more
