64 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Our people Supporting... We recruited widely, including the Our customers use New talent appointment of more than 120 senior Petrofac because they managers, to meet the immediate needs of our expanding business and help provide know they can rely on the the next generation of leaders.
skills and commitment of 3,200 Reflecting our strategic commitment to local our people.
content, wherever possible, we aim to recruit, train and develop employees from local new staff joined Petrofac in 2010 In 2010, we continued to take steps to ensure communities.
For example, following the we had the best people, with the right skills, 97% of graduates hired since 2008 December 2010 award of a contract to to serve our customers not just now, but for are still working for Petrofac develop the SEPAT offshore early production decades to come.
Such activity is essential in system in Malaysia, we are staffing the project Graduates recruited: the context of the wider industrys challenge almost entirely with local employees.
2008 104 to ensure it has the right talent for the future.
2009 120 We focused particularly on resourcing, talent Talent management 2010 107 management and employee engagement and We want to make sure our employees have on developing a more integrated organisation.
4% of Petrofac employees left the right technical and managerial skills to by choice in 2010 succeed.
During the year, we further refined Effective resourcing our development programmes for all levels We applied a more strategic approach to of staff.
Company-wide resourcing, including the drafting of a five-year human resource To coach the executives of tomorrow, strategy and the appointment of a Head we began a partnership with the London of Resourcing.
Business School to create Petrofac Leadership Excellence.
The programme, to aid the development of our senior people, Our values will be rolled out in 2011.
In November 2010, we also gathered more than 70 of our 91% of participants in our survey share most senior managers at a leadership behavioural competence framework and our Company values.
conference to share best practice, strengthen clear visibility of development needs.
relationships and teamwork, and build In another move towards group-wide Petrofac people are: strategic understanding.
consistency, we began the roll out of safe a global grading system for employees.
ethical To nurture leadership potential, we assessed innovative recent graduate recruits and designed Petrofac has a committed and engaged cost-conscious development opportunities for those likely to workforce.
In 2009, our biennial employee responsive to customers become managers or directors.
Additionally, survey, PetroVoices, showed 91% of and always focus relentlessly all our business units took steps to create participants share company values and on delivering results challenging assignments to equip people almost one in three employees are part for more senior positions.
of our share incentive schemes.
As part of I never cease to be impressed our support for employee share ownership, by the determination of our people.
We built development frameworks for we implemented an employee share portal Throughout our 30-year history, our wider workforce by commencing the and an automated staff share dealing facility.
we have encountered numerous introduction of individual development In addition, in early 2010, we appointed an challenges, particularly in relation plans for all employees.
The extension of our experienced Share Plan Manager to help to the execution of our projects.
e-learning capability to around two thirds of improve our service to employees.
We were In these instances it is the absolute our locations was another step towards our delighted to be commended by ifs ProShare commitment the relentless focus strategy of improving technical competences.
as part of its annual award scheme.
on finding a solution that has often created positive outcomes from Creating one Petrofac Effective communication difficult situations.
Our new enterprise resource planning ERP Communication is key to engaging our people system, TEMPO, which we began rolling out and creating a unified culture.
Ayman Asfari in 2010, is helping to establish a consistent Group Chief Executive approach to group HR initiatives.
The system During the year, we sought to communicate supports the launch of a global performance more effectively with our dispersed, management capability, including an annual multicultural workforce, many of whom work appraisal with mid-year review, a common in remote locations with limited digital access.
Corporate social responsibility 65 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Corporate social responsibility... the development and training of our people We created a team briefing framework, In line with further PetroVoices survey In 2011, we will celebrate employees who partly in response to calls for better internal feedback, our business units evolved their particularly embody our values in the way communication, particularly at a local level, own communications strategies, supported they work, with the launch of the Petrofac EVE in the PetroVoices survey.
Team Talk by intranets, newsletters and event Awards programme, designed to recognise incorporates strategic, business unit and programmes.
and reward excellence, values and energy.
local content and, following a 2010 pilot, will This is a new initiative that will be open to be rolled out globally.
It will form one part of In 2011, a new Internal Communications all employees worldwide to demonstrate a planned toolkit to help the whole business Manager will manage the continuing how they embody one or more of the values communicate more effectively.
development of our employee communications in their daily activities.
In addition to raising offering, including the planned launch of awareness of our values and what they mean, Specific staff communication programmes a more powerful company-wide intranet.
the awards seek to celebrate and recognise supported key group activity, such as the During the year, we will also undertake the achievements of the exceptional people EnQuest demerger, the employee grading our third PetroVoices employee survey.
who work across our group.
initiative, the ERP roll out, the PetroVoices survey results and environment month.
We are proud of how highly our people We also continued to produce the quarterly identify with our values: as mentioned above, Petrofacts magazine and again ran the Picture in our most recent employee survey, 91% of Petrofac photography competition for staff.
participants said they shared Petrofacs values.
66 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Community Investing... We believe this approach both fosters local Petrofac aims to build stability, during the period of our projects, relationships with, and by encouraging the development of the wider community beyond our workforce and to create value helps build sustainable communities for the for, the communities long-term.
we work with around To ensure we approach future community the world.
investment in the best way, in 2010, we developed a new strategy.
This new community investment strategy involves a five-stage process, as shown in the diagram below that will ensure that: Developing local workforces national community investment strategies Aspiring Syrian oil & gas workers now are developed for each new market prior have the chance to develop their skills to entry, with CSR planning part of the at the countrys first dedicated industry pre-bid activity training centre.
The National Training Centre was local stakeholders are involved in strategic designed, refurbished and equipped by planning, to assess community needs and Petrofac and was inaugurated in October expectations, and in ongoing dialogue 2010 by the Syrian Prime Minister, His Excellency Mohammad Naji Ottri.
It will evaluation systems are developed for all deliver year-long competence-led training new projects courses to up to 120 Syrian people each year, with instruction in technical English Continuous improvement cycle and in technical and safety training across the electrical, mechanical, instrumentation PHASE 5 PHASE 1 and production disciplines.
Stand Visit and alone assess PHASE 4 PHASE 2 Manage Review and support and plan PHASE 3 Deploy and implement Apart from supporting professional The strategy is being implemented by our development, our community investment first full-time Group Head of Corporate Social programme fosters all levels of learning, Responsibility, who was appointed in 2010. from elementary and secondary schooling Speaking at the launch event Group Chief to higher education.
This support ranges Delivering projects with local employees is Executive Ayman Asfari said: from providing scholarships to pupils in India integral to our business strategy and one and Kyrgyzstan to funding employee science of our key differentiators.
Our community Petrofac has been active in Syria ambassadors who visit UK schools enthusing investment approach supports this strategy, since the early nineties through young people about science and engineering.
by helping to equip communities with our Engineering & Construction essential skills.
business and we have grown up During the year, the first intake of UK alongside the oil & gas industry engineering students from the Petrofac In October 2010, we designed, refurbished here.
We have been honoured Royal Academy of Engineering Fellowship and equipped Syrias first oil & gas training today by the presence of Programme finished their year-long masters centre see case study as a donation to the His Excellency the Prime Minister, courses.
In financing the 250,000, Syrian Government, in support of its drive to which reflects the importance three-year programme, we hope to go develop personnel for its growing oil & gas of this new facility to Syria and some way to offset the scarcity of engineers sector.
In Algeria, we built a construction I am proud of our involvement.
at Western universities that is leading to skills training centre to equip local people a critical skills shortage in our industry.
for work in the national oil & gas industry.
Corporate social responsibility 67 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2010 Corporate social responsibility Investing...... in communities we live and work in Reflecting the focus we place on safe driving Looking ahead, our key community objective internally, our community education focus for 2011 is to fully assess and understand the extends to road safety.
In the UAE, for wide range of activities that we are involved example, we have committed Dhs 1.5 million in, across the organisation, and to measure to support a year-long Sharjah Police road their value.
The development of KPIs for safety campaign aimed at young drivers and our community investment programme in the UK donated 15,000 to an Aberdeenis another priority.
area school Safe Drive Stay Alive campaign.
Engaging employees Staff CSR champions encourage our people to engage in local good causes around the 100,000 world.
In 2010, employee-led activity included Sharjah employees raising US$100,000 Raised by employees for local which was matched by Petrofac for good causes around the world.
Pakistani flood victims: Aberdeen staff raising 40,000 to fund juvenile diabetes research, and our Woking office sponsoring a teenage For more information about sailor with disabilities who is aiming to our CSR programmes see: compete in the 2012 Paralympic Games.
