Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 Investing in People The Group is proud of its dedicated and highly-qualified workforce.
Petropavlovsk has a long-term policy of investing heavily in local education and training to ensure that it is able to continue to employ from the best pool of talent available.
This policy in turn allows individuals to reach their full potential and brings wider benefits to the Amur region.
Petropavlovsks education policy Fostering expertise Petropavlovsks education policy is designed to provide support for Petropavlovsk is proud to support its employees in obtaining further all areas and levels of education, from local kindergartens through qualifications and job progression opportunities.
By ensuring staff are to universities.
The aim of the policy is to create the next generation trained to the highest standards, Petropavlovsk aims to continue its of geologists, technicians, scientists, managers and skilled labourers culture of nurtured talent and innovation.
required by Petropavlovsk as it continues its expansion.
In turn, this provides local people with a better education and increased The Pokrovskiy Mining College job opportunities whilst raising the Groups profile in the region.
In 2007, Petropavlovsk established a specialist mining college in the town of Zeya, close to the Pokrovskiy mine in the Amur region.
From kindergarten The college was founded in order to ensure that Petropavlovsks future To date, Petropavlovsk has supported more than 70 schools and employees are trained to the Groups highest standards.
The college kindergartens in towns and villages in close proximity to its operations.
offers the opportunity for local people to train in a skilled mining Support has been tailor-made to the requirements of each institution, profession and offers students an opportunity to study for one of 42 ranging from providing fully-equipped IT departments through to mining and engineering professions.
Upon satisfactory completion of its assisting with the construction of new classrooms and school buildings.
courses, graduates are offered employment with Petropavlovsk.
It is hoped that the local children touched by Petropavlovsks investment In 2010, 126 students were admitted to the college.
will grow up to become part of the Groups future workforce.
to University In 2007, employees at the Groups laboratories collaborated with teaching staff at a university in Blagoveschensk, the capital of the Amur region and home to Petropavlovsks regional headquarters, to create an advanced course in analytical chemistry for students in their final year.
The course covers the theoretical analysis and practical work involved in metallurgical sample analysis.
The practical work is undertaken in the Groups laboratories, offering students first-hand, relevant experience in industry.
In addition, students studying geology are offered the opportunity to undertake practical experience working in the Groups subsidiary dedicated to geological modelling, NPGF Regis.
60 61 Overview Performance Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 I was studying at university but I left in order to study at the Pokrovskiy Mining College.
My father works at the Pokrovskiy mine and speaks a lot 42 about it.
I really like it here, the most important thing is the practical work professional mining courses offered experience offered.
If I had stayed on at university, I would not have had at Pokrovskiy Mining College the same job opportunities.
Galina Voloshina, Student at Pokrovskiy Mining College 126 students admitted to study at Pokrovskiy Mining College in 2010 Investing in the future Supporting local schools and kindergartens, offering internships Fostering Supporting A long term policy of expertise higher education investment in regional Ensuring Collaboration education to support the the culture with a local Group and contribute to of innovation university to the development of the continues create a course Amur region in analytical chemistry Developing its workforce Support provided to employees in undertaking higher education
