Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 Sustainability Petropavlovsk recognises that operating in a safe and responsible manner will ensure that its business is respected at a local level, federal level and by the investment community worldwide.
Further details of the Groups Board of Directors, management and Approach to sustainability issues governance compliance and approach to corporate governance may The Group takes compliance with Russian health and safety and be found in the Corporate Governance Statement in the accompanying environmental legislation seriously, and is seeking to go beyond this Financial Statements, which has been prepared in accordance with by bringing its projects in line with international practice.
The Group Rule 7.2 of the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules and forms seeks to ensure that its workforce feel valued and respected through part of this report.
the provision of good working facilities and safe operating conditions.
It is committed to supporting local educational institutions, providing Sustainability strategy its operations with a suitably qualified workforce and allowing individuals to reach their full potential.
The HSE Committee reviews the Groups Sustainability Policy annually.
The Sustainability Policy details the Groups sustainability commitments and goals in the coming years.
Management and governance The Group has an organisational structure in place to ensure that Sustainability Report 2010 all aspects of its operations, including social and community relations and health, safety and environmental performance, are monitored As part of its Sustainability Strategy, the Group has published a at all management levels and managed efficiently and effectively.
Sustainability Report together with its 2010 Annual Report and Financial Statements.
This Sustainability Report has been aligned to the The Board of Directors sets and reviews the Groups Sustainability policy.
requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative.
A Health, Safety and Environmental Committee HSE Committee was established to assist the Board in obtaining assurance that appropriate HSE audit systems are in place to deal with the management of health, safety and community relations risks.
During the first quarter of 2011, a HSE audit of the Groups operations was undertaken by an independent environmental specialist at WAI.
Health, safety and environmental performance data across the Groups WAI noted in its summary that environmental permits for all operational projects is submitted to the Executive Committee for review ahead of mines remain valid and good relations have been maintained between each meeting.
mine management, Federal and Amur State authorities.
Ongoing The Board is responsible for ensuring an appropriate level of corporate permitting is progressing well for the non-operational assets.
It was governance and intends, where possible, to comply with the UK noted that community acceptance of all the projects is good and the Corporate Governance Code which applies to the Company from Group has good relations with the local ethnic populations.
The Board is responsible for ensuring that appropriate measures are taken by the Group in order for it to comply with the UK Bribery Act 2010, when that Act comes into force on 1 July 2011.
62 63 Overview Performance Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 2010 health, safety, environmental and social activities and milestones The completion of an Environmental and Ongoing work to align operations with Social Impact Assessment ESIA for the the International Cyanide Management Malomir gold project Code ICMC Review of Petropavlovsk environmental Launch of the Petropavlovsk Foundation management procedures against international for Social Investment practice found the majority of procedures are Continued investment in education initiatives broadly in line with international practice, with Movements towards ensuring improvements greater focus recommended on enforcement in health and safety performance of internal management systems findings.
The findings concluded that poor workmanship and poor Employees organisation were factors in the fatalities and therefore steps have been The Groups average number of employees in 2010 was 11,789. taken to address these issues.
The Group is currently investigating a range of measures it can take to minimise the risk of accidents and to The Group is one of the largest employers in the Amur region.
Since these incidents, additional and The Group seeks to recruit staff from the localities in which it works enhanced technical measures will be implemented at all operational and is committed to offering good wages and working conditions to sites.
Although the Group already provides regular training to its on-site retain its current workforce and to ensure it is an employer of choice.
staff, it is investigating how this can be optimised in light of these The Group is committed to providing good quality on-site purpose accidents.
The Group is also seeking ways in which it can improve first built accommodation facilities for staff working at its mines, which aid response.
include recreational and sporting facilities.
The Group would like to express its sympathies to the families of its The Group offers off-site housing to some of its workforce and their lost colleagues.
families who have worked for the Group for over five years.
The Group seeks to provide workers with long-term career and Supporting local communities personal development opportunities through the provision of internal The Group is dedicated to developing positive, long-term relationships courses or Group sponsorship to attend external training programmes.
with the communities within which it operates.
Since 2003, an independent trade union has represented workers A Stakeholder Engagement Plan SEP has been created for Malomir interests to the Group.
The Groups management undertakes regular which is in line with International Finance Corporation IFC standards consultation sessions with employees to ensure that there is clear and international best practice guidelines.
The Group publishes a monthly internal newspaper to keep employees up to date with the During 2010, the Group collaborated with local government authorities Groups developments.
to launch the Petropavlovsk Foundation for Social Investment the Foundation to consolidate the Groups existing social activity Health and safety into one investment vehicle.
The aim of the Foundation is to contribute to the social and economic development of the regions in which the The Group operates in accordance with Russian health and safety group operates.
In doing so, the Foundation seeks to support the legislation and is continually seeking to ensure that these practices commitment to sustainable development in the Groups policies, are aligned with international best practice.
In accordance with this, strategies and practices, to centralise the Groups sustainable Petropavlovsks Health and Safety Department conducts health and development programme, to promote the development of Far East safety reviews to implement sanctions and to make recommendations, Russia and to contribute to the development of positive relations with if and when health and safety measures are breached.
Regular reports federal and local authorities and the communities affected by the on all accidents which have occurred within the Group are submitted Groups operations.
to the Executive Committee and the HSE Committee.
In addition, external auditors visit Petropavlovsks key operations annually to The Foundation is managed by a governing board, which includes review the Groups health and safety policies and procedures.
the Chief Executive Officer of Petropavlovsk PLC, and is supervised by a board of guardians, which comprises the Groups key operational There are medical facilities and medically trained staff on duty at management, key figures from local government and community leaders.
The Foundations targeted activities include: methods of improving In 2009, both Pokrovskiy and Pioneer independently implemented the quality of life of children including investment in education, externally verified health and safety management systems in investment in cultural and sports activities and programmes, accordance with ISO Standard OHSAS 18001. the contribution to the development of science and infrastructure Regrettably, there were three on-site fatalities at the Groups operations initiatives, the provision of funds for hospitals and other medical during 2010.
Thorough investigations were undertaken by the Group facilities and the development of ecological programmes.
to understand the causes of the accidents and to recommend measures to prevent them from recurring.
Immediately following the publication of the results of the inquiry, the head of the Petropavlovsks Health and Safety Department held an extraordinary meeting with all managers holding operational responsibility to review and assess the Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2010 Sustainability continued Environmental monitoring ESIA Petropavlovsk manages the environmental impacts of its operations During 2010, an Environmental & Social Impact Assessment ESIA in accordance with Russian regulatory requirements and is seeking for Malomir was prepared to best practice standards.
This is the first to go beyond this by aligning its current practices with international time such ESIA has been undertaken for Petropavlovsk.
No fatal flaw best industry practices.
resulting from the operations at Malomir was identified.
The ESIA was reviewed by WAI as part of their HSE audit.
In its audit during the first Petropavlovsks environmental safety department ensures that the Groups quarter of 2011, WAI noted that this document forms an effective basis operations are compliant with Russian legislation regulating discharge for environmental management at Malomir.
to air, water, soil, tailings and waste management.
Monitoring data is collated on a regular basis and submitted to local authorities.
The Group intends to prepare an ESIA for Albyn during 2011 in time for the plants commissioning in the final quarter of the year.
During 2010, An environmental report is prepared on a monthly basis for the environmental baseline data was collected in preparation for the ESIA.
Executive Committee and on a quarterly basis for the HSE Committee.
Environmental permitting at Albyn is ongoing.
IRC Limited maintains an environmental reporting system, that is detailed in the IRC Annual Report.
Cyanide management The Group is seeking to align the use of cyanide at its operations with the International Cyanide Management Code ICMC.
During 2009, the Group appointed an independent external consultant, Golder Associates, to conduct a gap analysis audit against the ICMC of the Groups operations which used cyanide to extract gold at the time, the Pokrovskiy and Pioneer mines only.
The report concluded that Petropavlovsk has good systems in place for the management of cyanide and is compliant with Russian regulations.
However, a number of relatively minor changes were proposed to bring operations in line with best practice and to meet the requirements of the ICMC.
The HSE audit conducted by WAI during the first quarter of 2011 concluded that the cyanide is well managed at all the Groups operations and that there was clear evidence that the findings of the 2009 ICMI gap analysis are being implemented at Pokrovskiy and Pioneer.
Petropavlovsk is aiming to obtain ICMC certification for Pokroviskiy, Pioneer, Malomir and Albyn by the end of 2012.
Tailings Management Facilities During 2010, a new Tailings Management Facility TMF was designed for Pioneer to replace the existing tailings facility which the Group anticipates will shortly be full.
The design of the new TMF facility was approved by the relevant regulatory bodies.
WAI noted that it believes that the design concept is appropriate and sound.
