Khalid 40 stocks everyones favourites in his Edinburgh store.
We have developed a portfolio of quality products which appeal to a broad spectrum of people throughout the country.
13 Summary The dif cult macro economic climate did not materially impact the soft drinks market which has shown some positive growth especially in the second half of the year.
A. G. BARR has signi cantly outperformed the total market and seen its brands build momentum across our key channels and customers.
The smooth integration of the Rubicon business with its growth potential combined with our strong core portfolio of national and regional brands have created a business with increased growth momentum and potential.
The investments we have Co mprehensive Range made in our sales execution, systems and infrastructure and We have developed a range of products those we are planning for our asset base in the next phase of our development should position us well to maintain the momentum which comply with the new schools we are currently enjoying.
regulations and can now offer a broad The strong platform for growth created over recent years has choice of great tasting drinks including given us the opportunity to ourish even in dif cult times and St. Clements Squeeze, a sparkling 50% looking forward our revenue growth opportunities, cost control ethos, enhanced asset base and strong balance sheet give us juice 50% water drink.
con dence to face the challenges of our dynamic and competitive market place.
St rathmore Twist With a hint of natural fruit avour with no arti cial avours or sweeteners Strathmore provides a great tasting alternative to the Roger White Chief Executive range.
Supported by Scottish TV advertising we have achieved sales of over 3,000,000 500ml bottles to date.
L aunching a Rockstar Over 30,000,000 Rockstar 500ml cans have been sold since we launched the brand in the U. K. in October 2008.
We have also continued to develop the range with the launch of Rockstar Original 250ml, Rockstar Original 710ml resealable can and Rockstar Cola 500ml the first U. K. energy cola drink.
10 year extension to our existing production and distribution deal with our partners Rockstar Inc, USA Business Review 14 Financial Review Alex Short Finance Director During the year operating margins increased a full percentage point from 13.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2010 15 Financial Review Margins Pro t before tax for the year ended 30 January 2010 rose to At the beginning of the financial year, the business faced 24.5m, an increase on the prior year of 5.3%, however this the prospect of increasing raw material costs principally as a was after charging exceptional items of 3.4m.
Normalised consequence of a weak Sterling relative to both the US Dollar pro t before tax pre exceptional items increased to 27.9m, and the Euro.
In conjunction with the delivery of double digit an increase of 20.8%.
sales growth, the team made strenuous efforts to protect operating margins through successful delivery of modest price EBITDA pre exceptional items increased by 22.7% to increases and tight control of operating costs.
This has resulted 37.7m, representing an improved EBITDA margin of 18.7%, in an improvement in our gross margin from 49.9% to 51.3%.
During the year we continued to see the bene ts of previous In the financial period A. G. BARR signi cantly outperformed operational restructuring programmes and improvements within the U. K. soft drinks market, delivering full year sales of 201.4m, our manufacturing and distribution activities.
The integration an increase of 18.7% on the prior year.
The increase was seen of the Rubicon business resulted in a number of redundancies across both the still drinks and water stills and carbonates across Finance, HR and general administrative support functions.
17.2m of the growth in revenue was delivered through These activities, together with general ef ciency improvements, the stills segment which was fuelled by the inclusion of a full years helped offset in ationary cost pressures and have allowed the trading of the Rubicon brand.
Stills now account for 22.4% of our Group to further invest in sales execution and brand building, total revenue, up from 16.5% in the prior year.
Our core brands performed well, growing volume share, particularly During the year operating margins before exceptional items in England and Wales.
Across the U. K. our share of carbonates, increased a full percentage point from 13.6% to 14.8%.
excluding mixers, increased by 6% and in England and Wales share increased by 20% Source: A C Nielsen.
This was achieved Interest whilst also delivering growth in the average price per litre paid A net interest cost of 1.9m was reported in the financial period.
by consumers Source: A C Nielsen Scantrack Data to 23 01 10.
This is best represented by the table below: 000s 000s Eliminating the effect of the Rubicon acquisition and adjusting Finance income 117 for the 53rd week, included in the prior financial year, like for like Finance costs 1,624 sales increased by 10.6%.
Interest related to Group borrowings 1,507 All subcategories within the product portfolio delivered year on Pensions interest due on year growth in sales revenue with the exception of water.
Whilst fide ned bene ts obligation 3,995 water revenues were slightly down on the prior year, our focus Expected return on scheme assets 3,624 371 on cost control and improvements to sales mix led to increased margin from the water category.
Total finance cost 1,878 The signi cant corporate activity in 2008 09 related to the The interest cost included the full year effect of interest charges acquisition of Groupe Rubicon Ltd.
In the financial year to amounting to 1.6m, following the acquisition of Groupe Rubicon 30 January 2010, our attention turned to the integration of the Ltd, offset to a small extent by 0.1m of interest income on cash Rubicon business onto the A. G. BARR platform.
A further 0.4m is reported through the interest line, has been successfully delivered with restructuring costs of 0.1m, being the difference between interest costs associated with the signi cantly below our original expectations.
Top line growth fide ned bene t pension scheme fide cit relative to the expected of the Rubicon brand has been above expectation and whilst return on scheme assets.
the acquisition was earnings enhancing in the prior year, we are pleased to report that the acquisition was ROIC return on invested In order to manage the Groups exposure to interest rate capital enhancing in its first full year within A. G. BARR.
movements, the Company entered into a three year interest rate Swap with RBS during 2008.
In accordance with IAS 39 we have continued to elect to hedge account for this transaction with any resulting volatility in interest movements being re ected through the balance sheet rather than through the income statement.
During the year the mark to market fair value of the cash ow hedge reserve improved from 1.4m to 1.0m.
% 30 decrease in net debt year on year Financial Review 16 Taxation Capital Expenditure The tax charge of 6.5m represents an effective tax charge Capital expenditure during the period amounted to 5.3m.
The effective tax rate as reported in the accounts This was lower than previous years and also lower than for the previous year was 26.4%.
The position was impacted by the need to conclude the consultation process regarding the Mans eld site closure Earnings per Share EPS and the decision to proceed down the route of contract leasing Basic EPS for the period was 46.84p, up 5.1% on the same period of Company cars, which have traditionally been purchased.
A further 2.5m of expenditure was approved by the board during the period for assets that had not been received by Dividends the year end.
The board is recommending a final dividend of 16.85p per share to give a total dividend for the year ending 30 January 2010 of 23.10p.
The 5.3m compares very favourably with capital expenditure in This represents an increase of 10% compared to the prior year.
the year ended 31 January 2009, which was reported at 10.6m.
The latter however included the purchase of the Campsie Balance Sheet Review warehousing site at Cumbernauld and the purchase of the The Groups balance sheet remains strong with net assets Rubicon manufacturing facility and adjoining property at Tredegar.
increasing from 92.7m to 100.5m, mostly driven by an increase Together, these items amounted to 4.9m.
in current assets, notably cash and trade receivables.
Signi cant projects include the purchase of a replacement tunnel The Group has banking facilities with RBS totalling 70.0m, pasteuriser for the canning line at Cumbernauld, expenditure to of which 40.0m is a five year term loan maturing July 2013, provide 500ml canning capability at Cumbernauld, initial deposits with the balance funded by a three year revolving credit facility for the Cumbernauld capacity increases and commercial vehicles of 30.0m, expiring July 2011.
During the financial year, a further for the Scottish direct sales organisation.
On the information 5.0m of debt was repaid in line with the five year facility technology side, expenditure has included the upgrading of our agreement, with 8.0m due to be repaid in the financial year business intelligence capability through the installation of a data ending 29 January 2011. warehouse, further expansion of the CRM system to include the telesales operation in Scotland, an upgrade to our ERP platform Leverage and interest cover are comfortably within the required and a complete refresh of our PC population.
We are entering a year of signi cant operational change in 2010 In line with both the requirements of IAS 36 and our accounting and based on current plans we are anticipating capital investment policies, the Group undertook an impairment review of all tangible in 2010 11 of 11.0m.
It is anticipated that there will be limited impact and intangible assets during the year.
This review concluded that on the underlying 2010 11 financial performance with operating cost no impairment of intangible assets was required.
The review did bene ts associated with the investment feeding through in financial however identify a potential impairment relating to the value of the year 2011 12.
Atherton site, an asset held for sale: consequently an impairment loss of 0.5m has been recognised in the period.
A further 1.0m Thereafter, we expect capital investment to more closely match of plant and equipment has been impaired in light of the decision depreciation which is currently 7.5m per annum.
These estimates to close the Mans eld site.
exclude the potential sale of the Atherton and Mans eld sites together with the potential sale of any residual Mans eld plant.
The estimate also excludes the potentially signi cant capital cost associated with the purchase of a wind turbine for the Cumbernauld site.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2010 17 Current Assets and Liabilities We are entering a year Current assets increased in the period from 51.2m to 59.5m, the most signi cant elements being the increase in cash and of signi cant operational cash equivalents and trade and other receivables.
The current recessionary environment has required vigilant management change in 2010 and based of our working capital throughout the year.
on current plans we Inventories increased by 10% to 16.0m, re ecting increased levels of trading but also a requirement to build inventory ahead are anticipating capital of the installation of the new pasteuriser on the canning line, to take account of increasing volumes of fruit-based carbonated investment in 2010 11 products.
Despite this build up of inventory, the average inventory holding period reduced by three days.
Trade and other receivables increased by 3.0m as a result of higher levels of trading and the timing of the year end.
In the year, average debtor days again reduced from 52 to 49 days, this represents a reduction of eight days or 14% when compared to the position two years ago.
Trade and other payables rose by 0.8m, again re ecting the timing of the year end but the position was also impacted by the timing of a supplier payment of 2.5m immediately prior to the year end.
Eliminating the effect of this payment, the average payment period reduced by five days.
We are continuing to market the Atherton site which is surplus to our operating requirements.
The overall level of liabilities reduced by 2.9m, despite the inclusion of restructuring provisions of 1.9m relating to the Mans eld site closure.
Return on capital employed for the period increased to 19.2% previously 16.0%, re ecting the increase in operating pro t relative to a fairly at asset base.
6 like for like sales increase % 16.
0 increase in our share of carbonates in England and Wales 3 7.7m EBITDA Financial Review 18 Cash Flow and Net Debt Pensions Free cash ow generated in the period was 17.9m, in line with During the year, the Company continued to operate two pension the prior year.
plans, being the A. G. BARR p. l. c. 2005 fide ned Contribution Pension Scheme and the A. G. BARR p. l. c. 2008 Pension and Life Our financial position remains strong as we continue to see the Assurance Scheme.
The latter is a fide ned bene t scheme based bene ts of improved turnover translating into improved operating on final salary which also includes a fide ned contribution section pro ts and strong cash ows.
for pension provision to new executive entrants.
The assets of both schemes are held separately from those of the Company Throughout the year we have maintained tight controls over and are invested in managed funds.
working capital, taxation payable has returned to more normal levels following a previous overpayment in 2008 and the Group Under IAS 19, the net pension fide cit at the year end stood has continued to make additional contributions to the fide ned at just under 5.9m, representing a deterioration of 0.9m when bene t pension scheme of 2.6m.
compared to the fide cit of 5.0m reported last year.
The area of pensions has seen tremendous volatility during the year, The free cash ow position also includes the impact of a full years with the increase in fide cit largely re ecting the fall in corporate interest costs associated with the Groupe Rubicon acquisition bond yields, partially offset by the higher than expected return although this is more than offset by reduced capital expenditure on assets and the fide cit contributions paid by the Company which was 5.3m lower than the prior year.
Future price in ation expectations are consistent with the prior year.
The main section of the fide ned bene t scheme As at 30 January 2010 the Groups net debt position was 22.1m, was closed to new entrants on 5 April 2002 and the executive being the closing cash position of 10.9m net of the borrowings section closed on 14 August 2003. of 33.0m.
This represents a net debt: EBITDA ratio of just over 0.6 times, with interest cover in excess of 19.6 times.
This is a The last formal actuarial valuation was undertaken as at April 2008 signi cant reduction on the prior year net debt position of 31.3m.
and was completed during the year.
The results of the valuation indicated that the fide cit recovery plan was performing as expected.
Exceptional Items The pension trustees and the Company have therefore agreed to In January we con rmed the closure of the Mans eld maintain the fide cit contributions at the current level.
This is expected to take place in early 2011, with the outsourcing of a proportion of our primary logistics Share Price and Market Capitalisation functions proceeding over the course of 2010.
This step At a General Meeting of the Company held on 18 September constitutes the final piece in the integration of the Rubicon 2009 the shareholders authorised the subdivision of each of the business with the cessation of existing in-house storage and Companys existing ordinary shares into two ordinary shares of distribution operations at the Mans eld site and the exit from 1 2.5 pence nominal value each.
The share subdivision doubled existing Rubicon third party logistics operations.
the number of ordinary shares in issue.
This signi cant change will coincide with a project to increase At 30 January 2010, following the subdivision, the closing share capacity at the Cumbernauld site, creating operating capacity price for A. G. BARR p. l. c. was 7.92.
The Group is a member of the that will absorb all current PET packaged products from the FTSE250, with a market capitalisation of 308.0m at the period end.
Mans eld factory and allow for projected future growth.
During the year the Company continued to fund the purchase During the financial period ended 30 January 2010, we have of shares by the trustees of the Companys various employee provided 2.9m for exceptional charges relating to this closure, bene t trusts to satisfy the ongoing requirements of maturing and anticipate an additional 0.5m of dual running costs in the share schemes.
A further 0.5m of exceptional charges have been recorded in the financial period, re ecting the costs incurred as part of the Rubicon integration 0.1m, together with the well documented impact of the recession on property prices, which has led us to impair the valuation of the Atherton site, an asset currently held Alex Short Finance Director for sale.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2010 19 Key Performance Indicators Interest cover The principal key performance indicators used by management The ratio of EBITA EBITDA less depreciation relative to finance in assessing the performance of the Group, in addition to the charges in respect of the relevant period.
income statement, are as follows: Net debt EBITDA Turnover growth The ratio of aggregate amount of all obligations in respect of The increase in value of revenue recorded in the period relative period end consolidated gross borrowings to reported EBITDA.
Market growth Average realised price A C Nielsen market growth summaries reported in terms of The average revenue per case sold.
volume and value by major product category and geography.
Gross margin Market share Revenue less material costs and production related costs, A C Nielsen market share summaries reported in terms of volume divided by revenue.
and value by major brand and geography.
Operating pro t margin Market price per litre Operating pro t before exceptional items and before the deduction A C Nielsen market scantrack data of retail price per litre reported of interest and taxation, divided by revenue.
by major brand and geography.
Pro t margin Reportable accidents Operating pro t before exceptional items and before the deduction The moving average total of reportable accidents in a period of taxation, divided by revenue.
together with the number of lost time accidents and near misses.
EBITDA margin EBITDA fide ned as pro t on ordinary activities before tax less exceptional items, adding back interest, depreciation, amortisation and impairment divided by revenue.
Free cash ow Net cash ow excluding the movements in borrowings, shares, dividend payments and non cash exceptional items.
Return on capital employed Return on invested capital Operating pro t before exceptional items as a percentage of invested capital.
Invested capital is fide ned as period end non-current plus current assets less current liabilities excluding all balances relating to any financial instruments, interest bearing liabilities and cash or cash equivalents.
Financial Review 20 Principal Risks and Uncertainties There is an ongoing process in place for identifying, In addition to financial risks the Groups results could evaluating and managing the signi cant risks faced by the be materially affected by: Group, which has operated throughout the financial year.
This process involves quarterly assessment of the Groups Risks Relating to the Group risk register by the Audit Committee.
In line with best A decline in the sales of certain key brands practice the register includes an assessment of the impact Adverse publicity in relation to the Group and likelihood of each risk together with the controls in place or its brands to manage the risk.
Consolidation or reduction of the customer base Failure or unavailability of the Groups The Groups risk management framework is designed to operational infrastructure support this process and is the responsibility of the Finance Interruption in, or change in the terms of, Director.
The risk framework governs the management and the Groups supply of packaging and raw materials control of both financial and nonfinancial risks.
Failure in IT systems Inability to protect the intellectual property Internal audit is undertaken by an independent rm of rights associated with current and future brands chartered accountants who develop an annual internal audit Litigation or changes in legislation including changes plan having reviewed the Groups risk register and following in accounting principles and standards discussions with external Auditors, management and members of the Audit Committee.
Risks Relating to the Market Changes in consumer preferences, During the period the Audit Committee has reviewed reports perception or purchasing behaviour covering the work undertaken as part of the annual internal Poor economic conditions and weather audit plan.
This has included assessment of the general Changes in regulatory requirements control environment, identi cation of control weaknesses, Actions taken by customers quanti cation of any associated risk together with a review Actions taken by competitors of the status of actions to mitigate these risks.
The Audit Committee has also received reports from management in relation to speci c risk items together with reports from external Auditors, who consider controls only to the extent necessary to form an opinion as to the truth and fairness of the financial statements.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and it must be recognised that it can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Groups activities also expose it to a variety of financial risks which include market risk including foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and commodity price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
Financial risks are reviewed and managed by the Treasury Committee whose remit and authority levels are set by the board.
The Treasury Committees remit focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential related adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2010 21 Co rporate and Social Responsibilty We take our Corporate Social Responsibility very seriously and see it as a key part of the future success of our business.
22 C orporate Social Responsibility is one of our seven core areas of business focus.
Our Corporate Social Responsibility activities cover five key areas: Environment Quality Marketplace Workplace Community % 40 reduction in energy usage since 2004 % 30 reduction in CO2 emissions from manufacturing by 2020 % 60 projected electricity for Cumbernauld site generated from wind power, with zero CO2 emissions A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2010 23 Corporate Social Responsibility Environment As CSR sponsor I am pleased to report good progress has Our Environmental Strategy been made against the targets identi ed throughout the business In 2009 our environmental plans were updated to align our over this reporting period: we will be aiming to make further strategy with the targets laid down in the British Soft Drinks improvements in our performance across 2010 as we further Association BSDA Sustainability Strategy.
The scope includes endorse good CSR practices across all parts of the business.
climate change, waste & packaging, water and transport.
We are making our internal targets more challenging each year Our approach is to: and as a consequence our resources and efforts in this area will monitor, evaluate and manage the key environmental be scaled up accordingly to meet and exceed these challenges impacts of our business activities: climate change, in the future.
waste, packaging design, water usage, and transport: set and review environmental targets locally and within our speci c business goals: set plans to achieve these targets: consider all environmental impacts when making investment decisions: and maintaining our BS EN ISO 14001 accreditation.
Andrew Memmott Operations Director and Chair of the Environmental Committee Environmental Policy and ISO 14001 We are committed to the prevention of pollution and continual improvement of our environmental performance in line with all relevant environmental legislation and other self-imposed requirements.
Following the integration of the Rubicon business, our Tredegar site will be audited against the ISO 14001 standards in May 2010, aligning the site to A. G. BARR environmental goals.
Our environment management system extends beyond our manufacturing sites.
