Governance Chairmans statement Corporate responsibility report Board of directors Directors report Corporate governance Remuneration report Corporate responsibility report ARM is committed to implementing and developing best practice Corporate Responsibility CR in our market segment and intends to become a leader for CR in the sector.
ARMs CR strategy encompasses accountability their personal and collective potential.
The interests of to all stakeholders, including employees and their employees and shareholders are aligned by providing equity families, providing excellent service to our Partners and participation to all employees through restricted shares shareholders, fostering good relationships with suppliers, under the Employee Equity Plan and the opportunity to on-going involvement with local communities and buy shares through savings plans.
When ARMs quarterly minimising our impact on the environment as well as results are published, members of the executive committee designing energy efficient products.
During 2010, ARM also present the same results internally.
ARM also provides joined the United Nations Global Compact UNGC, an periodic question and answer sessions at each site led initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their by an executive committee member where no question operations and strategies in the areas of human rights, is off limits.
In the year ARM We have established a Global Equal Employment took an active role by convening an IT Sector panel at the Opportunities policy covering the recruitment, transfer and World Climate Summit and joined the UN Caring for Climate promotion of staff as well as their training and development.
We also entered a partnership with the International At least once a year, employees and managers have Business Leaders Forum IBLF to explore how the better a formal discussion on performance and development use of technology can reduce energy consumption and through the ARM Feedback and Development System.
Training needs are tracked and delivered and progress is ARMs continued success has been achieved through the monitored through our Learning and Development team, strength and depth of our stakeholder relationships.
Our ensuring that the Groups skills base is increased in line corporate governance framework and processes enable with business needs and employees personal aspirations.
us to manage the Group effectively and to demonstrate ARM provides a number of assistance and wellness transparent, consistent and effective governance so that programmes to employees and their families including we remain accountable to our shareholders, employees, private medical insurance, travel and life insurance, partners, suppliers and the local, regional, and national pensions 401k plans, sabbaticals, sick pay, holiday communities we support and with whom we interact.
pay, employee counselling, flexible working, on-site As part of our effort to improve stakeholder physiotherapy and athletic training.
ARM also offers familycommunications, we enhanced our CR Report in 2010 friendly programmes such as maternity, paternity and guided by the Global Reporting Initiative, the most widely parental leave, a child care voucher scheme in the UK used sustainability reporting structure, to aid transparency and a flexible spending account in the US.
To take this further, ARM is the one of Employee consultation groups advise the Group on various the first companies to incorporate the UNGCs 50-point issues that impact employees and a comprehensive global Blueprint for Sustainability Leadership into its full 2010 CR opinion survey is conducted every two years to monitor Report which is available on our website at www.
employees views and provide valuable input on internal Employees operations.
The focus of the 2010 survey was employee engagement, which is summarised on page 54.
The welfare of ARMs employees around the world is one of our top priorities.
ARMs Corporate Vision and its Management Charter include commitments to provide a sector-leading environment for employees to develop 52 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 Governance All employees Established employees Established employees Established employees by contract type by region by age group by gender Established UK 41% 21-30 25% Male 83% employees 91% US 27% 31-40 42% Female 17% External 7% India 15% 41-50 25% Gender split of engineering Fixed term 2% Continental 51-60 8% graduates in the UK in 2010: Europe 11% 90% men, 10% women.
Far East Asia 6% Ecosystem compatible ethical policy in place.
ARMs sources its electricity from renewable energy suppliers wherever possible.
ARM maintains continuous efforts to achieve class-leading Surrounding communities levels of customer and ecosystem partner satisfaction, measured through regular surveys and feedback channels ARM undertakes many initiatives within the communities in including an annual worldwide ARM Partner Meeting and which it functions.
In 2010, ARM invested 2.5 million in an ARM Technology Conferences held in India, Asia and the US.
interest-free charitable bond for Cambridge-based social As part of our commitment to the World Climate Summit, enterprise Future Business, to support a new incubation IBLF and UNGC we work continuously with our Partners centre.
The bond is the biggest philanthropic investment to improve sustainability across the ecosystem.
The investment was made because collaborates with research and development organisations Future Business supports all four elements of ARMs such as university science and engineering programmes corporate giving policy: Clean Technology, Education, worldwide.
We also participate in EU-funded research Entrepreneurship and the Local Community.
to improve the efficient and responsible use of ARMARMs University Programme helps the next generation powered products.
of ARM engineers by donating equipment and software, Customers assisting students, helping to design courses and providing technical support and training.
ARM is involved in a ARM has built its business around a partnership model, number of STEM science, technology, engineering and working together with our customers to enable mutual mathematics programmes at regional schools, sharing success.
Engagement with customers happens at many employees expertise with students.
From corporate levels in the organisation, from the executive committee philanthropy, to paid employee volunteer time, to the level, through sales, marketing and engineering.
Customer Matching Gift Donation programme, the Group actively satisfaction is monitored and reviewed by management to encourages community involvement and support.
identify a range of key metrics to be monitored including: ARM is a founding member of The Learning Collaboration, product and project delivery dates: product quality levels: enabling small and medium sized organisations around customer support satisfaction and direct feedback gathered Cambridge to share their diverse experience and from customers and elsewhere in the ecosystem.
combine their buying power to purchase quality training The output is reviewed by management which, in turn, and development services.
ARM is also a founder of the raises any pertinent issues with the executive committee.
Cambridge Network which links people from business and Suppliers academia to the global high-tech community.
This year, ARM partnered with The Humanitarian Centre to encourage As a Group which does not have any manufacturing research and partnerships that improve the efficacy of operations, ARM has a limited number of suppliers.
information technology in international development.
Central procurement functions were enhanced in 2010 ARM has also helped found the Cambridge Responsibility and the introduction of new policies and procedures, with Forum, a joint venture between multiple local businesses training workshops, have enabled ARM to standardise the to promote corporate responsibility and sustainability issues procurement screening and feedback processes across in Cambridge.
This new procurement system has enabled the introduction of corporate responsibility requirements so that any new supplier must demonstrate that they have a ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010 53 Governance Chairmans statement Corporate responsibility report Board of directors Directors report Corporate governance Remuneration report Global CO emissions UK waste and recycling 2 3 tonnes employees m employee 2.1 1.9 1.8 1.7 4.42 4.01 3.97 2007 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Cambridge, UK General waste San Jose, CA Cardboard and paper recycled Bangalore, India Plastics and glass recycled Austin, TX Overall All UK offices: Cambridge, Blackburn, Largest 4 offices, 78% of the Estate Portfolio.
Sheffield, Maidenhead, 41% of total headcount.
Average number of all employees in year.
Team ARM, the Groups global team building and fundARM is improving its strategy for low carbon business raising employee network, raised over 93,000 for charities operation, and has set goals of: through sponsored cycle rides, marathons, boat races and 30% emission reduction in tons of CO emission per 2 even moustache growing.
employee by 2020: and Environment 15% energy use reduction measured in KW hours per employee by 2020.
An expanding global population, rising energy costs and climate change concerns are all driving renewed interest in These goals are also in line with the Environmental Issues energy efficiency.
ARMs technology is inherently low-power Area of the UNGC.
The goals are tracked monthly and and enables smarter, more energy efficient products to be reported to ARM management as well as stakeholders.
As ARM-designed chips are in over 20% of all We are also reviewing behavioural change issues relating digital electronic products sold in 2010, this presents an to the adoption of existing video-conferencing facilities and enormous opportunity for improved efficiency.
are investing in more equipment with a view to reducing the number of flights per employee each year.
For 20 years, ARMs research and development has focussed on getting the best processing performance from Conclusion the least power.
ARM technology allows partners to develop ARM makes good corporate citizenship a priority and smarter digital electronic products that can measure, external evaluators have recognised this.
ARM is in the manage and improve the environmental performance of NASDAQ OMX CRD Global Sustainability 100 Index, consumer electronics and IT equipment, reducing the demonstrating how corporate responsibility has been carbon footprint for many consumer products.
incorporated throughout the ARM way of business.
ARM actively monitors energy usage, resource CRD Analytics evaluated more than 3,000 global consumption, waste creation, suppliers environmental companies in order to establish these individual, quantitative management systems and its own carbon footprint so ratings of sustainability.
This section is intended to provide that targets can be set for improvements that are realistic a brief overview: our full CR Report for 2010 is published and meaningful.
Employee global opinion survey engagement 2010 Questions 1,321 90% Overall I would recommend 716 347 8459 16 Str ongly agr Strongly agr ee ee Agree Somewhat agree 258 ARM as a great place to work Agree Somewhat disagree Disagree Strongly disagree 1,233 88% Somewhat agree I have no plans to leave 416 576 241 98 71 44 Somewhat disagree ARM in the next 12 months Disagree 1,254 87% Strongly disagree I am satisfied with my job 180 687 387 122 72 34 0% 100% Percentage of respondents 1,490 80% employees responding Overall engagement score: 86% 54 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report 2010
