Corporate social responsibility Corporate social responsibility.
Over the year we have made further significant progress in our 4 Environmental targets for reducing energy consumption, CO e 2 core Corporate Social Responsibility CSR areas of Marketplace, emissions, delivery miles, water use, waste to landfill and the Environment, Workplace and Community involvement.
Carbon CO e intensity of our packaging all exceeded: 2 Employees raised a fantastic 445,000 for our corporate charity Our customers and consumers are increasingly concerned about partner Cancer Research UK: and the quality and provenance of the food they eat.
They also want us As from January 2011, Mr Kipling began using 100% free range to make sure that their food is sourced ethically, with concern for the eggs across the cake range.
environment, and that generally accepted animal welfare standards are practiced.
A summary of our key achievements is provided in this section of the annual report and further details can be found in the CSR report 2010 highlights which is available on our website.
Ambrosia has moved to using milk certified by the Dairy Assurance Scheme and applied the Red Tractor logo on its To read more core products packaging: www.
co. uk Continued commitment to UK sourcing Hovis bread made from flour 100% sourced in the UK: 1 KPI Target 2010 Performance Energy Energy usage CO equivalent emissions 2 Doing the right usage -3.0% gigawatts tonnes gigawatts thing -4.1% -6.2% CO 2 equivalent emissions -3.0% Practising good environmental and tonnes social stewardship is in the best Delivery miles interest of stakeholders and also -5.0% miles m aligned with our overall business Non-ingredient strategy to deliver long term and water usage -2.5% sustainable business growth.
megalitres Waste to landfill -20.0% tonnes 08 09 10 08 09 10 RIDDOR Non-ingredient Waste to landfill accident frequency rate 0.23 water usage tonnes per 100,000 hours megalitres worked -8.7% -48.3% 1 All environmental targets were against a 2009 baseline.
indd 36 09 03 2011 11:29:12 6,185 1,735 5,816 1,654 5,320 1,586 29,368 515,309 19,784 478,114 10,246 448,567 Business review CASE STUDY Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents RoSPA Food and Beverage Sector Award: In 2010, RoSPA awarded The Food and Beverage Sector Award for Health and Safety to Premier Foods and 48 of our sites were individually awarded Health and Safety Achievement Awards.
In addition to this, Premier Foods also received a Gold Award for their management of Occupational and At Work Road Risk.
In winning the Sector Award, Premier Foods successfully demonstrated effective and continuously improving safety performance, providing evidence of its innovative approach to reducing risk, particularly through our Total Observation Process TOPs.
Performance Commentary Focus for 2011 CO equivalent emissions Delivery miles We were able to make excellent Energy 2 usage -3.0% tonnes miles m progress in 2010 and exceed all our gigawatts CSR targets.
-6.2% -11% CO equivalent 2 We are particularly pleased with the emissions -4.0% reduction of waste to landfill which tonnes has reduced by 65% since 2008 and Delivery miles -3.0% leaves us well positioned to achieve miles m our long term goal of zero waste to non-ingredient landfill by 2015. water usage -3.0% megalitres In addition, our commitment to Waste to landfill safety has led to another significant -20.0% tonnes 08 09 10 reduction in reportable accident RIDDOR rates.
RIDDOR frequency accident frequency rate rate per 100,000 0.17 per 100,000 hours worked hours worked -31.0% 08 09 10 Stock code: PFD www.
Performance CASE STUDY In 2010, we began to develop a Sustainable Procurement Roadmap SPR which is designed to further strengthen our approach to responsible sourcing and factoring in social, economic and environmental criteria to our procurement process in order to achieve real long term benefits.
Our SPR will be delivered through an outcome focused action plan, with well-defined deliverables, setting out how we intend to embed sustainable sourcing practices within our procurement function.
Our customers and consumers are increasingly concerned about the quality and provenance of the food they eat.
They also want us to make sure that their food is sourced ethically, with concern for the environment, and that generally accepted animal welfare standards Ambrosia is set to unveil a fresh new design this month and are practiced.
Across the year, we continued to consolidate our support for UK The new look should help consumers understand Ambrosias producers.
natural and wholesome qualities there is a misconception that as Ambrosia sits in the ambient aisle that it is full of In 2010, 100% of the wheat used in our Hovis bread products was preservatives, which is untrue.
The redesign is a radical move UK sourced, as were our milk and sugar.
In addition to this, 80% from the old look and places the countryside at the centre of of all the vegetables used in the manufacture of our great British the design, bringing the world of Ambrosia to life.
brands came from British farmers.
We are also introducing the Red Tractor logo onto packs, reassuring consumers that all of our milk can be traced back to the farms it comes from.
This is a first for Premier Foods and a first for the ambient desserts category and were really proud to be registered with the scheme.
To meet, or exceed, the voluntary Food 97% of our branded retail products now Develop a procurement sustainability Standards Agencys FSA 2010 Salt meet the FSA 2010 Salt Reduction awareness programme Reduction Target 2006 Target 2006 To seek to increase Guideline Daily 90% of our branded products now carry Source 25% Roundtable on Sustainable Amounts GDAs on front of pack to GDAs on front of pack Palm Oil RSPO certified physically 75% of our branded products segregated sustainable Palm Oil To review 100% of our own brand Review against internal Health and Use 100% free range eggs in our Mr products against our Nutrition guidelines 100% complete Kipling brand internal Health and Nutrition guidelines To source 100% British Wheat across All Hovis products are now made from Develop and formalise a Stakeholder the entire Hovis range in 2010 100% British Wheat Engagement Programme SEP 38 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2010 18550-04 09 03 2011 Proof 13 18550-04PREMIERF FRONT.
Premier Foods is aware of its responsibility to the environment and CASE STUDY is committed to reducing the overall environmental impact of its operations by monitoring, managing and continually improving its Hovis down-gauged their bread bag film and modified the environmental performance.
Our aim is to achieve this by providing dimensions to improve fit of the product in the bag.
The a comprehensive framework of good environmental management project involved consumer group research to analyse quality practices that are embedded across the Group and extend perceptions around the use of thinner film compared to the throughout our supply chain.
We will continue our drive to use resources more efficiently, which in Using less material has delivered the following savings: turn reduces the environmental impact of producing our food, and saves money by reducing waste.
550 metric tonnes of plastic film 1,485 metric tonnes of CO e. 2 Five Star Environmental Award Programme.
The Premier Foods Five Star Environmental Award Programme Hovis is always looking for ways to reduce its impact on the FSEAP, developed and launched in 2009, is fundamental to the environment, while still delivering great taste and quality for our consumers delivery of the Premier Foods environment strategy.
Julia Herring, Premier Foods Packaging Development Manager.
The programme has been closely aligned with the environmental management standard ISO 14001, but places particular emphasis upon a sound practical approach and encourages businesses to integrate environmental management within all their operational activities.
Unlike ISO 14001, the FSEAP incorporates a requirement for businesses to achieve specific targets for energy, water and waste.
In 2010 the FSEAP received an excellent response, with measurable performance improvement throughout.
All our manufacturing sites achieved a satisfactory standard as a minimum in all categories, and we received an additional 20 gold and 29 silver awards compared to last year.
To reduce energy usage by 3% from a Energy usage reduced by 4.1% Reduce energy usage by 3% 2009 baseline year To reduce carbon equivalent emissions Carbon equivalent emissions reduced Reduce carbon equivalent emissions by 3% from a 2009 baseline year by 6.2% by 4% To reduce delivery miles travelled by 5% Delivery miles travelled reduced by 11% Reduce actual delivery miles travelled from a 2009 baseline year by 3% To reduce non-ingredient water Non-ingredient water consumption Reduce non-ingredient water usage consumption by 2.5% from a 2009 reduced by 8.7% by 3% baseline year To reduce waste sent to landfill by 20% Waste sent to landfill reduced by 48.3% Reduce waste sent to landfill by 20% from a 2009 baseline year Stock code: PFD www.
indd 39 09 03 2011 11:29:27 Corporate social responsibility continued Workplace.
However to anticipate future requirements we will also look to leadership bring the right people into the business.
As an example in 2009 we Helping our people to deliver our plans and objectives is a major launched our first Finance Graduate Programme, aimed at giving responsibility for all our leaders across the business.
Therefore, to us a pipeline of talented finance professionals for the future and in support our leaders we have developed the Premier Way which 2010 we introduced graduates into supply chain roles across the highlights what we believe leadership is about at Premier Foods: Group to ensure we have a pipeline of talent in this critical area of the business.
Being passionate Delivering on our commitments and accountabilities Employee Assistance Programme Empowering and developing our people The Employee Assistance Programme EAP is a free, confidential, Doing the right thing telephone and online counselling service for all employees which is Focusing on our customers and consumers available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, across the entire year.
Striving to be the best Occupational health & Wellbeing Our rewards and benefits Occupational Health & Wellbeing provides professional, specialist Premier Foods offers employees a competitive pay and benefits health advice to employees on the following issues: package.
All of our people are entitled to join the Company Pension Scheme, benefit from Company sick pay arrangements, and good The effects of work on health and of health on work annual leave entitlement.
However in addition there are benefits Ways to improve physical and psychological well-being within such as Childcare vouchers, an Employee Assistance Programme, the workplace and an employee Sharesave scheme, which allows employees to Strategies to prevent illness and injury arising from work activity save over a three year period to purchase shares in the Company at a discounted rate.
Around 30% of our employees take the Recruitment opportunity to participate in our Sharesave scheme.
Premier Foods is committed to a fair but robust approach to equal opportunities in all areas of our business.
We recruit, train, promote Development and training and retain skilled and motivated people irrespective of sex, age, We are committed to providing high quality training and marital status, disability, sexual orientation, race, religion, ethnic development initiatives to ensure we are equipped to deliver or national origin.
In line with this commitment we also promote a excellence in all we do.
This has been further bolstered in 2010 culture of openness and responsibility within our business.
through the addition of a coaching and mentoring framework across the Group, enabling colleagues, where appropriate to benefit from It is our policy to give full and fair consideration to applications for coaching and mentoring.
During the year we also introduced a employment received from disabled persons, having regard to broader portfolio of programmes which now includes coaching their particular aptitudes and abilities: and wherever possible to skills training, commercial awareness and many others, along with continue the employment of, and to arrange appropriate training for, interventions provided functionally.
employees who have become disabled persons during the period of their employment.
Premier Foods provides the same opportunities Career progression for training, career development and promotion for disabled as for Premier Foods actively encourages development from within.
talent identification and succession planning processes are now becoming embedded across the business and our intention is to Communication ensure we develop our internal pool of talent so we can resource We recognise the value of good communication in engaging our roles internally wherever possible.
To support this in 2010 Premier employees in order to achieve common goals and we have a Foods further developed specific programmes to develop key number of established employee consultation and communication individuals, this was based on the success of earlier initiatives where mechanisms in place to achieve this goal, including: regular over 50% of the talent pool had been promoted.
communication meetings: specific consultation and involvement regarding major changes to the business: the Companys intranet site: and the quarterly Company magazine.
40 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2010 18550-04 09 03 2011 Proof 13 18550-04PREMIERF FRONT.
indd 40 09 03 2011 11:29:27 Business review CASE STUDY Cascading our vision and strategy Following a sustained period of acquisition, integration and transformation, we felt it was important to communicate the Groups vision and strategy to employees during 2010 to ensure that the whole Group understood and was aligned with it.
A route map of the journey Premier Foods was embarking on was designed StratNav to help employees to navigate Employee engagement their way through the strategy, be excited by its potential Premier Foods has surveyed its management population since 2007 and know their part in it.
The cascade process started with as we are continually striving to make improvements in the way we 60 senior managers who became StratNav ambassadors manage and develop our people, how we lead the business and the and created the material.
They took a further 600 managers way in which we work.
With a response rate of 90% the results in through the StratNav at a one day conference in March 2010.
2010 demonstrated significant improvements in how we empower and develop our people and how proud our employees are of our products and brands.
The results also highlighted an improvement After the conference, this group of employees were given access in moving to one culture.
The results also highlighted some areas to a micro-site from which they could download the conference of focus which we are addressing and we will survey the same materials and order StratNav briefing packs for use in onward population in September 2011 before moving to an all employee communication to the remainder of our 16,000 employees.
The pre and post conference surveys showed that those who Workplace health & Safety participated in the StratNav exercise at the conference not Over recent years, we have achieved very significant and only felt informed about the vision 99%, but understand it demonstrable improvements in the Premier Foods Workplace 99% : and believed in it 97%.
Safety programme with 42% of our sites having reported zero RIDDOR accidents throughout 2010.
We are passionate about safety within are business and our Employee recognition awards performance compares very favourably with the UK Food First introduced in 2008, the Employee Recognition Awards is now Manufacturing Sector and UK Manufacturing Industry overall.
The awards recognise the huge effort our employees go to which contribute to our success and allow employees to see and learn about what success looks like.
Each year our judges are more impressed by the huge number of employees with skill, dedication and creativity, despite the tough working environment we operate in.
From 100 entries in the first year, the 2009 awards had 180 entries.
The 2010 awards have a staggering 230 entries and winners will be announced in April 2011.
indd 41 09 03 2011 11:29:28 Corporate social responsibility continued Workplace.
continued Against a corporate target of 0.23 RIDDOR reportable accidents per As Low As Reasonably Practicable ALARP Workshops: 100,000 hours worked, we achieved 0.18 delivering an impressive Throughout our sites ALARP Workshops were run in which over 31% improvement over 2009.
200 Lead Risk Assessors were trained.
In addition to this, to date approximately 500 additional ALARP Risk Assessors have RIDDOR accident frequency been brought into the programme.
rate per 100,000 hours The initiative was designed to ensure a more inclusive approach 08 0.40 to undertaking the suitable and sufficient risk assessments which drive our risk elimination and risk control programme.
09 0.26 Total Observation Process TOPs : During 2010, TOPs teams 10 0.18 across the country identified over 34,000 hazards.
These were resolved thereby avoiding over 34,000 potential accidents to our workforce.
Corporate health & Safety Plan The Corporate Health & Safety Plan ensures that a common The TOPs process demands the active engagement of all strategy is adopted across our sites, applying a consistent best employees and provides them with a clear mandate to raise practice approach to our Health & Safety management system their health and safety concerns with their management and to and practice.
collaborate with them in developing and implementing effective solutions.
Initiatives which support our site teams in their efforts to drive our safety performance include: TOPs, which underlines our fundamental approach to workplace safety, was further supported through the launch of a DVD Safety Leadership: 585 Premier Foods employees have detailing our effective preventative approach to workplace safety.
successfully completed a 2 day bespoke training programme, underpinning their competence in Health & Safety.
Achieve a Group RIDDOR rate of 0.23 of Achieved a Group RIDDOR rate of 0.18 To achieve a RIDDOR accident frequency Reportable Accidents per 100,000 hours of Reportable Accidents per 100,000 rate of 0.17 worked in 2010 hours worked Embed the Premier Way leadership Premier Way leadership framework To achieve a 30% YoY reduction in major framework throughout the business effectively communicated, and RIDDOR accidents embedded, across the Group Embed the talent identification and Talent Identification and Succession Group occupational health to focus on succession planning process Planning process established and back and skin care implemented Complete a Group-wide occupational Group-wide occupational health surveillance health surveillance programme rolling programme implemented based on individual site risk assessments Undertake Group-wide workplace health Group-wide workplace health screening screening programme rolling programme implemented based on individual site risk assessments 42 Premier Foods plc Annual report and accounts 2010 18550-04 09 03 2011 Proof 13 18550-04PREMIERF FRONT.
Our community and charitable efforts share common traits including CASE STUDY celebrating all that is good about being British, capable of National Reach and focused on Service Provision these are In October 2010, we asked our employees to nominate their key factors that we look for when identifying which community and charity of choice for 2011.
Employees were given charitable initiatives to support.
the opportunity the vote for their favourite charity, either on-line, or via an insert included in the Company magazine Premier Foods believes that corporate charity sponsorship can bring Being Premier.
genuine and lasting benefits to our Company, not only improving the public perception of our brands, but also improving our employees The only criteria were that the charity needed to be a motivation.
national charity, recognised as British and providing a much needed service.
The charity Help for Heroes H4H Many of our sites have long histories with deep roots in their local was the overwhelming choice of our employees, and we communities.
Each of our sites has a Community Champion have committed to raise 100,000 in the first year of our who, along with their colleagues, decides which local charities partnership.
and activities to get involved with andsupport.
We feel that its important for employees to support local charities, and community organisations, because they live there too and therefore have a personal stake in their communities wellbeing.
In December 2010, our charity partnership with Cancer Research UK CRUK came to an end.
The partnership proved a great success, all our employees really got behind fundraising activities for CRUK, so much so that employees raised 445,000 against an initial target to raise 250,000.
Raise 300,000 for our Corporate Charity Raised 445,000 for Cancer Research To raise 100,000 for our new Corporate Partner Cancer Research UK UK charity partner Help for Heroes Consult employees in order to identify a Employees were consulted on their To work in partnership with a number preferred Corporate Charity Partner preferred corporate charity partner post of organisations in making surplus food post 2010 2010, and overwhelmingly voted for donations available to those in social Help for Heroes need both in the UK and abroad Support the Royal British Legions 2010 Support for the Royal British Legions To develop a structured approach to Poppy Appeal at all our 50 sites 2010 Poppy Appeal raised in excess Community Involvement across the of 140,000 Group Ensure that a minimum of 20% of our 50 5% of our sites completed a local sites complete a local community project community project Support the redistribution of surplus food Provided 3,500 cartons of surplus food to those in social need within the UK and for redistribution to those in social need abroad within the UK and abroad Stock code: PFD www.
