Business review Corporate social responsibility NITA Award We picked up a NITA Social Responsibilities award for our carbon management training programmes.
Strategy Over the last 12 months, the Group has accelerated its Corporate Social Responsibility CSR strategy, reinforced by the launch of our Achievements online Annual Report, which will reduce our paper print by 71%.
CSR has been embedded across many elements of our business, Pubs raised nearly 400,000 for PubAid from corporate fundraising to responsible retailing and energy usage.
Our CSR strategy seeks to involve employees, pub teams Carbon footprint reduced by 13%, and Partners in making our business and in turn, their businesses more ethical and environmentally friendly.
on target to reach 17% Rated in top 40 of the FTSE CDP Carbon Strategy Index Series Corporate support New recycling scheme launched in Punch Taverns remains committed to supporting industry bodies and managed pubs charities.
During the year we agreed to donate over 17,900 to Licensed Trade Support & Care which we will pay out in the 2011 financial year.
The Licensed Trade Support & Care is part of the Over 1,200 Partners and 99.6% Licensed Trade Charity which provides support to people in crisis who of General Managers completed our are working or retired from the licensed drinks trade.
Our donation enables the charity to run a national Volunteer Visitor programme.
responsible retailing training Community support In addition to providing a meeting place for clubs and societies, the local pub is also the obvious place to coordinate fundraising for local sports teams, community groups and charities.
Our pub teams are responsible for raising hundreds of thousands of pounds every year for local causes.
Our pubs are also one of the biggest contributors to PubAid, registering nearly 400,000 for good local causes since its launch last year.
Through a variety of activity, including World Cup fundraising, our managed pubs raised over 58,000 for The Prostate Cancer Charity.
Through its Punch Community Spirit Project PCSP, the Group has 58,000 raised for supported 129 local causes to the amount of 178,000, since its launch in 2007, from local Scout and football clubs to funding a The Prostate Cancer Charity new minibus for Physically Handicapped and Able Bodied PHAB.
We have also raised over 2,500 for the Queens Hospital Burton across our managed pubs.
In addition to fundraising activity, we recognise and support the crucial role that pubs play in their local communities.
We remain active supporters of Pub is the Hub, which was initiated by HRH the Prince of Wales in 2001.
Pub is the Hub encourages rural pub owners, licensees and local communities to work together to support, retain and locate services within the pub which can often improve the viability of the business itself.
Punch Taverns supports Pub is the Hub through donations and senior members of the team actively participate in its Regional Advisory Hubs.
com For more information visit: www.
com The environment Our commitment to the environment has become integral to our business strategy, both within our campus and across the business.
As a result, over the last 12 months we have reduced our carbon footprint by over 13% and we remain on track to achieve our 17% goal for the reduction of CO by December 2010.
2 In recognition of our efforts to reduce carbon emissions, Punch Taverns has been rated in the top 40 of the newly launched FTSE CDP Carbon Strategy Index Series.
In February 2010, we were recognised with a BII National Innkeeping Training Award NITA in the CSR category for our How Big is your Carbon Footprint and Profit Through Energy workshops.
Over 530 Partners and 724 General Managers attended the workshops, designed to reduce energy consumption and utility bills.
In addition, 98% of our managed pubs have smart meters installed and 86% of our managed pubs have energy efficient lightbulbs.
Punch Taverns was a finalist in the 2010 Publican Awards in the CSR category.
At the end of the year, we also received accreditation by the Carbon Trust Standard for reducing our CO 2 emissions, for the three year period from May 2007 to April 2010.
Our low carbon Support Centre building won a number of awards for its green credentials including first place in the Staffordshire heats of the Sustainable Development and Accessible Building Awards, run by the Local Authority Building Control LABC and a Burton upon Trent Civic Society New Buildings Award.
In addition to energy efficiency we have made significant progress in reducing our landfill waste with the launch of a new recycling scheme in the managed business.
This involved the introduction of over 680 cardboard recycling bins and 280 glass recycling bins.
17 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Business review Business review Corporate social responsibility continued Ethical sourcing Punch Taverns strives to uphold ethics and principles in every aspect of its work, ensuring fairness for guests, employees, its Partners and society.
Over the last 12 months we have made a number of improvements to supplier relationships which support our ethical principles.
In 2009, we entered into a new two year contract for the supply of indoor furniture for our managed and leased pubs.
We ensure that suppliers look to procure their raw materials through sustainable sources wherever possible.
We continue to work closely with our suppliers to identify where we can utilise our current furniture in the estate by refurbishing or reconditioning rather than buying new products, which will further minimise impact on the environment.
This approach is consistent across the business: in sourcing a uniform supplier for nearly 15,000 Team Players in our managed business we appointed a business with strong ethical principles which has reduced its energy consumption by 20%.
A great place to work As part of our commitment to make Punch Taverns a great place to work so that we attract and retain the highest calibre team, we hold a number of annual social events.
Both the summer BBQ and Christmas Party help to raise funds for the PCSP whilst reinforcing our commitment to our employees.
We appreciate that time is key for our employees and provide a range of facilities across our campus including a dry cleaning service and visits from external suppliers.
com Responsible retailing A key element of Operational Excellence within our managed We believe that the vast majority of pubs throughout the UK business is focused on implementing robust health and safety already provide a well regulated environment for the responsible policies and procedures.
Since its introduction, we have made retailing of alcohol.
We remain committed to building on this and significant progress in improving standards through regular have a dedicated team in place to ensure that our pubs operate Professional Safety Audits PSA conducted by external auditors, to the highest standards.
We do all we can to ensure that our NSF-CMi.
The audits involve an unannounced visit to the pub pubs are not operating irresponsible drinks promotions, or serving to assess overall standards and compliance.
The PSA forms a key underage drinkers or people under the influence of alcohol.
part of the overall performance matrix for General Managers and is therefore linked to their reward package.
We have further As Portman Group signatories and supporters of Drinkaware we improved our relationships with local Enforcement Officers do not condone irresponsible drinks promotions.
We have actively including our Home Authority, Birmingham City Council.
supported the Why let good times go bad campaign to tackle As a result, we have seen a dramatic reduction in the number binge drinking amongst 18 to 25 year olds across our estate.
of communications from Enforcement Officers and we have had no prosecutions for health and safety breaches since the launch Responsible retailing forms a key part of our General Manager, of Operational Excellence.
Team Player and Partner training and last year over 1,229 Partners and 99.6% of General Managers completed our responsible We support our Partners in driving standards within their pubs retailing training.
To drive best practice, we produced a through our Partner training programme, which includes food comprehensive Risk Management pack for all of our Partners hygiene and health and safety qualifications as well as cellar visits which gives clear guidance on current legislation and regulations and retail standard assessments.
Within the first few days of taking to drive best practice.
This will help to ensure that our Partners on their pub, Partners receive a risk pack which outlines all the comply with the law and operate responsible establishments.
responsibilities associated with the safe operation of their pub.
This includes a Fire Risk Assessment, a Fire Safety Logbook and information on how to limit risks throughout their pub including details on kitchen safety, flood protection and electrical safety.
We continue to improve the quality and nutritional content of Guest health and wellbeing menus in our managed pubs from reduced levels of salt and We are committed to delivering the highest standards of guest hydrogenated vegetable fat to eradicating genetically modified health and wellbeing across our estate and have made significant ingredients in our menus.
progress over the last year in raising the quality and measurement of our health and safety procedures.
178,000 6m Weve donated 178,000 to Weve saved 6m in energy 129 local causes through the PCSP consumption over the last three years top 40 13% Weve been rated in the top 40 Weve reduced our CO by 13% 2 of the FTSE CDP Carbon Strategy Index and were on target to achieve our goal of 17% by the end of 2010 19 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Business review Business review Building and retaining a high calibre team Sunday Times Top 100 Punch Taverns was rated One to Watch in The Sunday Times 100 Best Companies to Work For.
This was a great achievement for the first time of entering.
In some of the categories, including Wellbeing, My Manager and My Team, Punch Taverns was Our people are our rated as one of the top 25 best companies to work for.
We believe this endorses our commitment to employee welfare and positions Punch Taverns as an employer of choice within the industry.
biggest asset and the last 12 months has Employee engagement One of our biggest achievements has been in building a highly seen a huge focus on engaged workforce.
In 2010 we conducted a One Team Survey of employees across our Support Centre, field and pub teams.
The results were impressive with over 10,000 employees responding building and retaining to the survey, equating to a 67% return rate, above the average for Big Companies which is 48%.
Over 91% of employees were clear about the Companys goals, 94% said they were prepared to work very hard for the Company and 80% were satisfied with their job.
the highest calibre We believe this demonstrates that our employees are highly engaged and have real confidence in the business.
As a result team in the industry.
of the feedback, we have developed Company and functional development plans to respond to the key themes identified by the survey and we communicate progress on a regular basis.
Communicating with our teams We recognise that high levels of employee engagement come from high levels of two way communication.
We hold regular listening groups at all levels of the business, from Partner Forums in our leased business to sessions with our Team Players and General Managers in our managed business.
These are led by senior colleagues which Achievements demonstrates our leadership commitment to employee engagement.
This feedback is used to shape our strategy and our business plans.
Rated One to Watch in The Sunday Times 100 Best Companies To Work For We believe it is important that our employees understand how we are performing and that they are engaged with what is happening across the estate.
For support teams we hold a regular face to face Apprenticeships launched with over Business Brief to update employees on Company performance and 80 people qualified activity across the Group.
We also work hard to make sure that we engage our employees on what is happening within our pubs from tastings of our new menus to samples of the latest drinks products.
New Partner recognition programme launched In addition all 17,784 employees receive two 50% and third off vouchers every month to use within our managed pubs.
One Team Survey demonstrates we have In the field, we hold regular briefings to make sure teams are a highly engaged workforce aligned behind business goals as well as weekly communications to drive performance and implementation.
com High calibre team Recognising our people Our focus on Calibre, Calibre, Calibre is starting to generate We realise that recognising people is a fundamental part of strong results both within our operating business and support retaining a high calibre team.
From ad hoc recognition to our teams.
The use of talent pools, competitive reward packages PROUD recognition programme we are committed to celebrating and succession planning at all levels has brought new talent success at all levels of our business.
into the business and retained high quality individuals.
We awarded over 275 PROUD awards and over 8,100 employees received a PROUD award scratch card with prizes ranging from vouchers to use in our managed pubs, to 1,500 holiday vouchers.
Were also committed to recognising excellence in our Partners.
Apprenticeships Last year we launched the Partner Excellence Awards, We are determined that when people join our team they have a regional awards programme, which recognised over 74 Partners the opportunity to progress their career and develop as individuals.
for excellence in a number of areas including food, beer and sport.
Our training, team structures and succession planning help our employees to perform their roles better and achieve industry In our managed business we recognise our top performing recognised qualifications.
In 2010, we launched our Apprenticeship General Managers with the Best Awards, an annual recognition programme to bring new talent into the business and this has programme based on our Performance Matrix.
Our General already seen over 80 people under the age of 25 become qualified Managers of the Year will be taken to Marrakech for a luxury as Apprentices.
Our goal is for Punch Taverns to be seen as an employer weekend break and their pubs will receive supporting PR.
of choice where people can enjoy excellent career progression in a progressive and dynamic environment.
We have seen significant improvement, both in terms of Developing our people Last year, we invested over 1.3m in raising the calibre of our the calibre of our pub and support Partners, our pub teams and employees.
Our Career Development Pathway is designed to progress people throughout the teams and in our ability to organisation, from working behind the bar in one of our pubs to becoming an Operations Director or running their own pub attract high calibre talent from as a Partner.
In the last 12 months more than 400 Team Players were promoted to Team Leaders and 49 Deputy General Managers within and outside the industry.
were promoted to General Managers.
One of our main areas of focus continues to be the ability to move talent across our business so that we can build on peoples experiences and give individuals the stretch to progress their careers.
Over the last 12 months a number of individuals have moved from our field to support teams including BDMs moving into the Learning and Development team.
21 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Over 10,000 employees responded to our Engagement Survey a 67% return rate.
