22 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Corporate social responsibility report Our good reputation and our continued At PZ Cussons we believe in doing success as a business is largely dependent on how we discharge our good business.
We do not believe responsibilities, as a Group and as individuals, to all of our stakeholders.
that there need be any conflict or Those stakeholders include our shareholders, customers, suppliers, inconsistency between being a employees, the wider community and the environment.
We are committed to successful profitable organisation conducting our business with integrity and with care insofar as the social and and, at the same time, running our environmental impact of our activities is concerned.
We aim to make a operations in such a way that they positive impact on society through the products which we produce and sell, have a positive impact on society.
On through the way in which our products are manufactured and packaged and the contrary, we believe that socially through the contributions we make to the responsible conduct is value enhancing communities in which we operate.
for our shareholders and all of our This report sets out the Groups values and principles in relation to key aspects of other stakeholders.
corporate social responsibility CSR and how these have been put into practice during the year.
CSR describes how a business: recognises the ways in which its actions affect those around it: and regulates those actions so that, consistent with sustainable business and development, they have a positive impact.
We consider the principles of CSR to be integral to how the Group conducts its operations and key to the results which the Group has delivered in the past and to its continued success and development in the future.
In particular, PZ Cussons recognises the potential benefits which may be derived where CSR activities are aligned to the concerns and demands of our stakeholders and we listen to and take account of those concerns in shaping our business strategies and practices.
We also recognise that companies are subject to increasing regulation, particularly in respect of environmental issues, and we believe that the pursuit of a proactive and positive CSR policy reduces the risk of adverse regulatory action.
One of the Groups core strategic principles is to develop leading brands which are suited to local needs and tastes.
PZ Cussons Plc 23 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 As a member of the RSPO, PZ Cussons will make a time bound commitment to 100% 100% Certified Sustainable Palm Oil via RSPO approved supply chain mechanisms.
The CSR Committee members are Simon Heale Chairman, Richard Harvey, Alex Kanellis, Chris Davis, Brandon Leigh and John Pantelireis.
Prior to his retirement from the Board on 30 June 2010, the Committee was also served by Anthony Green.
The Chairman of the CSR Committee reports to the Board on the Committees proceedings after each meeting on all matters within the scope of its duties and responsibilities.
The terms of reference of the CSR Committee and further details regarding its members are available on the Companys website www.
The constitution of the CSR Committee during the prior year and its activities during 2009 10 are indicative of the increased focus and commitment which the Board continues to bring to CSR across the Group.
The introduction of everyday, good quality, Its principal responsibilities include: Details of the most significant activities are affordable products enhances the quality reviewing the Companys corporate set out in this report.
Irrespective of the of the lives of consumers, particularly in strategy to ensure that CSR is and progress which the Committee has made developing countries, and we believe that remains an integral part of the strategy during the year, the Board recognises that our mix of products is consistent with the and implementing it in practice so that the ways in which the Group monitors principles of good CSR.
In particular: the Groups social, environmental and and manages the impact of its activities the provision of soaps and cleaning economic activities are aligned: continue to evolve and it is committed to products in countries such as developing policies on all key areas continuous improvement of its procedures Nigeria, Kenya, Ghana and Indonesia of CSR including the environment, in this respect.
has significant benefits in terms of health and safety, product testing and the hygiene and health of the local consumer safety, business conduct The CSR Committee and the Board has population: and and ethics, our employees and local reviewed and endorsed this CSR report.
we provide a range of nutritional community and charity: milk products in Africa, through our developing and supporting a Group Doing Good Business Nutricima joint venture with Glanbia programme of CSR activities and focus During the year, the CSR Committee has Plc.
Nutricima continues to expand its for each financial year, supported developed a Statement on Corporate range of nutritional products, helping by appropriate targets and key Social Responsibility, called Doing Good to provide the essential daily nutritional performance indicators: Business, which sets out the Groups key requirement of the local population in conjunction with management values and principles.
which is key to the fight against and other committees of the Board, mortality rates particularly amongst identifying material environmental, Recognising that doing the right thing in children within the country.
social and health and safety risk business can sometimes seem to involve areas and implementing appropriate difficult decisions, the Statement is The PZ Cussons Plc Corporate Social measures to mitigate any such risks: intended to provide everyone throughout Responsibility Committee on an ongoing basis, evaluating and the Group, at all levels within the business, The Board is responsible for overseeing developing the content and integrity of with guidance on how to conduct their CSR within the Company, supported any reporting to external stakeholders business activities and on what good by a Corporate Social Responsibility concerning CSR matters including this business looks like at PZ Cussons.
It is Committee CSR Committee.
CSR report: and also intended to motivate and support all developing effective two-way our employees to identify and vigorously The CSR Committee was established to communication concerning CSR issues pursue opportunities across the Group to ensure that the principles of CSR remain at within the Group.
optimise our activities so far as their social the core of the Groups business activities.
and environmental impact is concerned.
24 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Corporate social responsibility report continued In doing so, it is the belief of the Board and The rest of this report sets out, in In the UK, a move to a the CSR Committee that we will make our respect of each of the Big 6, the values new third party logistics business stronger, more sustainable and, and principles which are set out in the as a consequence, more profitable.
Statement and the actions which have supplier reduced lorry been taken during the year.
This report miles associated with the The Statement has been rolled out across also addresses our future aspirations, movement of our products all of the Groups businesses and its including the further development of policies and principles apply to every CSR reporting, and includes a review of to distribution centres by director, manager and employee in all our the wider CSR benefits of the Groups 130,000. businesses across our global operations.
The Statement sets out the Big 6: the six The environment principal areas in which our operations We are committed to protecting the have the greatest potential to impact environment for the benefit of our either favourably or adversely upon our employees and the public at large.
In all decisions we take due account Health and safety.
of the potential environmental Product testing and consumer safety.
impact of our operations and we Business conduct and ethics.
take responsibility for the potential Our employees.
environmental impact of our actions Local community and charity.
we recognise the obligations which business has to the environment and The Statement has its foundation in our we share the growing concerns of our CANDO values, being those core values consumers and other stakeholders in this which are embedded in our culture: respect.
Across the Group, we continue to minimise the consumption of energy Courage and water, as well as minimising the Accountability production of trade waste and waste Networking to landfill, through efficient practices in Drive our offices, factories and warehouses.
Oneness We are committed to communicating our environmental policy to our These values can be found across the shareholders, employees, contractors Group in every operation and every and interested parties in order to establish territory and provide the framework an environmentally responsible attitude for staff and ultimately for the within our organisation.
Group to develop and succeed.
The Statement draws on these values and Wherever reasonably practicable, we the experiences which have made will use raw materials from sustainable PZ Cussons the company which it is and environmentally friendly sources today.
It also sets out our intentions and in 2010 the Group applied to become a aspirations for the future: that, as the member of the Roundtable on Sustainable Group develops and grows, we will remain Palm Oil RSPO.
A number of the Groups true to our core values and convictions products contain palm oil or its derivatives and continue to be a company which our and the CSR Committee and the Board shareholders, our customers, the wider recognise the growing concerns over community and our employees and their the sourcing of palm oil and the potential families can be proud of.
for damage to the environment.
The RSPO is a not-for-profit association A copy of the full Doing Good Business which unites stakeholders from seven Statement on Corporate Social sectors of the palm oil industry: palm oil Responsibility is available on the Companys producers, palm oil processors or traders, website www.
consumer goods manufacturers, retailers, banks and investors, environmental PZ Cussons Plc 25 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 or nature conservation NGOs Nonof energy, water and other natural Governmental Organisations and social resources in the office, factory and or developmental NGOs.
Its mission is warehouse environments and the to advance the production, procurement prevention of pollution all PZ Cussons and use of sustainable palm oil products manufacturing facilities have ongoing through the development, implementation energy reduction initiatives to reduce and verification of credible global carbon dioxide output.
Examples of standards and the engagement of initiatives during the year include: stakeholders throughout the supply chain.
the successful completion in Nigeria of As a member of the RSPO, PZ Cussons Project Unity, a 39 million investment will make a time bound commitment to in manufacturing and supply chain, 100% Certified Sustainable Palm Oil via involving significant investment in RSPO approved supply chain mechanisms plant and machinery specifically and to promote and communicate designed to be more energy efficient, sustainable palm oil production, to minimise atmospheric emissions procurement and consumption to to EU standards and to significantly customers, suppliers, sub-contractors and reduce other wastes.
We continue to to wider value chains as appropriate.
generate our own power for our sites via gas generators resulting in an overall We are committed to reporting and lower environmental impact than if we reducing the Groups carbon footprint, were to take power from the Nigerian minimisation of waste, efficient use grid.
Going forward, we have employed 26 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Corporate social responsibility report continued external consultants to conduct a major during the year include: principles support the PZ Cussons Group energy survey of the entire Nigerian the elimination or reduction of World Class Manufacturing system which operation to identify further reductions packaging in a number of products seeks over time to bring all operations in emissions and savings: in the UK including Original Source, across the Group in line with OHSAS changes in soap processing and Charles Worthington, Foamburst and 18001.
All operations are audited against reduction in steam generation and Morning Fresh and a transition to more these standards, any shortfall is identified electricity usage by our business in widely recyclable packaging for Imperial and assessed and, where appropriate, Kenya resulting in significant savings in Leather shower and bath products: continuous improvement actions are operating costs, a substantial reduction the reformulation of personal wash and agreed and implemented.
in the carbon footprint of the business home care products by PZ Cussons UK and, for the fourth year running, to significantly reduce surfactants going It is the responsibility of all employees recognition by the Kenya Association into waste from UK homes: to maintain and improve health and of Manufacturers for optimisation of initiatives at Agecroft in the UK, safety.
We empower and encourage energy use within its manufacturing the Groups Personal Wash Centre our employees to report accidents, processes: of Excellence and our flagship in incidents and lapses in best practice in the UK, a move to a new third party respect of environmentally sensitive and to participate in improvement logistics supplier reducing lorry miles manufacturing processes, resulting activities we have constant dialogue associated with the movement of our in a 16% reduction in trade effluent, a with our employees across the Group products to distribution centres by 22% reduction in material to landfill, a in respect of health and safety matters.
130,000 over the period November 13% reduction in energy usage, a 36% Our Group Health and Safety Policy has 2009 to May 2010: and reduction in total waste and a 10% established arrangements to ensure in Poland, manufacturing, warehousing reduction in carbon: and we promote the participation of our and distribution projects which in Australia, the involvement of employees in developing, promoting, have reduced fuel consumption and all employees in environmental maintaining and improving health and greenhouse gas emissions throughout improvement projects resulting in an safety so that they: the supply chain.
environmental strategy and action plan, acquire the necessary skills and focused on reductions in trade waste, behaviours: The carbon footprint of each operation the emission of clean storm water and understand their responsibility to is now routinely monitored and reported clean air and on reductions in its use of themselves and their colleagues for using internationally recognised protocols.
health and safety: and The Group also continues to participate in are empowered and encouraged to the Carbon Disclosure Project the CDP is The Group Risk Committee, a standing report accidents, incidents and lapses an independent not-for-profit organisation committee of the Board details of which in best practice and to participate in which holds one of the largest databases are provided at page 46, ensures that improvement activities.
of corporate climate change information any environmental risks which the Group in the world and is considered the may face are properly identified, assessed We measure and monitor our health gold standard for carbon disclosure and prioritised and that appropriate and safety performance and target methodology and process.
arrangements are in place to manage and continuous improvement there is a mitigate those risks effectively.
strong focus within the Group on using We challenge our colleagues and key performance indicators and achieving the business to pursue innovative Health and Safety external health and safety accreditation.
approaches to reducing the We provide safe working environments The Group employs health and safety environmental impact from our for all our employees, contractors and specialists in all of our operating units products and processes we believe that visitors.
and health and safety committees with the identification, effective control and cross functional and cross hierarchical reduction of the environmental impact of We are committed to developing the representation exist at all sites.
Where business activities are integral elements highest standards of occupational appropriate, PZ Cussons provides of well-managed operations and we are health & safety across all parts of our on-site medical facilities and health committed to continuous measurement Group health and safety is an integral monitoring programmes for employees.
and improvement of environmental part of the business and is given equal Training is provided to all employees to performance, through appropriate product priority with all other aspects of business ensure compliance with PZ Cussons design, the minimisation of waste, management.
The Board has endorsed standards and we continue to build on efficient use of resources, the prevention and established a Group Health and Safety our traditional programmes, which focus of pollution and the protection of the Policy which sets out detailed guidelines on workplace behaviours, coupled with environment.
Examples of initiatives for all operations across the Group.
Its helping employees understand any PZ Cussons Plc 27 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 We are committed to developing the highest standards of occupational health and safety across all parts of our Group.
During the year, we have continued investment in health and safety with respect to reduction in manual handling requirements including the installation of automatic case packers within our soap factory in Nigeria.
We conduct risk assessments to identify significant health and safety related risks which arise from all activities undertaken including periodic reviews to ensure new activities and processes are covered at operating unit level, Group Health and Safety Policy is implemented to be consistent with the business operating conditions and any specific local legal requirements.
Regular audits are conducted, by internal and specialist external auditors, at business unit and departmental level to ensure compliance with Group standards and continuous improvement.
In Australia in particular, continuing focus on health and safety leadership, education and employee engagement has resulted in significant reduction in lost time accidents.
The Board regards health and safety as a fundamental business responsibility and reviews health and safety matters on a regular basis.
Health and safety is a standing item for review by the Group Risk Committee which ensures that any related risks are properly identified, assessed and prioritised and that appropriate action is taken to manage and mitigate those risks effectively.
The Chief Executive Officer has ultimate responsibility on the Board for health and safety across the Group and is a member of the Group Risk Committee.
Product testing and consumer safety The health and safety of our consumers is our paramount consideration.
We will never compromise it for any reason.
We regularly assess products, formulations, raw materials, packaging and labelling to ensure the health and safety of our consumers, our employees and all other stakeholders as an ethical and responsible supplier of consumer products, it is imperative for the Group 28 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Corporate social responsibility report continued As employees, we have the courage to challenge any business practices, whether within or outside the Group, which we believe to be wrong or inconsistent with our CANDO values.
that our products are safe for use by our implementation of Project Lifecycle customers, for our employees and for Management PLM software to manage the environment.
product development from initial concept, through product launch in the marketplace Product safety and risk assessments to the end of its lifecycle, ensures that are conducted by appropriately qualified all legal, regulatory and environmental external toxicologists and, when requirements are understood and met, as considered necessary and with the well as facilitating timely completion of appropriate safeguards such as ethical projects and minimisation of cost.
committee approval, human safety testing is conducted.
Human toxicological and The quality and safety of our products is safety aspects of raw materials are taken further ensured through the PZ Cussons into consideration in the design process.
Group World Class Manufacturing system which ensures conformity to international In the design of our products, by standards on Good Manufacturing qualified and experienced chemists, Practice eg ISO 22716 and adherence microbiologists and packaging experts, to stringent product quality controls.
we ensure that the materials which we We are also over time aiming to bring use meet or exceed all applicable legal all operations across the Group in line requirements including EU and ASEAN with ISO 9001 in respect of Quality cosmetics directives and other local Management Systems.
regulatory requirements specified by bodies such as NAFDAC in Nigeria.
We PZ Cussons monitors the world regulatory also conform to guidelines and good environment to ensure that we take practice recommendations from various appropriate action at the correct time to cosmetic industry trade associations maintain product and process compliance.
such as the UK Cosmetics Toiletries We have assigned considerable resource and Perfumery Association CTPA.
In to ensuring that we fully comply with addition, the Group applies internal and the requirements of EU regulations self-imposed restrictions on the use such as REACH the Registration, of certain materials above and beyond Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction legislative requirements as an additional of Chemicals which seeks to provide an measure to ensure product safety.
The improved level of protection of human PZ Cussons Plc 29 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 We continue to develop a performance-driven culture which supports motivated people who are passionate about our future.
health and the environment through which we believe to be wrong or when establishing or continuing business the responsible use of chemicals.
At inconsistent with our CANDO values relationships.
all European sites, we are also actively the Group has continued to actively implementing the United Nations operate the Speak Up policy which Our employees Globally Harmonised System GHS, as was first implemented during 2008.
We treat each other with respect and all enacted within the European Union as the Speak Up has been established to employees have the right to expect that Classification, Labelling and Packaging of encourage employees to voice any their dignity will be fully respected in the Chemicals Regulations.
In all other parts concerns which they might have in workplace.
of the Group, we continue to monitor how respect of business practices throughout the GHS will be implemented in local law the Group and is designed to ensure We are committed to creating an and we are committed to full compliance.
that employees may report any such environment in which all employees issues, confidentially and without fear of have the opportunity to reach their full In the highly unlikely event of a quality recrimination, through a telephone hotline potential as an international group with problem being identified externally to our and online facility provided by a third a presence in a number of developing supply chain, we have established material party expert.
Speak Up is particularly countries, we focus significant resource traceability and Group specified product focused on any allegation or concern on the employment and development recall procedures to ensure that any issue of malpractice including concerns over of local employees both to improve our can be promptly and safely addressed.
breaches of health and safety, criminal operations in those countries and to bring activity or fraud and breaches of local benefit to the wider local community.
In We evaluate our suppliers to ensure that laws or environmental regulations and doing so, we recognise that the success their production facilities, procedures incorporates procedures which ensure of our business is dependent upon the and products are of a consistent and that any such issues can be brought quality, commitment and behaviour of our appropriate quality and meet our Group promptly to the attention of the Board and employees.
Accordingly, we provide clear standards using auditors who are trained addressed at the earliest opportunity.
policies and direction to our managers to recognised international standards, we and strive for the highest standards in conduct extensive audits of our third party We strongly condemn and shall have management practices, delivering training suppliers of products and raw materials to no involvement whatsoever in forced and development programmes and ensure that they meet PZ Cussons strict labour, child slavery or any practice reward arrangements which are tailored product safety and quality requirements.
which is exploitative of children or to meet the needs of our business and the We also confirm that suppliers have exposes them to risk of harm.
We local markets in which we operate.
suitable emergency procedures in place will not work with third parties who to ensure business continuity.
are involved in any such practices as We continue to develop a performancepart of our supplier audit programme, we driven culture which supports motivated We do not conduct any animal testing also ensure that our suppliers of finished people who are passionate about our or commission others to conduct any product and raw materials adhere to our future.
We believe that to achieve our animal testing unless required by law values with respect to employee labour business objectives we should encourage the Group does not conduct any animal practices.
In particular, we ensure that no our employees to embrace our CANDO testing or commission others to conduct supplier is using forced or child labour.
values and reflect those values in any animal testing.
We continue to everything which they do.
We aim to support the development and acceptance The Statement also records and retain and develop our employees and to of alternative methods which reduce or reflects the value which we place on help them to fulfil their career potential.
replace the use of animals in product our relationships with our customers, We value diversity in our employees safety evaluation and we work with our suppliers and other business partners backgrounds, talent, insight, education and suppliers to ensure that our values on this and makes a commitment to demonstrate experience and believe this contributes subject are shared and, where feasible, respect and integrity in all our dealings to our continued success by increasing that they work to similar standards.
The Statement also sets out innovation, enriching decision making our rejection of corruption in all its forms and improving communications with our Business conduct and ethics including extortion and bribery and our stakeholders.
We demonstrate ethical behaviour in our commitment as a Group not to enter into business activities and in our dealings any arrangement which might restrict During the year, the Group continued with third parties.
fair competition in our relationships with to run graduate development schemes, customers, suppliers and competitors.
particularly in developing world As employees, we have the courage We expect our suppliers and contractors territories, to run training programmes in to challenge any business practices, to demonstrate similar high ethical manufacturing environments to ensure whether within or outside the Group, standards and we take due account of this that we meet international standards 30 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Corporate social responsibility report continued throughout our manufacturing processes professional.
The objective of the EAP is the allocation of financial and other in terms of quality, environment and to assist in the identification and resolution resources.
health and safety, to offer a wide of the various problems, strains and issues range of development opportunities to which everyone faces from time to time PZ Cussons has operations in 10 support the continuous professional and and which can affect work performance.
countries and employs over 8,000 personal development of our employees Surveys are undertaken to measure and people worldwide.
We are committed and to establish appropriate incentive monitor employee satisfaction within to establishing and maintaining strong programmes at all levels of the the Group.
The results of these surveys relationships with community groups, business, from senior management are used to improve communication, building goodwill and a reputation as a to factory staff.
motivation and engagement across good employer.
We do not discriminate in any aspect We seek to support the local communities of employment on grounds of race, We are committed to timely and in which our employees live and work by religion, colour, ethnic or national effective two-way communication with making donations to, and working with, local background, age, disability, political our employees the relaunch during the charities and investing the time and skills of affiliation, union membership, gender, year of a Group-wide intranet Wazobia, our employees.
We prioritise community sexual orientation or marital status meaning welcome in Nigerian dialects and charitable initiatives which are: the employment policies of the has improved communication across relevant to the local communities in Group embody the principles of equal the Group, both up and down through which we operate: opportunity and these are fundamental the organisation.
This ensures that our relevant to our products or the to the way in which we conduct our employees across the world are better businesses which we carry out across business.
We operate procedures to informed about ongoing initiatives and the Group: and support the Groups policy that disabled matters of importance to them and also related to the provision of fresh water, persons shall be fairly considered for that they are able to contribute to the sanitation, health and hygiene and appropriate employment and subsequent development of the Groups strategy.
The Board is committed to continuing the development and improvement of Examples of initiatives across the Group in We encourage and promote a healthy communications across the Group in 2010 are set out below: balance between our employees 2010 11 and beyond.
throughout our long involvement in working and personal lives and we Nigeria, the Group has always taken respect the commitments which our Other principles set out in the Statement very seriously its responsibilities as one employees have outside of the work include the right to join or not join a of the countrys leading companies and place.
We respect the rights of all to trade union, a Group-wide commitment employers and we have supported a rest and leisure including periodic paid not to employ any person below the wide range of initiatives and projects holidays and the reasonable limitation local legal working age and not, in any over the years to assist the countrys of working hours we take steps to circumstances, below the age of 16 and development and to improve the quality ensure full compliance with applicable the guarantee that all of the Groups of life of its citizens.
The PZ Cussons national laws and industry standards on businesses will pay wages which, at a Nigeria Foundation was founded in working hours and all other employment minimum, meet all relevant local legal 2007 to bring greater focus to those regulations.
As part of our commitment standards.
The Foundation was mandated to our employees, we continued to to support projects in Nigeria in respect expand our work life balance programmes Local community and charity of transport and roads and other to encourage people to balance their We recognise our responsibilities to infrastructural improvements relating to work life with their personal life through society and, in particular, to the local the provision of fresh water, sanitation, flexible hours of working, job sharing and communities in which we operate.
We are health and education.
The Foundation opportunities to work from home.
committed to enriching the lives of our funds and implements projects which: local communities.
Wherever we operate, focus on people and community As part of the ongoing review of staff we ensure that our activities do not have development in locations where the welfare and benefits, the Group continues any material adverse environmental or Group operates: to make available to all UK employees an social impact upon local communities.
promote the well being of local Employee Assistance Programme EAP.
people: The EAP is a 24 hour phone helpline which We encourage, promote and support are sustainable: and is available to employees should they involvement by our Group businesses produce innovative solutions which wish to discuss any issues, personal or and employees in local community can be easily replicated throughout work related, in confidence with a trained and charitable initiatives through the country.
PZ Cussons Plc 31 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 We recognise our responsibilities to society and, in particular, to the local communities in which we operate.
We are committed to enriching the lives of our local communities.
to explore ways of commercialising the tools and processes which have been developed to the benefit of both parties.
PZ Cussons UK is an active member of Business in the Community, an organisation which works with companies which make a commitment to social issues and responsible business practice.
As part of this, the UK business participates in the Princes May Day Network which is the UKs largest group of businesses committed to taking action on climate change and during the year it has increased its involvement in local educational institutions.
PZ Cussons Australia has forged strong ties with a local school catering especially for disadvantaged children with special needs.
Initiatives include Recent projects have included the career visits, the development of introduction of solar equipment to power interview skills, mentoring and a number of the facilities commissioned the sponsorship of state awards in earlier phases including the recreational recognising achievements in vocational park in Illupeju.
The provision by the studies.
The Australian business Foundation of well equipped classrooms also partners with a local university and portable drinking water has now to provide work experience and had a positive impact in more than 13 apprenticeships.
Our Kenyan business is a participant in During the year PZ Cussons Nigeria Plc the Nairobi Greenline Initiative, a project donated approximately 125,000 to the launched by the Kenyan Association of Foundation and PZ Cussons Plc donated a Manufacturers in partnership with the further 125,000.
Kenya Wildlife Service to preserve the Nairobi National Park.
As a Group, we are pleased to continue to work with the Seashell Trust as one of its principal partners.
The Seashell Trust is a registered charity which provides education and residential care for people with communication difficulties from across the UK.
The complex needs of their students may arise from a combination of multi-sensory impairments and PZ Cussons has worked with the Seashell Trust to devise a range of smells and fragrances for introduction into their learning programmes and to help with the development of communication skills.
In addition to the work which we are doing with students, we are also working in partnership with the Trust
