Directors Report Business Review Corporate responsibility review This is my first opportunity to report on Corporate Responsibility CR at QinetiQ and I am clear that our aim is to be a responsible and sustainable company.
Good corporate citizenship is a fundamental tenet of QinetiQ.
Our approach to the marketplace, our people, the environment and our community drives our aims.
We will continue to ensure this is a key focus as we adapt to our changing environment.
The measure of our success in CR is an evolving and key indicator for the business.
Leo Quinn Chief Executive Officer CR performance overview What we said What we did Where to next Marketplace Achieve Level 3 of the Governments There are five categories in the Flexible Reach Level 3 in all categories of the Flexible Framework for Sustainable Framework, Level 1 to Level 5.
We attained flexible framework by November 2010 Procurement by 2010.
Level 3 for two categories and Level 2 for and continue to work proactively with three categories.
customers and suppliers on sustainable procurement issues.
Our people Continue to drive performance in health A RIDDOR rate of 3.69 per 1,000 employees Reduce accidents, incidents and the number and safety H&S.
Maintain UK RIDDOR compared with the HSE benchmark of 5.03. of employee days away from work.
In future rates that are better than the Health and we will be reporting Lost Time Injury Rates.
Qualitative and quantitative measures Safety Executive HSE benchmark rate.
We have found that Use UK employee survey to understand and Investigate Learning and Development learning and development intervention has improve employee engagement.
effectiveness measures for future years.
a measurable impact on graduate retention and on time taken to achieve chartered status.
Reporting of Injuries, Diseases & Dangerous Occurrences Regulations.
Environment Maintain our ISO 14001 certification Successfully retained ISO 14001 for UK sites.
Continue to maintain ISO 14001 for UK sites.
2% CO emissions reduction target in the UK.
2 Achieve certification to the Carbon Trust Data capture extended to almost all Achieve 70% recycling rate across the UK Standard.
Extend UK waste data capture to all minor recycling on major UK sites.
Delivery of UK conservation management sites and continue to increase recycling Management plans and conservation leads plans.
target is 70% by 2014. are in place for designated conservation Contribute to biodiversity through the areas in the UK.
We received a Sanctuary effective maintenance of our conservation Award for conservation work in the sites.
Community Undertake tour of Lab in a Lorry in 2009 10.
Lab in a Lorry taken to Portsmouth.
We Form partnerships with key schools to have now interacted with 11,000 students.
deliver our STEM education outreach Continue to focus and deliver our STEM programme effectively.
Science, Technology, Engineering and Development of extended training for Maths education outreach programmes, STEM Ambassadors.
where we are working to inspire the next Attained three awards from STEMNET.
generation of scientists and engineers.
com QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 23 Corporate responsibility management We have a Whistleblower line available for all employees worldwide The CR Committee met three times during the year to discuss and we have developed a new gifts and hospitality register in the UK.
This new group, which comprises the There is a need for continual improvement and we are developing our Executive Team and the Group CR Manager, has enabled greater strategic objectives in business ethics, which will focus on leadership, senior management visibility and support for CR programmes.
communications, competencies, policy and risk management.
A report is provided monthly to the Executive Team and the CEO reports to the Board on CR issues as required.
Our approach is to Environmental solutions embed CR into how we do business and the CR Manager worked Monitoring and collection of environmental data is increasingly with a wide network of domain experts across the UK and the US.
crucial in addressing the challenges of climate change and In Australia, a new CR Team has been formed and has developed a environmental management.
The SWIMA project is managed by plan to roll out local initiatives, in line with the Group CR framework.
QinetiQ, working with an international group of companies, the UK Environment Agency and universities.
The team is using field trials Delivery of the Business Risk Management process is a key in the River Tamar catchment in South West England to demonstrate mechanism to improve awareness, understanding and management how the exploitation of open standards in sensor webs networks of risk.
CR and ethical risks have previously been held separately but, of disparate sensors connected via the same web interface can make following a programme of work this year with the UK business, are environmental monitoring more efficient and intelligent while also now integrated to ensure our approach to risk is holistic.
We have reducing associated costs.
Having this type of data available at the been refreshing our strategic objectives around Health Safety and click of a mouse has considerable impact on the accuracy and timely Environment HS&E and Business Ethics.
There is now a clearer focus delivery of alerts of pollution and flooding.
on leadership, communications, competencies and risk management.
Our people Policy and process We have a balance between Group and regional policies to Mission statement: to create an environment which attracts encompass regional differences in best practice and law.
Relevant great people and enables them to deliver high levels of policies include HS&E, sustainable procurement, business ethics, performance equality and diversity.
Our Group Business Ethics Policy, which is Health and safety available in the Investor Relations and CR sections of our website Employee safety is a key part of our overall business ethic and duty www.
com, provides a framework of how we operate.
of care to fellow employees.
Senior management is responsible Further information on governance can be found on page 28. for delivering and embedding the highest standards and we have been refreshing our programme of leadership, including Marketplace the introduction of Safety Leadership Charters.
A comprehensive audit of our UK safety management system was completed by the Mission statement: to be a responsible and sustainable business Explosives Inspectorate of the HSE.
Whilst it identified a number of Sustainable procurement opportunities for improvement, it concluded that we have a clear We recognise that how and what we buy needs to be an integral and strong commitment to the safe conduct of the business and part of our ambition to improve sustainability in QinetiQ.
Our UK a strong culture of safe working.
Sustainable Procurement Forum has been active in raising employee awareness through training, employee campaigns and leadership Our businesses in the UK, the US and Australia collect and report team briefings.
An introduction to Sustainable Procurement is part accident data differently, because of in-country requirements.
Going of the corporate induction for UK employees.
A key part of the forward, we are looking at greater alignment of reporting metrics.
process is working with our suppliers and this is an area on which we must continue to focus.
We are a signatory to the MODs Sustainable Health and safety data Procurement Charter and are an active member of the MOD-Industry Sustainable Procurement Working Group.
3 UK n a n a 7.61 4.66 5.32 We know this is critical for our success because it builds trust and 3 4 transparency with our people and with our customers.
Maintaining QNA n a 2.14 1.57 1.09 2.12 these high standards of ethical behaviour can result in difficult 3 Australia n a n a n a n a 3.88 choices.
Integrity and ethics may require us to forgo business 1 The UK measures the number of RIDDOR accidents as the number of events opportunities, but in the long run we will be better served by per 1,000 people during the year.
Over 95% of UK employees and 100% of QNA 2 HSE RIDDOR Benchmark for all industries.
employees have undertaken business ethics training.
The Australian 3 Data are work related lost time accident per 1,000 employees.
4 business now has its Code of Conduct in place.
Slightly altered from 2009 0.78 due to legacy entities.
Policies and procedures are in place to prevent corruption within our UK employees have access to the Employee Wellbeing Programme operations and activities.
We have been working with organisations service, which provides information and support on financial, legal such as TRACE Transparent Agents and Contracting Entities, an and family matters, counselling, and an online service.
UK employees independent and internationally recognised organisation, in two also have a benefits package through QinetiQ Currency, which areas.
Firstly, to conduct a due diligence review on the anti-bribery provides discounts on a range of items such as bicycles, childcare issue associated with engaging third-party representatives overseas: and healthcare.
QNA provides an excellent package of healthcare secondly, to provide bespoke training for our sales and commercial benefits, for employees.
employees on international law and regulations covering anticorruption and bribery.
com QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 23 Directors Report Business Review Corporate responsibility review continued Employee engagement Community Regular dialogue with employees is part of good leadership, and Mission statement: to make a positive contribution listening to our people has never been more important whilst to the community we have been undergoing significant change.
A range of tools is deployed regularly to keep in touch with our employees, including: Science for society CEO notices, team briefings and leaders hosting town hall sessions Following a request from the Combined Services Disabled Ski Team, across all our sites.
We also make good use of intranet, newsletters, our experts designed and manufactured a more competitive ski video and print media.
The newly formed Employee Forum and racing seat for Sergeant Mick Brennan, a double amputee who has the Communications Network create an open dialogue to give discovered a real talent for downhill skiing as part of the Battle Back employees across the UK business the opportunity to have their initiative to rehabilitate injured servicemen and women.
Micks say and to give input into important issues that we face.
Employee performance improved considerably with the seat and he achieved engagement has been a key part of QNAs programme of bringing a Bronze medal in the Giant Slalom at the Canadian Nationals in many separate companies together into one business.
Employee surveys are also an opportunity for our people to have In 2009, two UK employees visited Saravan Province in southern Laos their say.
This year we introduced the widely used Best Companies to and worked with Norwegian Peoples Aid as part of our unexploded Work for questionnaire in the UK, which will enable us to benchmark ordnance UXO Science for Society Programme, which has been ourselves against other companies across a wide range of issues.
The UXO is a legacy of the Vietnam war.
The We had a high response of 73% and the survey gave us some clear team provided training in UXO pinpointing, CAD, surveying and feedback on areas on which we need to focus.
mapping, as well as simple practical solutions for water purification, bomb disposal and simple protection schemes.
We have introduced an exciting new programme, My Contribution, which enables everyone to play a part in improving our business.
It Education outreach gives employees a way to generate and voice ideas and convert them QinetiQ collected three prestigious STEM Education Outreach quickly into projects that will benefit the Companys bottom line.
It is Awards, from STEMNET including Support & Development, Most a simple, common sense concept enabling continuous improvement.
Dedicated Ambassador and Most Dedicated Organisation.
In 2009 The programme is up and running in the UK and there are plans in we launched a strategic partnership with Shoeburyness High place to roll it out across QinetiQ globally.
School to provide some business focus, to complement the STEM curriculum.
We are working closely with the school on the delivery Learning and development of the new, two-year STEM Leadership qualification and supporting We support the development and employability of our people.
16-year-old Fast Track students on the Applied Science course.
Going Across QinetiQ we have in place a range of high quality programmes, forward, we aim to focus on our education outreach programmes, from apprentice training and graduate entry, to leadership.
For by developing partnerships with other key schools near our sites.
example, the UK Graduate Development Programme provides new QNA also recognises the importance of encouraging young people entrant graduates with business awareness through the Henley towards maths and science careers, and sponsors science and Graduate Programme and professional development through the technology education in schools.
Accredited Initial Professional Development Scheme.
Investment in graduate development continues to play a major factor in graduate In the UK, we supported many students at various stages in their retention.
CR is an integral part of the UK Corporate Induction and university careers: 16 pre-university students were hosted on is supplemented by a CR e-learning module.
In the UK, our Flight the Year in Industry scheme, while other students worked in the Engineering Services Training Centre is currently training just under company for up to a year during their undergraduate course.
At any 100 engineering apprentices from across our Managed Services time, over 50 doctoral level students are sponsored, in conjunction Group and dstl.
The training pathways cover aircraft mechanical with the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council, on and avionics, workshop machining and ground instrumentation projects that are relevant to our business, with placements electrical.
The aircraft training pathways conform to the MOD on various sites.
Maintenance Approved Organisation Scheme training requirements for Mechanical B1 and Avionics B2 trades.
Charity and community programmes Employees across the Group undertook a range of volunteering In Australia, a People Development Programme is establishing career activities in the community.
QNA supported a number of employeedevelopment for our most talented employees and is supporting driven initiatives and contributed time, resources and funding to succession planning.
QNA was formed over a short period from numerous community grassroots efforts, such as Habit for Humanity a number of companies with different cultures and practices.
In addition, QNA encouraged active The focus has been on efficiently implementing consistency in participation and support for military-aligned programmes, such job roles and performance management.
QNA has been driving as the Wounded Warrior Project for injured servicemen and women.
robust succession planning and working with the Darden Business In the UK, employees have been involved in a range of community School at the University of Virginia to develop future leaders.
For activities, from conservation projects to beach safety talks for QNA technical employees, the focus is on a rapid and competitive children.
Total charitable giving from the business across the knowledge update.
In addition, our UK employees raised 26,112 for our priority charities through a range of events, We are one of only 5% of the 28,000 Investors in People organisations attracting corporate matched funding for priority charities and that have chosen to stretch above the standard.
Since a key area made contributions through our payroll giving scheme.
identified in recent feedback was performance management in the UK, we have carried out a full review and update of our performance management processes, and introduced the Personal Success Plan.
com QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 25 Environment Environmental management and conservation We continue to maintain ISO 14001:2004 certification in the UK.
Mission statement: to be an excellent environmental steward This is evidence of effective controls as part of our Environmental Carbon management Management Systems, which cover a broad range of activities, from A highlight this year was meeting our target of attaining the Carbon knowledge and technology-based research and services, to weapons Trust Standard which demonstrates that we have measured, and systems testing.
Our Australian business has also established a managed and reduced our carbon emissions.
For the third year, we small group responsible for developing environmental initiatives.
provided information to the Carbon Disclosure Project and we also took part in the Business in the Community May Day Network.
We We take a responsible and proactive approach to the stewardship of recognise the importance of being prepared for the UK Governments the many Sites of Special Scientific Interest SSSI that we manage in Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme and are the UK, with appropriate conservation management plans in place well positioned, having put in place the Carbon Management Group for all of them.
We won a prestigious Sanctuary Award for our work CMG which brings together expertise from Estates, Environmental on a SSSI on the MOD Hebrides range.
Management, CR, Procurement and the business.
The CMG oversees our five-year Waste carbon management plan, promotes energy As part of our waste management programmes, we have extended efficiency and awareness, and sets and data collection to the majority of sites we own or manage for monitors targets.
Following our carbon footthe MOD and incorporated additional waste streams, the largest printing programme, this is the first year we of which are construction and grounds waste.
In QNA, recycling are reporting CO emissions from transport 2 programmes operate across much of the business.
as well as from energy used.
2 Waste data collection now extended to include construction and UK ktonnes CO from 96.7 93.1 80.0 73.8 71.3 2 composting waste.
1 energy use UK ktonnes CO from n a n a n a 23.8 17.9 2 2 transport 1 UK waste data 1 In the table CO emissions are calculated using the defra October 2009 2 tonnes Greenhouse Gas conversion factors Gas 0.18358: Oil 0.27927: Electricity 0.54055.
These factors change regularly so in order to show actual 4,000 reductions, we have used the same conversion factor for all years.
This will 3,500 result in slightly different numbers from those reported last year, which were based on a previous conversion factor 2009: 71.8: 2008: 77.8.
3,000 2 The data includes emissions from our own vehicles aircraft, helicopters 2,500 and cars and from employee business mileage road and air.
2,000 1,500 1,000 UK CO emissions data 2 500 tonnes 0 2 10,0000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 General waste to landfill Recycled waste 80,000 1 Major sites only, for comparative purposes.
2 Waste data collection now extended to include construction 60,000 and composting waste.
com QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 25
