Environmental responsibility AChIEVED IN 2010 calculated using The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Morila ISO 14001 certification renewed Accounting and Reporting Standard.
Scope 1 emissions Loulo ISO 14001 certification achieved are direct emissions occurring from sources that are owned Participated in 2010 Carbon Disclosure Project or controlled by a company, while Scope 2 emissions include Approval of ESIA for Gounkoto project emissions from the generation of purchased electricity.
Randgold generates most of its electricity on-site through TARGETS FOR 2011 diesel generation.
Scope 2 emissions therefore only reflect Complete ESIA for Kibali project electricity purchased at off-site offices.
This will change once Complete ESIA for Loulo and Gounkoto heap leach we connect to the national grid of Cte dIvoire in 2011. projects Emissions are reported as per operational control, based on Tongon ISO 14001 certification the assumption that a company accounts for 100% of the Renew ISO 14001 certification for Loulo and Morila GHG emissions from operations over which it has operational Generation of Sustainability Reporting Forms control.
Financial GHG emissions intensity, reported on an from all operations based on Global Reporting operational basis, were 645 metric tonnes CO equivalent 2 Initiative GRI guidelines per US$million revenue.
ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE DATA ENERGY USE Randgolds environmental performance data are reported for Randgold Resources generates all the energy used by its calendar years and on an operational control basis at each operations.
Our mineral processing operations are energy managed operation, even if only partially owned.
We are in the intensive and currently depend on diesel power generation to process of implementing measurement systems on each site keep them running.
This year our energy generation and use in line with Global Reporting Initiative.
Principal performance increased from 256 to 271 thousand megawatt hours.
This areas currently reported include greenhouse gas emissions, change reflects the increase in tonnage throughput at Loulo energy use, freshwater withdrawal and land disturbed.
and the start-up of the Tongon operation in Cte dIvoire.
Notwithstanding the increase in overall energy use, we have GREENhOUSE GAS GhG EMISSIONS As a growing company, operating in remote areas with poor infrastructure, on site diesel generation of power is required.
This makes it more of a challenge to reduce total greenhouse gas emissions while sustaining growth.
However, we are aware that the reduction of emission intensity is intrinsically linked to improved operating efficiencies and where the opportunity presents itself we are aggressively working to reduce greenhouse gas emissions per production unit and have a five year strategy to achieve this.
This includes converting to more fuel efficient low speed diesel generating machines at Loulo, linking into the predominantly hydro and gas generated national electricity grid at Tongon in Cte dIvoire and coming up with innovative solutions at Kibali in eastern DRC to maximise the generation of hydropower for the project.
We are thus expecting to materially reduce our greenhouse gas emission per production unit performance from 2011 to 2016.
The company has filed its 2009 greenhouse emissions in the 2010 Carbon Disclosure Project CDP and will continue to do so in order to demonstrate its progress in this regard.
Our total unverified GHG emissions for 2010, defined as the sum of onsite emissions, were 314 000 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent: Redisclosure is currently undergoing independent verification and the final verified numbers will be presented in the 2011 Carbon Disclosure Project in May 2011.
The total gross Scope 1 GHG emissions for Randgold were Randgold Resources 68 Annual report 2010 been able to reduce our energy use per tonne milled from 35.3 to 34.4KWh t, due to the fact the additional tonnes milled at Tongon have been oxide and thus used less energy.
Once political stability returns to Cte dIvoire we expect to change over to the hydro and gas generated national grid.
We are working on ways to maximise the hydropower opportunities available at the DRC project of Kibali and minimising the use of diesel generation.
Randgold is also working on a concept to reduce the energy intensity of new projects that come on line around the Loulo complex by having a central power generating complex.
wATER USE Our water policy has focused this year on maximising the return of water from tailings storage facilities in an attempt to minimise the offtake of fresh water from the environment.
All our operations draw fresh water from either adjacent river systems or from purpose built water storage dams as well as dewatering of mining operations.
LAND DISTURBANCE The amount of water we removed from the environment 2 Our mining concessions cover a total of 3 159km of land has increased this year due to the addition of the Tongon excluding our exploration leases.
At the end of 2010 our operation to our portfolio.
Water management plans are activities had impacted 1.1% of this area up from 0.8% in aimed at increasing the re-use of water wherever we can, 2009, principally due to the construction of the Tongon mine.
and to return it to the environment meeting regulatory limits.
In line with IFC guidelines on mining, we aim to implement incremental rehabilitation of land rather than waiting until Our freshwater withdrawal increased by 3% to all operations at the site have ceased.
Internal annual 7 300 million litres in 2010, but our water withdrawal per rehabilitation review and closure estimation help to drive the tonne milled decreased from 0.98 to 0.93 kl tonne, due to better reuse of tailings water.
NZORO RIVER hYDROPOwER SOURCE FOR KIBALI Randgold Resources Annual report 2010 69
