Occupational health and safety Significant progress was made on our operating mines its OHSAS 18001 accreditation and work has been ongoing across the group in 2010 in improving safety and health and during 2010 in conjunction with NOSA consultants in eliminating fatalities on our sites.
The Fatal Injury Frequency preparing Loulo to become OHSAS 18001 accredited in the Rate FIFR improved by 77% from 0.57 in 2009 to 0.13 in latter half of 2011.
Work has also commenced at Tongon on 2010.
Unfortunately, however, one such injury did occur preparing the mine for OHSAS 18001 accreditation expected at Loulo on 11 January 2010 when an employee of a local in 2012. sub-contractor lost control of the machine he was operating.
The machine fell on its side and the operator sustained a Daily toolbox meetings are held in all workplaces across wound to his head.
He was treated on the scene and at the companys mines to constantly remind employees of the mine trauma centre by the mines medical officer.
Once the need for each employee to be safety conscious.
These stabilised he was evacuated to Bamako for further hospital meetings are based on a principle of personal responsibility care but he succumbed to his injury and passed away on with regard to safety where the onus is transferred to the 27 January 2010. individual to practice a high level of safety in the workplace.
In 2010 all injury rates improved significantly with the Lost Trends cannot yet be determined at Tongon and Kibali which Time Injury Frequency Rate LITFR improving by 46% from were, during the year, in transition from construction to 2.15 in 2009 to 1.17 in 2010, the Minor Injury Frequency operational and from exploration to construction stages Rate MIFR down by 57% from 29.87 in 2009 to 12.76 in respectively.
2010 and the Total Injury Frequency Rate TIFR improved by 56%.
A survey of Health and Safety Reporting in FTSE 100 Mining Companies conducted during 2010 by Transparent During the year, a standardised health and safety reporting Consulting for the Observer newspaper in London, while format, agreed by all the medical officers, was introduced critical of the industry, showed that Randgold Resources had across the group.
The safety statistics produced comply with the second lowest best Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate OHSAS 18001 and industry best practice.
Morila maintained LTIFR of the FTSE 100 mining companies surveyed.
lTIFR: Number of lost time injuries per million man hours worked number of lTI x 1 000 000 Total man hours worked.
mIFR: Number of minor injuries per million man hours worked number of minor injuries x 1 000 000 Total man hours worked.
TIFR: Number of minor lTI injuries per million man hours worked number of minor injuries lost time injuries x 1 000 000 Total man hours worked.
lTISR: Total number of lost days resulting from lost time injuries by the total man hours worked, expressed per million man hours lost days x 1 000 000 Total man hours worked.
malaria incidence %: Number of new positive cases x 100 Total employees during reporting period.
HIV prevalence %: Number of positive cases x 100 Total number of voluntary counselling testing VCT.
Randgold Resources 66 Annual report 2010 During 2010, the group medical officers agreed a standard Tongon and Kibali utilised the services of South African based set of health guidelines for the group.
These include entomologists from Wits University.
Using the findings from such studies, spraying programmes are being designed and standardised community healthcare, disease including implemented in mining, construction and exploration camps malaria, yellow fever and HIV AIDS control and occupational and in local villages.
The annual incidence of cases for health guidelines.
The purpose of the exercise was to 100 workers was 30.68% 895 cases at Loulo, down from engender a common understanding of the groups health 30.93% 741 cases in 2009, and was 26.69% 1 200 cases strategy, especially among the medical officers at Tongon at Morila, up from 20.79% 1 121 cases in 2009 and 11.1% and Kibali, who are new to Randgold and whose mines are at Tongon, where there were no comparable figures for 2009. in transition stages from construction to operational and from exploration to construction respectively.
The aim is to Awareness and education of employees and local improve the delivery of primary health care including disease communities on HIV AIDS and its prevention is another prevention to those most affected villages surrounding the important health issue addressed at all of our sites.
This year groups projects across all its operations and projects, and special awareness events were held at each mine on World the delivery of occupational and other health care to all its Aids Day and employees and villagers are encouraged to come forward for voluntary testing.
Company clinics treat employees, employees dependants Randgold aims to achieve continuous improvement and people from the local communities.
Over 80 000 by continuously sharing the expertise, experience and consultations take place at our clinics each year and just knowledge of its medical staff in reviewing the efficiency under half relate to local villagers while the rest concern and effectiveness of health services delivery at regular group employees or their dependants.
In addition, our medical medical forums.
The objective is to improve the general staff assist agencies such as the host governments and the health and wellbeing of the area and its workforce and World Health Organisation to innoculate the population in the therefore to reduce costs associated with disease care, injury areas in which we operate against diseases such as polio treatment and associated lost-time.
Malaria remains a most significant health risk and during the Medical baseline studies were completed at Kibali and wet season is the highest potential cause of lost time for Gounkoto during the year by Newfields International Medical Randgolds operations as well as having an adverse effect on Consultants and by Institut fide Formation et fide GestionIFGthe local population, especially the young children, pregnant Bamako, respectively.
women and older members of the community.
The groups operations continued to perform annual entomological surveys to determine the most effective insecticide to use in the multiple spraying programmes that are carried out annually on each site as well as in surrounding villages.
In addition, vulnerable people in villages such as children and old people are provided with impregnated mosquito nets.
This year in Mali, both Loulo and Morila used the services of the MRTC Malaria Research and Training Centre to carry out their annual entomological survey in a situation where vectors were displaying an increased resistance to the insecticides being used.
