About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Risks Corporate responsibility review Risk Description How we manage our risks Health & Safety As in 08 09, no Improvement Notices were received from The Health & Safety of our employees, subcontractors, the Health and Safety Executive but disappointingly, one Housing The conditions within the UK housing Close monitoring of, and proactive management response customers and the general public carries the highest Prohibition Notice was received 08 09: nil, the first market market are fundamental to Redrows to, lead indicators of the housing market priority in our organisation.
We strive to ensure received in five years.
Swift action was taken to rectify the conditions business performance.
The availability of Regional spread of operations diversifies risk to local compliance with all legislation and endeavour to adopt situation and the subcontractor concerned has been mortgage finance and the extent of down markets best practice in all our activities removed from our approved subcontractor tender list.
valuations are key issues in the current Proactive approach to the management of the mortgage environment valuation process We are extremely proud to have Climate Change and the Environment Land The timing of future land purchases and Close monitoring of market conditions by experienced received a Gold Award from the The housebuilding sector has an important role to play in procurement the ability to purchase land suitable for management team Royal Society for the Prevention of helping to reduce the UK's carbon emissions.
Redrow is our product are fundamental to the Strong and knowledgeable land, planning and technical Accidents RoSPA for the fifth committed to being proactive and engaging with Groups future performance teams with good local knowledge consecutive year and also a Gold Government and various industry working parties and Appropriateness The failure to design and build a desirable Our product is kept under constant review to ensure it is Medal Award to mark the achievement of five consecutive policy groups and has responded and contributed to the of product and product for our customers at the right appropriate for the market Gold Awards.
The RoSPA Occupational Health and Safety plethora of consultations published during the year.
marketing cost could lead to relative The product mix on the new sites is extensively considered Award is widely recognised within the industry as one of underperformance in our business by management and if appropriate, adjusted to market the most prestigious Health and Safety awards and Redrow is a member of Next Generation, an organisation conditions encourages organisations to develop robust health and launched in 2006 with the objective of encouraging best Design is an integral element of our business safety management systems to embed health and safety practice within the residential development sector.
It is Planning and The inability to obtain detailed planning Strong planning and technical teams with good local within the culture of an organisation.
overseen by a high profile Executive Committee regulatory consents and the timeliness of consents knowledge representing investors, the Homes and Communities environment on key sites may adversely impact upon Well prepared, high quality planning submissions addressing Compared to 08 09, construction activity on our sites Agency and WWF-UK and undertakes an annual anticipated production local concerns and demonstrating good design increased by over 100%.
Against this significant increase in benchmarking exercise of the UK's leading housebuilders Broad spread of developments going through the planning activity, the total number of reportable accidents under based on a range of sustainability criteria.
system at any one time the requirements of the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Liquidity and The group requires appropriate facilities Bank facilities with appropriate covenants and headroom Dangerous Occurrences Regulations increased by 2 to 14. funding for its short term liquidity and long term for a range of market conditions funding needs Regular contact and communication with shareholders and relationship banks Regular updates of strategic plans including profitability and cash flow projections Capital structure regularly reviewed Attracting and The loss of key staff and or our failure to Remuneration packages are benchmarked at local and retaining staff attract high quality employees will inhibit national levels to ensure that they are competitive Redrows ability to achieve its business In-house training centre provides a central focus for training objectives activities across all disciplines Structured training programmes include apprentice schemes Health and A significant Health and Safety or Dedicated Health and Safety team operates across the safety environmental incident or general Group to ensure appropriate standards are applied with environment deterioration in standards could put regular on site inspections and audits people and or the environment at risk as Group has established an Environmental Management well as damaging Redrows reputation System and has introduced a site Environmental audit process All staff receive appropriate training through our in-house programme Key supplier or The failure of a key supplier or Use of suppliers and subcontractors with strong track record subcontractor subcontractor to perform due to financial and reputation failure failure or contraction of production Close monitoring of supplier and subcontractor performance capability could disrupt Redrows ability through six monthly assessment of performance and to deliver homes on programme financial strength Fraud A significant fraud or uninsured loss Systems, policies and procedures designed to segregate uninsured could damage the financial performance duties and minimise opportunity for fraud losses of the business Regular management reporting and challenge Internal Audit reviews Regular review of insurance programme Dave Ford, one of Redrows Health & Safety Managers receiving the RoSPA Gold Medal.
Page 20 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Page 21 About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Corporate responsibility review Waste Management A number of our developments feature a proportion of Supplier Partners Site waste management has been one of the key areas we homes designed to embrace the sustainable development An effective and efficient construction supply chain is vital to the success of the business.
Within Redrow this embraces have focused upon in our review of our corporate principles of Building for Life, the national standard for merchants, distributors and manufacturers together with our subcontractors who form a valued and crucial part of the chain.
We have worked with well-designed homes and neighbourhoods.
Five of these 'Reconomy' our nominated waste specialist to strengthen schemes also incorporate the 16 design criteria demanded Strong relationships and cooperation are fundamental in the development of a successful supply chain.
By selecting and our waste management systems and reporting and have by Lifetime Homes to support the changing needs of working with like-minded partners we have developed an efficient supply chain that is aligned to Redrows core values.
improved the consistency of approach across all our sites.
families encountered at different stages of life.
This has led to a 5% improvement in our average monthly The companies identified here represent only a small proportion of the partners we work with to achieve success.
recycling rate and have set a benchmark going forward The quality of the community environment we provide is equivalent to BRE Good Practice standards.
further enhanced by our contribution of green space and community facilities.
Redrow, together with our Delivering Sustainable Development development partners in some instances, have provided The past year has seen an increase in the number of sites over 11.6 hectares of play areas and public open space, coming through the planning process which have much of which has been improved to create wildlife sustainable energy requirements.
Our in-house friendly environments and to encourage biodiversity.
sustainability team, supported by selected specialist environmental consultants, have engaged positively with Supporting our staff local authorities to explore site potential and to arrive at Redrow remains fully committed to supporting our staff environmentally and commercially viable solutions.
and enabling them to meet their full potential with over Moores Furniture Group Symphony Kitchens Ideal Standard 1,300 training days delivered to full time staff.
In 09 10, c. 10% of our legal completions were built to Code Level 3 standards, employing a variety of renewable Redrow has fully supported the Major Home Builders technologies to complement improvements made to the efforts to ensure that the workforce on site is fully performance of the building fabric.
qualified through the CITB - ConstructionSkills initiative resulting in 99% of our staff holding a ConstructionSkills HR Johnson Ceramic Tiles IG External Doors National Hickman Internal doors Celcon Blocks Ibstock Bricks EON Baxi Dulux Hammonds Wardrobes Shaun Johnson, Site Manager at Saxon Court development in Yorkshire receives his sixth NHBC Pride in the Job Award.
Page 22 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Page 23 About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Corporate responsibility review Certificate Scheme card, the highest level within the Major This interaction can range from seeking residents opinions Home Builders Group.
and input on design proposals via locally organised pre-planning consultation events, through participation in Other achievements include: the Considerate Constructors Scheme to limit nuisance to neighbours during the construction phase, to providing 23 staff achieving NVQs extensive facilities and making significant financial contributions that benefit the local community.
Our 14 site managers earning NHBC 'Pride in the Job' support isnt just limited to large scale contributions awards in recognition of the quality of their work however, and we regard it as equally important to support societies, charities, schools and clubs at grass roots level.
Recruiting c. 50 additional apprentices, increasing the total number of apprentices at Redrow to c. 70 A number of initiatives have taken place across the UK this Re-opening our graduate programme with 8 year, exemplifying this kind of interaction.
undergraduates recruited to complete their one year industrial placements with Redrow At Tiddy Brook Meadows in Tavistock, Devon, furniture from a showhome was donated to tenants of the West Redrow in the Community Devon Homes Housing Association, providing them with Redrow has always understood that our role in the items, which, perhaps, they would not otherwise have provision of sustainable local communities extends been able to afford.
beyond the delivery of quality, affordable homes and spaces.
We recognise the need to design places that create At Buckley in North Wales, Redrow sponsored and assisted neighbourhoods where people will want to live and work in running two fundraising events for Buckley Town Junior and we actively engage with local communities to achieve Football Clubs annual summer football festival.
teams of six to fourteen-year-olds from across the North The children of Bowmandale Primary School, Barton-upon-Humber with the Redrow hot air balloon.
West took part in the football festival.
The money raised will enable the team to buy new kit for all of the players and provide further training for 50 coaches.
Meanwhile, Redrows very own hot air balloon toured the country visiting local primary schools near our developments.
This helped to bring the curriculum alive by enabling school children to meet the pilot and learn all about the history and science of this fascinating pastime.
Redrow presents a cheque for 2,000 to Buckley Town Junior Football Club.
Page 24 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Redrow plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Page 25
