Reed Business Information is a provider of business information, data and marketing solutions in multiple formats Reed Business Information RBI provides data services, and now has majority ownership.
This transaction was completed information and marketing solutions to business in January 2011 and has brought ICIS unrivalled coverage of the professionals in the UK, the US, Continental Europe, Asia important and growing Chinese and Asian chemicals and energy and Australia.
It produces industry critical data services markets, considerably strengthening its global position.
and lead generation tools, and over 100 online community and job sites.
It publishes over 100 business magazines The major online marketing solutions include: totaljobs.
com, a major with market leading positions in many sectors.
UK online recruitment site: and Hotfrog, a global online business directory.
Premier publishing brands include Variety in the US, Total revenues for the year ended 31 December 2010 were 718m.
New Scientist in the UK and the Elsevier magazine in the Netherlands.
RBI is a global business headquartered in London and has principal Market Opportunities operations in Sutton in the UK, Amsterdam and Doetinchem in the The growing need for authoritative industry data and information is Netherlands, Boston, Los Angeles and Norcross, Georgia in the driving demand for online subscription data services and providing US as well as Paris, Milan, Madrid, Bilbao, Sydney and Shanghai.
Business to business marketing spend has RBI has 5,300 employees worldwide.
historically been driven by levels of corporate profitability, which RBIs data services enable businesses and professionals to enhance itself has followed GDP growth, and business investment.
productivity through quicker and easier access to insightful and comprehensive industry information.
Online marketing solutions, Strategic Priorities business to business magazines, online lead generation services RBIs strategic goal is to help business professionals achieve better and community websites provide effective marketing channels for outcomes with information and decision support in its individual advertisers to reach target audiences and for industry professionals markets.
Its areas of strategic focus are: further growing the data to access valued information.
services businesses: capturing the economic recovery in the major online marketing solutions businesses: restructuring the business In 2010, RBI was signicantly restructured and refocused, to reect magazines and advertising driven portfolio, to develop online the reduction in revenues caused by recession, the accelerated services in key markets and support print franchises through brand migration of customer marketing spend to web media, and the extensions and redesign: and to realign the cost base with revenue continued growth and opportunity in data services.
During the year, expectations and drive further organisational effectiveness.
the sale and closure of the US controlled circulation magazines and certain other titles were completed, together with the sale of RBI Business Model, Distribution Channels and Competition Germany and clusters of titles in the Netherlands, UK, Italy, Spain, Across the RBI portfolio, user and subscription revenues now France, Ireland and Asia.
account for 59% of the total business with the remaining 41% derived from print and online advertising and lead generation.
RBI electronic The business was redened and is now managed by key asset revenue streams now account for 46% of total revenue.
group data services, online marketing solutions, leading brands, and other magazine brands websites and specic strategies Data services are typically sold directly on a subscription or and action plans have been developed for each group.
Business magazines are distributed on a paid or controlled circulation basis.
Advertising and lead generation revenues RBIs market-leading data services include ICIS, a global information are sold directly or through agents.
and pricing service for the petrochemicals and energy sector: Bankers Almanac, a leading provider of reference data on the RBIs data services and titles compete with a number of publishers banking industry: XpertHR, an online service providing HR data, on a service and title by title basis including: UBM, McGraw Hill, regulatory guidance, best practices and tools for HR professionals: Wolters Kluwer and Incisive as well as many niche and privatelyand Reed Construction Data, a provider of online construction data owned competitors.
RBI competes for online advertising with other to the North American construction industry.
In 2010, RBI entered business to business websites as well as Monster, Google and other into an agreement to increase its interest in CBI China, the market search engines.
leading petrochemical and energy information service in China, Advertising revenue % Online revenue % Significant transformation of RBI 41% Demand for online data services 46% 2010 2010 focusing on subscription data and marketing solutions drives services is reducing its exposure increasing proportion of 54% 34% to advertising revenues online revenue 2008 2008 36 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Change at 2010 2009 constant Change m m Change currencies underlying Revenue 718 891 -19% -20% -2% Adjusted operating profit 89 89 0% 0% 4% Revenue Adjusted operating profit Revenue Adjusted operating profit % of Reed Elsevier % of Reed Elsevier m m 987 126 121 906 896 891 112 718 89 89 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Reed Business Reed Business Information 12% Information 6% 2010 financial performance Reed Business Information saw good growth in data services and online marketing solutions and signicantly Global provider of news and Leading online user generated moderated declines in advertising markets.
The portfolio pricing data to the chemical business directory with versions was reshaped through disposals and closures and costs and energy industries in 38 countries were signicantly reduced.
Revenues were down 20% and adjusted operating profits at at constant currencies.
Excluding portfolio changes, underlying revenues were down 2% and adjusted operating profits increased A leading supplier of banking Pioneers in B2B lead generation, by 4%.
intelligence to the global emedia specialises in accelerated financial industry demand generation from The major data services businesses, which account for permission-based audiences approximately 20% of RBI revenues, were up 4% with strong growth in ICIS, Bankers Almanac and XpertHR, tempered by weakness in RCD serving the US construction markets.
The major online marketing solutions businesses, accounting for approximately 12% of RBI revenues, were up 10%, with a strong recovery in Leading HR legal compliance Premier source of entertainment Totaljobs online recruitment services and continuing strong growth and good practice toolkit business news and analysis in the Hotfrog web search business.
Business magazines and since 1905 related services, accounting for approximately 68% of RBI revenues, saw underlying revenues 6% lower driven by print advertising declines which more than offset online growth.
The 2.4% increase in adjusted operating margin reects the Construction data, building product Leading news and opinion magazine information, cost data, market in the Netherlands significant restructuring of the business, with the disposal or closure analysis and advertising channels to of unprofitable assets and a 3% reduction in costs of the continuing construction industry professionals business, with consolidation of operations, procurement savings and tight cost control.
The reported operating margin, after amortisation of acquired intangible assets and exceptional restructuring costs, was 0%, up 18 percentage points principally reecting no impairment UK generalist job website attracting Worlds leading science and technology charges in 2010. over 3.7 million jobseekers and carrying media brand over 125,000 jobs every month Data services and online marketing solutions are seeing continued good growth.
Portfolio changes and improving markets are also expected to benefit 2011.
Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Reed Elsevier 37 Corporate responsibility Facility, since 2005, LexisNexis has provided 5,000 legal texts to Corporate responsibility ensures good assist professional bodies, advice centres, pro bono groups, law management of risk and opportunities, schools, and other institutions involved in access to justice across common law jurisdictions in Africa, Asia, and the Caribbean.
helps us attract and retain the best people, and strengthens our corporate reputation.
LexisNexis Risk Solutions works to protect society by supporting non-profit organisations such as the National Center for Missing & It means performing to the highest Exploited Children NCMEC and the Cal Ripken Sr. Foundation.
commercial and ethical standards and Since 2005, LexisNexis has completed nearly 6 million volunteer background checks for such organisations, identifying over 870,000 channelling our knowledge and strengths, individuals with criminal convictions, including more than 58,000 as global leaders in our industries, to make registered sex offenders.
Employees helped create the ADAM programme which assists in the safe recovery of missing children.
In partnership with NCMEC, ADAM distributes missing child posters to police, news media, schools, businesses, medical centres, and Constant engagement with stakeholders, including shareholders, other recipients within a specic geographic search area.
Since employees, communities, governments, and members of civil launching in 2000, 117 children have been located.
society, helps us determine material corporate responsibility issues.
The Reed Elsevier Board, senior management and the Corporate Reed Exhibitions provides platforms at its trade shows to Responsibility Forum oversee corresponding objectives and monitor organisations that support our corporate responsibility focus areas.
performance against them encompassing our unique contributions At the 2010 World Travel Market, its global event for the travel industry, as a business, as well as governance, people and community, Reed Exhibitions marked World Responsible Tourism Day with the customers, health and safety, supply chain, and environment.
Responsible Tourism Awards, recognising sector initiatives in areas like poverty reduction, low carbon transport and technology, and conservation.
Over the last seven years, Reed Exhibitions has given Our unique contributions free space at the London Book Fair to Book Aid International, which annually provides 500,000 books including those donated from We focus on areas where we can make a positive impact on society across Reed Elsevier to readers in the developing world, enabling through our knowledge, resources and skills.
These include universal the charity to engage with a wide range of potential book and sustainable access to information, advance of science and health, financial donors.
promotion of the rule of law and justice, and protection of society.
Reed Business Information RBI uses the power of its brands to Elsevier, the worlds largest scientific publisher, has an important aid communities.
Variety, the leading entertainment industry news role to play in advancing human welfare and economic progress source published by RBI, has established initiatives like the Power in places where information resources are often scarce.
Among key of Youth to spur young entertainers to support philanthropic and programmes is Research4Life, in partnership with United Nations humanitarian causes, and to encourage their fans to do so as well.
agencies and other publishers, which provides core and cutting-edge Since its inception in 2007, Power of Youth has raised more than scientific information to researchers in more than 100 developing $850,000 to aid children: in 2010 beneciaries included LAs BEST, countries.
In 2010, there were 3.1 million Research4Life article Education through Music, Girl Up, and Pencils of Promise.
Variety downloads from ScienceDirect a 20% increase over 2009.
In has built on the Power of Youth model to launch Power of Women the year, the Elsevier Foundation, through its Innovative Libraries and the Power of Comedy to highlight those using their celebrity in Developing Countries programme, committed over $300,000 to beneficial effect.
to support libraries with grants to improve  access to primary source material.
Recipients included HIV AIDS Drawing on expertise across Reed Elsevier, in 2010 we launched Audio-Visual Archive, University of Cape Town, South Africa: the Reed Elsevier Environmental Challenge to identify projects that Library Infrastructure Boost, University of Hargeisa, Somaliland: improve sustainable access to water where it is presently at risk.
and the Egyptian National Cancer Database.
We have provided access to products from our businesses to over 100 registrants from more than 50 countries and winners LexisNexis concentrates on promoting justice.
Its Rule of Law will be announced in June 2011.
Resource Center is a free online community covering topics like human rights, protecting minority communities, and anti-human 2011 Objectives trafcking.
In 2010, LexisNexis signed an agreement to provide t Complete RE Environmental Challenge: launch plans for 2012 content and support for the World Justice Projects Rule t Undertake UNICEF project on the impact of climate change of Law Index, a new quantitative assessment tool ranking over on children 75 countries.
As a founder of the UKs International Law Book t Further expansion of Research4Life Percentage of key suppliers as signatories Reduction in health and safety severity rate to Reed Elsevier Supplier Code of Conduct lost days per 200,000 hours worked 2008-2010 We uphold Reed Elsevier values Valuing our people means by requiring our suppliers to meet going beyond legal obligations the same standards we set to ensure staff wellbeing -29% -29% 60% 60% for ourselves 38 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Corporate responsibility continued Our 30,200 people are our strength.
In 2010, we implemented Governance activities across the business to address the results of our 2009 global Employee Opinion Survey.
For example, LexisNexis developed 2010 Objectives new initiatives to help employees build their management capabilities, t Code of Ethics and Business Conduct course completion with a percentage of executive bonuses tied to higher 2010 interim, by 90% of all employees pulse survey scores in this and other areas.
At Reed Exhibitions, t Data Privacy and Security course completion by 60% of all focus groups were held to address career development and employees satisfaction with feedback translated into management activities.
t Anti-bribery training for 80% of relevant employees in higher risk roles and geographies The Reed Elsevier Diversity and Inclusion D&I Statement articulates our commitment to a diverse workforce and environment that The Reed Elsevier Code of Ethics and Business Conduct Code respects individuals and their contributions, regardless of their is disseminated to every employee as a guide to our corporate and gender, race, or other characteristics.
In 2010, we developed a D&I individual conduct.
Encompassing topics such as fair competition, strategy endorsed by the Reed Elsevier Management Committee, anti-bribery and human rights, it encourages open and principled with key objectives such as ensuring each key location has a behaviour.
93% of current employees completed online Code training D&I value proposition and broad implementation plan.
Our crossby year end 2010, and 80% of all employees completed a data business D&I Working Group, drawing on internal and external privacy and security course.
In 2010, we provided anti-bribery expertise, promoted best practice in areas ranging from training training for approximately 78% of relevant employees in higher to communication.
Afnity groups, like womens forums, provide risk roles and geographies.
Further by the close of 2010, 2,700 support and mentoring and encourage community involvement.
managers had completed online training on anti-harassment and 5,500 employees on fair competition.
Reed Elsevier Cares, our global community programme, promotes education for disadvantaged young people, and allows staff up to In 2010, we actively promoted the United Nations Global Compact two days off per year for their own community work.
We donated UNGC to which we are a signatory businesses must align their 2.3 million in cash including through matching gifts and the governance and operations with ten principles related to human equivalent of 6.6 million in products, services, and staff time in 2010. rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption.
We served on the We worked to increase in-kind contributions throughout the year, steering group for the United Kingdom: contributed to the UNGC examples of which include LexisNexis Corporate Responsibility Day Supply Chain Advisory Group: produced a video on the UNGC for which involved nearly 2,000 staff in local community projects, and the legal community: and helped launch a report on UK signatories Elsevier Beijing which worked with an underprivileged school in and the Millennium Development Goals.
He Bei Province over two days providing educational support and supplies.
2011 Objectives t Code of Ethics and Business Conduct course completion Champions engage colleagues throughout the year in activities by 95% of all employees such as the Reed Elsevier Cares Challenge, which rewards business t Full alignment with Adequate Procedures Guidance under sponsored community engagement, and Reed Elsevier Cares the UK Bribery Act: 95% completion of anti-bribery training Month, with hundreds of events around the globe.
During the Month, by relevant employees in higher risk jobs and geographies we launched a global fundraising effort to raise $50,000 for Plan t Implementation of updated records management policy Internationals Because Im a Girl campaign to help girls in India, for example, in gaining educational opportunities and awareness of their legal and employment rights.
Our annual global book drive People and community involved over 5,000 employees and yielded some 18,240 books for local and developing world readers.
2010 Objectives t Advance divisional Employee Opinion Survey EOS action plans 2011 Objectives t Develop a diversity and inclusion strategy for key locations t Begin implementation of diversity and inclusion strategy t Closer alignment of RE Cares donations with corporate in key locations responsibility focus areas t New and improved People sections of internal and external t Increase in-kind contributions websites t Launch RE Cares recognition awards To date, Elsevier has helped the International Council of Nurses ICN Mobile Library set up more than 250 mobile libraries to deliver current health information to nursing professionals working in remote areas of 17 developing countries.
Each library is housed in a sturdy, transportable trunk with approximately 80 titles.
In 2010, through Elsevier and the Reed Elsevier Cares programme, resources, products, and assistance supported the ICN Supporting Nurses and Nursing in Haiti Fund in aiding post-earthquake recovery and reconstruction with tailored French-language Nursing Mobile Libraries containing books on post-disaster response, infectious diseases, and reinitiating interrupted treatment of life-threatening conditions like HIV and tuberculosis.
Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2010 Reed Elsevier 39
