Directors Report: Business Review Corporate responsibility Practicing sustainable business Being a global business carries great YTD rolling kg CO pa per occupied workstation in UK business 2 responsibility.
Even though our footprint 180 is large, we seek to keep sustainability at the core of how we conduct business.
Regus aims to bring employment and responsible investment in communities around the world while carefully 170 considering the environment.
Our representative to the Board for Corporate Responsibility in organisational governance is the Company Secretary.
160 Corporate Responsibility CR at Regus is now overseen by the Chief Sustainability Of cer and our framework is based on ISO 26000.
This comprehensive standard provides guidance on social responsibility 150 and has seven core subjects as its Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec foundation the environment: human 2008 2009 2010 rights: labour practices: consumer issues: fair operating practices: organisational governance and community involvement It remains our intention to reduce The above table shows a: and development.
It supports principles and our carbon footprint by 50% by guidelines of the United Nations UN and 10.28% reduction in the carbon 2020 using our 2007 baseline.
footprint per occupied workstation We recognise that we have not from 2007 levels: In supporting the three dimensions of achieved our targets in waste, water sustainability economic, social and 6.23% reduction in the carbon and transport reductions as set out in environmental, CR at Regus will also footprint per occupied workstation our last annual report but in June 2010 have three dimensions stakeholders, from 2009 levels.
we introduced a behavioural change the environment, and community programme to encourage Greener involvement and development.
This campaign includes a variety of behavioural changes coupled As a global company our stakeholders with a series of energy and carbon are diverse and include individuals, saving practices across the estate.
Core to the Each centre now has an appointed nature of our business, key stakeholders a Greener Working Champion whose for Regus are our employees, customers, primary role is to reduce energy, and shareholders, property agents and water consumption, encourage recycling landlords, and suppliers.
The health, and promote greener working amongst safety and security of our stakeholders customers, clients and suppliers.
Dry is also paramount to our business.
Mixed recycling was also introduced in Our environmental considerations 2010 and is being successfully adopted include reviewing our carbon footprint, by our staff and customers.
waste avoidance, water usage as well as Our community involvement and procurement and travel policies.
In the UK development will focus on forging Regus continues to make solid progress sustainable relationships with communities in its environmental performance.
The in the areas of education and skills strategy outlined in last years annual development, particularly as they relate to report targeted a 20% reduction in business creation.
Our team members will carbon footprint in 2010 based on our continue to support a wide variety of 2007 baseline see table opposite.
Whilst charitable organisations, large and small.
this target was not met we did achieve a Of particular note in 2010 our US team 10.28% reduction and this coupled with raised more than US$50,000 for the our successful Carbon Trust Accreditation Susan G Komen charity, a grassroots in May 2010 clearly demonstrates that breast cancer support network.
we are taking our environmental impact and performance seriously.
The emissions metric we are using to measure and track our carbon footprint is that of kg of CO 2 per occupied workstation, which has been accepted by the Carbon Trust as a unique measure for our business.
14 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 www.
