Corporate social responsibility CSR 15 Although the Renishaw Board has long recognised the need to Variable working-time has been adopted as standard practice manage effectively the social and environmental factors affecting for all UK staff, allowing staff members to create a better workthe business and, in turn, their impact on its reputation and life balance, whilst at the same time maintaining full support profitability, it is acknowledged that a formal CSR management to Renishaws worldwide customer base.
Other benefits that structure would provide a better focus for the Groups activities in staff receive include the use of gymnasiums at the New Mills, this respect.
Stonehouse, Ireland and Woodchester sites and subsidised restaurants at the most populous UK locations.
There are also Therefore the Board has named Ben Taylor, Assistant Chief discounts for sports and social activities, administered by a Executive, as the executive director with responsibility to manage volunteer employee-run organisation.
all aspects of the Companys CSR activities.
One of his first measures was to appoint a group of senior managers to coClose to their respective birthdays, staff members in the ordinate CSR activities.
Gloucestershire locations are invited to attend a communications meeting at which Board members are present.
These meetings This groups first action was to propose that a Renishaw Group provide staff with information about developments within the Business Code be implemented to codify and consolidate Company and give them the opportunity to ask any question standards of conduct within the Group.
The Code has been of the Board in an open discussion forum.
A copy of the approved by the Board and work is underway to implement presentation and responses to questions raised at these processes to ensure compliance.
meetings are made available to all worldwide staff via the Groups intranet.
Following the announcement of interim and annual CUSTOMERS financial results, all staff in Gloucestershire are also invited to We continue to build long-term relationships with our customers attend a series of presentations, with all issues raised again made by offering expert local support through our direct presence available to all worldwide staff.
in 31 countries and by supplying innovative products that significantly advance their operational performance - from improving manufacturing efficiencies and raising product quality, to maximising research capabilities and improving the efficacy of medical procedures.
With an increasing focus within the manufacturing sector on its environmental impacts and the business need to reduce costs, our products are also helping customers to reduce energy consumption and minimise waste.
One example is Lamborghini tractors, which has saved 150,000 per annum by installing Renishaw tool breakage detection systems: non-productive machine time taken to check tools has been reduced significantly, reducing the total energy consumption required by this Italian company to produce the same level of machined components.
Further examples can be found in the news section of our website, www.
Our products are also making a significant contribution to the manufacture and operation of alternative energy products, most notably our position encoders which are increasingly used to ensure the accuracy of machinery used in the manufacture of solar panels and also to give direct position feedback on electric motors for hybrid vehicles.
In Sweden KMT Lidkping see page 7 rely on our optical and magnetic encoders to control critical positional aspects of their huge vertical turning grinding machines, used by their customers LAMBORGHINI TOOL BREAKAGE DETECTION around the world to produce bearings for wind turbines, some REDUCED BY 67% of which are over 4 metres in diameter.
The accuracy of such bearings is critical to the safe and efficient operation of these Lamborghini is a brand that symbolises Italian passion in the world of supercars, but it also has a strong following in the agricultural world, green energy sources.
due to a range of high performance tractors produced by SAME DEUTZ-FAHR.
At its headquarters and main factory in Treviglio, near STAFF Milan, Italy, visitors are struck by the same passion for producing Renishaw is an equal opportunities employer operating a strict high quality products in an advanced machining operation.
Now the policy of non-discriminatory behaviour, offering an environment company has improved efficiency further by fitting cost-effective that promotes innovation and progress within which individual Renishaw probe equipment to multiple Mazak machining centres, talents can flourish.
We have a diverse mix of age ranges, gender giving a spectacular return on investment.
and ethnicity - at the end of June 2010 some 19.2% of UK staff As Luigi Galimberti, Manufacturing Engineering specialist for machining are aged over 50 2009 18.6%, with 12.9% below 25 operations, explains, We have used tool breakage detection for a long time on 2009 9.2%, and some 22.5% of employees are female the Mazak machines, as machining cycles are fully automated and operators 2009 29.3%.
Worldwide staff turnover excluding redundancies would have no idea if a tap or drill broke.
Without detection a component could still have a broken tool embedded: subsequent operations would be has remained stable compared to last year at around 7%, incomplete and other components could be damaged.
which compares favourably with the 2009 average in the UK Mr Galimberti explains that the decision to invest in the TRS2 tool recognition manufacturing sector of 15.2% source: CIPD.
systems and the subsequent cycle time savings has been extremely Long service is rewarded at every five years of service and can successful.
After a detailed analysis, based on the cost to run machines, we know this equates to a saving of more than 150K in the first year.
This is include small gifts, extra holiday allowance and a cash sum, because most of the non-productive machine time taken to check tools has with almost 350 staff benefitting this calendar year.
A group now been released to machine components.
We have paid back the initial performance bonus programme rewards staff with an annual investment in the TRS2s in a matter of just 5 months.
bonus based upon group results and individual performance.
Annual report and accounts 2010 16 Corporate social responsibility continued Throughout the year other company updates and items felt to For the 2010 financial year a far greater emphasis has been be of interest to employees are also regularly communicated via placed upon accurately measuring performance using the UK email, with hard copies circulated to staff without PC access.
Governments guidance on how to measure and report upon The Renishaw culture also encourages direct employee feedback carbon emissions.
either to immediate supervisors or Board members.
In addition, a Unless otherwise stated the following analysis which will form suggestion scheme exists with awards for the best the baseline data for all future emissions reporting includes all the ideas received.
Groups global operations for the 12-month period 1st June 2009 Renishaw maintained its UK sponsored student scheme, to 31st May 2010: apprenticeship scheme, and industrial placement programme throughout the difficulties of 2009.
A number of sponsored GHG emissions students who have recently graduated will start during 2010, plus 2010 in tonnes of CO e 2 the Company currently has 50 students on work placement, all of whom are being reviewed for potential sponsorship for 2010 11.
Scope 1 There are now 30 apprentices currently in training, and a record Gas consumption 685.0 20 new starters confirmed for September 2010, plus 10 industrial placement students.
Owned transport 1,842.4 A new Applications Academy has also been created to meet Generator diesel 65.6 the need for a larger number of engineers to become specialists Heating oil 38.2 in the application of Renishaws metrology products.
Whilst this structured training programme will last two years for novices, Total scope 1 2,631.2 a modular format will allow other staff to benefit from training sessions, such as six sigma techniques and report writing, which Scope 2 are relevant to their job role.
Purchased electricity 10,525.4 THE ENVIRONMENT Total scope 2 10,525.4 Renishaw takes its responsibilities for the environment seriously and has made further investments to improve its performance Significant scope 3 in relation to energy consumption, water usage, emissions and Business travel 1,264.7 disposal of waste materials.
The Company continues to optimise and control its energy consumption as previously reported Product distribution 1,919.8 with an additional emphasis upon cost control during the last Metal purchase 3,533.9 12-month period.
Post Communications 276.3 Energy In the UK, installation of half-hourly metering for electricity Total significant scope 3 6,994.7 consumption is nearing completion.
This will allow improved monitoring and the ability to clearly identify opportunities for Only UK data included reduced consumption.
Further investments have been made in Renishaws detailed monitoring equipment to identify specific Based upon this baseline data and as part of the process of peaks in electricity usage, quantify reductions and make achieving the Carbon Trust Standard, the Company will be continuous improvements across various sites.
New investments setting targets for reduction of carbon emissions during the 2011 have also been made in systems that will monitor gas and water financial year.
usage at the four main UK sites allowing these energy streams to Although not included within these standard Government be similarly reduced.
measures, Renishaw recognises that there is a significant impact Despite the difficult economic conditions that prevailed for caused by staff driving to its Gloucestershire sites.
There is very much of the year and a close control of capital investment, the limited public transportation serving these sites, and therefore the Company has continued to invest in upgrades to lighting systems Company actively encourages car sharing by hosting a specific in high energy-load areas of the New Mills and Woodchester area on the company intranet, through lift-share notices in sites.
These include further introductions of passive infra-red communal areas and through the circulation of regular emails detectors to switch off lighting when areas are not occupied that remind staff of the benefits of car sharing.
and technology upgrades to lower wattage lighting systems.
Waste Management Evaluations of similar lighting schemes that will reduce electricity Renishaw has continued to analyse waste streams and as a consumption and reduce costs are underway at other sites.
result strives to increase recycling and reduce amounts sent to As Renishaw consumed more than 6 megawatts of electricity in landfill, notably paper, cardboard, plastic cups, toner cartridges 2008 it is bound by UK legislation to comply with the CRC Energy and batteries.
Analysis of the waste streams at the main UK sites Efficiency Scheme formerly known as the Carbon Reduction shows a marked reduction in landfill has been made in recent Commitment and has registered accordingly.
progress made in recent years by monitoring usage and continue Reduction of waste at source is also seen as a key contributor to reduce CO emissions, the Board has made a commitment to 2 achieving the Carbon Trust Standard which will also benefit the to overall waste reduction.
Continuing efforts are being made to distribute both technical and sales documentation in electronic Company in terms of its ranking within the CRC Energy Efficiency format and the encoder business line no longer distributes user Scheme and any rebates due under the terms of the scheme.
guides to its customers, with up-to-date guides available through Emissions a special support website.
Commercial documentation, such The measurement of the overall impact of carbon emissions as invoices and acknowledgements, is also available through a within the Group is very complex given the geography and paperless facility, with customers encouraged to accept this scope of operations.
A conservative estimate of the impact of form of transaction.
changes made by reductions in electricity consumption rates and air-freight in the financial year 2009 was a 20% reduction over the previous year, with a best estimate of 15,000 tonnes of CO 2 being emitted through our activities.
Renishaw plc 17 Although only one of the Companys products currently falls within Charity the scope of the requirements of the European Directive 2002 95 The Renishaw Charities Committee RCC was created over 20 EC on the Restriction of the use of Hazardous Substances years ago to distribute funds made available by the Company RoHS, all new position encoder products are now introduced to support charitable institutions and to support the individual as RoHS compliant, and the Company continues to develop and charitable efforts of staff through a match-funding scheme.
implement processes for other products wherever possible.
A particular focus is to assist organisations that help enrich the lives of children and adults, from toddler groups and sports Landfill totals clubs, through to organisations that support the disabled and the bereaved.
This year additional funds were also made available for Tonnes a new disaster fund, which was created in the wake of the 200 07-08 total to landfill 362.6 Tonnes Haiti earthquake.
08-09 total to landfill 181.5 Tonnes 180 During the year the RCC donated funds to and supported a 09-10 total to landfill 108.7 Tonnes 160 christmas carol concert fundraising event for a multi-sensory hydrotherapy unit at St Roses special needs school in Stroud, 140 Gloucestershire.
This inspirational school has an outstanding 120 reputation for providing for the education, care and therapy of children with severe physical disabilities and complex 100 health needs.
80 Gloucestershire Young Carers aims to create a network of 60 support groups for young carers, the often forgotten section 40 of our communities that are burdened at an early age with the responsibility of caring for their ill or disabled parents.
The 20 organisation works with these young carers to ensure that service 0 providers understand their needs and through the existing 15 New Mills Woodchester Stonehouse support groups allows them to take a break and share personal Sites experiences.
The RCC had no hesitation in providing funding to help develop the network.
In May six staff from the corporate marketing team also took part in the Helping Hands volunteer scheme run by Well Child, a charity which helps seriously sick children and their families to manage the consequences of serious illness and complex health conditions, and also supports children with special educational needs.
The team re-designed the existing library at Amberley Ridge School in Gloucestershire and in just one day transformed it into an inspiring room with new colours and graphics, all funded by Renishaw.
Renishaw has supported Children in Need CIN for many years, and any money raised by staff is matched by the RCC.
Last Autumn a group of divisional directors decided to support fundraising efforts through an initiative titled Directors in Drag, which caused great amusement around the Gloucestershire sites and received significant media coverage.
Together with support from the RCC this fun day raised 7,450 for CIN.
Inside view of the main machine shop at Stonehouse, Gloucestershire, where a 79% reduction in landfill has been achieved since 2007-2008.
THE COMMUNITY Throughout its history the Company has forged close links with the local community and schools.
It is especially keen to communicate a positive story about the role of engineering in enhancing the lives of the general populace and the attractions of a career within the manufacturing sector.
Renishaw therefore hosts tour groups of all ages throughout the year, which in the past 12 months has included business and engineering undergraduates from various UK universities, local secondary schools, and a group from the University of the Third Age U3A.
The Company also actively supports the local business community, imparting its knowledge through roundtable discussions and business seminars, especially with regard to export activities.
It is also an active member of Wotton Chamber of Trade and recently helped judge the Stroud Life Business Awards.
Staff from Renishaws corporate marketing team transformed the existing library at Amberley Ridge special educational needs school in Gloucestershire, as part of Well Childs Helping Hands volunteer scheme.
Annual report and accounts 2010 126.1 80.3 52.2 153.9 62.0 38.9 82.6 39.2 17.6 18 Corporate social responsibility continued Education Throughout the year the Company also continued to foster Nurturing the next generation of engineering excellence and a relationships with primary and secondary schools, providing desire to present a positive image of engineering is a fundamental support for work experience, school visits and careers evenings.
part of the Companys involvement with education.
During the year the Company has supported some 50 paid placements for university students and this summer gave one In June Renishaw made a significant contribution to a new week work experience placements to 40 students under the Education & Training Zone that was set up within MACH 2010, age of 18. the UKs largest manufacturing show, with the organisers aiming to inspire, prepare and motivate the next generation of British Renishaw also supported numerous other organisations that engineers through a rewarding experience.
Over the course of aim to inspire young engineers, including hosting the regional the five-day event, Renishaw supplied 23 young apprentices to launch of the Go4Set programme, speaking and exhibiting at an act as tour guides and mentors to groups of 14 to 16 year-old Engineering Education Scheme Wales event and sponsoring the children, with exhibits including the BLOODHOUND Supersonic regional heat of the Greenpower electric car racing championship Car which aims to create a new 1,000 mph land speed record.
which took place at the Castle Combe race track in Wiltshire, UK.
The Company also funded a coach to take over 30 pupils from three Gloucestershire schools to the exhibition.
Engineering diploma students that attended the show were also given support materials which included a case study of Renishaw that arose from a week long visit to the Company in 2008, where the organisation DTEP was given full access to film staff during their normal working day at sites across Gloucestershire and to capture their thoughts about a career in engineering.
Renishaw has strong links with universities in many of its key markets.
An example is a long-term partnership with Cardiff Universitys refurbished Trevithick Library, which includes the Renishaw Room, a group study facility that provides an inspirational learning environment for the next generation of highclass graduate engineers, physicists, computer scientists and The Renishaw Room within Cardiff Universitys Trevithick Library is a high-class manufacturing engineers.
group study facility for student engineers, physicists, computer scientists and manufacturing engineers.
Pictured far right is Gareth Hankins, Manufacturing Director, who started his career as a Renishaw apprentice, before taking an engineering degree at Cardiff.
CMM RETROFIT FOR GE OIL AND FTSE Group confirms that Renishaw plc has been independently GAS FLORENCE assessed according to the FTSE4Good criteria, and has satisfied GE Oil and Gas Florence has transformed the performance of a DEA the requirements to become a constituent of the FTSE4Good Global CMM with a retrofit system direct from Renishaw, allowing far higher data collection rates and thus form analysis, never before Index Series.
practically possible on the DEA CMM.
Created by the global index company FTSE Group, FTSE4Good As Claudio Bartali Manufacturing Technology Project Leader explains, is an equity index series that is designed to facilitate investment in The demonstration was spectacular inspection time on a typical companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility impeller reduced by 4 times.
However, that is not the main reason we started the project and employed Renishaw to retrofit the CMM with standards.
Companies in the FTSE4Good Index Series have REVO.
The exciting part will start soon when we use the massive amount met stringent social, ethical and environmental criteria, and of accurate REVO-measured data to compare the form of inspected are positioned to capitalise on the benefits of responsible surfaces with the 3D CAD models.
