48 Corporate responsibility report Last year we highlighted that we are increasingly working together, responsibly.
There was no let-up in the pace of change in 2010 as we integrated more businesses and activities and increasingly acted as one to enhance the colleague and customer experience.
Our broad range of actions is delivering the momentum needed to create successful change.
Responsible business practice is embedded within the companys strategic plan, and builds upon our values of Service, Relationships and Teamwork, enhancing performance for all stakeholders.
Alan Brown Chief Executive Corporate Responsibility Review 2010 saw the launch of a new code of conduct, accompanied by a governance guide for all managers.
Front line colleagues received In 2010 we improved many aspects of our core responsible business a pocket guide to promote responsible business practices across the practices.
We introduced a new group-wide code of conduct: group.
Produced in 22 different languages, this was distributed either continued embedding our values worldwide: undertook the directly to homes or as part of team meetings.
The internal control second global Your Voice Counts colleague survey: continued self assessment system and the Speak Up system contribute to focusing on energy and water saving: developed health and effective governance.
The audit committee reviews outputs.
safety pr0grammes: piloted innovative new ways of working: and enhanced product stewardship for customers.
Our training in competition and antitrust law continued and is part of induction training for new colleagues in relevant areas We participated in Business in the Communitys Corporate of activity.
In 2011, refresher assessments will be introduced, Responsibility Index, the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and the together with training about anticorruption issues.
We are highly ranked within our sector across these benchmarks.
Governance The chief executive has responsibility for corporate responsibility.
The board reviews progress at least once a year, and specific items, e. g. health and safety, more regularly.
The senior safety, health and environment professionals across the group now meet regularly to develop and embed more standard processes across the group.
Divisions are responsible for setting operational corporate responsibility priorities, whilst complying with group policies in areas such as on health and safety, the environment and business conduct.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010 Governance 49 48 Corporate 48 Governance 51 The Marketplace Corporate governance Responsibility 49 The Environment 51 Health and Safety Corporate responsibility report Review 50 The Workplace 52 The Community The Board reviews the following indicators: Similarly, our UK operations change to fuel cards using consumption reporting focuses on efficient driving and fuel Non Financial Performance Indicators consumption.
The UKs introduction of Drive Smart combines the benefits of improved safety, reduced damage costs and 2008 2009 2010 improved fuel consumption.
i CO emissions 134 119 108 2 Proactive waste management is a focus for many businesses.
ii Water consumption 14 13 12 City Link reviews its waste streams including waste in wooden Colleague engagement n a 70% 70% pallets and recycling plastic packaging, often generating Colleague enablement n a 68% 68% revenue as a bi-product.
Sales colleague retention 55% 64% 64% Service colleague retention 74% 74% 76% Greenhouse gas emissions iii Customer satisfaction n a n a 19% In 2010 CO emissions were 269,415 tonnes compared with 2 301,509 tonnes in 2009.
Emissions per m turnover decreased State of Service 89% 98% 97% iv by 9.4% year-on-year.
Improvement in business unit reporting Number of Lost Time Accidents 1.82 1.53 1.72 has led to greater consistency in reporting this year.
i Total CO emissions in tonnes per m turnover reported on a total company 2 basis.
As service delivery tends to be on customers premises our ii Water consumed litres per kilogramme of textiles processed in continental property environmental impact is limited and we focus on carbon European plants.
iii C ustomer satisfaction score, using Net Promoter Index, represents the net emissions and water consumption.
Our main environmental balance of those customers promoting our service compared with those impacts are from our processing plants: our vehicle fleet: and neutral or not promoting.
iv LTA equals accidents per 100,000 hours worked.
2008 2009 2010 The Environment 000 000 000 In 2010 we improved each of our environmental KPIs.
Key activities Total emissions tonnes 324 302 269 included the consolidation of a number of our textiles processing Emissions in tonnes per m turnover on a total company basis 134 119 108 plants into better located more efficient plants: the development of our first textiles plant which uses no boilers and a major energy Energy consumption, from property usage million kWh 595 569 489 efficiency programme in Germany.
We increased focus on waste Energy consumption, from vehicle reduction and recycling to support our customers requirements.
usage million litres 73 66 60 These were some of our key activities: Rentokils Authorised Product List APL enhances control Our emissions indicator is normalised CO emissions tonnes per 2 of active ingredients and their dosage.
The APL has been million turnover.
Emissions conversion is based on DEFRA introduced across Rentokils worldwide operations, to ensure guidance using scope 1 and 2 emissions factors.
Reporting includes that unacceptable toxic products are avoided, chemical usage all property energy and all vehicle fuel.
Further details including compliance is maintained and excessive dosage avoided.
on air travel emission can be found in the companys Corporate Ambius adopted a plan to reduce its carbon footprint.
In 2010 Responsibility Report 2010. it established a target to reduce vehicle fuel consumption by CO emissions data has been collated by the group since 2000 2 10-15% and property energy by a similar amount.
for its major European textiles operations, with the data for all Improving IT systems results in cost and service improvements European processing plants being reported since 2006.
They are as well as energy reduction.
Introducing four data centres currently responsible for 66% of the groups CO property and 2 across the world led to significant energy reductions.
process emissions 2009 65% and just over 32% for all sources Developments in cloud computing and Google Apps result in of scope 1 and 2 emissions 2009 40%.
reduced branch technology use and efficiency improvements for mobile colleagues.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010 50 Corporate governance Corporate responsibility report The chart below shows the trend since 2006 for continental 33,364 colleagues took part, an increase of 8% on 2009, European processing plants the larger plants in Belgium, France, representing a 69% response rate.
Both engagement and Germany and the Netherlands and the smaller plants in Austria, enablement levels remained constant at a group level.
Ambius Czech Republic and Spain, showing 5% reduction in emissions and Initial Facilities Services showed positive improvements, in 2010 2009 3% reduction.
while scores in City Link were generally down year on year.
1,497 reports and presentations were produced to enable All continental plants communication and action planning locally.
Year UK plants This table shows responses to relevant corporate 383 2007 responsibility questions.
372 2008 Favourable Neutral Unfavourable YVC 2010 Rentokil Initial % % % 360 2009 I feel proud to work for the company 73 21 6 273 The company is customer focused 73 17 9 343 2010 266 Finding betters way to meet customer needs is a high priority 77 17 6 Kilogrammes of CO emissions per tonne processed 2 Company places high priority on health and safety 76 15 9 Water Consumption Colleagues know what is expected of them 90 7 3 In 2010, the water consumption, based on kilogrammes of laundry Poor performance is not accepted 75 16 9 washed in all the companys European processing plants, fell by 8% Colleagues are treated with respect 73 16 11 to 12.42 litres 2009: 13.40 litres.
The chart below shows the trend in water consumption for both our continental plants and Skills and talent development the plants in the UK.
In 2010, 451 employees undertook accredited learning, mainly within the Initial Facilities Services division, in subjects such as All continental plants Year UK plants business administration, cleaning and support services, and team 14.43 leading.
While this is lower than previous years due to the change in 2007 the UK Government framework, the success rate increased by 22%.
13.74 In line with the new framework, the company has appointed two 2008 skills training providers and begun to develop its own core values 13.4 2009 training programme with three modules to reflect the companys 6.32 three core values of Service, Relationships and Teamwork which 12.42 2010 will underpin future numeracy and literacy training.
This is planned 5.85 to be piloted in 2011 and the company will seek official accreditaWater usage per unit washed litres used per kilogram tion for this new initiative.
The Rentokil pest control business further developed its The Workplace learning and development approach the Rentokil Academy with global reach and alignment to the strategic agenda.
The company continued its HR strategy to deliver capability-led Its business benefits are considered considerable with the sales change and drive engagement and enablement of colleagues.
community showing positive engagement score improvements post Academy participation.
Engagement and enablement Rentokil Initial measures and acts to improve both colleague At a management level, the talent development process was engagement and enablement.
Your Voice Counts YVC is the reviewed with a focus on the senior 450 managers, and middle companys annual, confidential colleague survey.
In 2010 this managers with high potential, across the group.
Key programmes was completed worldwide for the second consecutive year.
included Coaching for Senior Teams and Living Leadership.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010 Governance 51 Corporate governance Corporate responsibility report Supply chain management The Marketplace The company combines a central procurement team with divisional Customer service levels reached 97% state of service during 2010 specialists in areas such as textiles and Asia sourcing.
ahead of the companys 95% target.
Levels of customer satisfacThe central procurement department seeks out the most acceptation, measured using the process which we call Customer Voice ble purchasing decisions, taking into account corporate responsibilCounts CVC, also showed improvements across the group, ity issues, using techniques like whole life costing.
To ensure particularly City Link.
The group CVC score was 19% in 2010.
We consistent procurement approaches, the group utilises a supply measure customer retention levels at a business unit and divisional chain academy, to deliver training on sustainability including level, while the group score improved to 83.9% in 2010, compared courses on Sustainability in Suppliers and Best Practices.
In 2010 the procurement team signed an agreement to introduce These were some of our key activities: in 2011 Ariba Procure-to-Pay to drive a best-practice Customers rightly expect proactive approaches, anticipating procurement process.
Following success last year achieving In many businesses, where product supply categories represent product registration under the EU Biocidal Products Directive high risks, we adopt higher supplier involvement levels.
In the for its RADAR unit, Rentokil has now achieved USA regulatory Textiles & Hygiene division a focus is on materials, much of which approval for RADAR.
is sourced from a few countries known to be countries to watch.
To better understand customers specific issues, divisions use Textiles contracts require suppliers to meet ethical, environmental various survey techniques in addition to the CVC process.
and labour standards and uses ACTE, together with OEKO-TEX Ambius undertook customer preference research, especially certification, to ensure compliance.
concerning green services and Rentokil undertook mystery Procurement activities In Rentokil and Ambius often link with shopper research, focusing on branches response to customers.
Technical colleagues specify products Eden, one of the UKs largest school catering services providers, and ingredients, based on regulatory and technical knowledge and worked with Croydon Council to achieve Silver accreditation our procurement teams.
Internal specifiers advise procurement in for the Food for Life catering mark.
Eden is the first to have procuring environmentally safe products.
achieved this recognition for a group contract.
Rentokil introduced Entotherm, a chemical-free process Health and Safety utilising dry heat to tackle bed bugs and cockroaches, which Health and safety is routinely reviewed at all management levels was awarded a Best Innovation in the Private Sector award and is on the main boards agenda at every meeting.
The focus as part of the Best Business Awards 2010. is on colleagues, customers and those individuals affected by the Initial Hygiene introduced Eco Soaps, a range of environmencompanys operational activities.
tally friendly, low allergy soaps, to meet the strict ecological These were some of our key activities: requirements of the Nordic Swann Council and EU Eco-Label.
The company rolled out the Success Is No Accident incident City Link developed a range of initiatives to offer the industrys and accident management programme into operations in highest level of parcel security.
This includes VanCam and Australia, New Zealand and North America, following its the recent introduction of Eteligencia, analysing products success in the UK.
The programme provides an early reporting sold on auction sites such as eBay, helping locate missing or and management action process related to work-related stolen products.
Initial Hygiene developed service propositions linked to Driving on company business is a major area of risk.
Drive Smart customer segments, which are currently under trial.
Ambiuss was introduced for all UK drivers to achieve a crash free customer research led to specific service propositions for culture, by proactively identifying at risk drivers and customers seeking more environmentally friendly service.
providing a range of targeted and effective interventions.
UK Rentokil offers larger commercial customers improved service results showed third party claims per vehicle reducing by 4% information using online information PestNet Online which and more minor accidental damage incidents down by 20%, enables improved reporting and monitoring.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010 52 Corporate governance Corporate responsibility report T he group has continued its drive to install more common The Community processes for managing health and safety risks such as working Rentokil Initials community approach consists of three activities: at height and risk assessments.
charitable cash donations: community support: and community B usinesses introduced a variety of health and safety initiatives investment.
The latter two tend to be at a country or divisional and training schemes during 2010.
City Link introduced the level, and are likely to combine financial support, operational or Dont Look Away campaign to raise awareness of potential marketing support and employee volunteering.
hazards, ensuring they are sorted and reported.
It also Significant community investment programmes occurred in South launched Safety Zone, an online health and safety induction Africa supporting individuals impacted by Aids HIV, in Australia course.
Rentokil Academy introduced a health and safety supporting Rainforest Rescue, and in Europe supporting module in technicians performance assessment training organisations in the developing world, as well as local charities.
materials and an ATEX Awareness training package for In 2010, Rentokil Initials charitable donations amounted to colleagues working in explosive atmospheres.
This Health and safety management excludes value in kind donations or provision of management time The companys approach to health and safety compliance is backed or colleagues own fundraising.
by internal health and safety management requirements to which businesses must conform.
These are based around OHSAS 18001.
More details of the community initiatives and projects, and other In this years Your Voice Counts survey a question was asked about aspects of Corporate Responsibility, can be found in the web-based colleagues perceptions about the groups priority towards health Corporate Responsibility Report 2010. and safety.
The response to The company places high priority on health and safety increased by 2 percentage points to 76% which is above General Industry norm rates.
Our businesses report on their lost time accident rate LTA a frequency measure.
Currently, there is one formal health and safety KPI Lost Time Accident Rate LTA.
To improve focus on absence management, the Working Days Lost Rate WDL a severity measure will be formally reported as a KPI from 2011.
In 2010 the group identified 21 priority businesses targeted for improvements and Lost Time Accidents LTA performance improved significantly in 10 of the 21 priority businesses.
For 2011, the company will focus on five key business units for targeted interventions.
The five units include City Link and Textiles & Hygiene Benelux which are undergoing performance improvement plans.
These units accounted for 52% of the total LTAs and WDL in 2010.
The group LTA and WDL rate increased by 12.5% and 13% respectively in 2010.
Part of this increase is accounted for by improved processes of reporting in 2010 compared to 2009.
2009 2010 KPI Performance Performance Number of Lost Time Accidents injuries and illnesses 100,000 hours worked group LTA 1.53 1.72 Working Days Lost because of Lost Time Accidents 100,000 hours worked group WDL 39.66 45.63 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2010
