Corporate responsibility The Restaurant Group plc TRG acknowledges that it has Healthy Catering initiatives and is committed to ensure a significant role to play with regard to the community and that all menus feature lighter options and all childrens meals wider environment in which it operates.
This statement sets come with a choice of carbohydrate alternatives and a out the principal areas of focus and activity that the Group complementary portion of salad or vegetables, and to work has undertaken to date, and what the Group is looking at for with our suppliers to source lower salt, saturated fat and future development, in managing its impact on customers, calorie versions of ingredients where possible.
employees, communities and the wider environment.
Hydrogenated fats This is split into five sections: In light of UK government and consumer focus with Our market the area of business that our strategy regard to consumption of products containing high levels is focused on.
of fat, particularly saturated fats and artificial hydrogenated Our people the Groups policies and actions towards trans-fats, which have been linked to potential risks to our 10,000 employees.
cardiovascular health, we conducted a detailed review Our communities how TRG interacts with those of our suppliers and our menu ingredients in conjunction communities from which our customers and employees with our external food safety consultants.
Our environment the impact of TRG on the wider We have worked closely with all of our suppliers environment, and how we are seeking to reduce this.
to identify the types and levels of fats and oils in Our shareholders those that have invested capital in our ingredients to facilitate a programme of removal, the development of The Restaurant Group plc, and to replacement or reduction, whilst maintaining our whom the Directors and management of the Group are required quality standards.
The vast majority of our ingredients 99% are now free from hydrogenated fats and oils.
Our market Since August 2007 we have prohibited the supply of new The Restaurant Group plc has focused its attention on ingredients containing added hydrogenated fats and oils.
markets in the United Kingdom which have significant We continue to work closely with all of our suppliers to growth potential.
For a number of years, dining out has been identify and progress opportunities for reducing overall a growing market, and, partially as a result of this, there has levels of saturated fat wherever possible and to provide been an increased focus from customers and regulatory healthier choices.
authorities on health issues relating to our sector.
We have Whilst some trans-fats occur naturally and are found in small seen initiatives on alcohol, food in particular on calorie amounts in meat and dairy products, concerns have been raised consumption and fat and salt content and smoking over about artificial trans-fats, formed during a food manufacturing recent years and these are set to continue to be a focus.
process called hydrogenation that turns oils into solid semi-solid It is important that the Group continues to monitor closely fats.
These hydrogenated fats oils can be found in products such these developments and ensure that we offer our customers as biscuits, cakes, margarine, processed foods and cooking oils.
a broad range of choice in our restaurants, including healthy options.
Other initiatives All our red meat is supplied from producers in the UK and Healthy eating Ireland and we have taken significant steps to reduce our Healthy eating is a personal responsibility but TRG food miles.
This process will continue into 2011, with acknowledges that as a provider of food and drink we have a focus on improving our supply chain efficiency and a role to play in providing appropriate options from which reducing the number of deliveries, and therefore food miles, individuals may choose when they eat out.
TRG strongly to our restaurants.
Our Concessions division sources eggs believes that we should offer our guests choices on the from The Happy Eggs Company, who operate higher welfare menu.
Whilst we do not wish to be prescriptive we aim to standards for their chickens.
provide a healthy choice at each menu point, alongside more indulgent options.
For many people dining out is a treat, and TRG is a member of the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange therefore the normal restrictions which may be applied to SEDEX, which facilitates measurement and improvement healthy eating on a day-to-day basis are waived in favour of in ethical business practices across the supply chain: enjoyment and experience.
For example, whilst completing 120 of our food suppliers and 18 other non-food suppliers the weekly shop a consumer may choose chocolate fudge provide information describing their procedures and practices cake for their weekend dessert as opposed to a piece to the Group via SEDEX.
As in previous years, there continue to be no known The Group is undertaking a process of monitoring nutritional genetically modified foods in any product the Group uses content across its menus and, as part of our ongoing menu and new suppliers are required to confirm that they will not review, will look to develop the healthier options available provide the Group with such products.
We are also working to customers and to work with our suppliers to reduce salt with our suppliers to target and remove the Southampton content and calorific content.
The Group has engaged with Institute colourings that can cause hyperactivity in children the Food Standards Agency and Department of Health and this will remain an ongoing focus during 2011.
26 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2010 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Drink aware The Group allocates considerable resources to provide high All our restaurants operate an Are You 21 policy, whereby quality training to our teams.
Training begins on the first day we will ask for proof of identification to anyone who appears and is an ongoing process of development and support.
We also do not permit the sale of alcohol Our training team is fully qualified and delivers high quality to under 18s, even if the alcohol is for consumption with courses, as well as guiding new and established team a meal.
All of our restaurants offer a wide range of nonmembers throughout their development.
alcoholic drinks including fruit juices, carbonates, minerals and non-alcoholic cocktails and tap water is available for With our portfolio of sites it is vital that our communication customers free of charge.
is of a very high standard.
Each day branch staff are given team briefings: weekly meetings for staff and management Smoking are held: and weekly communications packs are issued from From 1 July 2007 we have complied fully with the legislation head office to each brand.
Our senior managers are out throughout the United Kingdom which has banned smoking in the business extensively and interact daily with their branch in public areas.
management and team members to ensure full two-way communication is present throughout the business.
Our people The most important asset any company can have is its The health and safety of our customers and employees is of people.
At The Restaurant Group plc we strive to nurture paramount importance.
The Group has extensive procedures our individuals to build great teams.
Anyone has the potential to ensure we mitigate risks to our guests and teams as far to develop within our company and we endeavour to give as possible.
We have very clear procedures and standards them the tools and knowledge to encourage this.
This is the in place, and to enforce these we employ external auditors key to any successful business and our team is one of which and carry out benchmarking of our restaurants.
We have also we are especially proud.
significantly increased the level of training in health and safety matters across the Group in recent years to further enhance We employ approximately 10,000 people and continue the clean, safe environment for our customers and staff.
to increase this number as we expand our business.
The Group opened a further 24 restaurants during 2010 Our communities and created approximately 700 jobs for the local communities Active involvement in the local communities around our in the process.
restaurants and pub restaurants is important to The Restaurant Group plc.
Whilst we operate successful national Our policies ensure that we offer equal rights regardless of brands our focus is on local community marketing whether age, colour, gender, sexual orientation, disability or religion.
this is for Frankie & Bennys, with almost 200 restaurants, This gives us a diverse group of employees able to meet the or the individual pub at the heart of a village community.
We have a fair and open The Restaurant Group supports staff fundraising activities recruitment process with clear terms of employment and we at a brand and local level.
have developed a new website www.
jobs to allow easier access to available jobs for potential During 2010 we engaged in a number of local and national employees across our Group.
All staff are provided with a charitable events: contract of employment and copies of our staff handbook The Frankie & Bennys teams across the country worked along with other policies to ensure everyone is aware of our with three regional charities.
In Scotland we raised over rules, expectations and procedures, including grievance and 50,000 with CHAS childrens hospices in Scotland.
The Group has an ethical dealings policy We sponsored The Christie, a leading cancer centre based in place which incorporates a strict prohibition on bribery and in Manchester, and raised over 40,000, and also raised corruption.
The Group also has a defined termination policy, over 23,000 for the Macmillan cancer charity.
These should this be required.
monies were raised from customers and staff through local events, raffles and theme and fancy dress nights.
Recently there has been a stronger focus on ensuring the Frankie & Bennys continues its initiative to support local recruitment of our teams complies with current legislation.
junior sports teams across the country, providing new With the UK Border Agency instigating regular visits to sports kit for more than 110 local teams in 2010: employers to check the validity of our employees rights Chiquito teams raised over 7,000 in 2010 during their to work in the UK we have instigated robust measures Cinco fide Mayo fiesta, for Casa Alianza, a homeless to prevent the possibility of TRG contravening the rules.
The brand went on to support this charity later in the year, on hearing that one of their The Restaurant Group plc pays all of its employees at least childrens homes had been burned down, Chiquito the national minimum wage and does not utilise tips in donated 50p for every Like that they gained any form to make up this rate.
All gratuities are paid to the on Facebook and raised a total of 1,800: and employees, with credit card tips attracting only the usual Our pubs undertake a number of small fund-raising tax deductions, but unlike some of our competitors, no initiatives for local charities in their communities.
administration fee is taken by the company.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2010 27 Corporate responsibility continued We are proud of our Frankie & Bennys Schools Programme We have installed an equipment monitoring system in one which supports the Primary Key Stages Curriculum.
Frankie and Bennys restaurant to allow us to monitor all This encourages primary school classes to visit their local electrical and gas equipment on a half hourly basis and test Frankie & Bennys restaurant to learn about the restaurant out new energy saving replacement equipment.
This has business, food hygiene and health and safety, and to have the already led to three changes in the equipment that is installed opportunity to make and bake their own pizzas.
During 2010 in a standard Frankie and Bennys and during 2011 we we held approximately 450 such visits across the country will monitor the savings in energy consumption from this over 12,000 pupils visited Frankie & Bennys as part of restaurant and we are working with the Carbon Trust and this initiative.
other external advisers to develop further environmental efficiencies in our building design and equipment used Our environment in our operations.
During 2010 we have undertaken a number of developments regarding the Groups commitment to mitigating its impact on We opened a new Frankie & Bennys restaurant in 2010 the environment.
Not only are the attitudes and expectations which includes heat recovery systems, energy saving lighting of our customers changing over time but we recognise that and low energy hand dryers as well as solar panels.
We will the Groups activities impact the natural environment, most review the energy performance of this site with a view to significantly with regard to energy consumption and carbon include energy and financially efficient equipment in other emissions, water consumption and the creation and removal new restaurants.
Innovative regulatory mechanisms are being introduced that may in future create a direct link between Reducing the resources we use and the waste we environmental outcomes and financial benefits or penalties.
generate is also a key objective for the Group.
TRG recycled over 650,000 litres of used cooking oil We have established a close relationship with the Carbon an increase of approximately one third on the previous Trust, who advise the Group on best practice and ensure years level of recycled cooking oil : our contractor energy consciousness is at the heart of our strategic supplies a bio-diesel production facility: objectives covering premises design and construction, Kids packs in Frankie & Bennys and Chiquito are now heating, lighting, ventilation and food production.
TRG is made from 75% recycled material: Frankie and Bennys working towards achieving the Carbon Trust Standard.
packs are now packaged in paper bags rather than plastic to reduce the period required for decay: and We have a multi-disciplinary team working on reducing Waste glass and cardboard is collected for recycling our energy consumption through operational practices and at over 90% of our businesses where we control staff awareness, premises design and the improved use of the collection.
technology to monitor and control our use of energy, water and waste.
Our shareholders The Group has had a clear strategy since 2001 to deliver We recognise that lasting change in energy consumption by value for shareholders by focusing on sectors within the the Group will require changes in behaviour for our whole eating out market that offer high barriers to entry, where team.
The provision of accurate and timely management we can generate sustainable and growing cash flows and information covering energy consumption is an essential tool which offer high returns on investment.
This has led the supporting the change.
A web-based energy-information Group to focus investment into the Leisure division and our portal to provide real time consumption data to restaurants Concessions division, which operates principally on airports.
and our operators has been developed in association The Group has had a progressive dividend policy and has with our energy consultants and allows us to target more had a strong track record of growing profits and dividends inefficient sites and challenge our teams through league for shareholders.
tables to improve their energy efficiency.
The Chairmans statement, Chief Executive Officers review We have also launched an energy saving campaign to all of operations and Group Finance Directors report provide sites, providing information to help our staff drive energy further detail on the Groups strategy, performance during efficiency.
By February 2011 we had installed Automated 2010 and prospects for the Group.
Meter Readers AMRs to supplement half-hourly monitoring of electricity supplies at 98% of our available Leisure Division businesses, and 96% of available sites for gas supplies.
28 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2010
