47 In our beverage can plants, we reuse the water needed for we will improve the environmental performance washing the cans during the manufacturing process via closed of our sites loop recovery systems.
Our mains to drains measure shows a Going forward, our operational sustainability agenda is being typical efficiency level of over 83%, with our main losses being extended to include all Rexam sites, including our office locations.
water embedded in the sludge from our waste water treatment There are many things we can improve on which may be deemed and evaporation during the washing process.
We continue to simple and small, nevertheless we believe that they are not only seek solutions to improve further this efficiency level.
beneficial in their own right but that they will help to embed further a culture of sustainable thinking across the Group.
Our water consumption in our plastic packaging operations is Our Beverage Can Europe & Asia head office in Luton, UK, almost negligible.
The biggest usage arises from our washroom employing over 120 people, has taken the lead by piloting the facilities.
The limited amount of water used in the manufacturing introduction of a number of initiatives.
These include increasing the process operates in a fully closed loop system, and is only number and range of recycling bins, introducing motion sensing discharged to the drains during maintenance and change lighting control and collecting canteen waste for compost.
sites across Rexams operations are due to follow suit in 2011.
In 2011, we will register our global water performance with the CDP Water Disclosure survey.
we will reduce our waste to landfill All of our plants actively segregate waste to ensure that what can operational excellence be recycled is recycled.
We work constantly both on reducing internal process waste for instance, oils, chemicals and raw water efficiency materials and on reducing external process waste such as primary, Our plant in Brasilia collects rain water in part of the roof, secondary and tertiary packaging.
Committing waste to landfill then treats the water at the plant and uses it in the production is not sustainable in the long term, and also is economically process.
We are evaluating whether to expand this procedure unviable as it is becoming increasingly expensive to do.
to other plants in our South American operations.
Our Brasilia plant, as well as our plant in Cuiab, Brazil, also treats the water In 2011, we shall be developing cross Group monitoring processes after it has been used in the manufacturing process so that the to facilitate the sharing of best practices.
water is fit to be used for irrigation.
In both plants, none of the water used in the production process is wasted.
energy consumption people: engaged employees energy MWh tonnes of production By applying best practices, we reduced our energy Ensuring our employees work in a safe, fair and enjoyable consumption per tonne of production by 14.6%.
environment is core to our business.
The Rexam Way values of continuous improvement, recognition, teamwork and trust were developed from employee feedback many years ago, and Group still underpin our approach and our expectations of our employees today.
2010 2.68 2009 3.14 A key strategic priority for Rexam is to build a winning organisation.
Across our operations, we aim to make Rexam a great place Beverage Cans to work, by recruiting talented people, providing them with 2010 2.80 opportunities to develop their skills and capabilities, and 2009 3.30 encouraging them to be active members of local and global teams.
we will make sure our people work in a safe and Plastic Packaging healthy environment We target zero accidents as we believe that no employee 2010 2.34 should be placed at risk.
While our safety track record is good, 2009 2.71 compared with our own and other industries, we dedicate significant resource to ensuring we continue to improve in this area.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 48 Rexam annual report 2010 directors report sustainability In 2010, our health and safety performance showed continued we will continue to build a winning organisation improvement with a 52% reduction in lost time accidents compared At Rexam, we are nurturing a sense of One Rexam so as to enable with 2009.
In excess of 65% of our sites did not have a lost time the achievement of all aspects of our Group strategy.
It is about the accident in 2010.
In addition there were no significant property way we work together across the businesses and functions as one loss incidents, and no significant uncontrolled or abnormal releases team, and our shared Rexam Way values and culture.
In October 2010, we conducted a global employee survey to The Rexam Audit System records all incidents relating to health and measure the levels of engagement across the Group, and to safety.
Metrics such as lost time accident rates and days away identify opportunities for improvement.
We were pleased to restricted time allow us to investigate and share best practice.
receive an 87% response rate, with useful feedback from all areas of the business.
There were above average scores for the We use the number of work days and or restricted time incidents Companys commitment to providing high quality products and to track the severity of injuries.
We had 10 significant injuries ones services and safety training.
Our overall engagement score which exceed 30 lost or restricted days in 2010, consisting of suggested that while the majority of our employees are satisfied crush, fracture and cut injuries.
This was 50% less than in 2009. and committed advocates of Rexam, there is always room for improvement.
We have initiated activities such as focus groups and Each injury that results in lost time or restricted time triggers interviews to help us to understand better the results and we are a review by the senior operational management of the relevant developing plans to address the opportunities within the business business unit to review the sites internal investigation and units and at Group level.
corrective actions, with the learning from these incidents shared across the Group.
Business leaders at Rexam are now also being assessed against a set of leadership practices, which are known under the acronym We have continued to roll out behavioural based safety programmes, ULEAD: understand, listen, engage, attract and deliver.
with 79% of our sites included in 2010.
These programmes support These practices are being embedded across the Group with technical solutions to environmental health and safety issues that a communications campaign and tools that demonstrate how have helped drive the performance in the past and assist in the they should be applied at all levels of the organisation.
development of safety cultures in our sites.
A key element of building a winning organisation is to ensure our Rexams auditing platform allows for the sites to be audited to the people have the right development and training opportunities to Rexam standard for both environmental health and safety and fire advance their skills and careers.
In December 2010, we brought and property protection.
our various training and development programmes under one banner the Rexam Business School.
It has been developed in conjunction with senior Rexam business leaders so as to ensure the programmes not only build employees skills and capabilities, but that also we are building the functional and organisational capability of the business to meet the needs of our markets and customers.
1 reduction in lost time accident rate We have also upgraded our human resources information management systems to make our processes more efficient.
We reduced lost time accidents by 52%, and over 65% of our We rolled out the human capital management SAP module sites did not have a lost time accident in 2010. globally which means that most of our people are now on one Group system.
Over the next year we will continue to take advantage 2010 0.30 of this software to drive efficiency and build organisational 2009 0.63 capability.
we will ensure our actions interactions are guided Beverage Cans by fairness, respect, integrity and honesty 2010 0.48 Rexam employees all know the importance of behaving with 2009 0.97 integrity and honesty, and we implement regular initiatives to help to explain specific responsibilities in this area.
Plastic Packaging In 2010, the board and executive leadership team piloted an 2010 0.20 online legal compliance training programme which demonstrated 2009 0.44 their commitment to good ethics and compliance.
This training was developed to support our Code of Conduct CoC which is shared with every employee when they join Rexam and 1 LTAR: Number of lost time accidents x 200,000 total hours worked.
49 The CoC covers a wide range of areas, including dealing with In our South American beverage can business, a locally customers and suppliers, conflict of interests, competition law, coordinated programme encourages employees to make adherence to all Group policies including abiding by the donations to charitable organisations.
Rexam produces the International Labour Organisations eight fundamental labour communication material for the programme and is responsible standards and reporting procedures.
for gathering and delivering the donations.
In North America, employee donations to educational institutions are encouraged This online training is being rolled out across the Group, and in through a coordinated matching gift scheme.
2011 all management bands as well as all employees in service Rexams total charitable cash donations and community activities centres and in the legal, finance, human resources, sales, including in kind community and charitable support in the form marketing and supply chain functions will be expected to of time, facilities and products during 2010 amounted to some complete the course.
Our Raise Your Concern programme allows individuals to report anonymously any behaviour or activity they believe is Cash donations in contravention of the CoC and or of any of our policies.
Charitable cash donations by the Group amounted to 442,000 as shown in the table.
Rexam has equal opportunity policies ranging from selection 2010 2009 and recruitment to training and development to meet the needs UK 52,000 38,000 of its operations around the world.
Disabled people are given full consideration for employment and subsequent training including, Rest of world excluding UK 390,000 343,000 if needed, retraining for alternative work where employees have become disabled, career development and promotion on the The UK business made donations to environmental charities and basis of their aptitudes and abilities.
healthcare organisations as well as in support of charitable sporting events.
We have a number of communications tools and channels across the Group, as well as at a local and business unit level.
Rest of world donations included donations to charities advancing These include newsletters, team briefings and intranet updates.
the common good, creating opportunities for a better life for all in Communication with employees is considered a key responsibility various parts of the world by focusing on education, income and for all managers, and employees are encouraged to participate health.
They also included donations to local communities and and give their views on any aspect of the Groups business charities raising funds to deal with natural disasters.
including the annual and half year financial results and the The Group has not made any EU political donations during the economic factors affecting the Groups performance.
year and does not intend to do so in the future in respect of which In addition, the Rexam European Forum is a joint employee shareholder authority is required, or for which disclosure is representative and management body created for the exchange required under the Companies Act 2006.
The Group made of information and dialogue concerning issues which may impact contributions for non EU political purposes totalling 40,000 Rexams employees within the European Economic Area.
We also have well established employee share schemes to promote share ownership.
we will encourage all teams to be constructive members of our local communities As part of our commitment to be a valued partner in the communities in which we operate, many of our plants and sites work closely with local charities and groups to make a positive impact.
Alongside this, we run country and business unit initiatives that are supported centrally.
We dedicate a large amount of effort in promoting and encouraging recycling initiatives as detailed above.
Across the Group, Rexam locations work with local schools and charities to provide donations and in kind support, such as funding for a childrens playground in Spain and donating furniture in Russia and the UK.
We also offer other types of support, such sources as providing office facilities for not for profit and charity groups, Information in this section is drawn from INCPEN, supporting facilities for blood donation in Shanghai and in PlasticsEurope, Eurostat, BCME, EAA, CMI and Rexam.
selecting local suppliers who provide work for disabled people.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 50 Rexam annual report 2010 directors report 51 directors report governance 52 directors and officers We introduce our board, explain our focus 54 corporate governance on corporate governance and give details 64 remuneration report 75 other disclosures of the Companys remuneration principles and policy which complement how the business is run.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview
