corporate social responsibility our people Rightmove has a strong commitment to equality of Our people are our largest resource and our most highly opportunity in all our employment policies, practices and valued asset.
We are proud of our people and the mixture procedures.
We take a proactive approach throughout our of talent and experience that they bring and we depend on recruitment and selection process to ensure that we attract, their skills and commitment to achieve our objectives.
hire and retain a diverse and talented workforce and this is Our cultural style is bolstered by an open and honest kept under close and regular scrutiny.
No existing or potential communication environment and by investment in ensuring employee will receive less favourable treatment due to their that all employees have a profound understanding of race, creed, nationality, colour, ethnic origin, age, religion or Rightmoves core values and goals.
We achieve this through similar belief, connections with a national minority, sexual a combination of a rigorous selection process, including orientation, gender, gender reassignment, marital status, technical skills testing, an off-site residential course to ensure membership or non-membership of a trade union, disability, all Rightmovers understand our core values and the role or any other classification as prescribed by law.
that they perform, ongoing coaching and mentoring, and cross-functional team building events involving all employees.
Charitable activity In 2010 all executive directors, senior managers and We continue to encourage all our employees to devote employees attended a series of outdoor team building time and fundraising efforts to charitable causes of camping events at Hever Castle.
Staff opinions are frequently particular importance to them as individuals.
During 2010 sought through regular staff forums with senior managers and a considerable number of staff have been active in raising employee online surveys.
money or supporting the fundraising activities of the We continue to offer our Rightmover-led training academy NSPCC, our nominated charity, and a wide range of designed to provide a structured means for employees to other charities.
expand and diversify their skills and knowledge and explore new ways of working with one another.
Given the specialised environment technical nature of the work we do and the services we Rightmove actively considers its environmental impact.
provide, we also support ongoing external professional Since our operation is primarily office-based, the direct development where appropriate.
environmental impact is relatively low.
Indeed Rightmoves During 2010 we have explored new ways of ensuring that business creates opportunities to reduce the overall Rightmovers are aware of the additional benefits that they environmental harm associated with a variety of aspects are entitled to access, which have proved to be a useful of the whole home hunting process.
This is achieved not only via our induction Traditional ways of finding a home tend to involve large process and intranet but also through benefits fairs.
In amounts of paper and printing, whether in the form of November 2010, the Companys second Sharesave contract newspaper advertising, property particulars mailed to matured allowing employees to benefit from the success of applicants through the post or leaflet drops by agents.
the Company over the last three years.
43% of employees Rightmove reduces the need for print media and the currently participate in the Sharesave scheme.
environmental damage that goes with them.
Rightmove takes care to design the layout of property particulars to reduce the total number of pages that need to be printed out in those cases where a home hunter does want a physical copy.
19 rightmove plc annual report 2010 corporate social responsibility continued Enhanced information on properties also reduces the amount As an online Group, our culture emphasises a paperless of time home hunters waste in visiting properties that rapidly environment.
We also recognise that our responsibilities turn out to be inappropriate.
As a high proportion of viewings do not stop just with how we operate internally we also involve a car journey, any reduction in wasted viewings has encourage all our customers, business partners and suppliers an environmental benefit.
Rightmove has worked hard to not to unnecessarily print out emails sent by us in the increase the number and size of photographs of each signature of all our emails.
Moreover in 2008 we introduced property and has introduced more comprehensive map e-communications for our shareholders, including an searches and aerial photographs which help home hunters interactive copy of the annual report to enable investors and to identify the specific location of a property.
The higher the people with an interest in the Company to print specified quality of the information presented about properties the less pages thereby reducing the quantity of printed material we carbon footprint is generated by prospective buyers making distribute.
In 2009, we introduced email invoicing for our new wasted journeys.
homes developer customers and now have 71% of this The Rightmove.
co. uk website includes functionality for our customer group on paperless billing.
customers to display Energy Performance Certificates which allow prospective buyers to evaluate the energy efficiency of Health and safety a property they are considering buying and to identify The Group considers the effective management of health and opportunities to improve the energy efficiency once they have safety to be an integral part of managing its business.
2010, we continued our fire safety, first aid and work place We take the environmental impact of our own operations safety training.
The Groups ongoing policy on health and very seriously.
As an internet-based Group with most staff safety is to provide adequate control of the health and safety employed in two office locations, we believe our own risks arising from work activities, through further consultation environmental footprint is small and that there are no with, and training of, employees, the provision and by-products of our operations which have a clear negative maintenance of plant and equipment, safe handling and use impact on the environment.
Our staff are encouraged to take of all substances and the prevention of accidents and causes proactive steps to address our environmental responsibilities.
The Group will maintain safe and healthy working For instance, we continue to operate comprehensive recycling conditions for employees, visitors and contractors, and keep schemes which were established in consultation with local the policy on health and safety up-to-date with regular reviews authorities and recycling partners.
As an operator of an online and necessary alterations to the policy as required.
property portal, the main environmental impact is the power usage of our data centres.
Our procurement policy is to purchase hardware with the best computational performance which uses the least electrical power.
For example, in the year, we have completed a partial refresh of our data centre hardware replacing old less efficient servers with half the number of new efficient units.
This refresh has not only reduced our electrical power usage, but has allowed us to serve 7.6bn page impressions to our customers, an increase of 18% above that of 2009.
