Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information integrity Biodiversity Business y t i rights r e Human p S Land s o c o i a r recovery l p resilience & w Business c e i l l m engagement Water b o Stakeholder e n i o n c E g Greenhouse gas and Closure energy use Sustainable development review Central to the way we work Our approach to sustainable development creates competitive advantage.
Ithelps us deliver better return for our shareholders, manage risk effectively, reduce environmental impacts, cut operating costs, attract high calibre employees and provide more business opportunities.
View more about our approach to sustainable development at www.
com ourapproach Sustainable development overview Key achievements Key priorities r Our all injury frequency rate continued to improve, with an r Refresh our approach to sustainable development to ensure it 18 per cent reduction achieved in 2010. remains focused on the social, environmental, economic and governance risks most relevant to delivering our business strategy.
r Sixty seven per cent of the electricity we used in 2010 was from low carbon sources, mainly hydroelectricity.
r Continue to reduce incident and injury rates toward our goal of zero.
r We remained the largest private sector employer of r Identify and prioritise management of emerging health risks.
r Improve the diversity of our workforce.
r We entered into formal partnerships with the International Union for r Maintain our energy use and GHG emission reduction programmes.
Conservation of Nature and the Danish Institute of Human Rights.
r Realise the potential for carbon, water and biodiversity offsets on our r We retained our listing on the FTSE4Good, Dow Jones Sustainability non operational landholdings.
Indexes and Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index.
Materiality assessment We continue to build on our materiality assessment methodology to ensure this report remains focused on our most significant sustainable development issues.
Our process was developed in line with the Global Reporting Initiative GRI guidance www.
It involves identification and prioritisation of issues affecting our business and its stakeholders over the next three years.
In 2010 we expanded our assessment to include outcomes of interviews with key shareholders, investment houses, academics and non governmental organisations along with the opinions of 1,265 global leaders who were surveyed as part of our stakeholder engagement work and 33,000 employees who Sustainable completed our global employee engagement survey.
development Whilst our materiality assessments have supported reporting on consistent topics in recent years, the 2010 assessment prompted additional coverage of our Business Resilience and Recovery Programme.
Performance data for a selection of our most material sustainable development issues are subject to external assurance.
We also discuss financial performance, safety and greenhouse gas emissions in the product group sections of this report.
Omission from the issues covered in our report does not mean that the issue is not managed by the company.
Please see our website for additional information.
com 29 Communities p and projects and regional i operations h Non managed development s d G r o v a e w r stewardship n Our people Product e a t n s c e l a s t y Health n s e Suppliers t m e n o m r i v s n Safety E Financial performance Sustainable development review continued Goals and targets Trend Progress to date Our safety goal is zero injuries and zero fatalities.
Progress is measured through our all injury frequency 18 per cent reduction in our all injury frequency rate rate AIFR per 200,000 hours worked.
30 per cent reduction in the rate of new cases of 56 per cent reduction in the rate of new cases of occupational occupational illness per 10,000 employees between illness compared with 2008.
Ten per cent reduction in the rate of employees per 0.3 per cent increase in the rate of employees potentially 10,000 employees exposed to an eight hour noise dose of exposed to an eight hour noise dose of more than 85 decibels more than 85 decibels between 2008 and 2013. compared with 2008.
Six per cent reduction in total greenhouse gas emissions 3.7 per cent reduction in our total greenhouse gas emissions intensity between 2008 and 2013.
We are also targeting intensity compared with 2008. a further four per cent reduction by 2015, to deliver an overall ten per cent reduction.
Six per cent reduction in our freshwater use per tonne 2.3 per cent increase in our freshwater use per tonne of of product between 2008 and 2013. product compared with 2008.
Our diversity goal is to employ people based on job requirements that represent the diversity of our surrounding communities.
We are targeting: t Women represented 14 per cent of our senior management t Women to represent 20 per cent of our senior in 2010. management by 2015. t Women represented 27 per cent of our 2010 graduate intake.
t Women to represent 40 per cent of our 2015 graduate intake.
t Eight per cent of our 2010 graduate intake were nationals from regions where we are developing new businesses.
t 15 per cent of our 2015 graduate intake to be nationals from regions where we are developing new businesses.
All operations have in place locally appropriate, publicly We collected data for the first time in 2010. reported social performance indicators that demonstrate 20 per cent of our operations had locally appropriate, publicly a positive contribution to the economic development of reported social performance indicators in place in 2010. the communities and regions where we work, consistent with the Millennium Development Goals, by 2013.
Improving performance Declining performance New target Performance data Our sustainable development performance data are reported for We report in line with the GRI G3 guidelines at Application level calendar years and, unless otherwise stated, represent 100 per A and have implemented the International Council on Mining cent of the parameter at each managed operation, even though and Metals ICMM sustainable development framework Rio Tinto may have only partial ownership.
com Data reported in previous years may be modified if verification Further information on our data definitions, our GRI checked processes detect material errors, or if changes are required to report and our alignment with the ICMM sustainable development ensure comparability over time.
principles and supporting position statements can be found on our website.
Wherever possible, data for operations acquired prior to 1 October of the reporting period are included.
Divested operations are included in data collection processes up until the transfer of management control.
30 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information y t c i w i r S e m e l o l o b p c n i e s o i a c n o l r g E p Our approach Social wellbeing Group strategy on p. 18 Read more in the Our approach section of www.
com Sustainable development has been identified as an area crucial to We are committed to providing a the delivery of the Groups long term strategy.
safe and healthy workplace for our employees where their rights and The minerals and metals produced at our operations contribute to dignity are respected.
We set out to societys needs, delivering financial dividends for our shareholders, build enduring relationships with our paying wages and salaries for our employees, and creating wealth neighbours that demonstrate mutual to support community infrastructure, health care and education.
respect, active partnership, and long Our activities also provide the means and opportunity to develop term commitment.
new approaches to the environmental and human development challenges confronting society, such as climate change and poverty.
Safety We recognise that some aspects of our activities can lead to We are progressing on our journey toward a zero harm culture unavoidable impacts, such as limiting options for the future use where everyone knows that they make a difference and where all of land and water, impacts on local communities, and greenhouse employees and contractors have the knowledge, competence and gas emissions from our operations and the use of our products.
We believe that all injuries are preventable We strive to minimise these impacts through good management and our goal is to achieve zero injuries and zero fatalities.
Regrettably three people were fatally injured whilst working at The extended timeframes associated with our operations from Rio Tinto managed operations in 2010.
These events occurred exploration, through development and operation to closure at the Iron Ore Company of Canada, as a result of a fall from provide us with opportunities to plan, implement and deliver height, at the Alcan Packaging plant in Indonesia, as a result of sustainable contributions to social wellbeing, environmental an electric shock, and at the Alcan Engineered Products Neuf stewardship and economic prosperity, within our strong Brisach operation in France, as a result of being struck by a falling governance systems.
We provided support and counselling to the families and Our continued licence to operate is subject to the ever increasing workmates affected by these events and we have shared the expectations of society.
Consequently, we have developed and lessons from these and other serious incidents across the Group.
implemented a structured framework to ensure that we meet We measure progress toward our goal of zero injuries through our goal of contributing to the global transition to sustainable the all injury frequency rate AIFR, which includes data for development.
This framework contains the must have employees and contractors.
At the end of 2010 our AIFR was building blocks, which must all work together to achieve leading 0.66, an improvement of 18 per cent over the last year.
Our performance and manage risk effectively.
lost time injury frequency rate has also improved and was We are communicating and raising our awareness of our approach 0.36 per 200,000 hours worked in 2010. to our internal and external stakeholders.
Lower injury rates do not mean that serious incidents will not occur.
We use significant potential incident reporting and In 2010 we commenced a review of our approach to sustainable remedial action closure measures to promote identification, development to ensure it remains focused on the risks most investigation, management and sharing of lessons learnt from relevant to delivering our business strategy.
minor and near miss events with potentially fatal consequences.
These metrics are linked to remuneration.
Higher consequence, lower frequency safety events are managed Sustainable development framework through targeted process safety reviews and use of our Semi Quantitative Risk Assessment SQRA process.
The risk reduction resulting from the SQRA process is used as a Group wide leading indicator for safety performance.
Targets Indicators Achieve Effectively All injury frequency rate & metrics leading manage performance risks Per 200,000 hours worked Monitoring & reporting Including former Alcan 1.21 Management systems 1.09 0.66 0.95 Leadership & accountability 2009: 0.81 0.81 0.66 Strategies & standards Policies The way we work 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 www.
com 31 l p G a i t h o n s s v e y d e m s t r r n n e a a o m w r i s n v e c t n e s E Sustainable development review continued Our monitoring has not recorded any employee exposure above To drive improved performance at our sites where the most injuries our 20 milliSievert mSv annual limit for over a decade.
Rio Tintos are occurring, or where we face persistent challenges of repeated or exposure limit is well below the five year 100mSv and annual major injuries or fatalities, we have developed a site safety acceleration 50mSv limits typically found in international protocols.
The process is built on the principles of diagnosing root causes of poor safety performance and, through the engagement of leaders We believe that our health and wellbeing strategy will support and employees, developing site-specific practical interventions that our employees to lead healthier lives and reduce fatigue, stress lead to sustainable safety improvements.
and obesity related risks to deliver health, safety and productivity We have also established a framework that defines our expectations improvements across the Group.
We have continued to roll out and the processes to assure implementation of our systems and our Australian Achieve Health programme and more than standards during the development of major projects.
7,000 of our people globally signed up for our Be Active challenge in 2010.
Health Rio Tinto operates in countries where the prevalence of human Our goal is no new cases of occupational illness.
We are targeting immunodeficiency virus HIV, tuberculosis and malaria are a 30 per cent reduction in the rate of new cases of occupational high.
We work closely with the international health community illness per 10,000 employees between 2008 and 2013. on these problems not only in Africa, but globally.
Where our The main types of occupational illnesses recorded in our 2008 operations are located in regions with a generalised HIV epidemic baseline are related to musculo-skeletal disorders, noise induced as defined by UNAIDS we actively encourage all employees to hearing loss and stress.
The baseline excludes operations that know their HIV status through voluntary testing.
We also ensure were divested or flagged for divestment during 2009. that all employees in these regions and their nominated partner have affordable access to treatment, care and support, including In 2010 we achieved a 56 per cent improvement in performance antiretroviral drugs.
compared with 2008 with significant decreases in the number of reported cases of noise induced hearing loss 54 per cent, As part of our new Business Resilience and Recovery Programme, musculo-skeletal disorders 66 per cent and stress 40 per cent.
we focused on the identification and classification of potential and emerging health risks and evaluation of our emergency Ongoing reductions in new cases of occupational illnesses will medical response preparedness in 2010. require further improvements in the management of risks posed by manual handling and noise exposure, as well as supporting Our people healthy lifestyles through workplace wellbeing programmes.
In 2010, we employed 77,000 people, including the Groups We are also targeting a ten per cent reduction in the number of proportionate share of consolidated companies and equity employees exposed to an eight hour noise dose of more than accounted units.
Of these approximately 25,000 were located 85 decibels between 2008 and 2013.
In 2010, the number of in Australasia, 22,000 in North America, 17,000 in Europe, and employees potentially exposed increased by 0.3 per cent per 8,000 in Africa.
Our workforce decreased in 2010 as a result of our 10,000 employees compared with 2008.
Progress against this target divestment programme.
See page 252 for a breakdown of employees has been slow: based upon business feedback we are expecting by business units.
most of the improvements for this target to occur in 2012 and 2013.
We employ on the basis of job requirement and do not discriminate Rio Tinto operates two uranium mines, Ranger in Australia and on grounds of age, ethnic or social origin, gender, sexual orientation, Rssing in Namibia.
When not appropriately managed, exposure to politics, religion or disability.
We do not employ forced, bonded ionising radiation from uranium mines can pose potential health or child labour.
We recognise the right of all employees to choose risks for workers or surrounding communities and we understand to belong to a union and seek to bargain collectively.
We employ there may be some concern that those working or living near our people with disabilities and make every effort to offer suitable uranium mines could be at risk.
alternative employment and retraining to employees who become disabled and can no longer perform their regular duties.
In line with our occupational health standards, we continue to work on reducing radiation exposure to as low as reasonably practicable.
Our employees diversity of backgrounds, skills, perspectives and experiences is critical to our business success.
We encourage Employees exposed to an eight hour noise dose of more than 85dB A New cases of occupational illness Per 10,000 employees Per 10,000 employees average over full shift Including former Alcan 3,964 47 3,382 3,723 3,509 22 3,382 3,375 2009: 3,509 38 36 2009: 38 22 22 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 32 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information Our second global employee engagement survey was completed diversity in teams and the sharing of people, skills and knowledge in 2010.
Engagement levels are positive and good progress has across the Group.
We provide employees with opportunities for been made on improving understanding and support of the Groups flexible work arrangements to accommodate individual needs at vision and values.
Action plans are being implemented in each different life and career stages.
Globally we are focusing on increasing the capability of Our goal is to employ people who meet job requirements and reflect our leaders to engage with and maximise the contribution of our the diversity of our surrounding communities.
Currently, we are people, especially among our frontline employees.
We will measure focused on improving the representation of women and people progress as part of our next engagement survey in 2011. from nationalities which are under-represented in our workforce.
In 2010, women represented 27 per cent of our graduate intake, In 2010 our frontline, operational, business, and strategic 14 per cent of our senior management, 20 per cent of the chief leadership development programmes were relaunched along executives executive committee and 13 per cent of the Rio Tinto with new programmes for the accelerated development of highboard.
Our new Group wide diversity targets for 2015 are: potential employees and leadership skill-building for people in operational roles.
Approximately half a million attendances were t Women to represent 20 per cent of our senior management.
recorded for training in technical and operational skills, and t Women to represent 40 per cent of our graduate intake.
health, safety, and environment courses during 2010. t Fifteen per cent of our graduate intake to be nationals from Communities and regional economic development regions where we are developing new businesses.
By understanding our socio-economic interactions in the places We actively favour local employment where local candidates where we operate, we can optimise benefits and reduce negative meet job requirements and laws allow.
Our local employment impacts for communities and our operations alike.
commitments are often managed through directly negotiated These interactions include relationships with local suppliers, community benefit agreements.
Throughout 2010, we remained training and local employment, support for small to medium the largest private sector employer of indigenous Australians, who enterprises, optimal distribution of taxes and royalties, support represent eight per cent of our Australian workforce.
for multilateral socio-economic programmes and development of Rio Tintos new statement on commitment to diversity and infrastructure that can also benefit local communities, businesses inclusion can be found on page 116.
We are also establishing and governments.
a new cross-functional diversity council, chaired by a member In addition to direct economic contributions through salaries, of our executive committee, to set directions for, sponsor and wages, taxes, royalties and local service and supply, our businesses monitor progress of initiatives to improve diversity and inclusion.
supported 2,900 socio-economic programmes covering a wide range Our reward strategy is designed to attract, retain and motivate of activities such as health, education, business development, our workforce.
Base pay is reviewed regularly to account for the housing, environmental protection and agricultural development individuals role and local market trends.
We offer allowances, during 2010. broad-based employee share plans, retirement plans and To enable us to target the delivery of socio-economic programmes healthcare benefits consistent with local market competition.
reflecting the priorities of local communities, and to identify potential We provide a short term incentive plan to allow individuals to positive and negative impacts of our operations, we conduct community participate in the financial success of the business and focus on baseline, social impact and social risk assessments.
We use this individual performance objectives.
Long term incentive plans are information along with community input to develop multi-year used to align individual objectives with shareholder interests and communities plans.
to recognise performance and potential for strategic contributions.
In 2010 we spent US$166 million on community assistance We directly engage with our employees on their individual programmes and payments into trusts set up in directly career aspirations and implement individual development plans, negotiated community impact benefit agreements.
The US$47 coaching and feedback processes to position them and the Group million increase in spending compared to 2009 reflects for success.
We also conduct regular talent reviews to assess the a rebounding of Group activity and the establishment of new capabilities and potential of our workforce.
community agreements which involve direct payments to community controlled regional development trusts.
com 33 y t c i w i r S e m e l o l o b p c n i e s o i a c n o l r g E p Sustainable development review continued We verify the quality of our communities work at each operation Environmental stewardship on a three year cycle.
In 2010, we conducted assurance assessments Read more in the Our approach section of www.
The introduction of a mining, smelting or refining operation can We continue to proactively manage be disruptive and concerning to local communities, particularly issues related to climate change, water, where resettlement, land rights or areas of spiritual value are land stewardship, biodiversity, mineral concerned.
We apply leading industry practice in dealing with and non mineral waste, air quality and such matters and try to minimise and mitigate negative impacts closure.
and gain broad-based community support for our activities.
However, people can validly have differing opinions about a Our programmes include input from development.
For example, some sections of the community our local communities and subject around the US based Eagle project in Michigan have requested matter experts, and are supported by broader access to Eagle Rock, notwithstanding the understandings our partnerships with BirdLife International, Conservation we have reached with other sections of the community to address International, the Eden Project, Earthwatch, Fauna & Flora safety and other considerations.
International and the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew.
Community action may also affect our ability to conduct our operations, During 2010, the International Union for Conservation of such as our 2008 decision to temporarily suspend pilot project Nature IUCN and Rio Tinto entered into a three year formal construction work at the La Granja copper development in Peru.
collaboration agreement to work together on sustainable Development of this project was subsequently scaled back as a development efforts, environmental management and result of the global financial crisis.
Even when the broader community is supportive, individuals Greenhouse gas emissions or NGOs may continue to have concerns about or oppose our We accept the need for climate change action and recognise the activities and they may commence legal action to challenge it.
issue as being one of our greatest challenges and opportunities.
We seek to respond to such actions, whilst respecting the views We support efficient, effective and equitable measures to tackle of those people who disagree with us.
We accept that we cannot climate change, which promise a comprehensive, long term meet everybodys concerns and expectations, but wherever we response to a globally complex problem.
We accept the need operate we seek to do so with broad-based community support.
Our operations are part of the social context in which they sit, We believe that our businesses have a positive future in a world and we may sometimes be subject to collateral effects or issues that is working to global carbon constraints and we aim to arising out of differences within a community or between a improve the energy intensity of our operations and new projects.
This can result in high crime rates We are targeting to reduce our total GHG emissions intensity by six or civil unrest and or our employees and assets being the target per cent between 2008 and 2013.
A further four per cent reduction of anti-social and unlawful activities.
In such circumstances we is targeted to give an overall ten per cent reduction by 2015. do what we reasonably can to maintain the security of our assets and personnel in a manner that is proportionate and safe for Our GHG emissions intensity has reduced by 3.7 per cent between our people and the local community.
We follow the Voluntary 2008 and 2010, largely as a result of the 2009 divestment of the Principles on Security and Human Rights, provide training to Ningxia aluminium smelter in China.
During 2010, the impact of security personnel, and follow security rules of engagement which closure or reduced production at older aluminium smelters that had seek to limit the risk of fatal incidents arising from unrest, theft low emitting power sources offset some of the intensity reductions ortrespass.
These closures and production decreases are one step towards our longer term strategy of modernisation.
Our communities target requires all operations to have locally appropriate, publicly reported social performance indicators that Our total GHG emissions were 43.4 million tonnes of carbon demonstrate a positive contribution to the economic development dioxide equivalent COe in 2010, 2.3 million tonnes higher than 2 of the communities and regions where we work, consistent with the Millennium Development Goals, by 2013.
By 2010, 20 per Greenhouse gas emissions intensity cent of operations had these indicators in place.
Our report on Indexed relative to 2008 the Millennium Development Goals and the library of our local sustainable development reports can be found on our website.
Including former Alcan 110.9 111.3 110.2 We seek to make our voluntary contributions part of a bigger 100.0 picture.
This year Rio Tinto and the Australian Football League 96.3 96.3 92.5 AFL launched a four year partnership focused on leadership 2009: 92.5 development for 18 to 24 year old indigenous men.
The Footy Means Business programme will provide participants exposure to elite AFL programmes and training, along with networking opportunities in corporate environments to build leadership and teamwork skills.
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 34 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report l p G a i t h o n s s v e y d e m s t r r n n e a a o m w r i s n v e c t n e s E Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information We recognise the need to adapt to the physical impacts of climate in 2009.
This is the result of increased production of a number change.
In 2010 Rio Tinto Alcan entered into partnership with of commodities and production shifts to operations with higher Ouranos to develop tools and strategies to further adapt to climate greenhouse gas emission intensity.
Rio Tintos direct emissions change www.
were 27.6 million tonnes of COe in 2010.
A breakdown of our 2 greenhouse gas emissions by product group and country Energy use is available on our website.
Rio Tinto both uses energy in its operations and produces it.
Our We operate in an energy intensive sector and we seek to lower the smelting and mineral processing operations are energy intensive greenhouse gas emissions over the full lifecycle of our products.
and depend on hydroelectricity, nuclear power, coal, oil, diesel For example, Rio Tinto Alcan is a leader in the development of and gas to keep them running.
energy efficient aluminium smelting technology and a significant This year our energy use increased by 3.2 per cent to 512 proportion of our aluminium smelters are powered with low petajoules following production increases for several carbon, hydro or nuclear power sources.
The high strength to commodities, including titanium dioxide feedstock and iron ore. weight ratio of aluminium can reduce the weight of cars and decrease the amount of fuel used during their operation: it can Through our coal and uranium sales, we supplied 4,735 petajoules also be efficiently recycled.
of world energy demand in 2010.
Our energy supply was more than eight times our energy use.
We continue to track greenhouse gas emissions associated with our products along the value chain.
In 2010, the three most To drive improvements in energy efficiency our businesses have significant sources of indirect emissions associated with our set a range of local energy targets that cover nearly three quarters products were: of the Groups energy use.
t Approximately 4.7 million tonnes of COe associated with We are also working to reduce the energy intensity of our new 2 third party transport of our products and raw materials.
projects through energy efficient design, the use of alternative energy sources and development of step change technologies.
This t An estimated 122 million tonnes of COe associated with 2 includes development of the AP60 cell and other components of customers using our coal in electricity generation and steel AP Technology which have the potential to significantly reduce production.
the energy required to produce aluminium.
t Approximately 360 million tonnes of COe associated with 2 Our use of low greenhouse gas emitting hydro, nuclear and other customers using our iron ore to produce steel.
The emissions renewable power sources represented 67 per cent of our electricity associated with the use of our coal and iron ore cannot be use in 2010.
We have significant hydropower generation facilities added, as some customers use both our iron ore and our in Canada, Scotland and Norway and are currently developing a coal to produce steel.
hydropower strategy to better manage the social and environmental Due to global demand, coal will remain a significant source of energy threats and opportunities associated with our hydropower dams.
We are therefore investing in developing and commercialising carbon capture and storage CCS technology.
Water We are a founding member of the Global CCS Institute and we We use water at every stage of our business for exploration, support other collaborative efforts to deploy CCS technology, such mining, processing, smelting, refining, rehabilitation, generation as the CO CRCs Otway Basin geosequestration project in Australia.
2 of hydroelectric power and drinking.
During 2010, climate change legislation and regulation were Each of our operations has its own set of water challenges: some debated in a number of jurisdictions where we operate.
This are located in water scarce environments where they compete with has the potential to increase our operating costs significantly: other users, whilst others need to manage a surplus from storms or groundwater.
The quality of water can impact production, t In Australia new climate change policy has been discussed but operating costs, nearby communities and the environment.
Currently we have both direct and indirect cost Increasingly, we are working in locations where access to clean exposure as a result of a requirement to purchase certificates as drinking water and adequate sanitation is an issue for neighbouring part of the Governments renewable energy target.
All legislated communities, particularly in developing countries.
reporting requirements were met in 2010. t In the US, the Environmental Protection Agency EPA is drafting regulations that may subject GHG emissions to Total energy use permitting requirements.
Petajoules t In the EU some of our operations are subject to the second Including former Alcan phase of the EU emissions trading scheme.
This exposure 554 540 will increase when the third phase starts in 2013.
com 35 Sustainable development review continued The potential impact of climate change will bring higher levels Our water strategy provides a framework for responsible stewardship of risk to our water supplies.
We need to understand how our by addressing water related business risk and improving performance operations and nearby communities will be impacted.
Water across social, environmental, and economic aspects.
We focus regulation will also evolve to reflect changes in water availability on ways to minimise the amount of water we remove from the which could impact our operations through higher water prices environment, reuse it whenever we can, and return it to the and changes to water allocations.
Our strategy includes: For our water strategy to succeed, we need good working relationships with those directly or indirectly affected by our t Setting targets to reduce our use and manage our impact business.
We engage with governments and other organisations, on surrounding ecology.
for example the Minerals Council of Australia and the ICMM, to t Understanding the flow regime and quality required support developing water policy and with organisations committed to maintain ecosystem integrity.
to sustainable water management such as the Johnson Foundation t Including water availability issues in new project design.
at Wingspread Environmental Forum in the US, the World Economic Forum water project, and the WBCSD water leadership group.
t Relocating and upgrading infrastructure to provide greater flood protection.
In 2010, we participated in the first Water Disclosure Project, which aims to inform the global marketplace on water related t Accessing alternate sources to protect against water shortages.
t Working with stakeholders on sustainable water management issues, especially with communities near our operations.
Land We used the World Business Council for Sustainable Development We manage just under 41,400 square kilometres of land, excluding WBCSD global water tool to identify our operations and projects our exploration leases.
At the end of 2010 our activities had located in water scarce environments www.
In 2010, impacted 9.4 per cent of this area.
approximately ten per cent of our freshwater withdrawal was In line with leading practice, we aim to rehabilitate land as it from about 20 operations in water scarce environments, with comes out of use rather than waiting until all operations have our greatest exposure in Australia.
A map of our operations and ceased.
By the end of 2010, 24 per cent of our disturbed land projects in areas of water scarcity is available on our website.
excluding land disturbed for hydroelectricity dams had been In 2010, our freshwater withdrawal increased by over six per cent rehabilitated.
We have established an internal rehabilitation to 516 billion litres, due to increased production, and high rainfall target and are working with the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew to in eastern Australia.
A breakdown of our freshwater withdrawal by drive performance improvements in this area.
product group and country is available on our website.
We are continuing our programme of exploring the threats and We are targeting to reduce our freshwater use per tonne of product opportunities for the Group arising from emerging green markets by six per cent between 2008 and 2013.
Freshwater use excludes in biodiversity, carbon, water and other ecosystem services.
water that is extracted for ground control and discharged without Ecosystem services are the benefits we obtain from ecosystems.
Between 2008 and 2010, our freshwater use The UN Millennium Ecosystem Assessment grouped these into four per tonne of product has increased by 2.3 per cent.
categories: provisioning production of food and water, regulating control of climate and disease, supporting nutrient cycles and During 2010, our freshwater use per tonne of product increased crop pollination, and cultural spiritual and recreational benefits.
due to significant rainfall events in eastern Australia, which led to increased freshwater storage, and lower production or higher Our Natural Capital Project has commenced exploring the process water requirements at several businesses.
These increases ecosystem service values of our extensive non operational were largely offset by improved efficiency at our western Australia landholdings.
Through our collaboration with the IUCN iron ore operations as production shifted to newer operations.
economics group we have undertaken a preliminary assessment Freshwater withdrawn Land footprint Billion litres Square kilometres Disturbed Freshwater withdrawn Freshwater withdrawn and used Rehabilitated 420 70 402 73 Freshwater withdrawn and 66 XXX 3,453 3,410 discharged without use 449 443 419 XXX 411 3,873 392 2009: 3,812 516 471 2009: 485 418 401 1,373 1,154 1,112 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 36 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information y t c i w i r S e m e l o l o b p c n i e s o i a c n o l r g E p of the biodiversity value of forest conservation projects in Economic prosperity Madagascar.
This groundbreaking work is being developed as a Read more in the Our approach section of www.
com pilot project as part of the WBCSD Ecosystem Valuation Initiative.
Rio Tinto is a member of the Princes Rainforest Project steering We adopt a lifecycle view of our operations and products to seek group www.
The Project aims to find practical to maximise the value to society solutions to slow tropical deforestation and combat climate change whilst minimising negative impacts by identifying ways to value, and then pay for, the crucial of products, and encouraging those ecosystems services that rainforests provide.
along the supply chain to adopt Biodiversity similar practices.
The potential for impact on biodiversity makes our projects sensitive for external stakeholders and employees.
Rio Tintos future success We use our expertise to harness depends on our ability to manage these issues, and our biodiversity resources and create prosperity for our shareholders, employees, strategy provides the management framework with an industry communities, governments and business partners.
leading goal to have a net positive impact NPI on biodiversity.
Our direct economic contribution was US$61,298 million in 2010.
Tools and methodologies have been developed to assess the This includes: biodiversity values of Rio Tintos landholding.
We continue to t US$6,951 million spent on wages and salaries.
work with our conservation partners to improve implementation t US$33,812 million in value add, made up of labour, tax and of the strategy and have commenced pilot programmes in Africa, royalty payments and returns to capital.
These figures include the Groups share of joint ventures and Twenty eight per cent of our operations assessed using the associates.
A breakdown of our local, regional and national Rio Tinto Global Biodiversity Values Assessment protocol are economic contributions is available on our website.
ranked as having very high biodiversity values and 21 per cent ranked with high values.
Biodiversity action plans have been Suppliers completed or are under development at 86 per cent of these Our statement of procurement principles is available on our website.
We have internal targets in place to support our goal of achieving NPI at these sites.
Payments to suppliers are a major benefit to the economy, generating employment and creating wealth.
In 2010, we spent US$27,486 An underlining principal of our biodiversity work is to ensure million on goods and services with over 57,000 suppliers.
that biodiversity conservation activities are community based.
For example in Madagascar, we have negotiated legal agreements By collaborating with our partners to obtain sustainable development with local communities to manage avoidance zones for conservation.
objectives for each of our business units, we seek to create business relationships that have positive and enduring effects in the developing Whilst it may never be possible to obtain unanimous support for these programmes, and some sections of the community continue economies where we operate, build our partner communities to have objections, we believe that it has the support of the confidence in our reputation, and extend our licence to operate.
majority of those affected in the local community.
As an example, Boyne Smelters Limited BSL and Yarwun alumina Through our biodiversity partners, we have also funded direct refinery have implemented a decontamination and recycling project compensation programmes where community members received in Gladstone, Australia to support Rio Tinto Alcans goal of zero general waste being sent to landfill by 2014.
Working closely with a agreed compensation funds for water supplies, schools, etc in local partner, these operations have been able to reduce the amount return for conserving key features of the environment and other initiatives such as a reduction in logging and hunting.
of material sent to landfill by decontaminating and reusing protective gloves, while recycling filter bags and other oil soaked materials.
com 37 l p G a i t h o n s s v e y d e m s t r r n n e a a o m w r i s n v e c t n e s E Sustainable development review continued 40 per cent of all production after 2021.
We do not own shares in We also work with non governmental organisations and other Freeport-McMoRan and we do not control the management of the partners to build country capacity through programmes such as joint venture.
However, we have the ability to engage with and small and medium enterprise development, access to capital and influence local management through our representation on the tailoring procurement processes to improve local supplier access.
Product stewardship The operator of the Grasberg mine manages complex social, By understanding the health and environmental impacts and community and environmental issues and has faced opposition benefits of our products over their complete lifecycle, we gain from time to time.
There have also been instances of violence in knowledge on how to improve our processes, expand our areas near the mine, including a series of shooting incidents along information to the marketplace, and differentiate our products the road leading to the mining and milling operations that have from our competitors.
Thus we have developed and regularly resulted in three fatalities in 2009. update lifecycle assessments for all our major products.
Both Rio Tinto and Freeport-McMoRan support the Voluntary This knowledge is also used to ensure compliance with chemicals Principles on Security and Human Rights and work together to regulations, such as the European Union Registration, Evaluation, ensure practice is consistent with these principles.
At least one Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals REACH legislation per cent of the mines net sales is committed to support village and the UN Globally Harmonized System of Classification and based programmes, amounting to cumulative funding of US$467 Labelling of Chemicals.
In 2010 we met the REACH registration million since 1996. deadline for our products affected by the regulations.
The Grasberg mine has used a controlled riverine tailings We engage in industry wide stewardship initiatives to support management programme throughout its long history.
This responsible production and help develop leading practices and programme was approved by the government of Indonesia recognised standards.
We chair the Stewardship Committee following numerous technical studies to identify the appropriate of the Minerals Council of Australia, are active members of tailings management plan for the site.
the Responsible Jewellery Council and participate in uranium, copper, steel and aluminium stewardship initiatives.
We are The practice of riverine tailings disposal has been subject to also supported in our material stewardship initiatives by our scrutiny for many years by a range of stakeholders, including partnership with the Eden Project.
certain Indonesian governmental authorities and some NGOs.
We recognise that riverine tailings disposal has been criticised and We are a board member of the World Ocean Council, which aims that the World Bank does not consider it as good industry practice, to help create a responsible and cross-sectoral ocean business in accordance with the International Finance Corporations IFC community.
A review of environmental risks related to our shipping 2007 Environmental, Health, and Safety Guidelines for mining.
activities has been completed as part of our marine stewardship programme and is being used to identify areas for future focus.
However, we continue to believe that the use of riverine tailings disposal at the Grasberg operation is appropriate given the Non managed operations and projects extremely rugged topography, high rainfall and high seismic risk Rio Tinto holds interests in companies and ventures it does that makes construction of more conventional tailings management not manage.
However, we engage as members of the boards of facilities technically challenging.
We remain actively engaged in directors, operating committees and or technical committees.
supporting the mines operator, PT Freeport Indonesia, in reducing Because we believe that the principles in The way we work are the impact of waste rock management and tailingsdisposal.
universal, in our dealings with joint venture partners and nonPT Freeport Indonesia has implemented a number of significant controlled companies we make every effort to ensure that those improvements in tailings management at the Grasberg mine.
These standards of conduct are respected at all times.
include the construction of lateral levees to limit the surface area Examples of our non managed operations include the disturbed by tailings deposition in the lowlands and to protect Escondida copper mine in Chile and the Grasberg copper-gold adjacent river systems, the diversion of the Ajkwa river system to mine inIndonesia.
preserve its water quality and to enhance tailings retention within the deposition area, the successful progressive rehabilitation of Rio Tinto has a 30 per cent interest in Escondida, which is the now inactive tailings within the Ajkwa diversion area and the managed by BHP Billiton.
Our seats on the Owners Council allow new islands forming at the mouth of the diversion area and the us regular input on strategic and policy matters.
We played a part completion of an ecological risk assessment.
in establishing the Escondida Foundation, which is funded by one per cent of the mines pre-tax profits and is a vehicle through The focus of our work with the operator continues to be which Escondida fulfils some of its social responsibilities.
on minimising the geochemical risks posed by waste rock management and tailings, providing for effective acid rock There was one fatality at the Escondida mine in 2010 as a drainage management, and promoting progressive rehabilitation.
result of injuries sustained whilst operating a cathode stripping machine.
We worked closely with BHP Billiton to support its We seek to ensure that investors understand the actions we investigation into the incident and to make improvements to are taking in relation to sustainable development issues and safety procedures.
we are aware that the decision to buy or sell our shares may be A subsidiary of the mining company Freeport-McMoRan Copper influenced by their understanding of these issues.
For example, & Gold, Inc Freeport-McMoRan, PT Freeport Indonesia owns the 2008 sale of a 0.6 per cent interest in Rio Tinto by the and operates the Grasberg mine.
We have a joint venture interest Norwegian Government Pension Fund was stated to be a result in the 1995 expansion of the mine, which entitles us to a 40 per of concerns in relation to the environmental practices at the cent share of production above specified levels until 2021 and Grasberg mine.
38 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information y t c i w i r S e m e l o l o b p c n i e s o i a c n o l r g E p Speak-OUT, our independently administered confidential Governance systems whistleblowing programme.
Internal communication and Read more in the Our approach section of www.
com training campaigns have accompanied each of these changes.
The way we work, supported by our global There were 434 Speak-OUT calls made in 2010.
Of the new issues policies, standards and guidance notes, in raised, 47 per cent resulted in action being taken in relation to the conjunction with the requirements of local law reported issue.
and our voluntary commitments, forms the Human rights basis of our governance systems.
We support and respect human rights consistent with the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and we actively seek to ensure that we are not complicit in abuses committed by others.
Business integrity We endorse the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights Rio Tinto considers conducting our and the OECD Guidelines on Multinational Corporations.
business with the highest standards of integrity to be a core value.
Training on our human rights policy is required every two years We were a founding supporter of the United Nations Global for our employees at the general manager level or above.
org, a voluntary initiative to 2009 and 2010, 4,114 people completed this training.
We are also align businesses with ten universally accepted principles in the developing a guide to assist with the integration of human rights areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption.
We report our progress against these principles on our website.
In 2010 we established a formal partnership with the Danish Institute Through ICMM we endorse the Extractive Industries Transparency of Human Rights www.
dk and we will be working Initiative EITI www.
org and we promote the together on a number of human rights projects throughout 2011.
EITI in the candidate countries where we operate.
The taxes and royalties we paid in these countries are reported on our website.
Rio Tinto operates in a manner consistent with the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples and sovereign Our long standing partnership with the Dundee University Centre for obligations.
However, the UN Declaration contains broad Energy, Petroleum and Mineral Law and Policy sponsors postgraduate statements of principle that are open to a range of potentially studies contributing to the creation of a stable international legal and conflicting interpretations.
We acknowledge that some sections investment environment www.
of the communities where we operate hold alternative views as to The way we work and other Rio Tinto standards clearly state that how the UN Declaration should be applied in practice, as has been bribery and corruption are prohibited in all forms whether direct the case at the Eagle nickel project in Michigan, US.
or indirect and whether it is to or from a public official, a political We respect the land connection of indigenous communities and candidate, party or party official, or a private sector employee.
work with them on their land in a spirit of reciprocity, transparency We only make payments for legitimate business services and and recognition of their culture.
We recognise that every indigenous purposes, at a rate that reflects market value.
Payments must be community is unique and reach specific agreements with affected accurately recorded in our accounting records.
communities on how they want to engage with us in the development During 2010, four of our Shanghai based employees were found and performance of our operations.
guilty on charges of receiving bribes and obtaining commercial secrets.
When the four employees were originally detained in Business resilience and recovery mid 2009, we appointed independent forensic accountants Our operations could face a range of threats to our business including and lawyers to carry out an investigation into the claims.
This natural or environmental disasters, fires or explosions, aircraft investigation did not uncover any evidence to substantiate incidents, loss of communications or information, terrorist acts, allegations of wrongdoing within our systems.
widespread illnesses or pandemics, asset or property damage, or Nevertheless, we were informed that the prosecutor presented market disruptions.
evidence in court that showed the four employees had accepted In 2009 we undertook a review of our approach to ensure that bribes.
By accepting bribes, they engaged in behaviour that contravened The way we work and our anti-bribery standards.
Accordingly, their employment was terminated.
Speak-OUT call activity Independent of this incident, we had commenced a major review Number of calls of our compliance programme to ensure that our systems remain Personnel 211 in line with leading practice.
Policies & procedures 80 434 This led to the release of a revised version of The way we work, Safety or health 55 introduction of new or revised standards for anti-bribery due 2009: 244 Other 35 diligence, antitrust, data privacy, fraud and compliance as well Compensation & benefits 30 as release of a new standard for conducting investigations into Conflict of interest 9 allegations of serious wrongdoing.
We have also refined our Theft & fraud 9 guidelines for information gathering in China and relaunched Bribery & corruption 2 Data privacy 2 Environment 1 0 50 100 150 200 250 www.
com 39 l p G a i t h o n s s v e y d e m s t r r n n e a a o m w r i s n v e c t n e s E Sustainable development review continued key risks, incorporate sustainable development opportunities and we are managing these types of incidents consistently, using include accurate financial provisions.
a common language, sharing best practices and eliminating overlaps and unclear accountabilities across the Group.
Ninety three per cent of our businesses currently have closure As a result, our previously separate emergency response, business management plans in place.
Rio Tinto Alcan operations are continuity, and information technology disaster recovery plans progressively developing or updating closure management plans.
have now been brought together in one streamlined Business At the end of 2010 our close down and restoration provisions Resilience and Recovery Programme.
were US$8,602 million: this includes the Groups share of proportionally consolidated operations, and excludes the Groups This programme is embedded within our Health, Safety, share of equity accounted units.
Environment and Quality Management System.
It requires our operations to allocate appropriate resources, including trained Our closure standard and communities standard require our personnel, facilities and equipment, to effectively mitigate, operations to regularly engage with stakeholders, including control and recover from a major incident.
We have developed employees, traditional land owners, local communities and training and a library of simulation exercises for our operations governments.
Together, we identify preferred options for to use in rolling out the programme.
Our operations will be closure and seek stakeholders endorsement.
For example: internally audited against these requirements from January 2011. t At the Beauharnois smelter in Canada, options for ongoing For example, during 2010 we conducted a simulation of flooding industrial activities were assessed to minimise employment impacting our operations in Brisbane, Australia.
In January impacts and sustain socio-economic input to the region.
As a 2011, when Queensland experienced its worst flooding in the result a casthouse was retained at the site and future industrial last century, we were able to activate our business resilience and development projects were identified.
recovery plan and assist our people managing the day to day t At the Anglesey smelter in Wales, alternate uses for the site physical and emotional impacts of the flood, its aftermath and the infrastructure and waterfront property were investigated to impact on our business in a co-ordinated and timely manner.
create jobs and support the local economy.
A remelt business employing 90 people has continued and berthing tourist cruise Stakeholder engagement ships at the jetty, with flow-on economic benefits for the region, Genuine engagement with internal and external stakeholders has been successfully trialled.
who are affected by, or have an interest in, what we do is a critical We have a team of specialists managing our legacy sites, most element of our successful business practice.
of which were introduced to us through acquisition, to ensure We maintain continuous dialogue with governments and public our closure standard and sustainable development principles authorities at national, provincial and municipal levels, with are applied in these areas.
For example: industry associations and representative bodies, including the t At one of our Jamaican legacy sites we have provided support WBCSD and with non governmental organisations to achieve our for local agricultural scholarships.
The 30 operational and shared goals more effectively and develop appropriate standards security personnel employed for the remedial works we are and guidelines for our industry.
During 2010 we surveyed 1,265 members of government, non We continue to participate in industry initiatives to enhance governmental organisations, societal influencers and industry closure planning guidance through recognised bodies such as members globally to understand stakeholders views of the mining ICMM, the Post Mining Alliance www.
org, the Eden industry and Rio Tinto.
This research will be used to inform Project www.
com and regional mining and minerals strategy development, communications priorities and stakeholder councils or associations in the places that we work.
We also conducted our second global employee engagement survey during 2010, see page 33.
Assurance The Rio Tinto Prize for Sustainability reflection period, aimed at Our Corporate Assurance function has accountability and better understanding the benefits of the US$1 million prize and responsibility for providing assurance to the board that: options for its future direction, concluded at the end of 2010. t Rio Tintos policies, standards and controls are adequately As part of this process, Rio Tinto and the International Business designed and effective for their intended purpose: and that Leaders Forum www.
org brought together past winners and t These policies, standards and controls are consistently finalists to network, share experiences and see firsthand examples implemented by all Rio Tinto sites on a timely basis and as of past winners work on the ground.
We are currently considering designed.
the options recommended for the future direction of the Prize.
In addition, we engaged an independent external assurance Closure organisation,  PwC, to provide the Integrating closure planning into all aspects of our business, from board of directors of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited assurance the earliest stages of project development to the decommissioning on selected sustainable development subject matter, as explained of facilities, is essential to leave a positive legacy of sustainable on the next page.
development, minimise unforeseen financial impacts and ensure PwCs assurance statement satisfies the requirements of subject stakeholder expectations are met.
Demonstrating positive closure matters one through four of the ICMM assurance procedure whilst outcomes also assists us to gain access to future projects.
our online GRI report has been checked by GRI, satisfying subject We have a multidisciplinary approach to closure planning, matter five of the ICMM procedure.
involving communities, human resources, environmental, engineering and financial specialists.
Our closure management plans are updated every five to seven years to ensure they address 40 Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report Production, reserves Overview Performance and operations Governance Financial statements Additional information Independent assurance report What we found Based on the work described below, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the selected subject matter for the year ended 31 December 2010 has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting criteria.
To the directors of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited Responsibilities together Rio Tinto,  What we did Our responsibility is to express a conclusion based on the work weperformed.
Rio Tinto engaged us to perform a limited assurance engagement on the selected subject matter within the Sustainable development Rio Tinto review section of the Rio Tinto 2010 Annual report for the year Rio Tinto management is responsible for the preparation and ended 31 December 2010. presentation of the selected subject matter in accordance with the Selected subject matter Reporting criteria.
t Rio Tintos assertion that it has incorporated the requirements What our work involved of the 10 Sustainable development principles of the International We conducted our work in accordance with the International Council on Mining and Metals ICMM into its own policies, Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 Revised Assurance strategies and standards Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial t Rio Tintos assertions regarding the approach that it has adopted Information.
This Standard requires that we comply with independence to identify and prioritise its material sustainable development and ethical requirements and plan the engagement so that it will be risks and opportunities performed effectively.
t Rio Tintos assertions regarding the existence and status of implementation of systems and approaches used to manage Main procedures performed the following selected sustainable development risk areas: t Making enquiries of relevant management of Rio Tinto t Safety t Evaluating the design of the key processes and controls for t Greenhouse gas emissions managing and reporting the performance data within the t Energy use selected subject matter t Water t Testing performance data, on a selective basis, substantively at both an operational and corporate level t The following Rio Tinto performance data related to the selected sustainable development risk areas: t Undertaking analytical procedures over the performance data t All injury frequency rate t Reviewing a sample of relevant management information and t Lost time injury frequency rate documentation supporting assertions made in the selected subject matter t Number of fatalities We believe that the information we have obtained is sufficient t Total greenhouse gas GHG emissions and appr pp opriat p e to pr p ovide a basis for our conclusion.
t Greenhouse gas emissions intensity t Total energy use t Freshwater withdrawn t Freshwater use per tonne of product Liza Maimone  Reporting criteria Partner Melbourne The subject matter above have been assessed against the 4 March 2011 definitions and approaches presented under the Reporting at a Group level heading on the Our performance page of Rio Tintos Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional website www.
com ourapproach as at 4 March 2011.
Standards Legislation commissioning an independent assurance report in Inherent limitations Restriction on use connection with the selected subject matter.
Inherent limitations exist in all assurance engagements This report has been prepared in accordance with our due to the selective testing of the information being engagement terms to assist Rio Tinto in reporting its examined.
Therefore fraud, error or non-compliance may sustainable development performance.
We do not accept or Limited assurance occur and not be detected.
Additionally, non-financial data assume responsibility for the consequences of any reliance This engagement is aimed at obtaining limited assurance may be subject to more inherent limitations than financial on this report for any other purpose or to any other person for our conclusions.
As a limited assurance engagement is data, given both its nature and the methods used for or organisation.
Any reliance on this report by any third restricted primarily to enquiries and analytical procedures determining, calculating and estimating such data.
party is entirely at its own risk.
and the work is substantially less detailed than that undertaken for a reasonable assurance engagement, the We consent to the inclusion of this report in the Annual level of assurance is lower than would be obtained in a report to assist Rio Tintos members in assessing whether reasonable assurance engagement.
the directors have discharged their responsibilities by www.
