corporate responsibility report Objectives and management structure Legislation in the US and UK defines reportable accidents under rules which make the data non-comparable between the two countries but comparable Ashtead is committed to operating in a safe, ethical and responsible manner in all its endeavours.
We place high priority on compliance with within each country relative to other businesses.
Under these definitions which generally encompass more accidents in the US than in the UK, Sunbelt our legislative and regulatory obligations and on maintaining the safety had 231 OSHA Occupational Health and Safety Administration recordable of our workforce across the Group.
accidents 2009: 298 accidents which, relative to total employee hours Our Group Risk Committee is charged with overseeing the Groups worked, gave a Total Incident Rate TIR of 3.21 2009: 3.41.
In the UK, environmental, health and safety and risk management processes A-Plant had 63 RIDDOR reportable incidents 2009: 42 which again, and ensuring that the efforts of Sunbelt and A-Plant are co-ordinated relative to total employee hours worked, gave a RIDDOR reportable rate so that best practice in one business can be adopted by the other.
The Group Risk Committee reports to the Group chief executive and In the US, an OSHA recordable incident is one where medical attention the Audit Committee.
more extensive than simple first aid is required whereas in the UK a It is chaired by an executive director of Ashtead Group plc, currently RIDDOR reportable incident as defined by the UK Health and Safety Ian Robson, with its other members being: Executive is an incident which results in the injured employee not returning to work for more than three days.
the heads of Sunbelts and A-Plants risk and safety teams: UK and US legal counsel: In order to compare accident rates between the US and UK, A-Plant also the heads of Sunbelts and A-Plants performance standards internal applied the US OSHA definition to its accident population which gave operational audit teams: and a figure of 114 2008 9: 96 OSHA recordable accidents in the UK.
On the Sunbelt board member to whom its legal council and safety a like-for-like basis in the year ended April 2010, Sunbelt therefore had director report.
39 2008 9: 44 OSHA recordable incidents for every 1,000 employees whilst A-Plants equivalent incident rate was 58 2008 9: 42.
The Group Risk Committee provides the Audit Committee, and through it the Board, with a comprehensive annual report on its activities including The increase in 2009 10 in UK incidents compared to the previous year details of the areas identified in the year as requiring improvement and the does not reflect any lessening of focus on health and safety matters status of actions being taken to make the necessary improvements.
In this and additionally none of the recorded incidents resulted in any major way we are able to ensure that there is an effective chain of command long-term injury.
A-Plant therefore anticipates its accident rate in the within the business in relation to environmental, health and safety and coming year returning towards previous levels.
Regular employee education and awareness training is, in our view, the most effective way of improving and sustaining safety standards across Health and safety our businesses and both businesses continue to invest in providing these We have extensive programmes to develop and maintain safe working programmes.
We also seek continually to educate our employees and practices across the Group and to remind our employees of the need to our customers about new and improved methods of ensuring employees be safe at all times.
We also spend significant time drawing our customers operate in a safe environment.
attention to the importance of these issues for their own employees.
A copy of the relevant formal statement of Sunbelts and A-Plants policies Safeguarding the environment on health and safety is required to be displayed at each store.
We make The Group is committed to taking reasonable actions to minimise the risk a considerable annual investment in ensuring that our rental equipment of adverse impact on the environment from our business.
We achieve this meets or exceeds the latest safety standards, as well as providing health by a policy of investing in: and safety advice and materials, as required, to accompany each rental.
the regular renewal of our rental fleets to ensure that the equipment we Evidence of this commitment was given when shortly prior to year end, provide to our customers mostly incorporates the latest environmental A-Plant was advised by the British Standards Institute that it had achieved management thinking available from our chosen manufacturers.
At ISO 9001 the Quality Standard accreditation across all its operations.
30 April 2010 the average age of our fleet was approximately 44 months: This is in addition to the ISO 14001 Environmental management and our network of stores to ensure that they are adequately equipped to OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health & Safety management accreditations operate in a safe and secure way, protective of the environment.
These certifications give confidence that we have in matters which are addressed in this programme are: wash-down bays place the appropriate policies, training programmes, feedback and auditing to collect and safely dispose of materials released when we inspect and and monitoring processes to minimise our impact on the environment and clean equipment returned from rent: enclosed paint booths and spray ensure the safety of our workforce.
shops to ensure that repainting of equipment can be conducted safely We maintain sizeable internal health and safety teams to ensure that and securely: bunded fuel tanks and designated spill areas to ensure the correct health and safety precautions are in place throughout our secure fuelling of our fleet and, where relevant, vehicles.
We track and analyse any incidents which occur to enable us to ensure proper arrangements are made, through the use of reputable to identify recurrent issues and implement preventative improvements vendors, for the collection and disposal of waste fuels and oils, tyres and across our UK and US networks.
other old or broken parts released as we service and maintain our rental fleets.
Already A-Plant works mostly with a single national supplier to Over the last year, Sunbelt had 414 reported incidents relative to a manage this centrally and Sunbelt is looking to reduce the number of workforce of 5,675 2009: 492 incidents relative to a workforce of 6,742 vendors it uses in the coming year to enable additional assurance to be whilst the UK had 318 incidents relative to a workforce of 1,964 2009: gained in this area: and 367 incidents relative to a workforce of 2,336.
An incident for this a modern and efficient delivery truck fleet to ensure that our vehicles purpose does not necessarily mean that an employee was hurt or injured.
are purchased with the latest available emissions management and fuel Rather it represents an event that we want to track and report for efficiency available from our chosen suppliers.
monitoring and learning purposes under our health and safety management policies.
45 We also support the initiatives of the Carbon Disclosure Project in the management of harmful carbon dioxide emissions.
We participate in its annual survey and are committed in future to reporting on our carbon dioxide consumption in our Annual Report.
Across the Group our estimated emissions in the year to 30 April 2010 were 181,000 tonnes total CO2 2009: 197,000 tonnes.
This comprised 155,000 tonnes at Sunbelt 2009: 169,000 tonnes and 26,000 tonnes for A-Plant 2009: 27,000 tonnes.
Whilst these emission levels are low relative to our revenues and employee numbers, we recognise that most of our emissions are generated by our delivery truck fleet in transporting our equipment to customers job sites.
Our customers expect and pay for this delivery but we are working on a number of initiatives to enable our customers to help us reduce our emission levels and the delivery charges we make to them.
For example, on big, long-term construction sites, we are increasingly placing pools of our equipment at the job site enabling equipment to be sourced on site and thereby reducing the sites overall transportation needs.
We are also investing in building a secure container in which to store smaller tools at the job site with an electronic access gate which uses RFID tagging to enable automated invoicing to the customer as the tools are used.
Employees Our employees are our greatest asset and we place enormous value on their welfare, as well as the superior level of service they provide for our customers.
At 30 April 2010, we had 7,200 employees across the Group.
Our employees benefit from extensive on-the-job training schemes and are incentivised to deliver superior performance and customer service.
We continue to take action consistently through the year to maintain and develop arrangements aimed at involving employees in the Groups affairs.
For example, regular meetings are held at profit centres to discuss performance and enable employees to input into ways of improving performance and service levels.
We pride ourselves on many of our staff remaining with us throughout their careers, something which is increasingly uncommon.
Several of our most senior staff started out at entry level within our stores and their continuity of employment is testament to our focus on employee development.
We are committed to ensuring equal opportunities for all our staff, as well as to prioritising local employment, such that our businesses predominantly recruit from the areas immediately around our facilities.
We make every reasonable effort to give disabled applicants and existing employees becoming disabled, opportunities for work, training and career development in keeping with their aptitudes and abilities.
More information on our employees can be found on pages 17 and 24.
Geoff Drabble Chief executive 16 June 2010 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
