on the move around the UK... North of England Robert Wiseman Dairies PLC 20 G Goi oin ng g f fu ur rt th he er r: : f fo or r o ou ur r c cus ust to om me er rs s Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 During the severe winter weather Wiseman received x p ona fe dba k ro e ce ti l e c f m customers about the service levels achieved in delivering increased orders for fresh milk.
Two show True Grit The final weeks of 2009 and into early 2010 presented some unprecedented weather conditions.
Two members of staff who played a pa w v Col an d iv r rt ere Ste e e, t ker r e based at our tanker logistics depot in Market Drayton, Shropshire and Gary Payne, distribution driver based at our depot in Bristol.
Steve Cole said: Collecting milk from farms can be tough at the best of times, we are using some very narrow and windy roads in the most exposed and rural parts of the country.
When the snow fell in December and January the challenge of getting to some farms around Cheshire, Shropshire and North Wales became many times bigger.
I had a number of collections where the farmers and I would have to clear the road on the way in and again on the way out after collecting the milk!
Gary Payne added: During the worst of the winter weather I had to push milk trolleys from one end of a high street to the other because roads were closed and took numerous detours to ensure all the milk deliveries on my run were made.
We are the last link in the supply chain so I do feel considerable responsibility to ensure that we get the milk out on the road and delivered safely to our customers.
This meant a longer shift on some days to complete my delivery run but arriving at stores I was always met with a bigger than usual smile.
Robert Wiseman Dairies PLC G Goi oin ng g f fu ur rt th he er r: : f fo or r o ou ur r c cus ust to om me er rs s 21 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Going further... for our customers 99.96% Extreme winter weather uplifts by volume of Wiseman Milk Partnership milk.
Every day, Robert Wiseman Dairies makes over 10,000 deliveries of fresh milk to 12,000 customers.
The milk procured by the Company to fulfil this requirement is uplifted daily from more than 900 Wiseman Milk Partnership farmers across Britain, and sourced from farmer owned co-operatives First Milk, Milk Link and OMSCO.
So when extreme winter weather blanketed the As a result, Wiseman received exceptional UK in ice and snow in December and January, feedback from customers about the service the Company, its suppliers and customers faced levels achieved in delivering increased major challenges.
Quite apart from dealing with the effects of arctic And during the period of extreme winter weather conditions and atrocious major, minor and farm roads from December 20, 2009 to January 9, 2010, throughout the country, customer demand for milk the company managed to uplift 99.96% of surged by more than 10% as consumers stocked up.
the raw milk produced by direct suppliers.
Staff throughout the business showed real In recognition of the efforts made by employees commitment and determination in helping Robert in getting milk collected, processed and delivered Wiseman Dairies respond to this challenge.
during this difficult time, the company made a special one-off 100 payment to staff who worked throughout this difficult period.
The total cost of this True Grit payment was 400,000.
