governance NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT Membership of the nominations committee In carrying out these tasks, the committee gives careful consideration to Nominations committee attendance 2010 the balance of skills required on the Board, including the need to reflect diversity, international experience and strong managerial and business Meetings eligible to Meetings skills.
Before recommending the appointment of a non-executive attend attended director to the Board, the committee satisfies itself that the candidate Sir Simon Robertson chairman 4 4 will have sufficient time available to discharge his or her responsibilities Helen Alexander CBE 4 4 effectively.
Peter Byrom 4 4 Iain Conn 4 4 The work of the committee in 2010 Peter Gregson 4 3 During the year, the committee recommended to the Board the John McAdam 4 4 reappointment of Helen Alexander CBE, Peter Byrom, Iain Conn, Peter John Neill CBE 4 3 Gregson, John Rishton and Sir Simon Robertson subject to those 1 John Rishton 2 2 directors being re-elected at the 2011 AGM.
The committee also Sir John Rose 4 4 engaged Egon Zehnder International EZI to conduct an executive Ian Strachan 4 4 search for a suitable successor to Sir John Rose and, after consideration of several candidates, recommended to the Board that an existing 1 John Rishton retired as a member of the nominations committee on September 30, 2010 on the non-executive director, John Rishton, be appointed, such appointment announcement of his appointment as the next Chief Executive.
to take effect on Sir Johns retirement on March 31, 2011.
The committee In 2010, Sir Simon Robertson chaired the nominations committee which has subsequently engaged EZI to search for a suitable non-executive comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the independent director with substantial and recent relevant financial experience to be non-executive directors and which is attended by the General Counsel considered for the role of audit committee chairman.
The committee reviewed the situational conflicts declared by each Responsibilities director.
It considered the independence of each non-executive director The committee makes recommendations to the Board on the and made recommendations to the Board.
The committee also appointment of executive and non-executive directors and on the considered the future structure of the Board and received a report from membership of Board committees.
It is assisted in the former task by the HR director on progress made in the last three years to build external recruitment consultants.
It reviews succession planning strength in depth for the executive team.
generally and also reviews specific appointments to the Board and to other senior positions within the Group.
The committee also oversees the annual review of Board effectiveness.
ETHICS COMMITTEE REPORT Membership of the ethics committee Byrom.
John Rishton was also a member up to September 30, 2010.
The Ethics committee attendance 2010 Director of Risk, who has executive responsibility for ethics, attends the meetings as does the General Counsel and Company Secretary.
The Meetings eligible to Meetings Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive and other executives of the attend attended Group may be invited to attend meetings of the committee.
Ian Strachan chairman 3 3 Helen Alexander CBE 3 3 Responsibilities Peter Byrom 3 3 The Board strongly believes that the Groups business should be 1 John Rishton 2 2 conducted in a way that reflects the highest ethical standards.
The ethics committee was established in 2008 to oversee the implementation of 1 John Rishton retired as a member of the ethics committee on September 30, 2010 on the the Groups global ethics strategy and the management of ethical and announcement of his appointment as the next Chief Executive.
The ethics committee consists exclusively of independent non-executive directors and met three times in 2010.
Ian Strachan chairs the committee and its other members during 2010 were Helen Alexander CBE and Peter 63 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2010 Financial statements governance Business review
