24 ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility The diagram sets out the Groups Corporate The Board of Directors is committed to Social Responsibility structure.
The Group Chief Executive chairs the CSR Committee ensuring high levels of ethical practice and which reports to the Rotork Management Board and through the Group Chief conduct by all Rotork employees.
Executive to the Board of Rotork p. l. c. The committees act as a focal point for further development of the subject matter within their remit.
Underlying all their work is a determination to embed the Groups Corporate Social Responsibility values within all its activities.
These values are contained in our vision Corporate Social Responsibility Committee CSR and mission statement which can be accessed at www.
Chaired by the Group Chief Executive, the CSR Committee has the following sub-committees covering The Company has considered the health & safety, the environment, ethics and social issues.
guidelines on Social Responsibility published by the Association of British Insurers.
It takes full account of the significance of environmental and ethical matters in the conduct of its business and Health & Safety Committee in its risk assessment processes.
Rotork Chaired by the Group Operations Director, meetings are formally held four times remains committed to the principles laid a year.
The Health & Safety Committee has responsibility for: down for its inclusion in the FTSE4Good Index and the ten Principles of the UN Reviewing all accident and incident reports Global Compact of which it is a signatory.
Management of Group health & safety Reviewing legislative change Environmental The Committee includes a qualified health & safety professional.
The Groups Environmental Policy applies to the Company and all its subsidiaries worldwide.
The policy includes commitments to the prevention of pollution, compliance with all relevant legal and regulatory Environmental Committee requirements and to the continuous Chaired by the Group Operations Director, meetings are formally held at least once improvement of environmental performance.
The Environmental Committee has responsibility for: The Group environmental policy can The Environmental Management System be found at www.
com in the Review of all incident reports investors section under Corporate Review of Environment Audit Report Responsibility Environment.
Reviewing legislative change In support of the above policy, Rotorks The committee uses Resource Futures as the Groups Environmental Consultant.
Environmental Management System, which is a system of procedures developed to minimize the impact of our operations on the environment, will: Ethics Committee Allocate formal environmental Chaired by the Group Legal Director, the Ethics Committee has responsibility responsibilities to ensure compliance for the development of Group ethics policies and procedures.
with legislation: Support a culture of consultation with employees, key stakeholders and other interested parties: Social Issues Committee Provide environmental information, guidance and training that meets Chaired by the Group HR Director, the Social Issues Committee has best practice: responsibility for: Monitor, measure, audit and seek Social issue policies continuous improvement in its HR policies environmental performance: Group Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2010 25 Work with external agencies and bodies our emissions of greenhouse gases in our products will follow on a progressive to ensure continued adoption of best accordance with Greenhouse Gas Protocol basis from 2013. practice solutions in environmental GHG Protocol developed jointly by the management: World Business Council for Sustainable In order to achieve this, Rotork has Development and the World Resource commenced research into raw materials, Communicate best practice and publish Institute.
All scope 1 & 2 emissions and base materials including percentage internal and external information are calculated in accordance with GHG of recycled materials, location of suppliers detailing its aims and achievements: Protocol using conversion factors from the and transport of raw materials.
Research Foster open communication with US Environmental Protection Agency, the is also being conducted into packaging, employees, customers, suppliers and Department for Environment, Food and transport of components and assemblies, other stakeholders via both electronic Rural Affairs, and the International Energy assembly of finished product and business publishing and face-to-face discussion.
All scope 2 emissions travel and the associated emissions.
have been calculated using the relevant Environmental performance conversion factor for the part of the world Waste management Environmental data is collected across the the energy was consumed based on the Waste recycling is one of the Groups nonRotork Group of Companies via a purpose mix of coal, oil, gas, hydroelectric or financial key performance indicators KPI, built web based data collection tool.
which is measured as a percentage of total tool delivered significant improvements waste generated by the Group, as Rotork in on time reporting, completeness and In 2010 Rotork published its scope has identified waste as its most significant accuracy of data collected.
1 & 2 emissions via the Carbon Disclosure environmental impact.
Rotork is therefore Project CDP.
Rotork has made a working with its suppliers to improve its waste Carbon Emissions commitment to the disclosure of its Scope recycling systems and increase the rate at The Groups greenhouse gas emissions 3 emissions via CDP starting with business which generated waste is recycled.
There derive from the use of energy, electricity, travel in 2012.
The carbon emissions for is a cost benefit to reduce waste going to gas, LPG, oil, coal and wood.
We record landfill and increase the amount of waste recycled.
Last year there was a 17% increase in total waste generated, the amount of waste recycled also increased by 17%.
The increase in generated waste was entirely due to an increase in our overseas supply chain activity see page 21 for more details of this KPI 62%.
All hazardous waste is identified and sent for treatment via licensed waste carriers to licensed treatment facilities.
Water use Water consumption has been measured by the Group throughout the year to monitor water efficiency.
For the majority of sites, water consumption derives from normal operational and sanitary water use.
The Groups water is supplied by local utility providers, except in Rotorks facilities in Lucca, Italy and Chennai, India, where water is metered and extracted direct from boreholes.
In 2010, water consumption fell 22%: as Rotork does not operate any process that consumes large amounts of water this is seen as a result of fluctuations in normal use.
Ethics and values The Board of Directors is committed to ensuring high levels of ethical practice and conduct by all Rotork employees in all their dealings.
Rotorks ethics and values policies which are applicable to all employees worldwide can be accessed at Rotorks website www.
com in Roartork, decorated by artist the Investors section under Corporate Jane Veveris Callan.
Photograph courtesy of Andrew Padfield 26 ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Rotork aims to provide a safe working environment for all employees and visitors to its premises.
The Ethics and Values policies specifically Rights at Work.
Rotork supports all United state that Rotork will never offer, pay, Nations efforts to ensure the effective solicit or accept bribes in any form.
abolition of child forced compulsory labour Group internal audits include Ethics policy and will never use any such labour in any compliance monitoring and these are of its operations worldwide.
At Rotork the reported to the Audit Committee.
rights of every employee are respected.
The Company acts in ways that ensure The Ethics Committee is a sub-committee all employees are treated with openness, of the CSR Committee and its members mutual trust, dignity and respect.
Everyone include the Group Finance Director and working at Rotork will be treated fairly and Group Legal Director.
The Committees without discrimination on the basis of race, remit includes review of the Group gender, language or religion.
Ethics Policy and further development of systems and procedures for appropriate The Groups Whistleblowing Policy was monitoring of the policies together further reviewed during the year by the with provision of suitable training for Audit Committee.
The Ethics Committee reports into the CSR Committee whose This policy can be viewed on our website Chair, the Chief Executive, reports into www.
com in the Investors the RMB and Board on ethical matters.
section under Corporate Responsibility Senior Managers worldwide regularly Workplace & Community.
receive presentations and training on the Groups ethical policies to enable them Suppliers to ensure their staff are fully aware of Business integrity and fair dealing is key to and understand Rotorks ethics practices.
These presentations make it clear that the Groups relationships with its suppliers and contractors.
The Group is committed to the Board of Rotork p. l. c. fully support long-term relationships with its supply base.
and endorse the Group Ethics Policy.
These relationships are reinforced through Top: Rotork Bath sponsor procurement and supplier quality visits.
The Committee has during the year local team tracksuits.
undertaken a risk assessment of the Left: RTS Jiuzhaigou nature and extent of the risks relating to Rotorks outsourced model of manufacture visit during which funds places a high emphasis on supplier bribery to which the Company is exposed.
Communication of Rotorks Ethics and selection and evaluation.
Values such as Right: Mark Neilson, integrity, working conditions and non use Values is now part of the induction process running the Great Scottish Run for Breast for new employees and new agents and of child labour are core to our principles Cancer Care.
takes due account of the Bribery Act and we actively search for these same values within our supply base.
Rotork is 2010 and the associated draft guidelines.
These core ethical values will ensure each committed to long-term partnerships with individual employee acts at all times with its suppliers and these relationships are integrity, honesty and fairness towards reinforced through regular visits, robust those whom they engage.
audits and an active supplier development and risk reduction focus.
A typical audit Rotork is a signatory to the United Nations would involve a review of safe working Global Compact and its ten Universal methods, waste reduction initiatives and Principles.
These Principles are derived working conditions appraisal.
Our aim is from the Universal Declaration of Human to procure components from the very best suppliers who have a sustainable business Rights UDHR and incorporate human rights, labour, environment, bribery and model that will reduce their impact on their corruption.
The Group supports the UDHR employees and their environment.
and the International Labour Organisations Declaration of Fundamental Principles and Supplier site visits involve observations of Group Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2010 27 safe working practice, ages of employees, Minimise the risk of injury to our Groups facilities, Rotorks Site Service correct handling procedures and the correct employees, customers and suppliers Engineers work on customer sites, which use of hazardous materials.
Any irregularities and damage to property are often inherently more hazardous.
observed are pointed out to suppliers and Reduce costs associated with employee corrective action is taken.
Supplier audits Three key measures are monitored illness, injury and loss of physical assets are distributed internally within the Group.
across the Group: accident frequency Reduce the risk of legislative breaches Assurance is also sought that suppliers rate, lost time rate and incident uphold all local laws generally applicable frequency rate.
By monitoring the results The Group operates a behaviour-based to their locality and operations.
Most key of these measures we are able to identify safety programme.
This requires managers suppliers are registered to ISO 9000. areas of strong performance which can and supervisors to encourage safe working then be shared across the Group and practices by: Supplier development is ongoing and areas of weakness and consequently involves elements developed in the motor activities that may benefit from additional Promoting regular safety observations industry of the QS 9000 system which is resources and training.
Regularly asking employees for their The Groups target is to achieve lower suggestions for improving safety at than industry averages in health & safety their facility Health & safety performance for our sector.
A peer group Holding employees accountable for Rotork aims to provide a safe working benchmark is used for comparative observing these practices environment for all visitors to our premises purposes.
In 2010 the rate at which Providing managing safety courses and also for our employees wherever they industrial accidents occurred across for line management work.
The Group Health & Safety Policy, all of our facilities was 0.38 injuries endorsed by the Chief Executive, sets Regular health & safety training on per 100,000 hours worked.
The Group out the Groups requirement to meet or subjects such as manual handling and undertakes to keep the number of exceed legislation and other requirements confined spaces working hours lost through health & safety in the countries in which Rotork operates.
For the second consecutive year the number of accidents In all our sites, the safety of people and The policy can be viewed on our website has fallen while the number of near misses property is paramount.
com in the investors section reported remains high, indicating that are engaged in activities which include under Corporate Responsibility safety awareness continues to be positive.
manual handling of heavy objects, Workplace & Community.
mechanical lifting, operating machinery The Accident Frequency Rate over the last and driving to suppliers and customers Effective management of our Health & five years is shown on page 21. locations.
In addition to working in the Safety Programme enables us to: Genet Weldegerite, Mahilet Solomon, and Seliman Mehamed Suhar at the tapstand, Hiwane elementary school, Ethiopia.
Photograph courtesy of WaterAid Marco Betti 28 ROTORK P. L. C. Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility During 2010, employees have volunteered Shareholders in a variety of ways including painting Information on our relationship with community centres, donating time to shareholders, a key stakeholder group, participate in a day of caring and repairing is contained in the Corporate Governance fences in an animal sanctuary which section on page 36. provides therapy for sick children.
Community involvement Individual employees or groups of employees also engage in community Rotork considers it important to contribute activities and the Charity Committees will to and engage positively with stakeholders normally match monies raised by employees in the communities in which it operates.
who undertake charitable events personally.
This year the sponsored charity events As a global Group, Rotork is committed employees participated in included to charitable engagement on a worldwide a 100 mile cycle ride and a 26 mile walk.
During 2010, Rotork launched its Global Charity Initiative where each site was Rotork was a sponsor of a public art encouraged to organise fundraising events event in Bath where local artists were to generate funds for the 2010 selected commissioned to decorate Lion sculptures global charity WaterAid and in particular which were then auctioned off for charity.
their Project based in the Mysore District of The Rotork sponsored lion, Roartork, Karnataka state, Southern India.
Employees was decorated in an interpretative way to enthusiastically engaged in fundraising represent the important role of actuators.
in a wide range of activities including an Rotork Bath purchased the lion at Oklahoma Catfish Fry and silent auctions auction and it now resides in the Group in the USA, a water melon party in Korea, headquarters.
Rotork in Bath has also a family fun day in China and in Spain sponsored local sporting teams and designing and selling air fresheners for events throughout the year.
The Group and its staff made a combined contribution of 90,000 to the The Group has forged links with local Project.
Employees from Rotork India visited universities, colleges and schools in a the Mysore project meeting Project leaders number of the locations where it operates and leaders of the benefitting communities and sponsors students to go into higher and were pleased to see the successful education in India in addition to sponsoring provision of water and sanitation in this a school there.
Rotork is the industry remote area of Karnataka.
Over the three member of the Bath Education Trust, years of the Project, approximately 7,000 which has as its objectives educational people in small remote villages have gained advancement in local schools and the access to safe sanitation and 10,000 promotion of community cohesion.
Bath people have gained access to safe water.
Education Trust has provided the Group with an opportunity to further develop links For 2011 Rotork has chosen to continue with Bath.
Rotork staff held sessions for Right: Charity casual to support WaterAid and will sponsor its day, Rotork South Africa.
students providing experience of working Jeldu Woreda Solar Powered water project in industry and ran courses intended Below: RPC Milwaukee in Ethiopia.
This project aims to develop employee, Doug Landers, to develop skills such as negotiating, water schemes, mainly through capping 100 mile cycle ride for presenting and project management.
springs which then distribute water through Missing Children Charity.
water points at locations selected by the Bottom: Cupcakes at A Company representative is a member local benefitting communities who live in Flow-Quips Oklahoma of the Industrial Advisory Board for the Catfish Fry for WaterAid.
Mechanical Engineering Department of Bath University.
Rotork is also a member of an Rotork also believes it is important to initiative of the Engineering Development be a good community neighbour.
The Trust and sponsors a science project Group regards this as part of its ongoing currently being undertaken by pupils responsibilities as a corporate entity.
We in the sixth form of a local Bath school.
seek to be regarded as a good corporate citizen.
This links into the Groups corporate values which include producing a positive and beneficial impact in the areas in which we operate.
One of the ways Rotork does this is by having local charity committees at each of its sites who donate to local charities and this empowers local employees to decide how to distribute Peter France Chief Executive the funds in their local communities.
