Corporate Responsibility Social Responsibility and Sustainability 37 RPS is committed to ensuring that it conducts its business in a responsible and sustainable way.
Taking care of our clients, suppliers, employees, the wider community and the environment and conducting operations with a high standard of business integrity are all essential to the long term success of our business.
The Group requires its staff to adopt high standards of behaviour in their daily professional conduct or when travelling on business.
Employees are required to be sympathetic to the cultures of and comply with the laws and regulations of the countries in which they operate, also giving due regard to the safety, the well being and the human rights of all project personnel and relevant local communities.
RPS has set itself the task of reducing per capita energy consumption by 5% each year using 2007 as the base.
This would, if achieved, halve our per capita energy use by 2020.
The need to reduce staff numbers in parts of the Group as a result of recent trading conditions has made this task more challenging than originally envisaged.
Our likely success can only be evaluated when economic circumstances improve, allowing staff numbers to stabilise.
Clients The Group aims to develop and maintain strong and lasting relationships with its clients.
RPS endeavours to deliver all services and reports to the required quality and specification within the time frame agreed with the client.
RPS employees work with their clients to meet and anticipate their needs.
Conflicts of Interest All RPS employees must avoid personal or professional activities and financial interests that could conflict with their responsibilities to the Group.
If a conflict of interest does arise then this must be acknowledged and reported.
Employees must not seek personal gain from third parties, or abuse their position within the Group for personal gain.
Community Involvement RPS has supported community and charitable fund raising with gifts in kind and financial contributions throughout the year, mostly at office level.
In 2010 the Group and its staff gave or raised 472,000 in charitable contributions 2009: 480,000.
Taking into account the 188,000 spent on academic bursaries and educational initiatives 2009: 105,000, the Groups total contribution to the communities in which it operates was 660,000 2009: 585,000.
Across our businesses we have contributed to a wide range of charities and initiatives.
At Group level we made a donation of 25,500 to Tree Aid in support of its educational, tree planting and woodland conservation programmes in Sub-Saharan Africa.
RPS has supported Tree Aid for several years with charitable contributions, rpsgroup.
com Corporate Responsibility fund raising and gifts in kind.
In 2010 RPS n promote practical energy efficiency 38 and waste minimisation measures: and was again acknowledged as the leading corporate sponsor of Tree Aid.
We are n provide a shared inter-office IT proud to continue our association with network and communications their award winning work that assists some technology that reduces the need for of Africas poorest rural communities to business travel.
succeed in the fight against poverty and In order to achieve this RPS: the effects of climate change.
n ensures employees are trained and Environmental Management motivated to conduct their activities in RPS contributes to environmental an environmentally responsible manner: management as part of many projects n reviews the policy on a regular that it undertakes for clients.
The Group basis to take into account any advises international bodies, governments, new developments in legislation, local authorities and private companies or environmental management or on improving their environmental shareholder expectations: and performance.
We have many employees with professional qualifications in n allocates sufficient management environmental management: some have resources to ensure effective achieved international recognition for implementation of the environmental their work and play a leading role in policies.
Parts of the Group has achieved Although RPS seeks to manage and reduce ISO14001, the internationally recognised its own environmental impact, our greatest environmental management system impact is to be found in the advice we standard.
provide to clients many of whom are Facilities for recycling office waste are undertaking major capital projects.
During 2010 our RPS endeavours to: offices recycled waste paper, spent toner and ink cartridges, obsolete computer n comply with all relevant national and hardware, printers and mobile phones.
regional legislation as a minimum Proceeds from this recycling were standard: donated to charity.
n comply with codes of practice and Climate Change other requirements such as those specified by regulators and our clients: RPS has extensive skills that enable us to understand and advise upon the n utilise suppliers that offer products causes and effects of climate change.
which are sustainable, recyclable or RPS undertakes projects that involve environmentally sensitive wherever developing strategies to reduce our practicable and economic: clients carbon emissions and adapt Report and Accounts 2010 buildings and infrastructure to cope with 39 Shareholders anticipated climatic changes.
We expect The Group conducts its operations the workload in this area to increase.
in accordance with what it believes The carbon footprint for RPS in are principles of good corporate 2009, recalculated in accordance with governance.
Our aim is to provide Greenhouse Gas Protocol and current shareholders with a return on Defra guidance amounted to 14,662 investment that rewards their financial tonnes.
Calculated on a similar basis commitment.
The Board understands the overall carbon footprint increased the importance of strong cash flows to 16,972 tonnes in 2010.
This was in and earnings and develops its business part the result of the first time inclusion in such a way as to grow these in of our Eastern Australian offices in a sustainable way as far as possible.
the calculations, these being part of The Board endeavours to maintain a business acquired during 2009.
In involvement of shareholders by addition during 2010 the number of keeping them informed on major vans operated by our Environmental actions or decisions affecting their Management business in the United investment, through a year-round Kingdom increased significantly as the Investor Relations programme.
A large number of these The Chairmen of the Audit new vans are low carbon emission, which Committee, Remuneration Committee will progressively minimise the impact of and Nomination Committee attend this fleet on the overall footprint.
the Annual General Meeting, and The specific target set by the Board are available to answer shareholders is to reduce per capita office energy questions.
The Chairman and the consumption by 5% per annum.
This target Senior Independent Non-Executive was achieved in 2010 with office gas and Director are available to discuss electricity consumption decreasing by 7.7% governance, strategy and any issues per capita over the prior year from 3.9 per of concern or interest with any major capita to 3.6 MwH per employee.
The Chief Executive and indicated above, however, our ability to Finance Director meet frequently with sustain improvement will be dependent on major institutional shareholders and economic circumstances: the continuing fund managers.
uncertain environment in which we Investor Relations is discussed at operate means that the structure of our every Board meeting which enables businesses may be affected in ways that the Board to keep abreast of and make the achievement of our targets develop an understanding of the views more challenging.
com 40 RPS Offices in Perth, Australia Report Report Report and and and Accounts Accounts Accounts 2010 2010 2010
