40 Sustainable development SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Sustainable development Sustainable development is fundamental to our business success.
We have a clear and well-embedded approach that is delivering tangible benefits for our business and the communities in which we work.
A positive role in society Integrating sustainable In 2009 we were proud to sign up to Global development into business strategy Actions on Harmful Drinking a plan of action We believe that the most effective way for signed by the CEOs of 10 global beer, wine SABMiller to meet its sustainable development For SABMiller to achieve competitive and spirit producers to help combat the objectives is by maximising the success of advantage and ultimately better profitability harmful use of alcohol in developing markets.
sustainable development needs to be part of what we do every day.
It needs to We believe that consumers should receive We are clear that our business is not something be integrated into our decision-making and accurate and balanced information about separate from society.
It is, at one and the same the way we run our business.
irresponsible alcohol consumption and we time, an employer, a customer, a supplier and have launched a number of targeted information a taxpayer.
The interests of SABMiller and the To better reflect our long-standing commitment campaigns across the world.
We have wider community are therefore inextricably linked.
to sustainable development we have revised continued to promote TalkingAlcohol.
com and one of our four strategic priorities that guide Our activities provide high-quality products added a new module called Open the Facts the management of our business.
One of that society wants and enjoys.
As long to assist parents in discussing alcohol with these priorities is now to constantly raise as markets are free and competitive, our their children.
the profitability of local businesses, business will succeed if we manage our sustainably.
Further details on this and relationships well, use resources efficiently Water Futures the other strategic priorities can be found and meet the needs of our consumers and Water scarcity represents a significant longon page 3. the communities in which we operate.
term risk to parts of our business, as well as to Management within our local operating some of the communities in which we operate.
A robust approach to sustainable development businesses, regional hubs and at a group level It is a complex issue, with many different underpins our ability to grow and our licence are responsible for ensuring that sustainable factors at play that cannot be addressed to operate.
A well-managed and growing development is taken into account as part only within the boundaries of our breweries business is good for wider economic of their business planning and management.
Consequently, we have development, leading to greater employment, Progress is overseen by regional and group adopted a flexible and multifaceted approach.
more taxes paid and greater investment in local Corporate Accountability and Risk Assurance economies and communities.
An analysis of In 2009, SABMiller joined a consortium Committees CARACs.
our economic contribution has been published of business partners, including McKinsey in our sustainable development report.
This strategic focus is underpinned by our & Company and the International Finance 10 sustainable development priorities.
These Corporation, to examine the challenges In 2009, we announced a major transaction define the key issues for our business and of water scarcity around the world.
The in South Africa to support our long-term have been developed through extensive subsequent report Charting our Water commitment to Broad-Based Black consultation internally, and also with external Future launched in November, shows how Economic Empowerment which will create stakeholders.
The priorities also support our growing water scarcity can be mitigated approximately 40,000 shareholders, including commitment to the 10 principles of the UN affordably and sustainably.
We have also Global Compact and contribute to the UNs created a charitable foundation to benefit In partnership with WWF, we have pioneered Millennium Development Goals.
More information on the technique of water footprinting within our this can be found on page 8.
Locally and globally we focus our resources value chain, which we use to identify and on the priorities which we believe are the focus our actions on the specific issues Making partnership a central most material for our business.
As a result relevant for breweries most at risk.
Building part of our approach we have established three global focus on this work, we launched our first global areas, namely alcohol responsibility, water We recognise that by building strong and partnership, Water Futures, with WWF.
We believe that equitable partnerships we can create more Further information on this partnership can these are the issues which have the potential value for our business and make a greater be found on page 19. to impact all parts of the business and which difference in our markets than if we worked are best tackled through harnessing the in isolation.
Moreover, as one of many Investing in local suppliers scale and expertise across SABMiller.
players that have a role to play in building Enterprise development supports the long-term a successful community, we endeavour to growth and stability of both our business and Discouraging irresponsible drinking build strong relationships with local partners the economies in which we operate.
In procuring to address the issues that we face together.
Throughout our business we promote its raw materials, SABMiller combines the responsible consumption as part of our We encourage our businesses to directly scale advantages of global sourcing with the day-to-day activities, whether designing develop specific partnership projects with recognition that using local suppliers can also marketing campaigns, developing new NGOs, governments and communities which benefit the business commercially.
products or out in the market selling our will protect or enhance their ability to operate beers.
We strive to ensure our employees Local sourcing is often far more cost-effective or create new value.
Working with these understand the risks that arise from than importing raw materials, and encouraging groups often provides us with additional irresponsible drinking and we expect high enterprise in our supply chains contributes insight and local knowledge that enable us standards from them over 75% of our to the local economies in which we work.
By working with us, our employees are now trained in the six core During the year we bought crops from partners are able to harness the scale of our principles of our Alcohol Framework.
28,590 local smallholder farmers, an increase business and access accumulated expertise of 34% compared with last year.
Further to help implement meaningful programmes in information on this can be found on page 19. their local communities.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Sustainable development 41 The number of smallholder farmers supported by our programmes across the world has increased by 34% this year to 28,590.
Improved global performance Health and safety and transparency Each of our businesses has robust processes Once again we have published the results to manage health and safety, and minimise of our Sustainable Assessment Matrix SAM the risk of accidents.
During the year, we which benchmarks our operations sustainable recorded 1,478 industrial injuries, a 4% development performance.
Despite having reduction compared with the previous 12 raised our performance criteria, we are pleased months.
However, the days lost through injury to report that our overall results have improved were up by 6%.
While we are disappointed across eight of our 10 priorities this year.
with this increase, we believe that in many cases our businesses are improving the way Of the 24 targets we set last year, 22 have they monitor and report health and safety, as been successfully achieved, with the remaining they introduce new programmes to improve two relating to activities that are ongoing: to their approach and processes.
develop a community water programme in Africa and improve our management of carbon It is with regret that we report four employee Reality Check: Tackling drink driving in distribution.
In addition, we have made good fatalities in our business this year.
The first was in South Africa progress against our long-term commitments in South Africa and related to an employee SAB has launched an innovative to reduce our water consumption and carbon being attacked by an external assailant.
The programme to play its part in tackling emissions.
We have reduced our water second was in Zambia and involved a motor alcohol abuse in South Africa.
consumption per hectolitre of beer produced vehicle accident.
The remaining instances by 4% to 4.3 hectolitres.
Carbon emissions occurred in Honduras where two employees The new programme addresses drinking have also been reduced by 4% on the same were assaulted on separate occasions while and driving, Foetal Alcohol Syndrome basis to 13.3 kg CO e. making deliveries on our behalf.
2 and underage drinking issues identified as needing targeted action beyond Further information on our performance against Transparency and Ethics communication and education.
our 10 priorities, as well as our targets for the SABMiller has a Code of Business Conduct SAB has invested R6.5 million US$0.8 coming year, can be found on pages 42 and 43. and Ethics which applies to all employees million to set up five Alcohol Evidence across the group, as well as to third parties Centres AECs across the country in Employees are our acting on behalf of the business.
conjunction with local and provincial law enduring advantage enforcement agencies.
These centres The Code sets out how to report a potential We believe that a highly engaged workforce, have sophisticated equipment that can breach of its principles and includes contact imbued with a passion for our brands, is a key accurately detect a drivers blood alcohol details for external whistleblowing phone lines.
We need to attract and level from a single breath sample, and It also makes provision for the protection retain people with the right skills and attributes help to increase the prosecution rates of people alleging breaches of the Code in to help grow our business.
At the same time, of those arrested for driving under the good faith.
Further information can be found we need to create an environment in which influence of alcohol.
in the directors report on page 49 and the employees feel valued and are supportive corporate governance report on page 58. of our values, strategies and priorities.
Our Sustainable Development Report is At the heart of our approach to developing available on the sustainable development people are The Talent Management Way and pages of our website at www.
These It provides more detail on our approach and articulate how managers, with the support of performance in terms of our 10 sustainable human resources teams, work with employees development priorities.
to help them reach their potential and achieve personal goals aligned to those of the business.
We invest substantially in learning and development, using a wide range of media including action learning, e-learning and onthe-job training.
In the last year we provided an average of 4.2 days of training for each employee.
We treat all employees equally and value the benefits of employing people of different races, creeds and backgrounds.
With business interests in over 75 countries, we must conform to local laws and regulations on these issues and we require all our businesses to have in place clear policies and processes covering ethnicity, gender and disability.
42 Sustainable development SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Sustainable development continued Overview of progress: our performance at a glance The table below summarises the progress we have made over the past year against each of our 10 sustainable development priorities.
It also shows the targets we have set for the coming year.
Discouraging Making more beer Reducing our Packaging reuse Working towards irresponsible using less water energy and and recycling zero-waste drinking carbon footprint operations Why is it a priority?
Our beer adds to the enjoyment Water quality and availability We use energy to produce and Packaging protects our Much of our waste can be a of life for the overwhelming are under stress in a number transport our products.
We aim products but has wider valuable resource for farmers majority of consumers.
We of locations across the world.
to become more efficient, impacts.
By reducing the and food producers as well as care about irresponsible alcohol We aim to be more efficient manage our carbon footprint weight of our packaging, a potential energy source.
We consumption and we work in our water use, understand and explore cleaner sources of reusing bottles and encouraging aim to minimise the amount of collectively with stakeholders our watersheds and engage energy.
This will save money recycling, were saving money waste we send to landfill, so to address the harmful effects.
This will and resources and reduce our and raw materials and reducing saving money and reducing cut costs, reduce risks and greenhouse gas emissions.
pressure on local waste its environmental impact.
Targets we set last year Targets we set last year Targets we set last year Targets we set last year Targets we set last year Continue with the alcohol Make progress towards the Make progress towards Extend the evaluation of Investigate more ways education training programme new group water target.
the recycling and reuse to reuse brewery waste.
infrastructure for PET a Undertake detailed value Develop a renewable energy Increase the percentage of synthetic material used Continue regular engagement chain water footprint in toolkit for our operations.
waste recycled reused in line extensively for beverage with independent experts on the Czech Republic.
with our aspiration to achieve Improve our management containers with market alcohol-related issues.
Develop new stakeholder of carbon in distribution reviews in Honduras, Promote TalkingAlcohol.
com partnerships to address and retail refrigeration.
Romania, South Africa, to more stakeholders.
water supply and quality risks.
Invest in a total of four new Develop a bottle selection waste water treatment plants tool to assist light-weighting in our African, European and i. e. using lighter bottles made Latin American regions.
Progress we have made Progress we have made Progress we have made Progress we have made Progress we have made We continued to roll out In the year, our average Over the last 12 months, We completed a review of the We have established training across the business.
consumption was 4.3 our average CO emissions PET recycling infrastructure a partnership with the 2 Over 75% of employees are hectolitres of water per per hectolitre of beer in over 40 countries.
Biotechnology and Biological now trained.
hectolitre of beer, a 4% produced was 13.3 kg CO e, Sciences Research Council 2 We launched a bottle improvement.
a 4% improvement on the BBSRC in the UK to In September 2009, selection tool to allow previous year.
SABMiller signed up to The water footprint for packaging managers to Other trials are looking at the a global plan of action to our Czech operations was Our renewable energy select the optimal bottles combustion of spent grains support the WHOs Global completed in June 2009. assessment tool was piloted for their local market and and conversion to bioethanol.
Strategy to Reduce the in Zambia and this will be environmental conditions.
In November 2009, SABMiller Harmful Use of Alcohol.
rolled out to our businesses 96% of waste across announced the Water Futures across the group.
the group was recycled We launched a new partnership with WWF.
or reused, up from 95% TalkingAlcohol.
com module SABMiller launched HFC-free In Africa, four effluent the year before.
called Open the Facts to help refrigeration units in a number treatment plants were parents discuss alcohol with of businesses including constructed or upgraded their children.
Targets for this year Targets for this year Targets for this year Targets for this year Targets for this year Make progress towards Undertake water footprints Undertake a comprehensive Review, select and implement Explore recycling potential including responsibility and develop action plans review of opportunities to a new group environmental for waste labels, currently messaging on all SABMiller for partnership watershed improve energy efficiency impact assessment tool for sent to landfill, in two markets international brands by 2012. protection projects in South across the group.
the evaluation of both new in Europe and Latin America.
Africa, Tanzania, Peru and and existing packaging Extend availability and visibility Continue to reduce fossil Review innovative disposal Ukraine.
of low or non-alcohol beers in fuel emissions from energy options for kieselguhr relevant markets.
Invest in three new effluent use on our sites to meet Further extend bottle lighta filtration medium at treatment systems in Uganda, our 2020 target.
four sites in Africa, Europe Work in partnership with Tanzania and Panama and and Latin America.
the International Center upgrade two effluent for Alcohol Policy and treatment plants in Ecuador stakeholders on global and Colombia.
actions to reduce harmful drinking.
Continue to improve water efficiency to meet our 2015 water target.
Support and engage in stakeholder water dialogues in Africa, India, Latin America, Europe and the USA.
com  water energy packaging waste Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2010 Sustainable development 43 Encouraging Benefiting Contributing Respecting Transparency enterprise communities to the reduction human rights and ethics development in of HIV Aids our value chains Why is it a priority?
We recognise that our influence The prosperity of local The HIV Aids pandemic is We conduct our business with Were committed both extends beyond our immediate communities and that of particularly relevant to our respect for national cultures to transparent sustainable operations to include those of our operations are mutually operations in Africa.
We have and different local laws, norms development reporting and our value chain partners for dependent.
Our corporate programmes in place for our and traditions.
We promote to high ethical standards in example, suppliers of raw social investment CSI activities employees and their families the values of the international general.
To this end, we have materials and distributors of aim to improve the quality of life and are developing others for community, notably the a Code of Business Conduct our products.
for local people, helping us to local communities and suppliers Universal Declaration of and Ethics which applies to all build strong relationships with to ensure the well-being and Human Rights.
employees and third parties communities, consumers and health of our staff and acting on our behalf.
communities in which we operate.
Targets we set last year Targets we set last year Targets we set last year Targets we set last year Targets we set last year Publish an analysis of the Expand the scope Further increase the Engage in community-impact Train regional sustainable economic impact of our and funding of our percentage of HIV-positive studies of the value chains development champions activities in the value chain entrepreneurship employees and spouses of our soft drinks business through web seminars with in Honduras and Uganda.
on our managed healthcare in El Salvador and Zambia.
Increase the number of Develop a water CSI Participate in international Continue stakeholder smallholder farmers within programme for Africa.
Undertake an updated dialogues on the basic right dialogues on alcohol, water our value chain.
cost benefit analysis of our to water through the UN and enterprise development.
Progress we have made Progress we have made Progress we have made Progress we have made Progress we have made A report entitled The socioSAB has approved an The number of employees Community-impact studies A workshop for sustainable economic impact of Nile increase in budget for the on managed healthcare have been completed in development champions from Breweries in Uganda and KickStart in celebration of programmes increased by El Salvador and Zambia.
across the world was held Cervecera Hondurena in its 15th year.
In Colombia, 32% and the number of in London in March 2010.
SABMiller took part in Honduras was published in Bavarias Entrepreneurs spouses and dependants discussions through the We held dialogues on our May 2009 and is available Network gained over 18,000 was up by 11%.
CEO Water Mandate in economic impact and on on our website.
registered users to its social We have undertaken a August 2009. water risks at the Africa networking website launched There are now 28,590 cost benefit analysis of economic summit in June this year.
smallholders working our HIV Aids programmes in Cape Town.
We have also with SABMiller in our local A water CSI programme in South Africa.
held a number of stakeholder sourcing programmes a in Africa is currently in events on HIV Aids in Peru, 34% increase on last year.
Nile Breweries India, Malawi and the UK.
has expanded its water programme to sorghum farmers.
Targets for this year Targets for this year Targets for this year Targets for this year Targets for this year Develop and launch a new Launch additional Roll out the Men in Taverns Select and trial a new human Extend our SAM sustainable cassava farming project in education programme in rights and sustainability development management entrepreneurship programme Southern Sudan.
South Africa in partnership assessment tool for third system to include a with The Global Fund.
new performance level Launch a new brand based Launch newly developed representing leading-edge on locally sourced grains in water CSI initiative in Africa.
Launch a partnership with Undertake actions, as practice.
the Department of Health appropriate, to improve the in South Africa to improve poverty impact of our soft Launch a comprehensive Support the development of access to condoms through drinks value chains in Zambia internal communications a new Tanzanian agricultural utilising our distribution chain.
and El Salvador, arising from campaign to improve growth corridor.
employee awareness and Increase the use of couples engagement in sustainable testing as a way of improving development.
HIV Aids testing rates with employees and their partners.
Review business conduct and ethics procedures and implement any changes necessary to comply with the UK Bribery Act 2010 and related adequate procedures guidance.
com  communities hivaids humanrights transparency
