Our people Our people are the lifeblood of our The three pillars to our Employee Experience Succession business.
We are committed to strategy are: Our talent and succession strategies delivering an extraordinary experience haveproven to be robust this year as Environment for them as an employer, to build their To ensure that our people have the tools demonstrated through the successful careers and harness their creativity, appointment of Guy Berruyer, an internal toperform their roles successfully and to passion and knowledge to better create the right culture and ethos within appointment to the CEO role.
ofour executive development strategies theorganisation so that they feel inspired At 30 September 2010 Sage employed and proud to work at Sage.
during the past few years have also been 13,400 people in24 countries.
demonstrated through the successful Engagement promotion of a number of internal Our people continued to face achallenging To continue to improve our survey engagement candidatesat the most senior of leadership environment this year as we balanced costs scores that demonstrate that our people are roles.
During 2010, for top leadership we whilst maintaining our engagement levels willing to go the extra mile for our customers made four key appointments, three of which and remaining committed to our vision to and for Sage, to help us to besuccessful.
Three out of four of these bean admired employer.
Talent Our people work across multiple and diverse Additionally of the530 promotions we Development, retention and attraction of new disciplines from software architecture and madein total, 52%weremale and 48% talent continue to be a priority for the Group.
engineering through to technical support werefemale.
A key measure of success is to demonstrate andfacilities management.
Across all of that Sage has a culture of accountability these disciplines our people receive training, andopportunity.
The employee experience development and support to enable them toadvance in their chosen careers.
Across Sage, local approaches to each one We are a company whose business of these three pillars are the way in which we depends on providing great software We remain focused on building our people choose to drive our people strategy.
To andservices to our 6.3 million customers.
engagement scores across Sage, ensuring complement local work, there are also a that everyone who works here not only has The only way to deliver this is through number of Group led people initiatives that the skills, tools and opportunities to perform our people.
The relationships they build are embedded across all of our businesses.
their responsibilities successfully, but are with ourcustomers and the support and also fully committed to and passionate about expertise they then provide is invaluable the roles they perform.
We also regularly Progress inenabling our customers to leverage communicate with people via local and our software and services effectively.
Environment global intranets, webcasts, emails and Investing inand inspiring our people to During the period we have continued to other channels to keep them up to date play such apivotal role is therefore crucial invest in tools to enable our people to give with business performance and market to oursuccess.
The majority of investments conditions.
During this period our Our strategic employee goal is to have centred on IT improvements across engagement scores have increased to createtheenvironment that enables Sage, for example a new online Annual record levels with some of our locations our people todeliver an Extraordinary Performance Review tool in the UK and in achieving external recognition as a great Customer Experience.
In Portugal employees attended a place to work.
series of training courses to ensure they were aware of new Software Certification legislation, both so Sage could comply with the legislation and could help customers to do likewise.
At a leadership level, considerable investment has been made into defining theright behaviours and skills that are appropriate for our business and to ensure that our people continued to feel inspired and challenged.
The Sage Group plc 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business review 01 Governance 36 Financial statements 63 The Sage Leadership Standard Talent There are many local talent initiatives taking place as well.
In Poland our Top Talents This is focused on developing and On a global level, the harmonisation of project is an intensive course designed to encouraging behaviours that inspire others.
executive reward has now been completed, develop employees on a number of different Infact, its strapline is Leaders Who Inspire representing a significant milestone in career paths, including technical, specialist anExtraordinary Customer Experience the history of the Group.
demonstrating that we take our customer executives are now part of a common experience seriously at all levels of our business.
A new coaching programme was developed The Sage Leadership Standard centres on in North America which was delivered to As Sage continues to innovate on a more sixmajor attributes that clearly define the more than 300 leaders across the business.
global footing we have established more behavioural and cultural attributeswe need The programme focused on providing a than ten collaborative working groups with and expect of our leaders.
At a high level, common approach to developing employees the objective of using the very best talent to these are: at all levels to support consistent career better leverage our scale.
These collaborative development across the business.
Bring the Sage Vision to Life groups are providing additional development and are helping to create a cadre of 2.
Create the Conditions for People international talent across Sage.
Be Passionate The Global Leadership Performance Sages focus on Extraordinary Employee Development Programme was successfully Experience supports the notion of helping 4.
Be Accountable launched during 2010 and more than people to be successful.
Be Collaborative 50 executives attended this week long ourculture at Sage we live and breathe 6.
The programme centred fiveGuiding Principles which set out the on discussing the implementation issues foundations of how we behave towards Engagement relating to Sages strategy and goals, ourpeople, customers, suppliers and All of our businesses undertake independently as well as working on how to bring the otherstakeholders.
managed employee engagement studies and Sage Leadership Standard to life.
Trust develop action plans based on the outputs The programme is unique in its design and Integrity to facilitate year-on-year improvement in delivery, built in collaboration with external engagement levels.
This year, our businesses Innovation international leadership specialists both have shown significant improvement in Agility practitioner and academic and is facilitated engagement scores.
OurVIPPayroll business Simplicity by both executive directors and Executive in South Africa wasawarded 2nd place in Committee members with the support of Our people have embraced these principles Deloittes Best Company to Work For external expertise.
The programme is with great enthusiasm worldwide and we survey in the medium size category.
assisting the creation of a single leadership have several ways of recognising individuals All businesses score favourably on items culture and focusing our leaders on and teams for championing these principles.
such as values and culture, social climate, businesspriorities.
job satisfaction, leadership, communication and commitment levels.
Areas in which we aim toimprove focus on policies and processes and tools to do the job, reflecting certain parts of the business who continue tointegrate acquisitions.
The Sage Group plc 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
