Corporate responsibility Supporting our customers Sage in France developed an online virtual support advisor called Claire for its Facile range of products for start-ups and small businesses to enable customers to access cost effective support 24 hours a day.
Sage remains committed to acting Our four key areas of focus in CR are Industry, People, Community and Environment.
asaresponsible corporate citizen, Pleasefind the information about our people activities in the Our peoplesection of the report.
continuing to take a pragmatic Industry approach to Corporate Responsibility We look after the needs of more than six million businesses, many of them small to CR that builds on our activities in medium-sized, so we are well placed to havea positive impact on industry globally.
We continue to focus Wehave focused on two key areas this year helping our customers to make the our commitment on areas that are most oftheir assets and developing the entrepreneurs of tomorrow.
mostrelevant to Sage, our people andour customers.
We established our CR policy in 2008 with Community four key areas of focus: industry, people, community and environment.
Our approach The localised nature of our business remains one of our strengths, especially when remains flexible, in line with our business it comes to enabling our people to have a positive impact on the communities in model, to enable our businesses to focus which theylive and work.
Our continued focus onproviding and supporting our onthe areas that are of most strategic software locallyalso means that the jobs we generate continue to benefit the local importance to them locally.
We aim to measure our progress in all fourareas, setting out to achieve best Environment practice inthe local context of every country We continue to work on understanding ourimpact on our environment and what we in which we operate and sharing this across can do to reduce this.
Despite not beingin an industry traditionally considered to be the Group for continuous improvement.
a high energy consumer, we remain committed to reducing our energy consumption Anystandards established by local legislation and related emissions wherepossible as well as reducing our wider impacts such willapply as a minimum.
as resource use andwaste to landfill.
The Sage Group plc 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business review 01 Governance 36 Financial statements 63 Helping entrepreneurs get started Sage in Spain sponsored Ellas 2.0 Startup Weekend, an event designed to enable entrepreneurs to get together and develop their business ideas before pitching them to a panel of potential investors.
Advising on legislation Sage in Portugal launched a website, www.
com, to ensure customers were up to date with legislative requirements introduced to prevent fraud and facilitate data exchange between businesses and tax authorities.
Sage also continues to provide support In France, this year we have focused on Industry to SMEs at a time of legislative change developing partnerships with schools, The decentralised business model at Sage in a number of countries across the world.
to provide students with the opportunity helps us to remain close to our customers In Portugal, legislation has been developed to find out more about how to apply their and the unique local environments in which tofacilitate data exchange between tax learnings in a business environment.
This enables our teams to authorities and taxpayers and to prevent An example of this is our partnership with understand and support our customers fraud.
Sage Portugal has sent employees ESIAL, a specialist technology college in withthe issues and challenges they face.
ona training course to ensure they are Lorraine, where more than 100 students up todate with the implications of these benefit from the insight of Sage employees.
Helping SMEs to make the most new requirements and has also developed We have also extended this partnership oftheirassets a website, www.
com, to three other schools, working on various to advise SMEs on how to become compliant.
projects related to leadership and As we emerge from a period of global economic instability, our customers are entrepreneurship.
looking to maximise the assets they already Developing the entrepreneurs Softline in South Africa has continued have.
We are uniquely placed to assist them oftomorrow itsrelationship with the Life College, with this process, helping them to streamline Developing future talent, both within our anot-for-profit organisation which develops their business processes and better ownbusiness and in the wider business entrepreneurship in students across use theirexisting software and services community remains important to our SouthAfrica.
Softline sponsors an annual to helpthem identify the areas in which business and to our people.
We continue event called The Life College Xchange, their opportunities for growth lie.
toharness the Guiding Principles of Trust, acompetition which enables the students Sage North America has expanded its Integrity, Innovation, Agility and Simplicity topitch business ideas to established inthe work that we do and in how we seek relationship with TechSoup, the global business leaders in South Africa, with the leaderin providing technological solutions to help others.
winners being awarded seed money to to non-profit organisations.
Through this starttheir new businesses.
In the UK, a number of students have been Sage Payment Solutions Division now offers offered both long and short-term placements Sage in Australia launched its first online discounted merchant processing rates and within Sage, to give them an understanding accounting product, Sage My Business a simplified application process to assist of the career paths open to them once they Online, earlier this year.
A version of this non-profit organisations in using the web leave college or university.
newproduct was made available free to generate revenue.
Since the start of Sage to accountancy students, enabling them In North America, Sage continues to provide North Americas partnership with TechSoup tobecome familiar with how it worked in free accounting software to schools across in 2008, more than 1,400 user licences have advance of starting their accounting careers.
Canada, enabling students to become been donated by Sage toorganisations proficient in the use of the software to help across the United States.
them in their future careers.
The Sage Group plc 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility continued In Spain we have signed an agreement Paul led a visit with other North East Community withthe Recover Foundation to provide two business leaders to a number of homeless Supporting our local communities hospitals in Cameroon with support as they charities across Newcastle, to see how computerise their processes for the first time.
businesses such as Sage could provide Our local communities are important to us This is the first part of a long-term agreement support to these charities in training and to our people and we have a long history where Sage will provide support to more previously homeless people so that they of actively supporting a number of charities hospitals as the project extends.
Activities including fundraising, sponsorship and In Switzerland employees spent a day The UK also delivered 945 hours of time to volunteering are very common in Sage making Grittibaenze, a local baked delicacy, volunteer challenges and a further 683 hours offices around the world.
Some examples which were then sold to raise money for to volunteering with schools and students.
are detailed below, but these are just a small Denk an mich, a Swiss charity dedicated Ateam of Sage employees also undertook selection of the great work our people have tohelping people with disabilities.
atrip to Nepal where they spent a week undertaken in the past year to support their refurbishing a school in the Helambu Region local communities.
as part of the Childreach International North America Futurebuilding Project.
The team raised more In North America the Giving is Living Mainland Europe than 33,000 to make this trip possible.
charitable programme was expanded In Poland as well as continued sponsorship thisyear, giving employees more choice of Iskierka, a foundation which helps children Rest of World ofcharities which they can donate to.
suffering from cancer, this year we have also Anyemployee contribution is joined by a In Australia a number of Be Brave and Shave sponsored a national competition for young 50% match by Sage, which resulted in more events in all of our Sage offices raised money people to identify and reward gifted than US$124,000 being donated this year.
We also computer science and mathematics introduced a salary sacrifice scheme through Sage Day was once again a focus for students across the country.
Karma Currency, enabling employees to charitable activities across our offices, donate to a charity of their choice.
In France much of our charity fundraising withmore than 21 charities benefitting hasbeen linked to helping people with fromcash donations, employee volunteer This was complemented by a donation to disabilities, as part of our overall strategy to time, and charity events.
Karma Currency from Sage MicrOpay, with assist more people with disabilities develop the blessing of employees as it was in lieu of their careers at Sage.
We have sponsored aChristmas gift.
UK & Ireland adisabled basketball team, for which one of The UK continued to work with local In South Africa a number of Pastel our employees plays, and have raised money homeless charities under the leadership employees stepped in when a National through charity runs in which teams of our ofPaul Walker, former Sage Group Chief Strikeimpacted State Hospitals.
Executive, in his remit as The Princes Trust spent time at the hospitals, volunteering North East Ambassador of the Year 2009. toclean wards and look after babies in thematernity ward, as well as holding a collection drive to collect vital linens and other consumable materials.
Volunteering in Nepal A team of Sage UK employees undertook a trip to Nepal where they spent a week refurbishing a school inthe Helambu Region as part of the Childreach International Futurebuilding Project.
Working with local charities In Switzerland, employees spent a day making Grittibaenze, a local baked delicacy that they then sold to raise money for Denk an mich, a Swiss charity dedicated to helping people with disabilities.
The Sage Group plc 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business review 01 Governance 36 Financial statements 63 Carbon emissions We anticipate thatwe will report on more Environment local businesses in coming years as the This is our second year of measuring our Understanding our expansion of their employee numbers carbon footprint across the Group.
To allow environmentalimpacts bring them within scope.
Within countries, us to compare our energy usage and carbon there have been changes inthe estate and Being an office-based organisation means emissions against last year, we have retained we have updated our reporting to reflect that our environmental impacts are the same boundaries.
As a large proportion of our offices are comparatively less than those of many other Greenhouse Gas Protocol as a guide on how in shared premises, we continue to work with industries.
We recognise that our greater we capture our emissions and are currently our landlords to obtainaccurate energy data.
impact can be made through our role in evolving our measurement processes As in prior years, where this data was not helping to automate business processes towards full compliance with this.
available, wehave estimated usage data and forour customers worldwide which helps We continue to measure scope 1 and this currently represents approximately 6% toreduce their environmental impacts as scope 2 carbon emissions from the ofourenergy usage.
For example, we continue electricity and gas that we pay for and use towork to reduce our packaging volumes the emissions factors provided by the UKs through the increased provision of electronic Energy awareness and Department for Energy and Climate Change downloads for both new and existing reducingconsumption DECC in order tocalculate our carbon customers.
We are also exploring cloud-based Our operating companies continue to footprint from thisusage.
products which may reduce the energy usage seekways to minimise their environmental We are considering expanding our through the use of our software products.
impactthrough employee education boundaries to include employee travel andawareness.
However, we also believe that it is important as part of our measurement of emissions.
for us to manage our own in house activities There are several behavioural change However, we are aware that due to the to reduce our energy and other resource programmes across our business, focusing diverse markets in which we operate, the uses where practical to do so.
Several of on encouraging employees to be more maturity of data collation and governance ourlocal businesses continue to develop energy efficient.
This includes dedicated systems around the travel figures may vary andrun pilot initiatives to reduce waste sections on Intranets in the UK, France and across regions making accurate analysis andenergy usage, including: Portugal relating to how to live a greener globally more challenging.
There have also been a number A Water Efficiency Scheme and Green withour Group companies to improve of internal communications campaigns printing initiatives in the UK.
thisconsistency before we report the data.
around energy efficiency, including across Recycling of office supplies in Poland, In line with our policy to report on offices Asia and South Africa, focused on reducing France and Asia.
withmore than 25 Sage employees, energy consumption through PC use.
Electronic payroll software updates wearereporting on emissions for Brazil inSouth Africa.
and Switzerland for the first time this year.
Selection of suppliers based on their renewable energy credentials in Germany.
Total CO2e emissions from energy 28,269 tonnes 521 30 233 10 Germany Austria Poland Switzerland 6,549 UK & Ireland 13,189 North America 36 China 77 Malaysia 1,908 111 520 148 Spain Portugal France Singapore 5 Brazil 4,278 654 Operating company and total South Africa Australia CO2eemissions from energy innearest whole tonnes The Sage Group plc 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility continued In France, recent office relocation programmes The benefits of these schemes in Governance, risks, have been guided by environmentally sound North America and Europe were offset by opportunitiesand CR principles, with the new premises chosen the weather conditions during the year.
being considered to be of a High Environment Leadership and CR We intend on continuing to monitor our carbon Quality standard.
CR at Sage is reviewedon a quarterly and energy usage throughout thebusiness to measure the effectiveness ofanyfurther energy basis by the GroupExecutive Committee.
Comparison of energy usage Application oftheCRpolicy is led by the efficiency schemes weimplement and report toprioryear on these in comingyears.
CR Steering Committee which isled by the Group Director of HR and Corporate We are primarily focused on the reduction in overall energy usage within the business Communications and includes Board The Carbon Reduction Commitment presence through the membership as we feel this is a clearer reflection of CRC in the UK the effect of business growth, capex and oftheCompany Secretary.
The Company In the UK, we continue to work towards Secretary regularly updates the Board on energy efficiency programmes.
compliance with the CRC, and have an risks and opportunities in the area of CR.
Our energy usage in three ofour largest external service provider working with businesses has increased marginally this us todevelop and implement strategies Governance, risks, opportunities year, in North America, the UK and France to reduce our UK carbon footprint.
andCR see bar chart for comparisons.
This was due This year, we successfully registered for to an extremely bitter winter, which particularly the scheme and are in the process of Sage continues to work towardsthe highest standards of governance and impacted onthe UK energy usage, increasing developing the evidence packs required it by7%overall.
more details on this can befound in the Corporate governance statement section Energy usage in Other countries has within the annual report.
also increased slightly, primarily due to the inclusion of Brazil and Switzerland.
Our Code of Ethics remains in place acrossour organisation and we continue In a number of countries we have piloted tomonitor and extend the channels energy efficiency schemes to both raise by whichemployees can anonymously awareness of our energy usage and report any concerns about bribery, activelyreduce the impact we have.
Energy efficiency scheme in Sage Spain MWH of energy used within Sage business This year Sage Spain has piloted an Energy Efficiency Scheme designed to measure and then reduce the energy usage across their offices.
The project started with the analysis and measurement of the energy North America UK & Ireland France Spain South Africa Other countries usage and its sources across their 31 offices in Spain.
From this data, an action plan was developed to start the process of reducing energy usage: Traditional light bulbs were replaced with energy efficient ones.
Core central heating temperatures were reduced.
Individual air conditioning units were installed to enable controls to be adjusted per office area.
Usage of machines with high energy consumption was controlled.
All of these measures and the reasons behind them were communicated with all employees to further encourage them to think about their personal impacts on the environment both at work and at home.
We have piloted this scheme this year and are awaiting a full year of results to see its effectiveness.
We are aware that adverse weather during 2010 has shown a small 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 increase in usage compared to last year, which we We have restated energy usage for our UK business for 2009 due to the clarification of further hope will reduce next year as the scheme takes effect.
energy usage thatneeds to be included in consultation with our energy brokerage services.
The Sage Group plc 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 22,166 22,417 15,090 16,154 5,415 5,721 4,609 4,723 4,916 4,676 3,698 3,861 Business review 01 Governance 36 Financial statements 63 We also ask our leadership population to As part of business planning best Opportunities sign a declaration relating tothe Code of practice, all of our locations operate The continued trend towards electronic Ethics, to ensure we have transparency businesscontinuity plans in order to ensure software downloads gives Sage an surrounding any additional business we wouldbe able to continue to provide opportunity to provide our customers commitments they may have and their aquality service to our customers should withways to minimise their environmental relationships with customers and suppliers.
impacts further at the same time as Whilst climate change and increased energy reducingour own through the reduction Risks costs represent long-term risks to our business, inassociated packaging.
Whilst governance applies to all areas of like many other office-based businesses Cloud computing also presents an ourCR policy, most legislation that is in these are limited.
These risks include: opportunity for our business to further placecovers the environmental impacts Increased energy costs energy reduce environmental impacts through ofouroperations.
As expected, legislation restrictions and regulation.
themore efficient use of fewer servers surrounding environmental issues continues Increased supplier costs as a result viathecloud, as opposed to more traditional to increase and there is a generalproliferation of increased energy costs.
standalone servers on company premises.
of carbon trading schemes worldwide, Increased scrutiny over our reporting and We are moving more software on to the as well as signs thatmany Governments are cloud, including Billing Boss in North response to climate change challenges.
increasingly mandating the reporting of carbon America and SalesLogix worldwide.
footprints and other environmental impacts.
Increased oil, transportation and other raw material costs impacting employee We also look to continue to develop and Sage continues to monitor the introduction travel habits, with the potential to expand our electronic payment processing ofthese schemes so that we are capable adversely affect the target recruitment services, making it easier for customers ofreporting carbon emissions where market or impact other employment andsuppliers to transact via the web.
required when legislation is introduced.
policies such as home working, as well Inthemeantime, we actively seek to improve asour wider cost base.
our energy efficiency in all of the markets Water restrictions and shortages.
Rising cost of business travel.
Climate change continues to represent a These risks may affect all of our operating riskto organisations, coming from legislative companies so processes around the pressures, changing stakeholder expectations identification and management of key risks and the direct impacts of a warming climate.
that may affect the Groups success remain None of our operations are in a geographical an integral part of the internal control location associated with significant risk, environment.
The Groups Risk Committee, although long-term changing weather consisting of the Group Chief Executive, patterns as part of global climate change Group Finance Director, Group Risk and could impact on any of our locations.
Assurance Director, Company Secretary and other key members of the Executive Committee continue to evaluate the impacts of these potential risks.
The Sage Group plc 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
