Our approach Corporate social responsibility The standards of corporate behaviour that all employees and contractors are expected to uphold are set out in the Group Code of Business Conduct, Introduction which is reinforced by separate HSE and Corporate Responsibility policies that are available for viewing The Group is committed to conducting on the Group website www.
its operations in a manner that protects Senior management regularly reinforces the need to the health and safety of all employees comply with these levels of behaviour.
and local stakeholders, minimises our impact on the environment, provides sustainable benefits to local The Group Corporate Social Responsibility Steering communities and is in full compliance with the law.
Committee is chaired by the Group Chief Executive and meets twice a year to monitor and review CSR Following events in the Gulf of Mexico during performance of the operating units.
Each country 2010 the onus has been placed firmly on all oil and of operation has a local CR committee that meets gas companies to demonstrate that they not only regularly and is responsible for overseeing the recognise their corporate responsibilities as part of implementation of Group policies at local level.
a robust approach to doing business, but also reinforce them throughout the organisation.
The International Finance Corporation IFC is an Salamander has embraced this and we continually investor, partner and lender to the Group and as a review and enhance our procedures to maintain and result the Groups HSE processes and procedures improve on our existing high standards.
are regularly audited by the IFC.
The Group is also committed to meeting the Equator Principles.
Performance highlights: During 2010 the Group reinforced its internal The Total Recordable Injury Rate TRIR fell during processes and procedures with the establishment 2010 to 1.99 injuries per million man hours worked, of an internal audit function that has taken an improvement on the 2009 level and broadly in responsibility for overseeing operational compliance line with the OGP average.
Fewer Total Recordable Injuries TRIs when compared to 2009 performance.
Health and safety CO2 emissions were 74 tonnes per thousand tonnes of production 2009: 97 compared to the OGP The standards and guidelines in respect of health average of 139 worldwide and 190 in Asia.
and safety are complemented at operational level GHG emissions were 78 tonnes per thousand by an HSE management system that details the tonnes of production 2009: 105 as against a global Groups procedures that are implemented in all OGP average of 163 and an Asian average of 246.
Training sessions and Board level health and safety review trips are conducted at least annually.
The Group also has a crisis management plan in place that is subject to regular practice drills and covers operational issues such as spill response procedures through to corporate crises.
Despite the fact that during 2010 the Group unfortunately recorded its first Lost Time Injury LTI, its overall performance against its CR KPIs improved on the excellent performance achieved during 2009.
The LTI was relatively minor and the Group recorded no fatalities during the year.
We took the appropriate remedial action to minimise the chance of an incident like this reoccurring in the future.
28 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 Group heath and safety KPIs Group-wide 2010 2009 Comment Lost Time Injury LTI 1 0 The Group incurred its first LTI when a contractor had a relatively minor incident on a vessel in Vietnam.
Lost Time Injury 0.4 0 LTI frequency rate remains below OGP average despite first Frequency LTIF LTI being recorded.
Total Recordable Injury TRI 5 6 Improved already excellent performance Total Recordable Injury 1.99 2.22 Improved performance, in line with OGP average.
Goal is to Rate TRIR be 20% below OGP average.
Hours worked millions 2.51 2.70 The Groups health and safety KPIs are set out in the Before any operations commence the Group table above.
ensures all environmental permits are in place, a process that will normally involve an open public Targets for 2011: consultation process.
TRIR 20% below the OGP average year on year.
In all locations the Group monitors the impact of Zero fatalities, zero LTIs.
its operations and takes appropriate action where necessary to mitigate these.
Examples include Environment monitoring coral reefs in East Kalimantan, sea water During 2010, the Group improved its performance quality in the Gulf of Thailand and soil quality and in terms of both CO2 and greenhouse gas GHG mineral levels in onshore drilling locations across emissions on a unit basis.
The trend of production the organisation.
growth is expected to continue and the Group The Groups environmental KPIs are set out in the recognises the importance of finding ways to continue table below.
to improve upon its emissions performance.
In 2010 it undertook a bi-fuel project at the Bualuang field, Targets for 2011: converting the diesel generators to allow use of Continue to ensure that CO2 and GHG emissions produced gas as a fuel.
This enables all produced gas compare favourably against the global OGP and to be used in the FPSO power generators reducing Asian average figures.
the use of fuel oil and eliminating the cold venting Continue to explore projects that enable the Group of gas.
This has resulted in a 10% reduction in fuel to reduce fuel usage, thereby reducing emissions.
usage and led to a consequent reduction in environmental emissions.
Group enviromental KPIs Group-wide 2010 2009 Comment CO2 emissions tonnes 54,996 34,020 Increased on an absolute basis as a result of increased production from Bualuang and Kambuna fields, and an increase in fuel to power drilling operations CO2 emissions tonnes per 74 97 Reduced on a unit basis as a result of a shift in fuel balance thousand tonnes production GHG emissions 78 105 Reduced on a unit basis as a result of a shift in fuel balance tonnes per thousand tonnes production Flaring and Venting MMscf 151.3 72.8 Increased as a result of growing production Oil and chemical spills number 5 5 Oil and chemical spills 352 3,041 total spilt litres Oil and chemical spills 327 9.5 released to the environment litres Produced water 2,951 383 Increase as a result of increased production at the Kambuna field discharged tonnes Oil in produced water 0.15 0.02 Increase as a result of increased production at the Kambuna field discharged tonnes 29 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 We are committed to providing a safe and healthy Corporate social responsibility continued working environment in which all personal injury and industry related diseases are regarded as preventable.
The Group recognises the right of all employees to exercise membership of a trade union.
It does not Business conduct use child or forced labour and respects internationally The Group Code of Business Conduct is available to recognised human rights.
It makes every effort to read at www.
com and provides ensure that companies in the supply chain also a detailed overview of our approach to business.
In summary, the Group conducts its business affairs A grievance mechanism is set out in the Employee with integrity and in compliance with the laws and Handbook and provides a means for dealing regulations of the countries in which it operates.
All promptly, fairly and confidentially with any grievance Group employees and consultants are expected to which an employee may have in the course of, and conduct their business dealings openly, fairly and connected with, their employment.
safely and we expect the same standards from those with whom we do business.
We will not tolerate Local communities or condone bribery and will ensure our operations comply with the forthcoming UK Bribery Act.
The On a local level the Group engages with a number Group General Counsel has conducted initial training of stakeholders, including regional governments, sessions and awareness workshops regarding the Act National Oil Companies and local communities in all Group offices.
in dialogue ahead of, and during, operational activity.
The Group employs a number of specialist Target for 2011: government and community liaison officers who Review the provisions of the UK Bribery Act are usually locals with an understanding of regional and the associated guidance when it is published political and socio-economic sensitivities.
and integrate into our Code of Business Our approach to our relationships with local Conduct accordingly.
communities seeks to engage with them to implement projects that will bring sustainable Employees benefits.
At the behest of the Group CSR Steering The Group is an equal opportunity employer and Committee the local teams were asked to expand is committed to achieving and maintaining a their focus from projects with a purely social benefit workforce that represents the population as a whole to include some with environmental benefits.
and is compliant with applicable local laws and Some examples of our projects include: contractual obligations.
The Company seeks to employ individuals who are qualified on the basis In Indonesia, our activities are divided between the of merit and ability to fill its work positions regardless area around our Bontang and Southeast Sangatta of gender, ethnic origin, colour, disability, marital licences in East Kalimantan and onshore north status, race, religion, nationality, age, responsibility Sumatra where the processing facilities for our for dependants or sexual orientation.
Each employee, Kambuna field are located.
In East Kalimantan during consultant and contractor is expected to abide by 2010 the Group contributed glass display cases the Companys Equal Opportunities Policy at all in order that a series of historical cultural artefacts stages of employment.
discovered locally could be kept in the region, leading to a marked increase in foreign and domestic All employees and consultants are recruited and tourism.
The Group has also been involved in other promoted fairly on the basis of their ability for the projects such as sponsoring meals at local festivals job.
We will prevent discrimination based on race, and community events, working with the Agency of religion, gender, sexual orientation and age and do the Environment on a forest conservation programme not tolerate sexual, physical or mental harassment.
and helping local fishing groups with seaweed breeding programmes.
30 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 In Sumatra, the Group has been actively helping refurbish run down local houses built near the gas pipeline with the aim of improving the levels of fireproofing and basic hygiene.
The Group sponsored the programme and provided the materials with the villagers providing the labour and craftsmen, overseen by local government officials.
In the village of Teluk Meku the Group identified a lack of fresh water supply with available water being insufficient to support all the activities in the village.
The Group worked with local authorities to build seven artesian wells on land released for public use by the local authorities.
The materials were purchased locally and labour was provided by the villagers.
The Department of Minerals and Fuels DMF in Thailand runs a number of programmes that the 1 Group is happy to support.
One of these is to provide school scholarships to five of the poorest schools in the Phuwieng District of Khonkaen province, which is located adjacent to the L15 50 licence where the Dao Ruang-2 well is being drilled in 1Q 2011.
The Group handed out a total of 50 scholarships.
As part of its L15 50 environmental programme the Group also built a set of drinking water storage tanks and filtering equipment at Nongkhonthai School and constructed a cement floor at the Ban Nong Ben Temple to prevent issues of flooding associated with the pre-existing earth floor.
The Group also completed a series of activities in support of its operations in Block B8 38, offshore Gulf of Thailand.
It met with the Provincial Fisheries Office in Chumphon and reached agreement to support two projects: a fish sanctuary in the local temple and to provide training for sea bass fish farming.
2 In Vietnam the Group continued with its successful 1 school renovation and donations programme for a Keeping a close eye on operations at the Kambuna third year.
It also started to support a new project, field, Indonesia.
the Bac Lieu bird sanctuary in the Mekong delta.
2 The sanctuary had been neglected and seen a fall Salamander provided seven of 90% in bird numbers over the past 10 years.
The artesian water wells for villagers, in Teluk Meku, primary reason was a reduction in water flow creating Sumatra, Indonesia.
After consultation with 3 3 local authorities Salamander commissioned a project The Salamander funded sluice to lay a 56 metre sluice and a total of 2,600 metres at the Bac Lieu Bird Sanctuary of canal were dredged.
There was an immediate in the Mekong Delta, Vietnam.
improvement in water quality, aquatic life and the 4 A public participation number of birds that has resulted in an increase in consultation meeting to visitor numbers leading to a more sustainable future.
raise awareness of activity in Block B8 38, Gulf of Thailand.
It is our aim to continue with meaningful projects that mean that the areas in which we operate are enhanced by our presence there.
4 31 Business review Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2010
