Key account growth Cross Leverage Technology Leadership Acquisition Partnership Geographic Expansion Operational E ectiveness Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility The SDL Environmental Commitment The policy of the SDL Board is to progressively find ways to ensure our SDL is committed to impact on the environment is minimised where it can be sensibly and progressively improve economically delivered.
In executing this policy the Board will focus on targeting of its environmental carbon management and reduction.
The Board believes that execution of effective carbon management plans will optimise resource usage, generate plans and for the first time commercial return and enhance the SDL brand.
reports on carbon emissions Accordingly we have recently completed an exercise with Carbon Clear at its head office.
This work Limited to measure carbon emissions at our global headquarters aligned will form a basis to assist to the internationally recognised standard ISO 14064.
For the first time this the Board in scoping future year we lay out those measures.
The work has demonstrated that effective carbon management has the potential to produce shareholder returns carbon management plans.
through operating cost reduction whilst at the same time reducing the environmental burden of SDL operations.
SDL believes that conservation of the environment, through effective management and reduction in use of scarce natural resources, is an integral part of our corporate social responsibility framework.
Key Measures ISO 14064 requires an organisation to report its carbon emissions in three scopes: Scope 1 Direct Emissions, Scope 2 Energy Indirect Emissions and Scope 3 Other Indirect Emissions.
SDL has included a range of activities within its footprint scope as per the diagram below.
Scope 2 Scope 3 Scope 1 Indirect Energy Indirect Other Direct Emissions Emissions Emissions Gas Electricity Business Travel Vehicles Staff Commuting Refrigerants Other 22 Corporate Social Responsibility Key account growth Cross Leverage Technology Leadership Acquisition Partnership Geographic Expansion Operational E ectiveness 7 Corporate Social Responsibility Key Findings The results of the project show that SDL head offices carbon footprint for the period January to December 2010 was estimated at 1,736 tonnes of CO e. A breakdown of emissions by source shows that 37% of emissions 2 come from business travel, 34% from electricity, 25% from staff commuting and 4% from other.
Emissions by Activity Business Travel 4% Electricity Commuting 25% 37% Other 34% Emissions in tonnes of CO e by Activity 2 700 631.9 600 595.2 500 438.6 400 300 200 100 70.0 0 Business Travel Electricity Commuting Other We have used Global Headquarters staff numbers FTE against which to benchmark emissions see the table below.
Benchmarks Total Footprint Tonnes CO e 1,736 2 Staff FTE 225 Tonnes CO e FTE 7.7 2 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 23 Key account growth Cross Leverage Technology Leadership Acquisition Partnership Geographic Expansion Operational E ectiveness Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility The SDL Environmental Commitment continued Key Implementation Activities Further to the findings of the carbon footprinting assessment SDL has identified a range of activities to measure, manage and reduce its carbon emissions.
Selectively expand measurement scope within SDL operations 2.
Establish clear carbon management considering both direct and indirect emissions 3.
Continue to engage employees to help reduce waste and protect the environment 4.
Consider greener and energy efficient systems where they have demonstrable commercial return 5.
Consider environmental efficiency actively in new office design and in all materials and equipment sourcing decisions for new offices 6.
Operate a full program of recycling schemes in the SDL global operation 7.
Address directly waste reduction, look to reuse and recycle materials in all global operations and minimise printing consumables and cost 8.
Operate equipment disposal schemes that encourage extension of operating life of equipment with third parties who would otherwise purchase new equipment 9.
Directly minimise travel through use of alternative technologies e. g. webex and OCS fully deploy and roll out these technologies 10.
Provide clear mechanisms to help employees car pool and share transportation costs 11.
Where possible expand HR benefit schemes to embrace environmental objectives such as targeted reduction in travel examples of such schemes are cycle to work schemes 12.
Address  issues in property maintenance plans 13.
Consider environmental impact of all strategic sourcing programs including cost effective delivery options request suppliers to support equipment recycling, cost effective delivery and life extension 24 Corporate Social Responsibility Key account growth Cross Leverage Technology Leadership Acquisition Partnership Geographic Expansion Operational E ectiveness 7 Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility Community Support and the SDL Foundation Il Sole Microloan Provision for 50 Women India SDL Italy have, in their personal time, translated 1500 childrens adoption sponsorship papers further supporting Il Soles work.
Chiara Orlandini, SDL employee A Smile is the Same in any Language The SDL Foundation went Uganda Reflex from strength to strength in Pig Farm Uganda Thank you very much for the grant offer which 2010, continuing to support will make a tremendous difference to the lives of less fortunate communities single parent families in Uganda these single around the world.
The parents do not waste a penny.
investment emphasis focused Rupert Turpin, Chair of Trustees, Uganda Reflex SPAU on self help, micro income generation and sustainability, Hatua Likoni IGA and Building Projects Kenya is delivering real change.
10% of the donation helped to build a school SDL employee involvement that is educating 170 students.
Investment in a through nominating ideas poultry project now generates enough money to fund 6 scholarships a year.
and direct participation in Gabi Fondiller, Trustee Hatua Likoni projects is a crucial part of the work of the foundation.
In December 2010, the SDL BeauBois College via SDL Montreal School Development Projects Senegal Board pledged another I honestly feel this project will make a significant 250,000 of funding support difference in a communitys life and a better to the foundation.
SDL in Canada pledge an additional $6000 to help educate as many children as possible.
Frank Raco, SDL employee Kupwara, Kashmir School Building Refurbishment Before the school occupied 3 rooms now they have 5 this means they can extend their classes and take more children on board.
Thanks to the SDL Foundation the village now has a wonderful school.
Doris Johnson, SDL employee Kumari Trust Bridge Building in Nepal The bridge is of vital importance to the community.
Without the bridge, trade would be very hard, and children could not go to school.
Trees Van Rijsewijk, Founder, Kumari Trust Annual Report and Accounts 2010 25
