Employees The Group believes that the future success of the business is dependent upon creating an environment that attracts and retains the best people.
Central to this is a commitment to invest in Senior recognises that an essential the skills and development of the Groups workforce, helping employees achieve their potential, and identifying and promoting factor for the long-term success of talent from within.
the Group is operating in an Equality and diversity ethical, environmentally and Senior believes that employment-related decisions should always be based on relevant aptitudes, skills and abilities.
The Group socially sustainable manner, and promotes a policy of equal opportunity in employment, without complying with all relevant unlawful consideration of sex, race, nationality, age, disability, religion or any other category protected by law.
In the event of regulatory requirements.
The Group employees becoming disabled, the Groups aim is to ensure continued employment where possible, and to arrange appropriate remains committed to maintaining training and career development.
high standards of ethics, integrity People development and corporate social responsibility The Group is committed to developing the skills of over 4,900 employees and in 2010 Senior continued its Group-wide in the conduct of its business management training and development programme.
The programme provides a range of management and leadership throughout the world.
training to the future leaders of the business and demonstrates Seniors investment in the future of its workforce.
Approximately The Groups approach to corporate social responsibility CSR 150 employees have benefited from this training programme to is focused broadly on three key areas of activity: date.
Additionally, individual training and development plans are developing our employees by creating a working environment also run by each operation, focusing on local needs.
that attracts and retains the best people: operating with integrity by acting in an ethical and responsible Pay and remuneration manner: and Each operation aims to offer competitive remuneration packages to its employees, dependent upon skills, qualifications and experience.
ensuring safe working conditions and reducing the Groups environmental footprint by continuously improving the Contributing to communities management of health, safety and the environment HSE.
The Groups operations are encouraged to involve themselves in their local communities and to support local charities.
These This report presents an overview of the CSR framework that Senior relationships are managed at a local level, where the employees plc has established, an overview of the improvements made during select non-profit-making organisations and charitable interests 2010 and plans for future development.
These are often long-standing relationships and involve employees volunteering their time, making financial donations and raising funds to help those in need of support within their local communities.
Injury rates 2006-2010 injuries per 100 employees CO2 to m sales 114 8.88 Total recordable injury rate 110 104 Lost time injury rate 99 97 6.51 4.96 4.44 3.75 2.77 2.55 1.94 1.61 1.60 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 26 Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Tonnes of CO2 versus Sales m Per 100 employees Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information 2.
Operating with Integrity Whilst overall responsibility lies with the Board, the chief The Board believes that operating in an ethically and socially executive officers of the local operations and their management responsible manner is an integral part of efficient and profitable teams are directly accountable for the operations under their business management.
The Group is committed to maintaining control.
Each operation is responsible for integrating HSE within high standards of ethical behaviour in all aspects of its business, its business planning processes, creating a local management and requires its employees and agents to act with integrity at all framework, defining accountability, and establishing local times.
The Group seeks to take account of the needs of all of its objectives and improvement initiatives.
stakeholders, including shareholders, employees, customers, HSE framework suppliers, governments and the environment, whilst safeguarding The basis of Seniors HSE programme is set out in the Group shareholders investments.
Health and Safety and Environmental Charter the Charter.
The Group has operated a Code of Business Conduct the Code The Charter has an established set of principles, practices and for many years.
The Code sets out Seniors approach to legal and core programmes that each operation should adhere to, providing ethical conduct, such as conflicts of interest, bribery and corruption a sound foundation for the HSE management process throughout and matters of personal integrity.
The importance of this Code has the Group.
been highlighted by the Bribery Act 2010, which is due to come There is a Group audit programme for HSE, led by the Group into force in 2011.
HSE Manager, where performance is measured against the The Code applies to Senior plc and to all of its subsidiaries: Charter and recommendations for improvement are issued.
These additional policies and guidelines, for example on health and safety recommendations are incorporated into the operations HSE matters, supplement the Code.
All employees of the Group are improvement plans.
HSE performance is routinely monitored on required to follow the principles of the Code when performing a monthly basis, thereby enabling prompt intervention, where their day-to-day duties and when they are representing Senior.
Any serious matters of concern are notified to the Group HSE Manager immediately for investigation and remedial action.
To strengthen the Code, Senior has a whistle-blowing policy the Policy to encourage employees to report any suspected Each operation also undergoes a number of external audits unethical or illegal corporate conduct within the Group.
The as part of their external ISO 14001 18001 certifications, where Policy sets out the procedure for the confidential reporting and compliance with local regulations and good management investigation of any suspected misconduct.
The written Code and practice are verified.
25 of the 26 Group operations are certified the Policy are issued to all new employees as part of the induction to ISO 14001, with the remaining operation planning to achieve process, and are subsequently reissued to existing employees on certification in the first half of 2011.
In addition to the HSE audits, each site undergoes a fire safety audit by an independent specialist, a periodic basis as a memory aid.
The whistle-blowing reporting typically every two years.
The results of each of these audits procedure is also publicised at each of the Groups sites and is demonstrated a continued improvement at each relevant operation available for use by third parties, such as suppliers and customers, during 2010. to report any ethical concerns that they may have.
If a whistleblower feels unable to approach an executive at operational or The Group has a standardised set of tools and support materials for divisional level regarding their concerns, or receives an HSE, which are housed on an internal web-based HSE portal, for unsatisfactory response, they may then contact the Group use by the local HSE representatives.
Regional networks have also Company Secretary or Chairman to request a further investigation.
been established to enable HSE specialists to share knowledge and The Board monitors and evaluates the use and effectiveness of the lessons learned from incidents.
this Policy on a regular basis.
Risk management and safety performance in 2010 The Group does not permit its operations to make contributions to Improving HSE performance continues to be a priority for the political parties or organisations, or to candidates standing for public Group, and 2010 has seen some important improvements, central or political office.
of which has been the Group-wide risk assessments programme.
The programme aims to improve the safety of processes and 3.
Health, Safety and the Environment eliminate risks before an accident occurs, through the systematic Leadership and strategy identification and reduction of risks.
The findings of the risk The Group operates a Health, Safety and Environment HSE assessments have helped the Group make technical enhancements Committee which meets quarterly: its Terms of Reference can be to the safety of its facilities, including improvements to dust found on the Senior plc website.
The Committee is responsible for extraction, machinery safety and ergonomic alterations.
formulating the Groups HSE strategy and objectives, for reviewing the Groups HSE performance against the objectives, for setting Strains remain the primary cause of injuries, and in order to improve policy, and for ensuring that key HSE risks and issues are effectively the comfort, safety and efficiency of work processes, a new focus identified and managed.
It also supports the Board in its corporate on workplace ergonomics has been introduced.
The Group Chief Executive, as Chairman of the aims to significantly reduce the number of musculoskeletal injuries HSE Committee, leads the Boards efforts in improving the Groups and involves training employees, assessing tasks and making ethical, social, health, safety and environmental performance and is targeted improvements.
also responsible for external stakeholder issues.
The Board of Directors is kept abreast of HSE matters and the performance of each operation throughout the year.
Members of the Board and of the Executive Committee also conduct regular visits to each business during which they are briefed on any relevant HSE matters.
These visits provide a valuable opportunity to discuss performance and improvement plans, and reinforce the Groups commitment to health and safety performance.
Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 27 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Health and safety performance indicators The level of recycling within the Group has continued to increase Senior uses two metrics to evaluate its health and safety as a result of a focus on the waste hierarchy.
This entails reducing performance: waste at source through Lean Manufacturing programmes and, where this is not possible, finding alternative uses for materials Total recordable injury rate TRIR measures the number of previously sent to landfill.
2010 saw the lowest rate since the Water and solvent usage Group began tracking injury rates and was a 13% improvement The Groups main water uses are processing, such as material from 2009. cleaning, and equipment cooling.
As a consequence of a number of water reduction initiatives for these processes, for example by Lost time injury rate LTIR tracks the number of injuries per reducing the flow rates of cleaning lines, recycling rinse water, and 100 workers with one day or more away from work.
Seniors substituting air for water on equipment cooling, Senior reduced its LTIR improved by 1% in 2010 to 1.60.
The Groups LTIR has now water consumption in 2010 by 18% to 206 megalitres 2009 251 declined by 42% since performance reporting began in 2006. megalitres.
Since the Group began reporting on water usage in 2006, consumption levels have halved.
Environmental performance Senior has a long-standing commitment to reducing its The majority of the Groups solvent usage results from chemicals environmental footprint.
The Groups significant environmental that are inherent within the production processes.
The Group has impacts include: emissions resulting from the use of energy in made significant improvements by substituting chemicals with manufacturing processes and facilities : raw materials usage: lower impact material wherever possible, such as on cleaning water consumption: the reuse, recycling, discharge and disposal lines.
The Group is committed to reducing VOC emissions, either of waste: and solvent and volatile organic compounds VOC by product design or by changing processes, although many releases.
In 2006, Senior established a baseline for measuring these processes and materials are regulated for aviation safety, and impacts and, as a consequence of process improvements and substitution can be difficult.
Currently, the majority of VOC environmental programmes over the past four years, reductions emissions emanate from just one of the Groups operations: have been made in all of these areas.
however, these emissions are captured and prevented from atmospheric release.
Energy Seniors most significant environmental impact is in the form HSE regulatory compliance of CO emissions resulting from energy consumption.
In 2010, 2 Senior remains committed to full compliance with all legal 78% of these emissions 42,890 tonnes resulted from electricity requirements and monitors this throughout the Groups consumption and 16% from natural gas consumption 8,801 operations.
Senior also issues guidance to its operations on tonnes.
In 2010 the Group emitted 96.65 tonnes of CO for each 2 HSE legal compliance.
1m of revenue: this represents a 3% reduction on 2009 emissions 99.00 tonnes per 1m revenue and a fulfilment of the Groups There were no fatalities in the Group during 2010 or prosecutions long-standing target of reducing by 15% the CO emissions, by regulatory authorities for HSE-related issues.
One of the Groups 2 relative to sales, by 2010, compared with 2006 emission levels.
operations did however receive statutory notices from its safety regulator during site inspections in 2010: the issues identified have The Group recognises the need for longer-term reductions in global now been corrected.
greenhouse gas emissions GHG and has set a new target for 20102015 to reduce energy consumption, the Groups single Looking Forward largest GHG contributor, by 10% normalised to revenue.
Senior strives to improve further its approach to corporate social responsibility and has established a number of specific areas Waste for improvement.
The total amount of waste generated by the Group was 10,413 tonnes, three-quarters of which was recycled material, such as A Group-wide HSE Strategy for 20112015 has been agreed by the metals and packaging.
Group HSE Committee, which aims to build on the achievements made over the past four years.
The strategy includes a number of initiatives, including: a programme to improve ergonomics and the integration of risk assessment within the Groups operating processes, as well as enhancing our energy conservation and Waste Levels waste reduction programmes.
To measure the success of these Landll Landll Landll Landll Landll initiatives, two new improvement targets have been issued: 24% 20% 15% 14% 15% 1 to reduce the Groups Accident Incidence Rate by 20% by 2015 : Special Special Special and waste 26% Special waste 23% waste 11% Special waste 22% 2 Recycling to improve the Groups rate of energy intensity by 10% by 2015. waste 31% 74% The Board undertook an annual review of the Groups Code of Recycling Recycling Recycling 62% Business Conduct and its whistle-blowing policy during 2010: 60% 58% these will both be reviewed again in 2011 to take into account Recycling the implementation of the Bribery Act 2010.
45% 1 The Accident Incidence Rate is defined as the number of OSHA Recordable Injuries multiplied by 200,000 hr the hours worked.
2 The energy intensity is the amount of primary energy consumed relative to the sales.
The baseline for the 10% improvement is the 2009 data.
These targets exclude the impact of any new acquisitions.
06 07 08 09 10 28 Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Other Information Renewable energy The Groups Flexonics operation in Kassel, Germany designs and manufactures vacuum seal bellows, metal hoses and rotating flexible joints that are being used in the construction of concentrated solar power plants.
Senior plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 29
