Section 3 Corporate responsibility Achieving our vision to be The UKs National Physical Laboratory, for example, logged more than 1.6 million the worlds greatest service working hours without a reportable injury.
company requires us to work in Our contract at BlueScope Steel in Illawarra, the right way and to meet our Australia, reported 1.1 million such hours.
responsibilities to our In the Americas, our Lost Days Incident Rate has dropped 10% year-on-year, continuing customers, the public, our our strong and improving safety record in employees, our partners and the region.
As a result, corporate responsibility CR is part of Serious incidents are rare.
When they do happen, we learn from them.
In April 2010, who we are and how we Serco was found guilty of breaching the behave.
Health and Safety at Work etc Act 1974, for failing to ensure that automatic trains did not We divide our approach into four pillars hit unauthorised persons on the tracks people, health and safety, community at the Docklands Light Railway in London.
Our work for our nding followed the death of Robert Carter at customers encompasses all of these areas, All Saints Station in 2007.
Immediately after but there are many things we do which go the incident, we undertook thorough reviews beyond our contractual or legal requirements.
of the circumstances and implemented new procedures so that this particular type of Our approach to managing our accident could be avoided in the future.
We also publish a Corporate Responsibility Looking forward, we will continue to Review each year, which gives more details of strengthen our safety culture through our activities and the way we embed CR in leadership, oversight, stakeholder our business.
engagement and effective policies, systems and processes.
To support the achievement Our people of our safety targets, our priorities are: Pages 60 to 63 explain our people strategy, our 2010 initiatives to improve the ways in O to reduce the amount of lost time due which we develop, engage, motivate and to incidents, through active rehabilitation manage them, and our objectives for 2011.
O offering a consistent level of occupational Health and safety health support to all Serco employees Our aspiration is zero harm to our people and customers.
This means we set high O monitoring KPIs for muscoskeletal, mental standards often above our legal and behavioural and reportable diseases requirements so that we do everything we can to prevent incidents.
Our contract at BlueScope Steel, Australia, O a continued focus on reducing logged 1.1 million working hours without a reportable incidents Embedded in the Serco Management reportable injury.
System, our framework for how we manage O developing systems and processes our business, are our health and safety to manage and monitor near-misses policies and standards.
We audit ourselves against these standards, building on good O embedding a single health, safety and practice and addressing performance that environmental management system and falls short.
standard operating procedures across all of our operations, and Some of the biggest challenges we face are routine risks to health and safety.
O ensuring competency in health and Slips, trips and falls are the most common safety management and consistent incidents and prevention requires diligence training standards.
This year saw a number of notable achievements.
Apprentices at our contract with the London Borough of Newham learn new skills which prepare them for the future.
64 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Serco AR10 Section3g.
indd 64 14 03 2011 14:30 Objectives and performance 2010 Objective Result Comment To continue focusing on Target Our RI rate was 711 per 100,000 reducing reportable incidents, met employees.
This achieves our 2010 target RIs to achieve our target of and is only 1.2% short of our 2012 target.
a 30% reduction in our staff It also demonstrates good performance RI rate by the end of 2012 against external benchmarks.
The UKs against the 2008 benchmark Labour Force Survey for all-industries of 998.
The target for 2010 benchmark is 820 per 100,000. was a 20% reduction to 799.
To reduce the amount of lost Target At an average of 18.6 days in 2010 we time as a result of incidents, off are not on track, having shown a year through active rehabilitation.
track on year increase in lost time.
This partly Our challenging target is for reects an increase in higher-risk a 50% reduction by the end business operations.
significant of 2012 against 2008 management effort is being put in baseline average 15 days.
to redress this situation, with a focus on: early intervention to rehabilitate employees and help them back to work: more timely handling of long-term disability cases: and root-cause analysis.
To develop systems and Target Work is ongoing to establish the systems processes to manage and on and processes to deliver this.
monitor near-miss events plan more effectively.
Our target is to establish a baseline for future improvements for 2012.
2011 Objectives O To continue focusing on reducing the amount of time lost as a result of incidents, to achieve our target.
We aim to be back on trajectory to reach our target Divers inspecting pontoons at our marine services contract in Davenport, UK.
of a 50% reduction in lost time per incident against the 2008 benchmark by 2012.
O To continue focusing on reducing reportable incidents.
Based on current performance, we have revised our target to 599 to reect a 40% reduction in staff RI rate by 2012 against the 2008 benchmark.
O To develop systems and processes to manage and monitor near-miss events more effectively.
Our target remains to establish a baseline for future improvements for 2012.
Fire training delivered by Serco at the International Fire Training Centre in the UK.
Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 65 Serco AR10 Section3g.
indd 65 14 03 2011 14:30 Section 3 Corporate responsibility Community We also encourage our businesses to think During the last three years we have provided The work we do often directly serves our long-term.
For example, in the US we have work placements to 35 students and 9 people local communities.
Many of our people worked with the Military Child Education have found employment in the hospital.
also live in these communities and we Coalition since 2007 and in the UK we We have now expanded the programme want them to be proud of what we give have supported Project Search since 2008. to three more of our UK hospital contracts.
Whether it is money or Project Search, which involves our customer management skills, work experience or the Norfolk and Norwich University Hospital Overall, we are committed to investing 1% interview training to help young people and other organisations, helps people of our pre-tax profits every year in projects nd jobs, there are hundreds of projects with learning difficulties to develop their to help our communities.
This year we have run by Serco people that enhance our confidence and skills in the workplace.
reputation as an organisation and, quietly and without fanfare, improve life for local people.
Objectives and performance How we offer support is largely down to our divisions and contracts.
They are in 2010 Objective Result Comment the best position to understand the needs of their communities, how those needs To provide employment On We expanded Project Search from one align with our customers objectives and opportunities for the plan UK hospital to four.
This is a partnership how they relate to our employees.
long-term unemployed and with the National Health Service and young people.
other organisations to help people with The result is a wide range of activities, from learning difficulties into the workplace.
fundraising for the Royal Flying Doctor We initiated a project in our UK divisions Service in Australia or for orphans in India, to identify work placement opportunities to providing student work placements at for students and to encourage the HMP & YOI Doncaster in the UK.
creation of new and meaningful opportunities.
A survey identied current practice and data to help future planning.
This will be an ongoing objective.
To build trust in the On During 2010 we were able to better communities in which we plan identify our current UK practices in operate, through responsible relation to working with the voluntary business operations and sector.
participated in a pilot project to help build the capacity of Black and Asian Minority organisations in Manchester see case study in the Marketplace section of our 2010 Corporate Responsibility Review.
At HMP & YOI Doncaster, we help offenders To continue to invest in the Target We invested 2,271,575 into society, strengthen bonds with their families.
communities in which we met which equates to 1.1% of our pre-tax work and serve.
2011 Objectives O To continue to invest 1% of our pre-tax profits into society O To continue to promote the theme of employability O To continue to develop our relationships with charities, social enterprise and We encourage offenders to take part in community organisations community projects at Acacia Prison, Australia.
O To promote employee volunteering O To promote payroll giving.
66 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Serco AR10 Section3g.
indd 66 14 03 2011 14:31 Environment However, as we have developed our Group It was a considerable task, but in January Our zero-harm aspiration applies as much strategy we have had to understand our 2011 we reached our target.
This makes to the environment as it does to health and overall impact as a business.
Given the sheer us one of only 530 companies so far of safety.
Our policy places a clear responsibility range and diversity of our work this has been around 5,000 required to participate in the on everyone in Serco to minimise our a challenge.
To address it, in 2010 we Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy environmental impact.
introduced Acco2unt carbon management efficiency Scheme CRC to have software.
This gives us the data we need Carbon Trust Standard certication.
This policy has three drivers.
The first is and helped us to join the best-performing ethical: safeguarding the planet for current 10% of FTSE 350 organisations, according The certication covers all of Sercos UK and future generations is the right thing to the Carbon Disclosure Project.
sites required to participate in the CRC, to do.
Second, irreproachable environmental and will enhance our score and placement credentials are now a commercial imperative.
We can now see where we generate in the CRC Performance League Table, to The third driver is financial.
carbon dioxide emissions, which helps us be published by the Environment Agency to prioritise areas for action.
We set ourselves in October 2011.
Reecting our devolved nature, the best the objective of achieving Carbon Trust place to manage our impact is locally.
Standard certication, which required us One challenge in meeting our aspirations For example, in the United Arab Emirates we to demonstrate: is that we often share our customers are a member of the Emirates Environmental facilities.
Without full control over our Group, which encourages tree planting and O a minimum of 2.5% year-on-year reduction workplace, we are unable to capture recycling.
In Australia, through our actions, in our carbon footprint relative to revenue, information relating to our impact and use of potable water in Melbournes parks for two consecutive years we are limited in the measures we can and gardens dropped by 75%.
put in place to reduce our footprint.
O effective carbon measurement, and In those instances, we work with our customers to reduce impact.
O effective carbon management at all sites.
Improvement does not come overnight or by edict, but gradually, through the efforts of thousands of people around the world, united by the conviction that this is worth Objectives and performance doing and doing well.
2010 Objective Result Comment To achieve a 10% reduction Target In the UK, we achieved a reduction of in CO tonnes m revenue missed 7.26% in CO tonnes m against 2008. by end 2010, against the We were pleased to achieve the UKs 2008 benchmark.
Carbon Trust Standard, requiring a 2.5% year-on-year reduction in CO emissions.
To embed a single Target The environmental management system environmental management met is an integral part of our revised Serco system and operating Management System launched 2011 procedures across and applies globally.
To implement a carbon Target The Greenstones Acco2unt enterprise accounting system to ensure met system went live in the UK in 2010 and accurate consumption will be implemented across the rest of reporting on energy, fuel our business in 2011. used for business, travel, waste and water.
2011 Objectives O To achieve a 15% reduction in CO tonnes m revenue against the 2008 benchmark by end of 2012 O To retain the Carbon Trust Standard.
Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 67 Serco AR10 Section3g.
