Section 2 A values-led and responsible business A values-led business A responsible business Serco could not succeed without the skill and dedication of our Our Governing Principles emphasise the importance of corporate people around the world.
They embody our culture and live our responsibility to Serco.
We want to be good corporate citizens but values, which truly differentiate us from our competition and underpin acting responsibly also makes sound business sense and is essential the way we run the company.
Only by working in the right way can we deliver excellent service, continue to build our balanced contract portfolio Our values, which are encapsulated in our Governing Principles, are and attract the partners with whom we create new contracting models.
central to our culture and inform every decision we make.
By living these values, we ensure that we deliver the excellent service on which We divide corporate responsibility into four pillars health and safety, our success depends.
people, community and the environment.
Our work for our customers encompasses all four pillars, but there are many things we do which go beyond our contractual or legal requirements.
Pages 64 to 67 give more details about our approach to corporate responsibility and how we performed during the year.
Our Governing Principles 1 We foster an entrepreneurial culture We are passionate about building innovative and successful Serco businesses.
We succeed by encouraging and generating new ideas.
We trust our people to deliver.
We embrace change and, by taking measured risks, encourage creative thinking.
2 We enable our people to excel Our success comes from our commitment and energy to go the extra mile.
We are responsible to each other and can expect support when we need it most.
We expect our people to achieve more by recognising and harnessing the power of individuals.
We value people for their knowledge, ideas and potential to contribute.
3 We deliver our promises We do what we say we will do to meet expectations.
We only promise what we can deliver.
If we make mistakes we put them right.
We are clear about what we need to achieve and we expect to make a fair profit.
4 We build trust and respect We build respect by operating in a safe, socially responsible, consistent and honest manner.
We never compromise on safety and we always operate in an ethical and responsible manner.
In doing so, we treat others as we would wish to be treated ourselves and challenge when we see something is wrong.
We integrate with our communities.
12 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Serco AR10 Section2.
indd 12 14 03 2011 14:18 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 13 Serco AR10 Section2.
