Section 2 What we offer our customers Serco is able to operate in a broad and growing Specialist and transferable skills We combine our core capability with the specialist skills we need range of markets because our core capability to deliver great service in each of our markets.
people-led service delivery and change management can be applied so widely.
For example, we know exactly what it takes to run a safe and punctual metro system, to keep a customers procurement costs on budget, Our customers want more reliable, efficient and to maximise a helicopters time on the frontline and to ensure a laboratory delivers world-leading research.
We start by analysing their problems and producing a bespoke solution, We can transfer our specialist skills between markets, so that with improved people management at its heart.
customers gain from expertise we have honed elsewhere, and we bring together unique combinations of skills from across Serco, This means that we design organisations to: to create innovative solutions to customers problems.
O remove bureaucracy Focus on excellent service Our focus is always on delivering excellent service for customers.
O enhance processes We devolve responsibility to our contract directors, so they can act quickly and decisively to meet our customers needs.
O instil our values, and How we work is as important to us as what we do.
The Serco O free people to deliver their best.
Management System sets out our approach to everything from health and safety to our business ethics.
And our Governing Principles In particular, we: see page 12 underpin the thousands of decisions our people make each day, ensuring that we always act responsibly.
Our culture and O use technology to increase efficiency way of working frees our people to put their service ethos into action.
O invest throughout the contracts life, so our services keep pace Building long-term relationships with developments Our focus on excellent service comes with a passion for improvement.
We are always looking to do better, to be more productive and to nd O make the best use of our customers assets, so we are as cost new ways to help our customers.
effective as possible, and We aim to build long-term and mutually beneficial relationships with O share best practice and compare performance across contracts, our customers.
The closer we are, the better we understand their to help us constantly improve.
When our contracts come up for rebid or extension, we retain at least 90% of them, reecting the value that we deliver for customers.
For more on our business model, Our customers also frequently expand our contracts, as they see the see pages 10 and 11 benets of our work first hand.
We have provided air trafc control services in Dubai since the 1960s.
Transferring capabilities from the UK has helped us succeed in the Australian home affairs market.
06 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Serco AR10 Section2.
indd 6 15 03 2011 15:11 Our business drivers Improving health outcomes is a significant challenge for governments.
Our capabilities in trafc management help to reduce congestion.
Increasing demand for high-quality services Our competitive environment Governments around the world face unrelenting demand for better Competition is necessary for our markets to operate, as it: services to the public.
They must also address significant challenges, such as economic development and stability, congestion, security, O encourages customers to put services out to tender health and climate change.
At the same time, many governments face budget deficits which will take years to rectify.
O provides a benchmark to ensure they are getting best value, and The scale of these issues is encouraging governments to make O drives innovation.
transformational changes, driving innovation and broadening our markets.
Because of the breadth of our business, we have a large number of competitors.
However, while we see effective competitors in every Our private sector customers are also seeking help to improve market, no organisation competes with us in all of them and only their service quality, efficiency and productivity.
a few operate in more than one.
6LJQLFDQW SRWHQWLDO IRU PDUNHW JURZWK Our competitors are mainly companies but they can include publicOur markets are large but still have significant scope for growth.
We have, for example, competed against governmentFor example: owned railway companies and UK National Health Service Trusts.
O in the UK, one of the worlds most developed markets, the public As we enter new markets, we meet competitors who specialise in services industry accounts for only 80bn out of total government those areas.
Competition in our established markets has remained spending of 620bn steady as our customers focus on trusted providers.
O the US federal government services market accounts for around 10% of total federal government expenditure.
The number of markets we can address also expands as we broaden our skills, either by combining skills from around our business, through acquisitions or by partnering with other companies, the voluntary sector or our customers.
The scale of our markets means that we can be selective about the opportunities we bid for.
It also means that our share of any one market does not affect our ability to grow.
For more on our prospects in our individual markets, see page 22 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 07 Serco AR10 Section2.
