Section 3 People Sercos rapid growth means Head.
This relates to intellectual and personal capacity.
We want leaders who can solve that we have a continually complex problems, take a long-term view, increasing number of inspire and inuence others, focus on employees around the world.
outcomes, innovate, be resilient and be We have therefore created a adaptable to a situations needs.
clear framework for managing Hands.
This covers skills, knowledge and and developing our people, experience.
We want our leaders to be skilled so that we can help them be as at shaping and delivering the plans and good as they can be and deliver capabilities that will drive our performance and growth.
great service to our customers.
Behind each of these components is a further Our people strategy has three main set of criteria, which explain the desired components.
We want to: behaviours and the standards against which O develop leaders who are t for the future we appraise our leaders performance.
and who will thrive as Serco grows During 2010, we extended the H model O have people who bring service to life, to managers beyond our leadership group.
who are fully integrated and engaged We also completed our global talent review, with Serco, and who we can develop which we began in 2009.
This involved every to achieve their full potential, and business unit around the world identifying its current and future leaders, enabling us to O make it easier to manage our people, create comprehensive succession plans and by continually enhancing our systems talent pipelines to support our growth.
of this, we have built a customised talent database and established cross-divisional Developing our leaders talent pools in our corporate functions.
For As a devolved and fast-growing organisation, example, we have a global talent pool in Serco has a high demand for capable and finance and a UK-wide pool in business motivated leaders who have the potential development.
They are responsible for managing operations, securing our growth 2010 also saw us introduce or expand a and creating the environment in which our range of other initiatives to help our leaders people can do what they do best: serve develop.
For example, we rolled out the customers with passion and skill.
The way Management Foundations programme, they lead is as important as what they deliver.
developed by our Civil Government business, to other parts of our business, initially the UK We have created a leadership model known divisions and corporate functions.
These Management Foundations will be accredited components describe how great leaders by the Chartered Management Institute and in Serco behave, with an emphasis on our helps our people to be values-led managers.
Governing Principles and our customers.
The components of the model are We also introduced a broad range of toolkits summarised below: for talent and performance management, which are available through the online Serco Heart.
This covers our leaders motives and Business Academy.
The Business Academy demonstration of our Governing Principles.
aims to make learning accessible to all of We want them to create our culture through our people.
personal example and have the courage to stand by their convictions.
60 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Serco AR10 Section3g.
indd 60 14 03 2011 14:29 Integrating, engaging and The best method of spreading our values developing our people is for our people to see them in action.
We are dependent on the skill and Our leaders have a key role to play, by enthusiasm of our people.
They enable us making decisions in accordance with our to deliver great service to our customers values.
We also prioritise communication with and are ultimately responsible for the strength our people, particularly in the transition phase of our reputation and our ability to grow.
after we have won a contract, so that they We therefore need to integrate new joiners, understand Serco and the way we work.
effectively engage with all our people and help them achieve their potential.
We also Our approach and the outcome is the recognise outstanding achievements through same around the world.
While there are our global Pulse Awards.
always cultural differences between countries, our values are universal and our people Integrating neZ peopOe embrace them wherever they are based.
Sercos growth means that several thousand people join us every year.
We typically nd To help new joiners become part of Serco, that they bring with them a service ethos we have developed the Welcome Experience.
that matches our own, given that a large This is a range of materials and events which proportion of our employees also began ensure that joining Serco is welcoming and their careers delivering services in the engaging, and is in addition to any induction public sector.
Our approach to managing at a local level.
contracts liberates our people to put this ethos into action.
Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 61 Serco AR10 Section3g.
indd 61 14 03 2011 14:29 Section 3 People The new materials we have created include: 'eveOoping our peopOe Enabling our people to excel is one of O Discover Serco Passports, which help our Governing Principles, meaning their guide and direct new people.
We have development is key.
That development ranges one for leaders and another for managers, from informal on-the-job training through to with a third version being developed for specialist and technical training.
Increasingly all employees we are moving to a blended learning approach, with an appropriate balance O the People Pack, which helps new leaders of face-to-face and web-based learning.
understand the importance of their role and the tools available to enable them to During the year, we enhanced our be a great leader performance management process, creating new toolkits for managers and leaders to O Discover Serco e-learning, which is enable them to become even better at setting available for any new employee through objectives, creating development plans and the Serco Business Academy, and reviewing performance.
This will allow us to set individual objectives for our people and O Discover Serco contract visits.
to manage them in line with those objectives.
We have also developed a performance Engaging Zith our peopOe calibration process, enabling us to identify We once again undertook our annual global high achievers and those who need help employee survey, called Viewpoint.
This gives to improve their performance.
us important insights into how we can run Serco better, particularly at a local level, Recognising achievement resulting in greater engagement with our Our Pulse Awards are designed to celebrate people and enhanced service for customers.
the very best qualities and achievements of We were pleased that the response rate to the Serco people, our customers and partners.
survey rose and are working to drive actions The awards are closely linked to our that arise from the feedback we receive.
They recognise people who excel at innovation, inspire through We introduced a number of innovations in their leadership, demonstrate outstanding 2010 to improve engagement with existing commitment and make an exceptional and potential new employees, such as: impact on communities, the environment or in areas such as safety and ethics.
In 2010, O our US Serco Scholars program, which we recognised 152 individuals and teams provides educational grants to the with an award.
children of employees Managing our people O payroll giving in North America and India We continually look to improve our efficiency, including the ways we manage our people.
O the UK Bike4work scheme, to encourage Our aim is to have intuitive, easy to use tools, people to use environmentally friendly processes and systems which make it easier forms of transport when travelling to and to manage our growing workforce and deliver from work, as well as getting tter, and even higher levels of productivity and service as a result.
O enhancing the recruitment section of our website, both to raise the calibre of We are therefore developing a new platform, recruits and to improve the visitor called Empower Transforming People experience.
Management, which will transform how we manage people across our business.
This is We continued our relationship with David our first ever global change programme and MacLeod and Nita Clarke, following the 2009 builds on a successful pilot we undertook in launch of their review Engaging for Success, our Dubai Metro contract.
The programme which examined employee engagement commenced in January 2011 and will and how to enable it.
Our Civil Government complete in 2012. division has also carried out research on establishing links between employee engagement and business performance.
62 Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Serco AR10 Section3g.
indd 62 14 03 2011 14:29 Objectives and performance 2010 Objective Result Comment To develop leaders Ongoing We proled 200 of our most senior leaders.
who are t for Career and development planning is under the future way and will be incorporated into the 2011 objective setting and appraisal process.
This process has been extended to our emerging leaders.
We undertook succession planning across the whole business and our divisions have focused on developing their talent pipeline.
To engage and Ongoing An online module called Discover Serco motivate employees was launched company-wide during 2010. to bring service We have also developed an online induction to life toolkit which launched on our internet in January 2011.
The company-wide Viewpoint Survey was conducted again in 2010 and 78% of employees responded, an increase of 2 percentage points over 2009.
Work has progressed to link engagement to performance and contributed to the UK Government-sponsored task force on employee engagement.
To make it easier Ongoing We invested in a new platform, as to manage people described in Managing our people above The new platform will give us a standard 2011 Objectives approach to managing people, with a O To make it easier to manage people.
The common set of processes for each part of focus will be to develop and implement the the employee lifecycle.
This is supported programme called Empower Transforming by a suite of self-service online tools for both People Management.
managers and employees, such as starters and leavers forms, annual leave requests and O To develop leaders who are t for the rostering tools for shift working, which future.
We will be looking to further embed will enable us to plan more efficiently and the talent review and succession-planning increase utilisation but also take into account process across a wider proportion of our each employees preferences.
will also streamline and standardise our approach to recruitment and help us to O To engage and motivate employees to manage absenteeism in a more consistent bring service to life.
We will continue to and effective way.
research and analyse the link between engagement and performance.
The outcome will be a simpler and more effective system, freeing up time for our managers to focus on delivering to customers.
The platform will also support our growth, for example by enabling us to transition contracts more quickly and effectively.
Serco Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 63 Serco AR10 Section3g.
