44 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Governance Corporate Responsibility Committee We continue to integrate corporate responsibility CR into our core business strategies and operations for both Severn Trent Water and Severn Trent Services.
We have also confirmed the structure for our CR policy and framework.
This is based around the four areas of Workplace, Marketplace, Environment and Community which provide a common framework for both our businesses regulated and non-regulated.
For each of the areas, there are four goals within our CR policy which define the direction for our focus and performance.
Within our CR framework, we have identified 10 focus areas which are critical to our management of risk and reputation.
These areas have been determined through stakeholder dialogue, risk assessment and benchmarking within the water industry and the FTSE 100.
The 10 areas provide the focus of the forward agenda of our CR Committee.
Workplace: Dr Bernard Bulkin Health, safety and wellbeing.
Employee skills, conduct and motivation.
Chairman of the Corporate Marketplace: Responsibility Committee Customer needs including vulnerable customers.
The purpose of the committee is to Environment: provide guidance and direction to the Environmental stewardship.
Climate change groups corporate responsibility CR mitigation and adaptation.
programme, review the key CR risks and Community: opportunities and to monitor progress.
Working with our customers including pollution The full terms of reference for the prevention and water efficiency.
committee can be found on the companys website www.
These focus areas also determine our approach to working in collaboration with other com and are also available from the organisations who share mutual interests and objectives.
Further information is available Company Secretary.
on our corporate website www.
com  The committee reviews annually the To embed and track delivery against the CR focus areas, we have reviewed how we groups formal whistleblowing policy that measure and report our progress.
Within Severn Trent Water we already have an effective deals with allegations from employees performance management system in place through 20 core business Key Performance relating to breaches of the Code of Indicators KPIs and eight KSIs.
These are overseen by the Severn Trent Executive Conduct and reviews at each of its Committee and the board.
Many of the business KPIs relate directly to our CR focus areas meetings the whistleblowing incident log.
and therefore contribute significantly to our CR performance.
We report internally on our performance through both our Executive Committee and our CR Committee.
Externally, we report through a number of channels including our annual June Return our regulatory submission to Ofwat, our websites, our Annual Report and Accounts and our CR Summary Report.
Our CR Summary Report for 2009 10 details our strategy and approach to CR and our performance against key issues.
The report can be found at www.
com  The members of the Corporate Responsibility Committee are Dr Bernard Bulkin Chairman, Sir John Egan, Gordon Fryett and Tony Wray.
Corporate Responsibility Committee attendance in 2009 10 Sir John Egan 5 5 Dr Bernard Bulkin 5 5 Gordon Fryett 3 5 Tony Wray 5 5
