Corporate Responsibility Sustainable and responsible Recycling and recovery rate waste and resources companies operate under strict To achieve a more sustainable future, society needs to environmental regulation.
Each of the Groups sites has move towards greater use of recycling and recovery permits and permissions which regulate how they operate, technologies.
Shanks has already made significant progress from the waste types they can accept, to emissions and towards its strategy of supporting sustainable waste and the nature of the treatment, recovery and other activities resource management, as demonstrated by the Groups allowed.
Failure to comply with these permissions can high recycling and recovery rate.
However, there are Group result in enforcement action, prosecution and restrictions wide differences with rates in the Netherlands and Belgium on operations.
Companies which repeatedly breach their being higher than those exhibited by the UK operations, permissions may face difficulty gaining new permits, or reflecting the relative progress towards sustainable waste varying those already held, to take advantage of new management within these countries.
The Group is using its technologies and opportunities.
European experience to support its UK business in driving up recycling and recovery rates.
As sustainability and carbon become increasingly high profile, failure to deliver sustainable waste management To target progress towards sustainability through higher may limit the Groups ability to grow.
One of the Groups recycling and recovery rates the following key corporate key strategic objectives is to develop our infrastructure responsibility objective has been set: further to support sustainable waste management and Shanks Group commits to increasing its recycling and conversion of waste to renewable energy.
increasingly recovery rate to more than 80% of the total waste handled Shanks customers are demanding more than simple by its sites by the end of March 2015. waste management services.
Underpinning these demands are concerns relating to climate change and a need to comply with EU and national waste policy, which in turn Carbon avoidance are driving greater recycling and recovery and a growing Companies can seek to affect their carbon impact by realisation that commercial requirements and environmental reducing their emissions for example by energy use considerations are mutual and support each other.
efficiencies, or by using more sustainable energy sources and resources such as purchasing renewable energy or a Targeting corporate responsibility greater use of recycled materials in products.
in its 2009 Corporate Responsibility CR Report the Group set itself nine qualitative objectives in areas from waste and resource management companies can assist in carbon measurement and employee opinion to a review of carbon avoidance through facilitating the use of alternative its corporate responsibility policy.
Progress against these fuels and materials.
Producing items containing recycled objectives is reported on in Shanks 2010 CR Report, materials reduces the amount of carbon emitted compared available on the Groups website as are three key, long with the use of virgin materials and using a fuel derived term corporate responsibility objectives that have been from waste rather than a fossil fuel likewise reduces carbon developed.
These objectives will run over the next five years impact.
in addition, some waste management processes and are targeted at those corporate responsibility issues actually produce renewable energy, such as electricity the Board believes are most critical: generation from anaerobic digestion.
However, it is often the case that the technologies which Group recycling and recovery rate: provide a greater benefit are also those with a higher Potential carbon avoidance Shanks facilitates by energy need.
Recycling waste consumes more energy than its activities: and disposing of it to landfill, even though landfills produce The core employee wellbeing indicator of methane which has a significant greenhouse effect.
in the relative balance between energy use and carbon avoidance that a benefit should be measured.
The Group has had considerable success in reducing its accident rate 41 YEAR iN REViEw Year in Review Corporate Responsibility continued Carbon avoidance has also been set as a key corporate within these for recycling and recovery.
This comprises both the benefits policy is to align itself with the waste hierarchy, to increase Shanks helps others achieve through the use of our waste its recycling and recovery rates and move towards more derived fuel as well as the direct reductions in our own sustainable waste management methods.
One obvious operations from initiatives such as energy efficiencies.
measure of progress towards this aim is the rate at which To promote this the following key corporate responsibility the Group recycles or recovers the wastes it manages.
objective has been set: Overall Recycling and Recovery Rate Shanks Group commits to increasing its potential carbon Netherlands 86% avoidance to in excess of 800,000 tonnes by the end of Belgium 68% March 2015.
United Kingdom 43% Employee wellbeing Canada 78% Measures of employee wellbeing include hard indicators, 74% Group such as accident rates, sickness absence rates and training provision, the details of which are included in the Shanks Fuller details of our environmental and carbon performance 2010 CR Report.
The Group is however moving to include may be found in the Shanks 2010 CR Report.
more broad based measures of wellbeing such as employee motivation and satisfaction.
Employee satisfaction surveys Shanks Group RIDDOR accident rate per 100,000 employees have recently been conducted in the UK, Belgian and Dutch Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous businesses and actions plans developed to improve overall Occurrence Regulations satisfaction levels.
RIDDOR rate The most basic indicator of employee wellbeing however 5000 must be a workplace free, so far as is practical, of physical harm.
The Group has had considerable success in reducing 4000 its accident rate and in the past ten years has nearly halved its more serious employee accident rate.
However, this is 3000 an area where continuous improvement is sought and the following key corporate responsibility objective has been set: 2000 Shanks Group is committed to reducing its employee 1000 RIDDOR more serious accident rate by 25%, based on its accident data reported in 2010, by the end of March 2015.
0 2001 02 2002 03 2003 04 2004 05 2005 06 2006 07 2007 08 2008 09 2009 10 The environment All Shanks Group operations have environmental People, employee wellbeing and health and safety management systems aimed at compliance and maximising Shanks is a diverse and widespread Group with more than the benefits of resource recovery.
The Group aims to 4,000 employees located at in excess of 120 sites.
with foster constructive relationships with its regulators and this geographical spread and diverse structure Shanks relies its success in this may be measured by the low level of heavily on the competence and motivation of its employees.
enforcement action taken against its operating companies.
At its most basic level employee wellbeing means not harming employees and is a health and safety issue.
Shanks Fine k Details has always been aware that it operates in a potentially Netherlands 35.5 Breach of permit regarding high risk sector and has reported publicly on its accident fire protection system performance for more than nineteen years.
Netherlands 9.8 insufficient precautionary At a more sophisticated level, issues such as employee measures resulting in an communication, dignity, diversity, business ethics and employee injury company culture are all part of employee wellbeing.
Further Belgium 9.6 Non-compliance in relation to information and performance data on wellbeing is reported dust nuisance mainly relating in the Shanks 2010 CR Report.
to periods prior to Shanks ownership All of the Groups employment and training policies are UK None compliant with relevant employment legislation and regulatory obligations.
The Group is an equal opportunities Canada None employer and full and fair consideration is given to The framework for waste and resource management in applications from, and the continuing employment, career Europe is set by policy, the waste hierarchy and targets Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Shanks Group plc 42 YEAR iN REViEw development and training of disabled people.
A culture of two way communications is actively promoted and trade unions, works councils and other employee groups are involved wherever appropriate.
At a Group level the approach taken is clearly outlined in the corporate responsibility policy which is available on the website.
Wider community waste and resources operations can, no matter what their benefit to the environment, be seen at best as an unpopular necessity.
Everyone accepts the need, but not always on their own doorstep.
Virtually all environmental permission systems have a statutory duty to consider local issues and companies which do not foster good relations will find the gaining of new, or revision and maintenance of current, permissions at best difficult.
Shanks has an open door policy and encourages visits from local communities, customers and other interested persons.
Open days are held at some sites, while at others education centres have been established.
Formal liaison groups are encouraged at high-profile sites and engagement with local political systems is a direct duty of operational management.
The Group cannot rely on its regulators and internal monitoring systems completely when assessing the potential impacts of its operations and it is essential that local community concerns are accounted for.
As a result, complaint and comment response systems have been established at all Group sites.
Trends in complaints are tracked centrally with the aim of addressing any issues before they either come to the regulators attention or start to impact significantly on company image and reputation.
Further details and examples of Shanks wider community activities can be found in the Shanks 2010 CR Report.
Shanks 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report Since the late 1980s Shanks has produced publicly available reports on corporate responsibility issues, such as health and safety and the environment.
Since 2009 Shanks has produced a full corporate responsibility annual report.
This report has been produced in the three main languages of Shanks operations and is available on the Groups website at www.
co. uk Shanks has produced publicly available reports on corporate responsibility available at www.
co. uk 43 YEAR iN REViEw Governance Board of Directors ADRIAN AUER, BA, MBA, ACT STEPHEN RILEy, B ENG, PHD CHRIS SURCH, B. COM ACC, ACA Chairman Non-executive Director Group Finance Director Adrian joined the Board in 2005 Stephen was appointed to the Board Chris joined the Board in May 2009 and was appointed Chairman in July in March 2007 and is a member as Group Finance Director.
He chairs the Nomination of the Audit, Remuneration and Following an early career with Committee and is also a member Nomination Committees.
He is  he joined of the Remuneration Committee.
currently an Executive Director with Ti Group plc in 1995 where he Adrian is also Chairman of Readymix international Power plc having joined held a number of audit and finance plc, a Non-executive Director of that business in 1985.
Following the merger of Ti Electrocomponents plc and the extensive operational experience in Group with Smiths Group plc in Senior independent Director of the power industry having held senior December 2000 he went on to hold Umeco plc.
Previously he has held positions in the UK and Australia.
further senior finance roles, most the position of Finance Director recently as Finance Director of their in a number of major companies, Specialty Engineering division.
notably in the building materials and construction sectors, as well as senior finance positions with BP and iCi.
He is also Chairman of Addaction, Britains largest specialist drug and alcohol treatment charity.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Shanks Gr Shanks Group plc oup plc 44 44 GOVERNANCE TOM DRURy, MA ERIC van AMERONGEN PETER JOHNSON, BA, ACA Group Chief Executive Senior Independent Director Non-executive Director Tom joined the Company as Eric was appointed to the Board Peter joined the Board in May Group Chief Executive Designate in February 2007 and sits on 2005 and is the Chairman of the in September 2007 and was the Audit, Remuneration and Audit Committee and also sits on appointed Group Chief Executive Nomination Committees.
in July the Remuneration and Nomination in October of that year.
Following 2007 he was appointed Chairman Committees.
Peter is a chartered an early career with Unilever and of the Remuneration Committee accountant and a Non-executive  he went on and Senior independent Director.
Director of Oriel Securities Limited.
to a distinguished career with United He was until January 2008 a He was Finance Director of Taylor Utilities plc, being appointed a main Non-executive Director of Corus wimpey plc from 2002 until October Board Director in 2005. in 1996 he Group plc, a position he held for 2008.
Previously he has held a was appointed Managing Director seven years.
Eric has wide ranging number of senior positions in the of a new commercial enterprise, European business experience and Financial Services sector including Vertex, which grew to become the holds a number of Non-executive those of Group Finance Director of second largest firm in the UKs and advisory positions.
Henderson plc, Chief Financial Officer business process outsourcing sector for Pearl Assurance and Finance until the sale of that business in Director of Norwich Union Life.
March 2007 to US private equity.
