40 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate reSponSIbIlIty report SIG is continually developing its approach to Corporate responsibility and is a constituent member of the FtSe4Good Index of socially responsible companies.
as such, SIG fully recognises its corporate responsibilities to its Shareholders, employees, customers and suppliers and is committed to good practice in all its activities.
The SIG Board believes that the progressive integration of Corporate Responsibility CR across the Group and the inclusion of broader social and environmental issues into its decision making will help us to achieve our business goals and act as an essential building block for growth in Shareholder value.
SIG continues to be a constituent member of the FTSE4Good Index of socially responsible companies, and recognises its corporate responsibilities to its Shareholders, employees, customers and suppliers and is committed to good practice in all its activities.
The Company continues to develop its approach to CR and is pleased to be able to inform its stakeholders of the measures which it is taking to continue to monitor and improve its CR performance reporting.
 ,  Through the CR Committee set up in 2009, the SIG Board takes regular account a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series.
Created by the global index ,  company FTSE Group, FTSE4Good is an equity index series that is designed to facilitate investment in companies that meet globally recognised corporate and it has in place a comprehensive risk management and internal control process responsibility standards.
Companies in the FTSE4Good Index Series have met  stringent social and environmental criteria, and are positioned to capitalise term value arising from such matters.
The Board receives a report on CR issues .
at each of its Board meetings and reviews CR strategy.
CR issues also form part of the overall internal control process and are covered in the training of Directors.
As a founder member of the Association for the Conservation of Energy, SIG is active in promoting and encouraging the raising of mandatory standards for thermal insulation.
SIG has in place a Group-wide Ethics Policy, which sets out a number of fundamental principles that all Group companies are required to follow.
In addition we have in place a Group-wide Anti-corruption Policy and Ethical Trading and Human Rights Policy.
These policies underpin our CR programme and support our business integrity.
 that organisation to develop its approach and practices.
The three year rolling CR plan, maintained by the CR Committee, continues to inform the objectives and target actions of the Group and drives continual improvement of its CR performance.
The objectives provide valuable key performance indicators  index ratings.
 providing access to tender lists for major contractors through formal assessment .
 Environment andOHSAS18001:2007 HealthandSafety  Moody International and BSI being the appointed Assessors.
review of the year Corporate governance accounts SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 41 Business PrinciPles and code of ethics transPort SIG has a clear and unequivocal approach to business integrity and ethics which .
Fuel , collaboration, mutualdependency, cards are provided across the business to enable full and accurate measurement of , .
TheGroups consumption for company vehicles.
All businesses operate a vehicle purchasing Ethics Policy has been designed to ensure that SIG conducts all of its business to policy which includes information about the emissions of the vehicles.
Vehicle the highest ethical standards.
, , setsoutthe  standards and behaviours that all SIG employees are expected to meet throughout : theGroupsoperations.
, : which all Group companies are required to follow.
The policy can be viewed on :and .
 20% reduction in accidents in 2011 compared to 2010.  payments.
": : : :a"""" : : : :andtheintroduction of an online driver assessment linked to a risk assessment programme."
 businesstransactions: enerGy :  : Carbon Plan and identify best practice and energy reduction opportunities.
Working : , aninternalEnergy Audit procedure was developed and the internal audit team trained in its delivery.
asamatterofpolicy, : This forms a major part of the 2011 campaign for energy reduction across the Group.
: :and Reducing energy consumption is a priority for all of our operations.
As well employees are encouraged to report any suspected wrongdoings.
as reducing the amount of vehicle fuel used in delivery, SIG has set objectives   .
, onaconfidentialbasis, anyconcernsabouthow we conduct our business.
The service is provided by an independent third party and A best practice and awareness campaign which commenced in 2010 will continue a full investigation is carried out on all matters raised and a report is prepared for .
Water Water consumption throughout the Group is minimal as the majority of consumption is from welfare use.
At present SIG is unable to provide consumption information relating environment to the water used throughout its operations.
However, as part of the ongoing data environmental manaGement gathering process improvements it is envisaged that future reports will include this data.
SIG maintains a Health, Safety and Environmental Policy signed by the Group Chief Executive and operates an integrated Health, Safety and Environmental carBon manaGement HS&E   Environment andOHSAS18001 HealthandSafety.
Thepolicyhasbeen ,  translated into local languages for display at all SIG locations.
roles, adjusting data gathering procedures and compiling the Evidence Pack.
In addition in response to the principles of the Scheme SIG has committed itself to become  .
bytheinternalHS& extended to include all Northern Ireland branches.
The average score by branch again , increased against the prior year.
C. J. Davies,  This was also the second year of quantitative benchmarking carried out across responsible for the environmental performance of the Group.
This policy supports the the Mainland European and Ireland businesses.
The rating for each business also GroupsHS& improved in comparison to the prior year.
global environment and in particular climate change.
The Group has received no prosecutions relating to environmental matters  during 2010 and received a clear report following an audit from the Environment .
 , & which are summarised on pages 41 to 45.
42 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate reSponSIbIlIty report ContInued SIGs key objective over the past three years has been to improve the standards of measurement and data gathering to provide a verifiable Carbon Footprint.
The introduction of IT systems and databases and the recruitment of key personnel, has lead to the achievement of the Carbon trust Standard in 2010 and has provided the focus for our objectives for 2011. environment continued SIGhasreportedCO2 equivalent emissions by scope in accordance with carBon manaGement continued the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
These include Scope 1 emissions for which Best practice and information about opportunities is spread across the Group through businesses are directly responsible, Scope 2 emissions which are indirect emissions sharing of information and communication.
This was achieved in 2010 through a from the generation of supplied electricity and Scope 3 emissions over which Group-wide Environmental Management Review covering all businesses which included the businesses have limited control.
Reporting of Scope 3 emissions are limited carbon measurement, CR reporting, waste management and objectives and targets.
to third-party provided air and rail transportation and waste management.
However   emissions, for instance, road vehicle accident reduction targets will reduce emissions .
This from repair companies and emergency services.
has been achieved through the introduction of IT systems and databases and the recruitment of key personnel.
This investment has lead to the achievement of the Recorded Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions are included in the data Carbon Trust Standard in 2010 and has provided the focus for our objectives for 2011 reported below and on the opposite page.
which include targets for reducing fuel and energy consumption.
Thefiguresshowa1.1% carBon co2 emissions of revenue in 2010 in comparison to the prior year and an absolute reduction of SIG continues to improve the quality of data captured by working with local data 3.9%.
The major reductions have been achieved in Scope 1 with emissions falling champions for each region, auditing the data gathering processes, sharing best by 4.0% year on year, with a 4.5% absolute reduction in emissions from road practice, improving take-up of national contracts and practical measures for instance vehicle fuel consumption.
carrying out meter readings to reduce reliance on estimated bills.
In addition the Company has formal written procedures for data gathering.
The disclosures of emission include all of its operations with the exception of the Air Trade Centre business which represents 2% of Group revenue.
Co2 emISSIonS SCope 1 dIreCt metric tonnes Metric tonnes Group Group Source Definition  2010 2009 Road vehicle fuel Emission from vehicle use Fuel cards and direct purchase records in litres converted according to DEFRA guidelines 78,933 82,675 Plant vehicle fuel Emission from vehicle use Direct purchase records in litres converted according to DEFRA guidelines 2,059 1,973 Natural gas Directly purchased gas, which generates greenhouse Actual or estimated consumption in kWh gasesincludingCO2 emissions converted according to DEFRA guidelines 4,386 4,481 Gas oil Directly purchased gas oil, which generates Actual or estimated purchases in litres  emissions converted according to DEFRA guidelines 4,185 4,158 Coal coke Directly purchased coal coke, which generates Actual or estimated purchases in tonnes  emissions converted according to DEFRA guidelines 61 55 Kerosene , whichgenerates   emissions converted according to DEFRA guidelines 52 38 Total 89,676 93,380 The data relating to , .
The above table does not include CO2 emission data relating to the wood burning generation of heat at the Crawley, Nottingham and Barnstaple operations as these operations are deemed to be carbon neutral.
review of the year Corporate governance accounts SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 43 environment continued carBon co2 emissions continued Co2 emISSIonS SCope 2 IndIreCt metric tonnes Metric tonnes Group Group Source Definition  2010 2009 Electricity Directly purchased electricity, which generates Actual or estimated consumption in kWh  emissions converted according to DEFRA guidelines 27,337 28,438 Total 27,337 28,438 %.
Co2 emISSIonS SCope 3 other IndIreCt metric tonnes Metric tonnes Group Group Source Definition  2010 2009 Business travel Third-party provided transport air and rail Actual or estimated distance travelled converted according to DEFRA guidelines 323 244 Total 323 244 .
metric tonnes Metric tonnes 2010 2009  Scope1,2and3 44.9 45.4 Waste manaGement  SIG recognises its responsibilities to measure and minimise the waste generated of unnecessary printing of documents at all locations.
This will help to save waste by its business operations and has put in place waste segregation arrangements paper, ink and electricity.
The key aspect of the policy is to reduce the number for the purpose of recycling materials across all its businesses.
The policy has , energyefficient  and multi-functional printer, copier, fax machines.
To avoid an increase in Waste, 42%in2009to47%in2010.
"  ""WEEE""  to 50% in the medium term."
As well as providing for segregation of waste generated at its own sites and setting SIG actively seeks to reduce the number of printed copies of its Annual Report up national and local contracts with waste recycling businesses, SIG has developed and Accounts and will be actively encouraging Shareholders to elect to receive close relationships with manufacturers to facilitate their obligations under the principles their communications from the Company in electronic form.
 its customers for plasterboard, uPVC and glass and is actively looking to develop  further schemes for this purpose.
which has been printed on Satimatt Green and Revive 50, both recycled paper stockscomprising75%recycledfibreand25%virginfibre.
Thisdocumentwas  printed by CPG using vegetable-based inks and water soluble lacquers and all bulk supplier, SIG recognises that the major impact of our organisation on environmental production processes used make the minimum demand on the environment waste is through packaging and we have taken a proactive approach to minimise the and produce the minimum amount of waste.
Both the printer and the paper mill amount of new packaging entering the market and the amount of waste generated are registered to ISA 14001 and FSC approved.
Thisisachievedby: purchasing recycled and recyclable packaging where practicable, including pallets In addition improved paper and cardboard recycling has resulted in saving over andcartons:  of17treessaved.
returning reusable pallets to suppliers and similarly returning transit pallets from : : actively taking part in recycling and reclamation schemes through the membership : carrying out pre-treatment activities at branch level including segregation :and objectives and targets are set at branch and national level to improve the .
44 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate reSponSIbIlIty report ContInued SIG recognises its responsibilities to measure and minimise the waste generated by its business operations.
the Group has in place policies to ensure that its customers receive the level of service and the quality of product that they have come to expect from SIG.
environment continued Waste manaGement continued hazardouS waSte absolute Absolute tonnes tonnes Group Group Definition  2010 2009 Landfill   2 34 Recycled   873 762 Incinerated   118 13 Total 993 809 absolute Absolute Group Group tonnes tonnes 2010 2009  0.4 0.3 non-hazardouS waSte absolute Absolute tonnes tonnes Group Group Definition  2010 2009 Landfill   15,724 17,696 Incinerated   184 160 Total 15,908 17,856 other waSte dIverted From landFIll absolute Absolute tonnes tonnes Group Group Definition  2010 2009 WEEE Divertedfromlandfill  8 11 Glass Divertedfromlandfill  194 194 Wood Divertedfromlandfill  5,926 5,260 Metal Divertedfromlandfill  1,209 1,157 Plasterboard Divertedfromlandfill  963 441 Paper cardboard Divertedfromlandfill  2,145 2,113 Plastic Divertedfromlandfill  1,520 1,376 Other Divertedfromlandfill  633 1,057 Total 12,598 11,609 absolute Absolute tonnes tonnes Group Group 2010 2009  10.7 10.8 % on a combination of actual and estimated data.
review of the year Corporate governance accounts SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 45 health, safety and environment SIG employs a dedicated Health, Safety and Environmental HS&E Co-ordinator .
IntheUK, Ireland, PolandandFrance, qualifiedcompetent HS&E personnel are employed to provide advice and support to the business.
In all other regions and countries external consultants are employed.
All businesses have common written procedures with a training programme for managers.
LocalHS&&Einspections roSpa award Scheme are carried out across all businesses through the competent assistance.
IntheUKquantitative at the award ceremony at the Birmingham Hilton Metropole, NEC Birmingham.
audits are carried out and scores have continued to improve in 2010 against the prior year.
TheUKHS&&EManagement training programme for Branch Managers and Directors to include new management in 2010.
The review of HS&E objectives carried out in 2010 across the Mainland Europe  %in2010comparedto 77%in2009.
The Slips Trips and Falls campaign included posters translated into the eleven local languages across all businesses.
Further campaigns are planned for 2011 in .
 Safety Policy, which impacts on reduced insurance costs, enhanced pedestrian and site safety and an improved working environment.
Daily inspections complement periodic training to keep the vehicle and driver at peak performance.
 Group performance showed a slight improvement.
The number of injury accidents reportable to the HS&E under the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous  RIDDOR  in 2009 to 15.5 per 1,000 employees in 2010.
The equivalent rate for the Group  employees in 2010.
Regrettably there was an increase in the number of major injuriesintheUK.
Site inspection, supplier, China: &HumanRightsPolicy, DaveSmith, EuropeanHRManager, conducting an initial key supplier site audit based on the Ethical Trading Initiative Base Code at a Chinese supplier in Guang Dong Province accident and incidents uK Rate per 1,000 employees 2010 2009 2008 Major injury 3.1 2.5 2.9 Injury resulting in over three absence days from work 12.3 13.2 11.7 AllRIDDORs 15.5 16.8 15.0 AverageUKheadcount 6,414 7,211 8,230  42.8 33.4 28.5 Group Rate per 1,000 employees 2010 2009 2008 Major injury 2.2 2.0 2.6 Injury resulting in over three absence days from work 15.2 18.7 19.0 AllRIDDORs equivalent 17.4 21.4 21.8 Average Group headcount 11,508 12,348 13,520 .
46 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate reSponSIbIlIty report ContInued the commitment, drive and enthusiasm of all SIGs employees are key to the success of SIG meeting the demands of its customers, suppliers and Shareholders.
throughout SIG, regardless of country or sector, we believe our people are recognised as the best in their particular field.
community The Group endeavours to contribute to the communities in which it operates particularly those neighbouring its sites.
SIG is a member of Business in the Community  and practices.
This is mainly achieved through charitable donations and other initiatives that help the community.
The Human Resources HR Director has responsibility for community issues within the Group and reports to the Chief Executive who is responsible for community issues at Board level.
The Group has a Charitable Donations Policy.
The policy, in addition to supporting local causes where SIG employees are involved, is to provide support for three main charities for a period of three years.
For the three years ending December 2010 : Henshaws College, www.
uk a charity working with young people,  : ActionForKids, www.
uk  youngpeople,  :and StLazarusHospice, www.
SIG sponsored Henshaws for a six year period commencing in 2005.
, anationalcharity working to create independence, provide opportunities and offer support to disabled children, .
From top to bottom: 1:, Dublin, January2011.
3: LtoR DarrenSwift, SalesRep, Longs, Ireland Winner, SusanHarris, Sales WoodSpecialist, Carpet & Flooring Runner up and Mirko Habich, Sales Rep, Wego, Dresden Runner up.
review of the year Corporate governance accounts SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 47 donations continued The Group has also launched an Executive Coaching and Mentoring Programme  aimed at continuing the development of senior talent and reinforcing the values to enhance their computer-based skills.
and behaviours that underpin our activities.
This is being delivered with support from  , .
SIGscontinuedsupport ensured that vital equipment was purchased.
In 2010 this included water decalcifying  devices, torches for diagnosis, pulse oxymeters and new cabinets and doors.
, encouraging and nurturing potential managers for the future.
forward from the business and 12 successful candidates took part in a two-day The Company is currently reviewing which charities to support in 2011 .
 in line with its policy.
Allnomineescareers, as , willbemonitored Staff are kept informed of charitable activities and are encouraged to attend events through the talent management process.
as appropriate, as a means of encouraging them to be personally associated with charitable work and in particular the causes supported by the Group.
This has The Group continues to recruit and invest in commercial trainee and graduate  talent to help feed our future management requirements.
Ensuring our future for building projects.
management cadres have the mix of backgrounds and experience that is relevant toourcustomerbase.
 ,  view of the business and to fully prepare graduates for working within SIG in a employees.
Employees are free to choose one of the current SIG sponsored branch management, regional or functional role.
SIG relies on the expertise and commitment of its employees whose knowledge .
   for commitment to good causes and the local community.
up new positions and work within new product streams.
This was supported by dedicated personnel being appointed to focus and deliver tailor-made training to Employees also undertake personal fundraising endeavours for a wide range of charities.
help employees learn about different product streams in a structured manner.
TheUKintranet, ,  to highlight their fundraising efforts and receive support from their colleagues.
SIG recognises that its reputation is dependent on the quality, effectiveness and skill base of its employees and is committed to the fair and equitable treatment emPloyees , Thecommitment,  religion, gender, disability, sexual orientation, age, nationality or ethnic origin.
A success of SIG meeting the demands of its customers, suppliers and Shareholders.
 Throughout SIG, regardless of country or sector, we believe our people are the year, from which organisational priorities have been established.
, personal performance is managed on an on-going basis and a formal appraisal Employment opportunities are available to disabled persons in accordance with their programme is in place.
Training, coaching and the opportunity for personal career abilities and aptitudes on equal terms with other employees.
If an employee becomes advancement within the Company are important features of how SIG seeks to disabled during employment the Group makes every effort to enable them to continue recruit, retain and develop skilled staff.
employment, by making reasonable adjustments in the workplace and with retraining for alternative work where necessary.
SIG recognises the importance of good communication with its employees and during the year Group-wide internal publications were introduced.
Considerable effort SIG is committed to ensuring that all employees and management know what is was made in upgrading the Company website, www.
com, as well as the expected of them in their roles and that they receive the necessary training and content of internal intranets.
Directors in operating businesses tended to focus on local development to be highly competent in what they do.
An integrated approach roadshows and presentations to communicate to a wider audience rather than focus  on management conferences.
Employees are encouraged to become Shareholders in the Company.
The Group introduced a Share Incentive Plan SIP in November 2005 in place of the Save Development activities are organised generally on a business-by-business or AsYouEarnScheme.
 country-by-country basis depending on local priorities.
However the Group purchased by the employee up to a maximum of four matching shares per month.
continues to invest in its Executive Development Programme run in conjunction .
, notleastinthe development of cross-company working at a senior level.
Cohorts are increasingly The Group operates a number of employee pension schemes across its businesses.
attended by a variety of nationalities whose learning experiences benefit , .
communication and working practice across the Group, making us a stronger .
The HR Director has responsibility for HR issues within the Group and reports to the Chief Executive who is responsible for HR issues at Board level.
