D IRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY C orporate responsibility Over the years we have grown into a diversified We want to continue to ensure that each business The value of Associated British international food, ingredients and retail group, and takes its own responsibilities seriously and acts in the Foods to society is overwhelmingly we have focused more on the responsibility than on most appropriate way to meet our high standards.
We are committed to sustainability However, we also consider, on a case-by-case basis, in the business it transacts.
We play whether in providing healthcare for our employees whether there are particular corporate responsibility a positive role in contributing in Africa or in deriving half of our energy consumption CR policies that are best adopted throughout the around the world from renewable sources.
group, as we have done this year on palm oil.
As part to the quality of peoples lives of our move towards a more holistic CR approach, We are a highly decentralised group currently by providing food and clothing, in February 2010 we held our first groupwide CR day employing 97,000 people in 44 countries united to share ideas and best practice across the businesses.
ever competing to make these by four overarching business principles: managing This follows annual sustainability conferences held our environmental impact: taking care of our people: by our Grocery group in 2009 and 2010. better.
We have always sought to fostering ethical business relationships: and being do so in ways that are socially and good neighbours.
These govern our detailed business One particular area upon which we will concentrate at principles, which are set out on the Companys website group level, as well as in every business, is health and environmentally responsible.
This has always been of particular importance to us but clearly with four deaths on our premises, has been part of our culture and These principles extend to all sites, in all countries four from traffic accidents, and two in unique and at every level of our organisation.
We believe we have been reporting the groups circumstances, this year has been unprecedented that their universal application increases the strength and is unacceptable.
performance on health, safety and of our businesses and our brands but we also believe in allowing individual businesses and managers Now that so many of our businesses are doing the environment for the past seven the freedom to meet local circumstances and to so much in this arena, our reporting will include years.
Now we are launching our be innovative.
more information on our people, our suppliers, our customers and our products.
For Associated first corporate responsibility report.
Our culture is, and will remain, one where the centre British Foods, as with other companies, CR is a journey directs with a light touch.
From baking bread to making with improvement every year.
We therefore intend high street fashion affordable, it is our people and our to publish a full CR report every three years with more products in a wide range of different businesses that frequent updates online.
By measuring and recording make us successful.
our performance in this way we hope to give internal and external stakeholders a clearer picture of our Without imposing central edicts, we have taken commitment to CR and of what we are doing to a number of steps with the aim of ensuring that drive continuing improvement.
our core values are fully implemented throughout the group from board member to the shop floor.
George Weston Chief Executive 30 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2010 DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Key corporate responsibility achievements 2009 10 We invested over 63m in environmental CR in more depth: improvements, mainly in strengthening our effluent treatment capability in print and online Energy use fell by 14% and CO2 emissions by 22% 52.1% of our total energy use came from This year sees the release renewable sources of our first CR report in print, We mapped our water-intensive AB Mauri and an updated section and Illovo sites against locations of future water stress to gain a better understanding on our new group website.
of potential shortages This marks the transition from the health, safety and environment reports that we have published Waste sent to landfill fell by 45% for the last seven years.
Now that so many of our The weight of packaging used fell by 20% businesses are doing so much in this arena, our reporting has changed to include more information Introduction of a group policy to source palm oil on our people, suppliers, customers and products.
from sustainable sources by 2015 For Associated British Foods, as with other companies, CR is a journey with improvement Our UK grocery businesses signed up to the every year.
By measuring and recording our Courtauld II post 2010 agreements to reduce performance online, we hope to give internal packaging and waste and external stakeholders a clearer picture of our commitment to CR.
We invested over 25m in improving working conditions and the safety of plant and equipment Reportable injuries fell by 15%, with 168 factories managing a years operation without any at all The Ethical Trading Initiative recognised Primarks efforts by categorising the business as an Achiever this year, a significant step up from its Improver status last year Primark conducted twice as many audits in 2009 as in 2008: 1,136 audits in total, covering 94% of its top 250 suppliers, accounting for more than 87% of total business Primark set up several projects worked with local NGOs in Bangladesh, China, southern www.
aspx India and Vietnam These achievements were partly due either to factors outside our control or the sale of factories.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2010 31
