THE BUSINESS AND THE COMMUNITY OUR COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY Approach Smith & Nephew recognises that companies have a wide responsibility to the community, the environment and the quality of life enjoyed by society at large.
As a leader in its markets, Smith & Nephew believes it should also be a leader in setting and meeting standards of sustainable development.
The Group monitors progress and views sustainable development as an integral part of the way the Group does business.
We believe this because: It reinforces our commitmentto meeting regulatory obligations and reduces our risks.
It helps us to retain and recruit talented employees by demonstrating that we care about our people and our planet.
It enhances our reputation as a partner with our health care customers, collaboratively developing innovative solutions in the form of products and services.
It enables us to improve our operational efficiencies, thereby reducing costs as well as  outcomes.
It enables us to anticipate and prepare forover the horizonissues that willaffect our customers and society at large.
It reinforces our role as a strong corporate citizen in the communitieswhere we work and live.
It provides real value to our shareholders.
To further advance its commitment to sustainability, Smith & Nephew created a new executive position in 2010, the Senior Vice-President of Corporate Sustainability.
Smith & Nephews approach to sustainability is governed by the policies and principles it has developed to cover four key areas of corporate and social responsibility, namely: corporate governance and business integrity: health, safety and environment: social responsibility and economiccontribution.
These policies and principles are available at www.
2010 Highlights Continued strong ranking in the Dow Jones SustainabilityIndex DJSI and membership of FTSE4Good.
Commenced registration forthe UK Carbon Reduction Commitment.
Became an invited member of the WorldEnvironment Center as the first representative of the Health Care and Technology industry.
The Group has published a Sustainability Report since 2001.
The 2011 Sustainability Report, which provides more comprehensive information on the actions and performance in the four key reporting areas during the last year, will be published on the Groups website in mid2011at www.
Corporate Governance and Business Integrity See the Corporate Governance Statement section on pages 45 to 57 for a discussion of Smith & Nephews governance structures and procedures.
Smith & Nephew aims to be honest and fair in all aspects of its business and expects the same from those with whomit does business.
The Groups Code of Conduct and Business Principles governs the way it operates so that it respects stakeholders and seeks to build open, honest and constructive relationships.
The Group takes account of ethical, social, environmental, legal and financial considerations as part of its operating methods.
The Group has an independently operated whistle-blowing service in all jurisdictions in which the Group operates where such service is allowed.
Our Environment The Groups health, safety and environmental HSE commitmentis to: give due regard to the effects of its operations on the environment and communityto create a sustainable business: provide and maintaina safe and healthy work environment foremployees, contractors and visitors: 2010Annual Report 13 InvestorInformation CompanyAccounts GroupAccounts  CorporateGovernance BusinessReview, Descriptionof theGroup Report Statement 
