THE BUSINESS AND THE COMMUNITY OUR COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY Approach Smith & Nephew recognises that companies have a wide responsibility to the community, the environment and the quality of life enjoyed by society at large.
As a leader in its markets, Smith & Nephew believes it should also be a leader in setting and meeting standards of sustainable development.
The Group monitors progress and views sustainable development as an integral part of the way the Group does business.
We believe this because: It reinforces our commitmentto meeting regulatory obligations and reduces our risks.
It helps us to retain and recruit talented employees by demonstrating that we care about our people and our planet.
It enhances our reputation as a partner with our health care customers, collaboratively developing innovative solutions in the form of products and services.
It enables us to improve our operational efficiencies, thereby reducing costs as well as  outcomes.
It enables us to anticipate and prepare forover the horizonissues that willaffect our customers and society at large.
It reinforces our role as a strong corporate citizen in the communitieswhere we work and live.
It provides real value to our shareholders.
To further advance its commitment to sustainability, Smith & Nephew created a new executive position in 2010, the Senior Vice-President of Corporate Sustainability.
Smith & Nephews approach to sustainability is governed by the policies and principles it has developed to cover four key areas of corporate and social responsibility, namely: corporate governance and business integrity: health, safety and environment: social responsibility and economiccontribution.
These policies and principles are available at www.
2010 Highlights Continued strong ranking in the Dow Jones SustainabilityIndex DJSI and membership of FTSE4Good.
Commenced registration forthe UK Carbon Reduction Commitment.
Became an invited member of the WorldEnvironment Center as the first representative of the Health Care and Technology industry.
The Group has published a Sustainability Report since 2001.
The 2011 Sustainability Report, which provides more comprehensive information on the actions and performance in the four key reporting areas during the last year, will be published on the Groups website in mid2011at www.
Corporate Governance and Business Integrity See the Corporate Governance Statement section on pages 45 to 57 for a discussion of Smith & Nephews governance structures and procedures.
Smith & Nephew aims to be honest and fair in all aspects of its business and expects the same from those with whomit does business.
The Groups Code of Conduct and Business Principles governs the way it operates so that it respects stakeholders and seeks to build open, honest and constructive relationships.
The Group takes account of ethical, social, environmental, legal and financial considerations as part of its operating methods.
The Group has an independently operated whistle-blowing service in all jurisdictions in which the Group operates where such service is allowed.
Our Environment The Groups health, safety and environmental HSE commitmentis to: give due regard to the effects of its operations on the environment and communityto create a sustainable business: provide and maintaina safe and healthy work environment foremployees, contractors and visitors: 2010Annual Report 13 InvestorInformation CompanyAccounts GroupAccounts  CorporateGovernance BusinessReview, Descriptionof theGroup Report Statement  require each of the Groups businesses to achieve the HSE standards specified by the HSE policy: seek to improve HSE performance through continuous evaluation and development of measures to control risk, conserve resources and minimisewaste: and recognise, promoteand reinforce the responsibility of employees, contractors and visitors to work safely and followprocedures.
Smith & Nephew recognises the importance of minimising the environmental impact arising from all aspects of the business and places emphasis on controlling its waste streams, use of energy and overall carbon emissions.
Activities at a local and Group level remain key to ensuring our overall HSE performance.
Annual targets are set and initiatives put in place to meet these performance goals.
Throughout 2010, operations continued to develop in China and Canada.
Results associated with these locations are included for the first time this year.
While we report absolute performance data, we also provide data normalised for changes related to cost of production using 2010 as the base year to facilitate better year-on-year comparisons.
Performance against the published targets for the key HSE parameters is also shown in the table below.
2010 actual Change over 2010 target change last 5 years 2010 actual 2009 actual change normalised iv normalised iv Energy Consumption GWh 168.9 157.4 -5% 6.5% -1.9% Carbon Emissions tonnes 76,638 74,603 Notarget 1.1% -10.9% Non-hazardous waste tonnes 3,297 4,917 i -33.3% -42.0% Hazardous waste tonnes 481 517 i -9.7% 61.5% Recycled waste tonnes 3,081 2,334 i - - Total waste incl.
recycled tonnes 6,859 7,768 -5% -11.2% -5.8% 3 Water 1,000m 629 621 Notarget -0.2% -13.7% Losttime accidents incident rate ii 0.53 0.57 -5% -7.0% 6.0% OSHArecordable incident rate iii 0.89 1.20 -10% -26.0% -36.0% i There wasnotargetforthe reduction ofspecific wastestreams.
ii LostTime Accident Frequency Rateismeasured asthe number ofaccidents resultinginthe lossofaday ormore per 200,000 hoursworked.
iii Occupational Safety & Health Administration OSHA definition measured as the number of incidents resulting in lost time, medical treatment otherthan simple firstaid, ormodificationtothe personswork, per 200,000 hoursworked.
iv Normalisationisbased onCostofProduction which isdefined asthe  foropening and closing inventory levels.
Energy consumption for the Group increased by over 6% in 2010, but this was largely attributable to 2010 representing the first full year of energy use reporting for the major global distribution centre in Memphis and the newly acquired facility in Alberta, Canada.
Energy efficiency initiatives were effected at a number of locations, with particularly notable accomplishments at the Hull Advanced Wound Management site and Endo operations in Massachusetts and Oklahoma.
The Group emission of carbon dioxide was 76,638 tonnes.
This figure is calculated from both direct emissions from the combustion of fossil fuels on Smith & Nephews sites and secondary emissions from utility company power generation for Smith & Nephews electricity needs.
While carbon dioxide emissions increased by approximately 1% in 2010, this was almost entirely related to the addition of the Memphis distribution facilityand Alberta, Canada operations as noted above.
The business generated 3,297 tonnes of non-hazardous waste in 2010.
While this represented a substantial decline 33% from 2009 levels, 2009represented an anomalyrelated to increased waste production associated with new construction and closure of a facility.
Over the last year, the amount of hazardous waste has reduced by 10% to 481 tonnes.
The largest percentage reductions were achieved at the Advanced Wound Management site in Hull and the Research Centre in York.
Smith & Nephew continues to demonstrate a commitment to recycling: in 2010, our percentage of total waste that was recycled increased to 45% relative to 30% in the previous year.
While these recycling initiatives were evident at many sites, the Memphis Orthopaedic facilities were noteworthy fortheir focus on scrap metals that resulted in diminished landfillcosts and improved recycling revenue generation.
Water consumption throughout the Group remained largely unchanged relative to 2009.
All sites continue to explore opportunities to minimisewater use.
2010Annual Report 14 Workplace accidents decreased in 2010.
Improvements were notable both in terms of lost time accident frequency rate -7% and the number of lost time accidents 46 relative to 58 in 2009.
The OSHA recordable rate for the Group also continued to improve 26%.
Both indicators of occupational accidents are below published industry average levels.
The local HSE training plans continue to drive and promote safe working practices at all sites.
HSE audits were undertaken at six locations in 2010.
These audits are a continuation of our protocol of assessing each of our facilities on a bi-annual schedule.
A full analysis of these measurements and key health and safety performance measures will be included in the 2011 Sustainability Report on the Groups website when it is published in mid2011.
Social Responsibility OurPeople The Group's employment policies are based on equality of opportunity regardless of colour, creed, race, national origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation, ormental orphysical disabilityunrelated to the abilityof the person to performthe essential functions of the job.
Smith & Nephew is committed to providing a healthy and safe working environment and operates a set of policies that ensure flexible, family-friendly practices and non-discrimination.
It aims to provide an open environment based on constructive relationships and regular and timely dissemination of Group information and encourages feedback and ideas.
Smith & Nephew carries out employee opinion surveys across the business.
The aim of the surveys is to assess how aligned staff are to the Groups, and local GBUs strategy, to determine what we, as a business, do well and identify what could be improved.
We also take the opportunity to test the effectiveness of Performance, Innovation and Trust as the declared companyvalues.
The Human Resources HR Policy Framework provides a framework of key HR policies, values, behaviours and management principles that provide the structure within which the business units and global functions plan and deliver successful results.
There is also an HR strategy which provides direction on how the Group intends to attract, retain and develop the right talent to meet business needs and create a culture that is aligned to Smith&Nephew values and deliver the Groups long term strategic plans.
Otheremployee engagementindicators In 2010, the Group continued to assess indicators of employee engagement.
These measurements are a useful monitoring tool and alert mechanismfor action as well as giving trend indicators of improved performance.
Positions filled by internal candidates through promotions This measure is an indicator of how well the Group believes it is developing its employees and the success of the Groups internal recruitment policy.
In 2010, the percentage of vacancies filled by internal applicants averaged 32% 2009 32%.
The total for non-management positions was 29% 2009 29% and for management positions was 52% 2009 51%.
The Group target for all employees continues to be 40% including management positions, which management believes is challenging but achievable.
The Group has a policy of open advertising and providing opportunities for existing employees wherever possible, while recognising the need to bring in new ideas and approaches that external recruitment brings.
Labour turnover The Group measures various labour turnover rates.
The average voluntary labour turnover rate during 2010 was 7.2%, a slight increase from the 2009 equivalent rate of 6.5%.
The average involuntary labour turnover rate was 5.1% 2009 10.7%, which management believe is indicative of the Groups continuing management programme of efficiency improvements.
This is aligned to continued investment in new markets and skills.
An indicator of this is that the Groups headcount remained broadly unchanged on the prior year.
In addition, the Group measures labour turnover relating specifically to employees who have been with the business for less than two years.
This measure is an indication of how well the Group recruits and then retains its employees so that they can make a contribution to the business.
The average voluntary turnover for employees leaving the Group within two years of joining was 10.9%, compared to 10.1% in 2009.
The Group is committed to providing training and information so that all employees can make the best contribution possible.
To ensure that the Group continues to improve in this important area, the central global organisational development team continued their programmes to lead talent management, performance management and learning and development across the whole of the Group.
Learning and development programmes are used to attract, retain and develop employees.
These programmesare linked to formalperformance appraisal and development planning.
The Group operates training programmes under the banner of Management Excellence.
These provide the key management skills required to be successful managers and leaders, covering the requirements of both new and experienced individuals.
Additionally the Group has rolled out a global on-line learning resource and in 2011 will be expanding the programmes available to all employees.
2010Annual Report 15 InvestorInformation CompanyAccounts GroupAccounts  CorporateGovernance BusinessReview, Descriptionof theGroup Report Statement  The legal frameworks governing employee relations vary from country to country, as does custom and practice.
Relations with trade unions are nationally determined and managed locally in line with the applicable legal framework and standards of good practice.
The welldeveloped arrangements for interactions with trade union and worker councils provide the forum for productive discussion and collaborations with regard to collective bargaining agreements and other employment issues.
It is the Groups policy to conform to the nationallydetermined arrangements.
The Group does not use any formof forced, compulsoryorchild labour.
Our Communities Smith & Nephew values community involvement: it is an active member of its local communities and supports employees who undertake community work.
The Groups principles for charitable giving are based on criteria relevant to its business, with priority given to medical education.
Individual company sites support their local communities in a range of charitable causes giving donations of money, gifts in kind and employee time.
The Group realises that its technologies and products do not reach everyone.
Project Apollo is a charitable and humanitarian service programme of the Orthopaedics business.
This links up with physicians and non-profit groups engaged in medical philanthropy that receive donations of Smith & Nephew products through sponsorship and help from the Groups employees.
By working in collaboration with these individuals and organisations, Smith & Nephew considers that this is a way of increasing the impact of its charitable giving and work it undertakes.
More examples of communitysupport programmessupported by the Group are given in the SustainabilityReport.
In 2010, direct donations to charitable and community activities totalled $5,644,000 comprised of $1,736,000 in cash and $3,908,000 in product donations, primarily for Haiti earthquake relief efforts.
As a matter of policy, Smith&Nephew makes no .
Smith & Nephew is committed to establishing mutually beneficial relationships with its suppliers, customers and business partners.
The Group works only with partners it believes adhere to business principles and health, safety, social and environmental standards consistent with its own.
Additional work continues each year to improve the monitoring of supplier standards for service quality and activities relevant to their corporate responsibility including a diversity programme to promote long-term relationships with local or small business enterprises and minority-ownedand women-owned business enterprises.
Economic Contribution Sustainability by definition includes economic success.
The Group is committed to providing innovative, cost-effective healthcare solutions benefiting patients, healthcare professionals, reimbursement agencies and their patients through improved treatment, ease and speed of product use and reduced healthcare costs.
The Groups business policies are designed to achieve long-term growth and profits which in turn bring continued economicbenefits to shareholders, employees, suppliers and localcommunities.
Highlights for2010included: Ournet sales in 2010amounted to $4.0 billion 2009 $3.8 billion : Smith & Nephews employment of over 10,000 people globally is a substantial economic generator: our total wages and salaries in 2010 amounted to $817m 2009 $768m : and We invested $151m 2009 $155m in Research and Development to develop improved products and services.
Looking Ahead The Group is fulfilling an important role in the healthcare sector.
Increased demands are being placed on healthcare systems by the demographic trends of an ageing population and as the problems with obesity become more widespread.
More active lifestyles and the increased incidence of diabetes and other diseases also increase the demand for Smith & Nephews products.
In addition, developing and newly industrialised countries are increasing their demands for advanced products driven by similar demographic and health issues as developed nations.
Smith & Nephews vision is to be the best in helping people regain their lives by improvingand healing the human body.
The Group believes that it can achieve this by setting and meeting ambitious performance targets, by constant innovation in products and services and by earning the trust of its stakeholders.
The Group considers sustainability a journey, not an end point and is committed to that journey as an essential part of its long-term strategy.
