Business Review CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY WE STRIVE TO PROMOTE THE SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC WELLBEING OF THE COMMUNITIES IN WHICH WE OPERATE SOCO is a participating partner in seven oil licences CR and Corporate Governance and an appreciation of the relevant business in South East Asia and Africa.
In each case, the The Chief Executive officer is the Director implications associated with each operation.
host nation, through the respective national oil responsible to the Board for CR performance.
He company, retains a major interest and is a partner delegates day-to-day responsibility for managing The Audit Committee is responsible for in the licence.
Details of our licences and partners CR matters to the Vice President Operations and reviewing all areas of the Groups corporate are set out on page 3.
Production, who is invited to attend all Board risk management processes, including CR.
CR matters are reported to the full Board The effectiveness of these processes is monitored Our statistical reporting relating to corporate in an operations report and a separate agenda item on a continuous basis and a formal assessment responsibility CR is reective of the relatively at each Board meeting addresses any significant is conducted at least annually.
The Senior small scale and nature of the Companys CR issues.
Formal reporting to the Board is Independent Director, who has relevant operations and the size of our organisation.
mandatory for all health, safety and environment experience, reviews CR performance in detail with SOCOs impacts and opportunities vary HSE incidents.
senior managers and is kept routinely informed substantially between reporting periods, of any material performance issues as they arise.
dependent on the continuously evolving mix Country managers report to the Board through of projects and locations in the pre-drilling, senior management and are responsible for CR Policy Highlights exploration, development or production stages implementing the Companys CR strategy on SOCO is committed to applying widely in accordance with our business strategy.
The Company recognises that key accepted good practice in CR.
Our Health, SOCO participates as an operating interest holder managers and operations personnel have a Safety, Environmental and Social HSES or co-venturer in a project, we can directly specic role in the success of the Companys Management System includes a framework inuence operations and decision making.
It is a priority consideration, of policy documents and procedures that SOCO holds a minority interest, as an investor therefore, that the relevant employees each have is appropriate for the relatively small scale or participant in a project, our inuence is less an understanding of the importance of CR and and nature of the Companys operations direct.
In both cases, our expectations for CR are have knowledge of what constitutes best practice and size of organisation.
Certain key aspects clearly established, communicated and monitored.
This fosters informed decision making are summarised on page 30.
SOCOs inuence over CR in operations Joint Minority nonOperator operator operator Moderately High Low high Marine XI & XIV: Offshore, Congo Block 9-2: Offshore, Vietnam Cabinda North: Onshore, Cabinda, Angola Activity 2010: None Activity 2010: Development and More production Activity 2010: Seismic acquisition 2011: Exploration drilling information 2011: Development and 2011: Processing Nganzi: Onshore, western DRC production seismic data Activity 2010: Exploration drilling SOCO at Block 16-1: Offshore, Vietnam p02 2011: Exploration drilling a glance Activity 2010: Appraisal and Block V: Onshore, eastern DRC development Review of Activity 2010: None 2011: Development and p14 operations 2011: Block evaluation production Principal areas of 2010 operations, which are the primary focus of this years project reporting SOCO International plc 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Bus Busi iness ness Rev Revi iew ew Oil and gas companies have a Here at SOCO we are committed central role in todays global energy to conducting our business in an supply.
A successful project can honest and ethical manner and transform not only a company, ensuring that the health and safety but also the economic and social of people and the protection of the wellbeing of a host nation once environment remains a business it is able to produce and supply priority.
Our goal is to be a positive its own natural resources.
We presence whereby we build recognise that built into the heart sustainable value for the host of this opportunity is the business countries and local communities, as imperative to act responsibly.
well as for our own shareholders.
Ed Story President and Chief Executive Officer SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 29 Business Review CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED SOCOs Key Stakeholders SOCO is responding to the UK Bribery Act Our relationships with our business partners, 2010, which is expected to come into force host governments, local communities, contractors } Shareholders and the investment later this year.
Particular scrutiny will be and employees are highly valued.
We embrace community given to implementation including relevant the opportunity to promote sustainable } Our employees and contractors training, checks, monitoring, audits and development on an economic, social and } Host country national and regional disciplinary processes.
environmental level and to embed CR good governments and local authorities practice and values into our management and } Host country local communities Stakeholder Engagement corporate culture.
The Boards primary responsibility is to return value to its shareholders.
As part of this, SOCO Engagement with Shareholders and the recognises that consideration of its other Investment Community stakeholders interests is core to the Company SOCO maintains an open and active achieving its business objectives and reducing dialogue with its shareholders.
The Company its risk prole.
SOCOs corporate website serves maintains a website wherein important as a platform through which stakeholders information is posted and disseminated Code of Business Conduct and Ethics across the world and any member of the public promptly to a wide audience.
At a minimum, SOCOs Code of Business Conduct and Ethics may electronically interface with executive the Company provides three personal the Code is a dynamic policy that was approved by management on any subject.
communication forums annually: the Annual the Board in 2004 and is regularly reviewed.
The General Meeting, the presentation of Annual Code encapsulates the values of the Company in its Primary stakeholders in each of our respective Results and the presentation of Half Year economic, social and environmental performance.
projects are the governments and people of Results, whereby shareholders can directly The Code sets out the standards of business the host countries.
This arises due to the vast interface with Company executive management.
conduct that the Company requires of its personnel potential for economic growth and social Additionally, management maintains an active to ensure that its day-to-day business affairs are development that natural resources could calendar of engagements with institutional conducted in a fair, honest and ethical manner.
The Code is disseminated from the Board to senior management and to the country managers and employees.
Implementation is the responsibility of all personnel of the Group, Key Aspects of other SOCO Policies each of whom are given detailed guidelines for application.
The guidelines include criteria and checklists for ethical decision making on an Stakeholder Engagement Sustainable Development Health and Safety Environment within Local Communities individual level so as to directly mitigate the risk } We aim to undertake } We strive to integrate our } We are committed to } It is our policy to of inappropriate and corrupt business practices.
meaningful consultation business activities with conducting all business incorporate environmental and engagement with all of local communities as a activities in a responsible considerations into all our stakeholders.
manner, complying with all project plans and provide Our Commitment to Anti-Bribery and Corruption laws and requirements specic training when SOCO supports the guidelines set out in the } SOCO will provide } We aim to create and where we operate or necessary.
meaningful opportunities expand local infrastructure, industry best practice, Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative EITI for technical cooperation, and create employment } We strive to identify, whichever is the more and supports its goal of strengthening governance training and capacity and training opportunities analyse and effectively stringent.
building within any host for local communities.
manage all environmental through improved transparency and accountability.
country in which we } We strive to identify, risks arising from SOCO Countries with significant extractive industry sectors operate.
manage all health and can commit to the EITI involving the implementation } We will continually review safety risks arising from our objectives, metrics and of a standardised and internationally recognised SOCO activities.
targets, identifying gaps, procedure for transparency in natural resource } We aim to ensure that all and determining and staff and contractors are implementing proper management.
Companies operating in the relevant competent to perform their corrective actions.
sectors in countries implementing EITI are required duties.
to disclose material payments made to the } We commit to reporting and investigating all government.
Two of the countries in which incidents and accidents.
SOCO has licence interests, Congo and DRC, have achieved EITI Candidate status.
SOCO International plc 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business Review Engagement with Our Employees disability, religion or age.
This policy applies not managers, SOCOs country managers are and Contractors only during the course of an individuals responsible for the local channels of Fairness and respect in the workplace employment but also during the selection process, communication in our host countries both with SOCO promotes a workplace culture where be it the recruitment of external job applicants or government regulators and with the wider local each person is treated with fairness and respect.
the review of internal candidates.
In Vietnam, communications and The Company is committed to providing our engagement are additionally conducted by the employees with a working environment that is Employee retention and satisfaction joint operating company, which includes SOCO free from harassment and discrimination and Approximately 60% of Group employees have representation both within the operating company where each individual has the opportunity to been with SOCO for over 10 years.
The Company and on its management committee.
In the Africa develop their talents and capabilities and to full is committed to providing a work environment region, project updates are disseminated in the their potential based on merit and ability.
SOCO where our employees can grow both personally form of a newsletter which highlights employment is committed to protecting the health and safety and professionally.
We conduct 180-degree and contractor opportunities arising from direct of all its employees and to safeguarding performance appraisals at least annually during operations as well as a broad range of indirect employee records.
We endeavour to facilitate which business and training objectives are socio-economic activities.
honest, timely and two-way communication and established for the coming year.
The size of to maintain avenues for the equitable resolution the corporate organisation facilitates everyday, In western DRC, the local communities of the of employee complaints.
direct interaction and multi-disciplinary dialogue Bas-Congo province, particularly in the region amongst personnel.
This is enhanced further of Kipholo, were impacted by SOCOs activities Equal opportunities by informal lunch meetings several times a that began in 2008 relating to the Nganzi SOCO is an equal opportunity employer.
year, attended by at least one of the Executive Block.
Consultation meetings were held with Appointments to the Company and internal Directors, which provides a forum for corporate the Governor of Bas-Congo and with community promotions are made solely on the individual updates and feedback.
The development initiatives were employees ability, skill, competence and potential.
overseen by SOCO DRC Exploration & It is the Companys policy not to discriminate on Engagement within Host Countries Productions Assistant Director, who is a DRC grounds of racial group, gender, sexual orientation, Reporting into the Board through the senior national.
The consultation resulted in support from the local population for SOCOs presence and increased interest from other stakeholders to invest in the region.
Sustainable Development within Local Communities SOCO is committed to conducting and By planning and conducting our operations to ViNP and classify it as a site in danger.
We stimulating development on a sustainable responsibly and by engaging constructively and believe that responsibly conducted commercial basis.
Our operational success is highly transparently with our key stakeholders, our aim activities can join the conservation community dependent on the support of the communities is to be a positive presence in each region that in concerted efforts to reduce these threats.
We are performing environmental and social involvement is our policy in all the operations impact assessments in collaboration with local we control, providing potential for positive, Block V, Eastern DRC and Virunga National authorities and other concerned stakeholders.
economic and social benefits, both on a Park ViNP Any activity approved by DRC and ultimately local and national level.
We have a strong Block V was designated for oil exploration by the conducted must be designed to minimise any commitment to build and utilise skills among Government of DRC DRC, and awarded to effects on the species and habitats of the local communities through the creation and SOCO in 2010.
DRC retains a 15% interest in the specic area that may be impacted.
No expansion of local infrastructure, the creation Block which is of high interest to stakeholders operations have commenced and no drilling of jobs, exposure to training of a high as it encompasses a section of ViNP, including has been planned at the time of writing.
international standard and support for principally Lake Edward and the savannah Our website contains a section dedicated to technical cooperation and capacity building.
area to its south, but specically excluding the Block V and will be regularly updated.
entirety of the Mountain Gorilla habitat.
Impacts Providing Sustainable Infrastructure of war and civil conict remain a primary threat Nganzi In preparation for the commencement of the 2010 Nganzi drilling campaign, SOCO has invested in SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 31 Business Review CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED licence operations from both the international oil in West Africa, before and after which donation industry workforce and the host nation, the majority integrity tests were performed.
of personnel throughout its operations are nationals of the host country.
During 2010, the percentage Health and Safety We are committed of nationals working on SOCO projects within their The safety of our workforce is a primary objective.
home country was, for Vietnam 80%, Congo 83% Our HSES Management System includes to engaging and DRC 89%.
Professional development provided procedures and guidelines to secure a planned transparently during 2010 included vocational training at approach for identifying, analysing and managing internationally recognised technical training occupational risks and ensuring that our personnel and constructively centres and language training.
have the appropriate competency for the task at with our key hand.
HSE objectives are incorporated into new SOCO has committed to give preference, where project activities along with specic HSE training stakeholders possible, to host country contractors, materials, to ensure that HSE disciplines are assimilated into equipment and services, SOCOs use of local day-to-day activities.
sub-contractors on its Nganzi project indirectly stimulated the local job market as the DRC Operations company which conducted its civil engineering Vietnam operations recruited over 100 local people and a CongoBlock 16-1 and Block 9-2 operations were based drilling company recruited approximately conducted on three offshore drilling rigs, an 50 local people.
onshore supply base and ofce facilities.
A total transportation infrastructure across the area.
This of 5.4 million man-hours were performed during included the building of a new airstrip with related Staff Representation 2010 with no Lost Time Injuries LTIs and only infrastructure at Kipholo, the upgrade of bridges A formal staff representative body has been five incidents of Non-Lost Time Injuries NLTIs over the Lukunga, Lubuzi and Lemba rivers and established at both of our subsidiary ofces in requiring first aid or medical attention, which the improvement of 130km of existing roads.
Pointe Noire and Kinshasa, in accordance with local were investigated extensively and followed up Potable water wells, hospital clinic and school regulation, and was operational throughout 2010. with remedial action to prevent reoccurrence.
buildings were also constructed and or upgraded Its formation involved the election, under the Production operations have been carried out and power generators provided.
supervision of a state ofcial from the Ministry on the Ca Ngu Vang CNV eld for two years of Labour from the respective countries, of two with no LTIs.
These building initiatives are providing lasting workers to act as staff representatives.
The infrastructure for the local populace and have representatives are allotted 10 hours per month Performance led to indirect socio-economic benets by opening to perform their duties and are assigned to record Health and safety achievements during up rural areas to increased trade and other feedback from staff, to meet with management on 2010 that contributed to the safe working stakeholder interest, including the building of a a monthly basis and present any suggestions or environment were: medical clinic by a non-governmental organisation.
complaints, to advise their colleagues as to their } Implementation of the Drilling 2010 HSE Plan rights and duties and to have access to the countrys } Monthly HSE meetings with all contractors and Vietnam Labour Inspectorate.
Feedback to the staff is service providers The CNV Field offshore Vietnam utilises an provided through meetings and posters. }
Weekly HSE awards on-rig unmanned platform that is tied back to the Bach } HSE inspections audits and management visits Ho central processing platform and is the first Supporting Local Communities to key contractors and service providers project in the Vietnam petroleum industry to SOCO and its partners have committed to } HSE legal registration updated use existing facilities.
By doing so we are able support local communities through social } HSE procedures reviewed and updated to maximise the life of existing infrastructure, projects aimed at meeting the needs of the } HSE procedures translated into Vietnamese minimise the investment costs and reduce the local communities and to provide infrastructure } Emergency Response Plan reviewed and updated environmental impact of our operations.
and development on a sustainable basis.
Where } Work environment monitoring surveys carried SOCO acts as operator, its policy is to have out onshore.
Offshore surveys were postponed Capacity Building direct involvement in how its social projects due to poor weather SOCO is committed to providing meaningful are carried out.
For 2010, the respective budgets } HSE inductions for all rig crew prior to each opportunities for technical cooperation, training and and a summary of projects are set out below.
drilling campaign capacity building within each host country in which Additionally, charitable donations totalling } Training drills including first aid, emergency we operate.
Whilst SOCO sources personnel for its $45,000 were given by SOCO to local causes response, escape and survival SOCO International plc 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Bus Busi iness ness Rev Revi iew ew Nganzi Operations, DRC and Congo Brazzaville Operations in DRC during 2010 comprised three Summary of Social Projects drilling sites, an operations base camp opened Undertaken in 2010 in April 2010, an airstrip and ofce facilities relating to our activities in Nganzi.
Local Communities Children } P rovision of water wells and generators } Construction of a school in Congo At the operational base, 0.2 million man-hours for 6 villages in Bas-Congo, DRC } Financial assistance to construct a were carried out with no LTIs.
At the drilling site, } D onation of medical equipment for a school in Kinshasa, DRC 0.3 million man-hours were carried out during clinic in Bas-Congo, DRC } Construction of a school and which two LTIs occurred.
LTIs plus any NLTIs } Funding of a community radio station accommodation for teachers in Angola assessed as high potential incidents were in DRC } Donation of school equipment and investigated extensively with follow up remedial } Construction of a clinic and computers in DRC action to prevent reoccurrence.
accommodation for nurses in Angola } Donation for reinforcement of school safety } Funding support for rural road and security measures in DRC In Congo, no offshore activities were conducted construction in Vietnam } Water and power supply for a school in DRC on our Congo licences during 2010, although } F unding support for community culture } Donation of school supplies to a charity Nganzi logistical operations were carried out at centres in Hai Phuong, Dien Chau Nghe for the benefit of children orphaned by a supply base at the Pointe Noire port facility.
An and Quang Tri provinces, Vietnam AIDS in Congo During 2010, eight minor road trafc accidents } Relief assistance for ood victims } Financial support for a seminar for occurred and as such SOCO has joined a in Vietnam girls in Congo collaborative campaign with other oil companies } Don ation towards construction of } Charitable donation for repairs at an in Pointe Noire to increase road safety.
a medical station in Quang Binh orphanage in Congo province, Vietnam } Sponsorship of local charity fundraising Performance events in Vietnam Health and safety achievements during Women } Donation of equipment to a kindergarten 2010 that contributed to the safe working } Purchase of a generator for a in Vietnam environment were: maternity hospital in Congo } Implementation of SOCO HSE policies and } Construction of a water well for Disabled and Elderly procedures a maternity hospital in Congo } Financial support to the elderly in DRC } Vigorous internal HSE auditing and inspection } Construction of sanitary facilities } Purchase of a minibus for a charity with remedial action for a maternity hospital in Congo benefiting the elderly in Congo } On-base Daily Toolbox Meetings and Weekly } Purchase of medical equipment } Financial support for a charity benefiting the Safety Meetings for a maternity hospital in Congo elderly in Congo } Focused training for new inductees into the } Financial assistance for a womens } Financial assistance for a charity benefiting local workforce centre in DRC the disabled in Congo } Implementation of the 2010 HSE Plan } Financial support and participation with the } Regular inspection of cargo handling and Heart Foundation, Congo inspection of vehicles } Inspections extended to include loading at service company contractor facilities to ensure Social project budgets that vehicles and loads were t for purpose at 100% interest 2010 Security of Our People and Infrastructure Country Amount The security of our personnel is a key priority.
Our Vietnam $192,000 HSES Management System includes procedures and guidelines for incident prevention, reporting Congo DRC $640,000 and mitigation.
Where security risks are known Angola $1,000,000 to exist, specic risk assessments have been conducted and monitoring and preventative processes have been implemented.
SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 33 Business Review CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Through 2010, SOCO did not experience any and one is in the early stages of production.
This security incidents in Vietnam or on its operated positions us to implement best practice at the projects in Africa.
We believe that the support we beginning of each project.
This also explains the have received from local communities as a result lack of year-on-year data comparison tables.
Our Logistics of our commitment to local involvement and engagement has been a contributory factor in Emissions Coordinator who is incident prevention and has thus reduced the Scope 1 direct emissions from our operations from the Bas-Congo Companys overall security risk prole.
remain minimal as the only licence in the production phase is Block 9-2 in Vietnam.
received training Block V, DRC Fugitive emissions from this production are locally and in Pointe In June 2010, the Production Sharing maintained at negligible amounts through a Agreement for Block V in eastern DRC received contained process in which hydrocarbons Noire and has the Presidential Decree, the final step in the produced are transported via subsea pipeline become one of our concession award of the Block.
As operator, to the Bach Ho processing platform.
The SOCO has initiated a presence in this region separated wet gas is transported via pipeline key personnel on through a security contractor focusing on an to an onshore gas facility for further distribution the Nganzi project area assessment, establishing communications and crude oil is stored on a oating storage with local stakeholders and conducting and ofoading vessel prior to sale.
environmental and social impact assessments ESIA.
It is clear this area has a signicantly Indirect emissions through energy consumption greater risk prole.
A number of security within our business are kept low, through energy incidents have been reported which were saving measures, such as lighting controlled by unrelated to SOCO or its presence in the area, movement sensors.
Our corporate ofce in but highlight the elevated risk.
In February 2011, London uses less energy than the qualifying an employee of the security contractor was threshold for the CRC Energy efficiency Scheme taken captive following an attack on a vehicle, in the UK.
Consequential emissions resulting and released unharmed after two days.
from our activities but occurring outside of the A detailed debrief was carried out after the business are difficult to measure but we incident to establish procedures to prevent endeavour to keep these to a minimum.
A tailored set of specic security example, corporate travel is carried out only as procedures and processes for this area is being essential.
We utilise services to recycle ofce prepared, which will be in place prior to the equipment, furniture, stationery and packaging.
conduct of any exploration activities.
Based on experience gained from SOCOs prior projects, Unplanned Discharges it is expected that our operations on Block V can There were no unplanned discharges during 2010. assist in increasing the stability and security in However, the possible occurrence of an oil or the region, along with local prosperity through chemical spillage poses a potentially significant economic development.
Our HSE Management System includes procedures and guidelines for Environment incident prevention, reporting and mitigation.
In SOCO is committed to conducting all business preparation for the onset of production from the Case study activities in a responsible manner to ensure the TGT eld offshore Vietnam scheduled for August protection of the environment.
Relative to our 2011, a specic oil spill response plan was A regional focus for the Nganzi project industry sector, our environmental impact is prepared by HLJOC and approved in August 2010 Keeping a regional focus was a high priority when comparatively low, due to our small scale of by the national oil company, Petrovietnam, and assembling the workforce for SOCOs operations operations and corporate organisation.
Our the provincial government of Ba Ria-Vung Tau.
on the Nganzi Block in the Bas-Congo region of the objective is for the impact to remain low through DRC.
As a result, 18 out of 31 Congolese personnel continuous monitoring and responsive action.
Blow out prevention working at the operational base at Kipholo are from Five of our licences are currently in the Our Te Giac Den TGD appraisal area in Vietnam the local area.
preliminary stages of exploration, one is includes a high pressure high temperature zone.
pre-production appraisal and development This zone was first encountered in 2007 by the SOCO International plc 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Bus Busi iness ness Rev Revi iew ew TGD-1X well when drilling had to be halted after Lost Time Injuries LTIS and Frequency LTIF penetrating only 22 metres of the sequence.
for 2010 Key Statistics from our Drilling was later temporarily suspended to source appropriate high pressure well control equipment, Continuing Operations LTIS Man-hours LTIF including a 15,000 psi blow out preventer.
During 000 2010, a rig suitable for drilling in high pressure Vietnam 5,384 0.000 high temperature environments was used to drill Vietnam 2010 2009 the TGD-2X well with no blow out incidents.
Nganzi 2349 0.005 BOEPD net 2,257 2,848 Waste Management See Five Year Summary on p92 for denitions Wells drilled number 9 1 Vietnam In Vietnam, all wastewater and sewage is treated Emissions tonnes Negl Negl prior to discharge.
Solid waste is collected, environmental impact low at the start-up Gas ared mmscfe day 1.3 1.2 segregated and transported to shore by supply operations site on the Nganzi Block.
An Spillages cubic metres boats in compliance with the Vietnamese Environmental and Waste Management Hazardous Waste Management legislation.
Programme was successfully executed and Oil produced in water On arrival ashore, an authorised contractor for involved procedures for storage and onward Environmental waste disposal services segregates for further disposal or recycling.
The programme achieved near-misses recycling i. e. plastics, papers, wood, etc.
or international standards and exceeded all DRC disposal under an arrangement with public regulatory commitments.
Congo 2010 2009 services of Vung Tau City.
Hazardous waste is BOEPD stored in a designated area before transportation Environmental Impact Assessments EIAs to waste disposal facilities in compliance with EIAs are carried out at all locations prior to initiating Wells drilled number 2 Hazardous Waste Management local regulations.
Accordingly, EIAs were Emissions tonnes Negl Negl carried out over the Nganzi Block, onshore DRC Gas ared mmscfe day Nganzi and over Marine XIV offshore Congo Brazzaville An effective system of waste management during 2010.
An EIA has been carried out over Spillages cubic metres was integral to the objective of keeping our Block V, onshore DRC, in early 2011.
Oil produced in water Environmental near-misses DRC 2010 2009 BOEPD Wells drilled number 3 Emissions tonnes Negl Negl Gas ared mmscfe day Key Environmental Milestones for Vietnam and Nganzi Operations Spillages cubic metres Location Achieved 2010 Target 2011 Oil produced in water Environmental Vietnam Operations offshore Ca Ngu Vang eld development Complete the submission for near-misses project received ISO 14000 Environmental Certication ISO 14000 Environmental issued by the Vietnam Governments Ministry of Certication for the TGT eld.
Natural Resources and Environment on 24 May 2010 Negl: Negligible Note: Data is not included Nganzi Environmental and Waste Management Programme Full restoration of the Nganzi drilling for our Angola interest as fully executed on Nganzi Block operations, sites, with engagement with local this project is nonachieving international standards and exceeding communities and authorities operated all DRC regulatory commitments regarding their final use.
SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 35 O GOVERNANCE p40 p42 Board of Annual Directors Report of the Directors p46 p54 Corporate Directors Governance Remuneration Report For a summary of our approach to Corporate Governance see page 46 Gover Govern na an nce ce SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 37 Insight GOVERNANCE THE STRENGTH OF OUR BOARD AND MANAGEMENT TEAM IS KEY TO ENSURING OUR SUCCESS Our approach to maintaining the independence, freshness Initial appointment and objectivity of our Board years Key z Code guidance 1 Annual reappointment Time elapsed during tenure -- 6 Annual More rigorous Independence 2 scrutiny review 3 5 4 The Board embraces the underlying the proven commitment, experience principles of the Code provisions and competence to effectively regarding tenure and refreshing advise and oversee the Companys of the Board, and seeks to strike management on behalf of an appropriate balance between shareholders.
The Company seeks continuity of experience and to ensure its Directors are focused succession.
The Company manages on a long term approach, and does a portfolio of long term, complex not impose fixed term limits as this projects and benefits from long-serving would assure loss of experience and Directors with detailed knowledge of knowledge without assurance of the Companys operations and with increased independence.
Cynthia Cagle Vice President Finance and Company Secretary SOCO International plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Gover Govern na an nce ce SOCO senior management visit SOCOs sites in Pointe Noire, Congo Brazzaville and Kipholo, DRC.
A well-managed and sustainable business Our business model is about progressive sustainability and the Board of Directors is a driving force in its execution.
While maintaining independence and objectivity is key, so is maintaining the relationships we have with host countries, communities and contractors.
Exploration is a long term endeavour, and a stable management team is crucial to ensuring the longevity of the Company.
more on p48 We aim to maximise local involvement in all our operations.
SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 39
