Delivering our strategy Responsible Business Committed to delivering value responsibly In this section we describe how we are working to deliver business success responsibly, including summary information about our commitment and performance in some key 11 areas.
Further information about these areas 11 confirmed breaches of external sales and marketing regulations or codes globally and others is available on our website, astrazeneca.
Introduction At AstraZeneca, we are dedicated to the research, development, 8% manufacture and marketing of medicines that make a difference in healthcare.
For us, this is at the core of our responsibility to our Ranked in the top 8% in the sector in the Dow Jones Sustainability stakeholders and to society.
Successful pharmaceutical innovation, World and European Indexes delivered responsibly, brings benets for patients, creates value for shareholders and contributes to the economic development of the communities we serve.
As described in the Our marketplace section from page 10, 1 950 AstraZeneca operates in a dynamic environment that presents both opportunities and challenges.
To make sure we are well positioned Completed over 1,950 Responsible Procurement assessments, to manage these, our business strategy is driving significant accounting for around 75% of our third party spend changes across our organisation.
Previous sections have outlined how we are transforming R&D, expanding our footprint in Emerging Markets, boosting our efforts to source innovation from outside AstraZeneca and increasingly working in partnerships that broaden the base for success in improving healthcare.
At the same time, we continue to drive efficiency and effectiveness across the organisation, including increased outsourcing to a diverse range of strategic suppliers.
Our work to implement these changes is underpinned by our continued commitment to the sustainable development of our business which delivers value for our stakeholders and for us.
To that end, our responsible business objectives must be closely aligned to, and support delivery of, our business strategy.
In the light Michele Hooper Dame Nancy Rothwell of our accelerated strategy, the insights gained from dialogue with Senior independent Non-Executive Director with our stakeholders and our internal risk assessment, we reviewed and Non-Executive Director and responsibility for overseeing reshaped our Corporate Responsibility CR Plan during 2010.
Our Chairman of the Audit Committee Responsible Business new Responsible Business Plan combines our CR and compliance agenda and puts at the top those areas most impacted by the We believe that to be successful in delivering our changes to our business and which are therefore key enablers of our strategy.
strategic priorities, a strong focus on responsible business is essential.
Its fundamental to our reputation.
Stakeholders need to be confident that we apply sustainability considerations and high ethical standards across all our activities, whether in-house or outsourced, in both Established and Emerging Markets.
Being welcomed as a trusted partner as we reshape our geographic footprint and increase our externalisation is critical to our success.
40 Delivering our strategy Responsible Business AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information This means a specic focus on: events, and other single-issue engagement during the year, signicantly inuenced the shape of our new Plan.
We will continue to engage with our stakeholders on the further development of the R&D ethics underpinning our drive for innovation with sound Plan to ensure that we are staying in close touch with the changing ethical practice worldwide expectations of a responsible business.
Sales and marketing practices driving consistently high ethical standards to promote our medicines responsibly worldwide We also use the insights we gain from external surveys to develop Human rights making sure that we continue to develop and drive a consistent approach across all our activities our approach in line with best practice on a global basis.
A member of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index since 2001, we continue to Access to healthcare exploring ways of increasing access to healthcare for underserved patient populations be ranked among the sustainability leaders in the pharmaceutical sector.
In the 2010 Index, we increased individual scores for nine Suppliers working only with organisations who embrace ethical standards that are consistent with our own.
out of 23 criteria compared to 14 out of 24 criteria in 2009 including improved marks for innovation management and stakeholder engagement.
We lost ground in some areas including corporate As well as managing specic responsible business challenges governance, marketing practices and environmental policy.
To associated with the changes to our strategy, we will be maintaining better understand these lower scores, we have commissioned an focus on other aspects of our responsibility: in-depth external benchmark survey and the analysis will be used to inform our improvement planning.
The survey is expected to Patient safety report in the first quarter of 2011.
Environment Employee safety, health and wellbeing External assurance Community investment.
Bureau Veritas has provided external assurance on responsible business related information within this Annual Report and of the Our new Responsible Business Plan, which will include associated detailed content of the Responsibility section of our website.
Bureau objectives, targets and KPIs, maps our agenda and sets our Veritas has found the information provided within this Annual Report direction for the next five years.
We aim to launch it in the first to be accurate and reliable based on the evidence provided and quarter of 2011 and publish it on our website, astrazeneca.
com subject to the scope, objectives and limitations dened in the full at the time.
Because this is a dynamic and evolving area, we will assurance statement.
The full assurance statement which contains continue to engage with our stakeholders and work within the detailed scope, methodology, overall opinion and recommendations business to understand how we can further improve our can be found on our website, astrazeneca.
com: web page content performance.
assured by Bureau Veritas is marked at the bottom of each page.
Accountabilities and responsibilities Bureau Veritas is an independent professional services company The Board is responsible for our Responsible Business framework that specialises in quality, health, safety, social and environmental and Non-Executive Director, Dame Nancy Rothwell, oversees management with a long history of providing independent assurance implementation and reporting to the Board.
Michele Hooper chairs services, and had an annual turnover in 2009 of 2.6billion.
the Audit Committee which oversees the work of the Global Compliance function.
R&D ethics We are determined to make sure that the strategic changes The SET and senior managers throughout the Group are we are making within R&D are underpinned by our ongoing accountable for responsible business management within their commitment to delivering innovation responsibly.
Compliance with areas, based on the global framework but taking into account relevant laws and regulations is a minimum baseline and underpins national, functional and site issues and priorities.
Line managers our own global principles and standards, as outlined in our global are accountable for ensuring that their teams understand the Bioethics Policy.
requirements and that people are clear about what is expected of them as they work to achieve AstraZenecas business goals.
Individually, everyone in AstraZeneca has a responsibility to Clinical trials Clinical trials are the means by which we study the effects of a integrate responsible business considerations into their day-to-day decision making, actions and behaviours.
potential new medicine in humans.
We conduct clinical trials at multiple sites in several different countries.
A broad geographic span helps us to ensure that those taking part in our studies Our dedicated Global Corporate Responsibility Team works reect the diversity of patients around the world for whom the together with the SET areas and the Global Compliance function new medicine is intended.
This approach also helps to identify the across the business to ensure that responsible business risks and types of people for whom the treatment may be most beneficial.
opportunities are identied and managed appropriately, in line with our strategic business objectives.
Our global governance process for determining where we place clinical trials provides the framework for ensuring a consistent External engagement and benchmarking approach worldwide.
We take several factors into account, including Stakeholder engagement is critical to keeping in touch with the the availability of experienced and independent ethics committees demands of sustainable development.
It was particularly important and a robust regulatory regime, as well as sufficient numbers of in 2010 as we worked to develop our new Responsible Business trained healthcare professionals and patients willing to participate Plan and, alongside our ongoing stakeholder dialogues, we held a number of multi-stakeholder events.
For example, we hosted two in a trial.
roundtable discussions in London and Stockholm to gain a better understanding of what our stakeholders believe to be important Before a trial begins, we work to make sure that those taking part responsibility considerations as our business moves into emerging understand the nature and purpose of the research and that proper markets.
Participants included socially responsible investors SRIs, procedures for gaining informed consent are followed including medical researchers, academics, politicians and regulators.
We also managing any special circumstances, such as different levels of arranged an event specically for key SRI contacts.
We also have procedures in place to ensure that the reected areas of interest expressed by the SRI community and privacy of participants health information is protected.
so focused on R&D strategy, emerging market strategy and responsible procurement.
The insights we gained from these One of our core responsibilities to those taking part in our trials is to make sure that we protect them from any unnecessary risks.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Delivering our strategy Responsible Business 41 Delivering our strategy Wherever possible, we use non-animal methods, such as computer Patients in global AstraZeneca small molecule studies modelling, that eliminate the need to use animals early in drug by geographical area in 2010 development or reduce the number required.
We also work to rene our existing methods.
This replacement, reduction and renement Europe 27% of animal studies is known as the 3Rs and to support our drive for US Canada 22% continuous improvement, we work both within AstraZeneca and the Asia Pacic 13% wider scientific community to share 3Rs knowledge and learning.
Central Eastern Europe 18% Japan 8% The number of animals we use will continue to vary because it South Africa 1% depends on a number of factors, including the amount of preLatin America 10% clinical research we are doing, the complexity of the diseases under Other 1% investigation and the regulatory requirements.
We believe that, without our active commitment to the 3Rs, our animal use would be much greater.
In addition, approximately 21,000 animals were used by external CROs on our behalf 2009: 17,000.
The welfare of the animals we use continues to be a top priority Patients in global AstraZeneca biologics studies and our standards apply worldwide.
In addition to mandatory by geographical area in 2010 inspections by government authorities, we have a formal programme of regular audits of our internal animal research facilities Europe 1% conducted by our own qualied staff.
To make sure that they US Canada 88% continue to support our drive for consistently high standards of Asia Pacic 1% animal care worldwide, we updated our standards during 2010 to Central Eastern Europe 4% increase clarity about their scope and associated accountabilities Japan 1% and responsibilities.
South Africa 1% Latin America 3% External CROs that conduct animal studies on our behalf are Other 1% required to comply with our global standards and we undertake a regular risk-based programme of audits to ensure our expectations are being met.
We support the introduction of new legislation across EU member states, which has created consistent standards regarding the use of laboratory animals.
We actively contributed to discussions to ensure Throughout the research process, we continuously review and that the new EU Directive 2010 63 EU on animals used for scientific make judgements on whether the potential benets of a new purposes, which became law in November, strikes a balance medicine continue to outweigh the risk of side effects.
As well as between improving animal welfare and maintaining the ability to compliance with all relevant laws, we have strict internal procedures conduct R&D in Europe that brings benefit for patients.
for managing safety issues during clinical trials and ensuring we act in the best interests of participants.
Stem cell research We believe that stem cell research may offer new opportunities to All our clinical studies are conceptually designed and nally develop innovative and safer medicines.
Our commitment to high interpreted in-house but some of them are run for us by external ethical standards in this area of research is reected in our Bioethics contract research organisations CROs.
In 2010, around 47% of Policy which demands compliance with all external regulations and patients in our small molecule studies and around 87% of patients in with our own codes of practice.
our biologics studies were monitored by CROs on our behalf.
We contractually require CROs to work to our global standards.
Some research in this eld uses stem cells from human embryos human embryonic stem cells hESC created during in vitro We publish information about the registration and results of all our fertilisation procedures but which become surplus to requirements.
clinical trials, whether favourable or unfavourable to AstraZeneca, We are particularly interested in the potential of stem cells to on a range of public websites including our own dedicated site, differentiate into normal human cells, such as cardiac myocytes .
By the end of 2010, we had registered heart muscle cells or hepatocytes liver cells.
If achieved, these over 1,250 trials and published the results of more than 800. could be used to improve prediction of the safety, metabolism and efcacy of emerging candidate drugs at an earlier stage in the Animal research process and would help us to overcome the current limitations that Animal studies continue to play a vital role in the search for new a restricted supply of human tissue presents.
They provide essential information, not available through progress has been made in the development of such stem cell other methods, about the effects of a potential new therapy on based research models, with some promising results.
However, disease and the body.
Regulatory authorities around the world also more work is needed to understand the full potential of this type of require safety data from pre-clinical testing in animals before a new research.
We do not have all the necessary skills and technologies medicine can be tested in humans.
in-house, and so are working with external partners who have expertise and an ethical commitment consistent with our own.
As we work to improve our R&D productivity, we remain committed These include Stem Cells for Safer Medicines, a UK public-private to minimising our use of animals without compromising the quality partnership, and Cellartis AB, a biotech company.
All research using animals is carefully considered and justied, not only to confirm the scientific need for a study, but also to make sure that it has been designed so that the minimum number of animals is used and that they are exposed to as little pain and distress as possible.
42 Delivering our strategy Responsible Business AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Induced pluripotent stem cells iPSC, which can be obtained safely Global KPI: Breaches of external sales and marketing codes from adult volunteers and do not involve embryos at all, may provide and regulations ruled by external bodies a scientically viable alternative to hESC.
We are in the process 3 year performance of establishing a dedicated iPSC department to facilitate the application of iPSC as a tool to derive more native-like human 1 2010 11 cells in vitro.
We also plan further collaborations in this eld.
1 2009 24 Separately, we are exploring the potential to treat disease by 2008 15 modulation of stem cells within target organs which is an exciting 1 new area often referred to as regenerative medicine.
We are Includes self-reporting activity globally which resulted in a breach being ruled.
embarking on several external partnerships to combine the best ideas and latest innovation in academic research with our ability Disciplinary actions: Breaches of Code of Conduct by to search for new drugs.
We are looking for the potential of small molecules or biologics to modulate stem cells in patients tissues to Commercial employees 2010 repair or improve the function of diseased tissue.
Our collaborations Number of employees with the Institute of Ophthalmology at University College London, 1 2 Action taken 2010 2009 announced in September and Evotec AG Develogen AG Removed from role 117 99 announced in December, represent important investments in Formal warning 740 687 regenerative medicine, which focus on exploring regenerative Guidance and coaching 768 416 therapies for diabetic retinopathy and diabetes respectively.
Total 1,625 1,202 1 2010 data reects improved data capture mechanisms that will be used going forward to report Sales and marketing ethics breaches by Commercial employees year-on-year.
2 Driving consistently high standards of sales and marketing practice 2009 data shows breaches of Code of Conduct by all employees and is included for comparative purposes only.
This is particularly important and at times challenging, given the diversity of business cultures While our KPI provides a benchmark against which to measure our around the world as we continue our strategic drive to grow performance year-on-year see above, the varying national and our business by expanding our presence in Emerging Markets.
regulatory denitions of what constitutes an external breach will Alongside our work to ensure high standards are applied across continue to create a challenge for us in interpreting the data at a our new geographies, we remain committed to continuous global level.
In addition, a single confirmed breach can involve more improvement in our Established Markets.
than one employee failing to meet the standards required and as described earlier there may be failures to meet standards which are Compliance with all relevant external sales and marketing codes not confirmed and so will not affect the KPI.
and regulations, and with our own policies, is mandatory and monitored by line managers locally, who are supported by During 2010, we looked at additional ways of reporting our dedicated compliance professionals.
We also have a nominated performance which would support increased transparency about signatory network that works to ensure that our promotional our practices.
We are now reporting the global number of materials meet all applicable requirements.
Commercial employees involved in disciplinary actions during the year, including the number of associated dismissals see above.
Information concerning instances of potential non-compliance is This information provides the broader context of our internal collected through our compliance incident management processes governance and the number of actions taken in relation to breaches and reviewed by senior management in local and or regional of external or internal sales and marketing codes.
It also reinforces compliance committees.
As appropriate, serious breaches are for our employees and other stakeholders how seriously we take reviewed by the Board and the Audit Committee.
More information breaches of our policies.
about our compliance and risk assurance processes is contained in the Managing risk section from page 95.
We take all breaches very US Corporate Integrity Agreement reporting seriously and act to prevent repeat occurrences.
In April 2010, AstraZeneca signed an agreement with the US Department of Justice to settle an investigation relating to the sales During 2010, we reviewed our existing sales and marketing and marketing of Seroquel IR.
The requirements of the associated policies and standards, further strengthened the requirements Corporate Integrity Agreement between AstraZeneca and the and consolidated the range to form a single new Global Policy Ofce of the Inspector General of the US Department of Health and on External Interactions.
We aim to launch the new Policy in the Human Services OIG include a number of active monitoring and first quarter of 2011, followed by training of all relevant staff to self-reporting obligations that differ from self-reporting required reinforce our commitment to consistent ethical interactions with by authorities in the rest of the world.
To meet these obligations, stakeholders worldwide.
AstraZeneca provides notices to the OIG describing the outcomes of particular investigations potentially relating to violations of certain In 2010, we identied a total of 11 confirmed breaches of external laws, as well as a separate annual report to the OIG summarising sales and marketing regulations or codes globally 2009: 24: 2008: 15. monitoring and investigation outcomes relevant to Corporate Integrity Agreement requirements.
It should be noted that cases where regulatory authorities approach AstraZeneca with concerns or queries about sales and marketing Human rights materials or activities for example, in the course of their routine Human rights remain at the core of our commitment to responsible review responsibilities are not included in our KPI number.
As we reshape our organisation, grow our business and we follow up these incidents with appropriate actions so that all increase our outsourcing, we are working to make sure that we relevant learning is taken into account in our future activities.
continue to drive and share best practice across all our activities.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Delivering our strategy Responsible Business 43 Delivering our strategy In January 2010, AstraZeneca signed up to the United Nations For further information about pricing our medicines and our Global Compact UNGC, a strategic public-private initiative for intellectual property protection, see the Pricing our medicines organisations committed to social and environmental sustainability.
section on page 33 and the Intellectual Property section from This means that we have committed to uphold 10 internationally page 30. recognised principles in the areas of human rights, labour standards, environmental sustainability and anti-corruption.
These Working with suppliers are not new principles for AstraZeneca as described in our Code We continue to work to make sure that our purchasing is directed of Conduct and global policies but joining the UNGC reinforces only to those organisations which embrace ethical standards how seriously we take our commitment to them.
It also gives us the consistent with our own.
This is particularly important given the framework for further developing our commitment in the areas of strategic changes to our geographic footprint and our increased human rights and labour standards.
outsourcing activity to support improved efficiency and effectiveness across the organisation.
In recent years, we have been participating in a project led by the Danish Institute for Human Rights DIHR, working with the Our Global Responsible Procurement Standard defines the process pharmaceutical industry to develop a human rights assessment tool for integrating our ethical standards into our procurement activity for pharmaceutical companies, based on the DIHRs existing Human and decision making worldwide.
The process is based on an Rights Compliance Assessment Tool.
The first pharmaceutical escalating set of risk-based due diligence activities, applied in a industry version of the tool was launched in November.
The same initial assessment process is used for all suppliers and more detailed, specic assessments are then made Our participation in the project helped to improve our understanding as required, proportionate to the level of risk a supplier presents.
of the specic human rights implications for our industry and during The Standard includes detailed expectations of suppliers which 2010 we focused on further understanding how the human rights suppliers sign up to as part of the contracting process.
We will work and labour-related UNGC principles apply to our activities.
with suppliers to help them improve their standards, rather than automatically excluding them from our supply chain but we will not As part of this, we conducted a human rights self-assessment pilot use suppliers who are unable or unwilling to meet our expectations study in our marketing company in South Africa.
The study focused in a timely way.
on employment practices, R&D, products and marketing, and the community.
The outcomes were positive overall due principally, we Implementing our approach across the many thousands of believe, to the extensive external regulation governing these issues suppliers we work with around the world will take time.
We started in South Africa.
However, the assessment usefully highlighted areas with our largest suppliers, whose contracts with AstraZeneca of AstraZenecas global governance which required improvement, are managed centrally by our Procurement team.
In 2009, we including increased alignment with the International Labour completed Responsible Procurement assessments of over 800 Organization ILO core conventions, which has also been raised suppliers accounting for around 65% of our third party spend.
We subsequently conducted a In 2010, we extended the programme to other companies in human rights based review of our Code of Conduct and our global our supply chain, including smaller suppliers and those whose policies, focusing in particular on labour standards and diversity.
Since the programme began, We will be using the outcomes and recommendations on how to we have completed over 1,950 assessments which account for further strengthen our governance in these areas to inform the around 75% of our third party spend.
The ongoing programme further development of our Code of Conduct and global policies.
will continue throughout 2011 and beyond.
We also used the DIHR assessment tool to conduct a labour In late 2010, we introduced a requirement that our key suppliers review in 11 of our marketing companies, including some countries provide independent audit verication that their ethical standards where national labour standards are not consistent with global are being applied in practice.
Together with our suppliers, we best practice.
The review focused on ILO core areas freedom of are partnering with experienced third party providers in this association and collective bargaining, forced and bonded labour, work and using an assessment programme that reects best child labour, discrimination, and working time and wages.
The practice from other industry sectors, as well as the principles results showed that our practices are in the main consistent around of the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative a group of major the world, based on our requirement that our global standards pharmaceutical companies working to support suppliers in are applied when external national standards do not meet operating in line with industry expectations.
We are in the early AstraZenecas minimum standards.
However, we identied the stages of engaging with suppliers on the introduction of this need for more consistency in some areas, for example, working requirement and it will take time to embed the practice.
However, time and some aspects of diversity.
we believe that this move signicantly strengthens the framework for working together with our suppliers to drive continuous improvement.
We have developed a global approach and framework for progressing our human rights agenda, including dened accountabilities and responsibilities and an action plan to ensure We continued our Integrated Supplier Evaluation Protocol audit that human rights continue to be appropriately integrated into our programme during the year and have now supplemented this strategies, policies and processes.
We plan to begin a phased with the introduction of focused Responsible Procurement roll-out across AstraZeneca in the first half of 2011. assessments.
In 2010, the programme covered 48 audits at 42 different suppliers 2009: 51 audits at 45 suppliers.
Access to healthcare We continue to review our approach to improving access to Patient safety healthcare in underserved communities in a sustainable way.
The safety of the patients who take our medicines will always be The review includes engaging with external stakeholders and a fundamental consideration for us.
All drugs have potential side working within the business to understand the challenges and the effects and we aim to minimise the risks and maximise the benets opportunities.
The assessments associated with the 2010 Access of each of our medicines, beginning with the discovery of a potential to Medicines Index are also informing our thinking.
We anticipate new medicine and continuing throughout its development, launch publication of the outcome of this review in the first half of 2011 and marketing.
44 Delivering our strategy Responsible Business AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information After launch, we continually monitor the use of all our medicines Our Environmental Risk Management Plans, introduced in 2008, now accompany new medicines along the path to launch.
These to ensure that we become aware of any side effects not identied during the development process.
This is known as pharmacovigilance plans enable all available environmental data to be taken into account at key decision points during drug discovery and and is core to our ongoing responsibility to patients.
We have comprehensive and rigorous pharmacovigilance systems in development, and to provide early warning of medicines that could pose a potential risk to the environment.
We are also place for detecting and rapidly evaluating such effects, including mechanisms for highlighting those that require immediate attention.
starting to develop plans for ecopharmacovigilance that will help us to identify and manage any potential environmental risks We also work to ensure that accurate, well-informed and up-to-date information concerning the safety prole of our drugs is provided to associated with our medicines after they have been launched.
regulators, doctors, other healthcare professionals and, where appropriate, patients.
In the design of manufacturing processes, we are applying green chemistry principles that enable potential environmental issues to be identied and designed out at an early stage.
Packaging is We have an experienced, in-house team of clinical patient safety professionals working around the world who are dedicated to the another area where we continue to make improvements that reduce the potential impact on the environment, without compromising task of ensuring that we meet our commitment to patient safety.
At a global level, every medicine in development and on the market patient safety.
We are also working with national and local authorities to encourage appropriate disposal of unused medicines.
is allocated a Global Safety Physician and a team of patient safety scientists.
In each of our markets we also have dedicated safety managers with responsibility for patient safety at a local level.
Underpinning all of this activity is our ongoing research into the effects of pharmaceuticals in the environment PIE.
While improving Our two Chief Medical Ofcers one for our small molecule products all the time, understanding of the potential for long-term effects in the environment, for example to aquatic life, requires further and one for biologics have overall accountability for the benefit risk proles of the products we have in development and those on the research.
This is a priority for our scientists at our Environmental Laboratory in Brixham, UK, who are at the forefront of this eld of market.
They provide medical oversight and ensure that appropriate risk assessment processes are in place to enable informed science, working both independently and in collaboration with other companies, leading academics and regulatory bodies to advance decisions to be made about safety as quickly as possible.
We use an external provider, Tata Consultancy Services TCS, to Environmental sustainability manage the data entry process for individual case safety reports relating to AstraZeneca products.
As experts in their eld, TCS is We aim to minimise our environmental impact by reducing the carbon footprint and natural resource demands of our business activities.
driving improvements in the efficiency and consistency of data entry across AstraZeneca and using TCS for this work means our patient safety teams can focus primarily on case prioritisation, the medical 1 Greenhouse gas emissions aspects of patient safety and continuing to improve our safety COequivalents million tonnes science.
TCS is contractually required to comply with our patient 2 safety standards and is closely monitored through audits against 1.08 2010 detailed quality and compliance performance indicators.
2009 1.12 Environment 2008 1.22 Managing our environmental impact continues to be a core commitment for AstraZeneca.
We have made good progress in recent years and have met the majority of the 2010 objectives and targets Index tonnes $m sales that we set ourselves in 2005.
We met our targets for waste and overall greenhouse gas footprint.
However, against a targeted 12% 2010 34 reduction in emissions, excluding those from our respiratory therapies, 2009 36 we achieved a 9% reduction.
We know that there will always be more to do to make sure that we effectively balance the changing priorities 2008 40 of our business with the needs of the external environment.
Figures are calculated in line with the Greenhouse Gas GhG protocol guidance ghgprotocol.
During 2010, we launched a new Safety, Health and Environment SHE strategy and associated objectives that set the direction for this key aspect of our responsibility over the next 10 years.
New 1 targets have been adopted to focus our efforts to 2015 and set us Waste production on track to meet our 2020 strategic ambitions.
Total waste thousand tonnes Product stewardship 2010 44.0 We aim to integrate environmental considerations into a medicines 2009 50.0 complete life-cycle from discovery and development, through 2008 54.1 manufacturing, marketing, use and, ultimately, disposal.
We conduct environmental risk assessments for all our new and Index tonnes $m sales many of our established medicines in accordance with applicable regulations.
Going beyond the regulatory requirements, we have 2010 1.37 also reviewed the environmental risk assessments for many of 2009 1.60 our older established products and, where appropriate, have undertaken voluntary testing to rene the assessments.
We make 2008 1.79 environmental risk data for our existing products publicly available 1 via the Swedish Doctors Prescribing Guide website fass.
using the voluntary disclosure system introduced by LIF, the research-based pharmaceutical industry association in Sweden.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Delivering our strategy Responsible Business 45 Delivering our strategy We continue to drive reduction of our CO emissions by, among 2 AstraZeneca employees: cases of occupational illness other things, improving our energy efficiency and pursuing per million hours worked lower-carbon alternatives to fossil fuels.
For example, recognising the significant global warming emissions from road travel by our 2010 0.78 sales eets, we worked with our eet management and leasing 2009 1.37 suppliers to introduce eet reporting to track the CO2 emissions of new and existing vehicles.
We are also introducing CO caps 2 2008 1.04 on new car purchases in our major markets.
Our carbon footprint is also affected by some of our respiratory AstraZeneca employees: accidents with serious injuries therapies, specically our pressurised metered-dose inhalers that per million hours worked rely on propellants such as hydrouoroalkanes HFAs to deliver the medicine to a patients airways.
While HFAs have no ozone 2010 2.27 depletion potential and a third or less of the global warming 2009 2.24 potential than the chlorouorocarbons CFCs they replace, they are still greenhouse gases, but we believe that the potential benets 2008 2.28 that these therapies offer patients outweigh the potential impact on the environment.
We continue to provide a wide range of health and wellbeing The management of waste is another key aspect of our commitment.
improvement programmes across AstraZeneca, designed to help Our main aim is waste prevention, but where this is not practical, we people understand their personal health risks and support them in focus on waste minimisation and appropriate treatment or disposal proactively managing these risks.
Our new Health and Wellbeing to maximise the reuse and recycling of materials.
strategy in particular focuses on Personal Energy Management Training, Health Screening and Essential Health Activities, such as Alongside these efforts, we are increasingly working with our improving physical tness and managing workplace pressure.
suppliers to measure and manage the environmental impact of their manufacturing activity on our behalf.
This is particularly important Work-related stress remains our greatest single category of as we continue to increase our outsourcing in line with our strategic occupational illness with high workloads, interpersonal issues business objectives.
and organisational change identied as significant factors.
As part of our ongoing efforts in this area, we are adopting an increasingly Employee safety, health and wellbeing proactive, risk-based approach, using wellbeing risk assessment Providing a safe workplace and promoting the health and wellbeing tools to identify high-risk areas and target interventions more of all our people remains a core consideration.
safe, healthy and energising working environment brings benefit for our employees and for our business, through peoples sustained Community investment engagement and contribution to AstraZenecas success.
Wherever AstraZeneca is located worldwide, we aim to make a positive contribution to our local communities through We met our 2006-2010 safety and health target to reduce the sponsorships, charitable donations and other initiatives that combined serious injury occupational illness rate by 50% from the help to make a sustainable difference.
Our investment is focused 2001 2002 reference point, achieving an actual reduction of 59%.
on improving health and promoting science skills.
During 2010, we launched a new SHE strategy and, in January In 2010, we spent a total of $1.41 billion 2009: $882 million on 2011, a complementary Health and Wellbeing strategy, together community sponsorships and charitable donations worldwide, with associated objectives and targets for 2011-2015.
The new including our product donation and patient assistance programmes targets reect our determination to stay focused on continuous which make our medicines available free of charge or at reduced improvement as we grow and reshape our business.
Our patient assistance programmes in the US contributed to $1.38 billion worth of product donations, valued at an average Driver safety remains our highest priority for improvement as we wholesale price 2009: $786 million.
The increase over 2009 was work to implement our new SHE strategy.
We regret that during due to an increasing number of people accessing our US patient 2010, five of our employees died in trafc accidents while driving assistance programmes due, we believe, to the economic on AstraZeneca business.
We identied the root causes of these recession, and to the types of medicines that they were requesting.
accidents and the learning informed the further strengthening of our global standards on driver safety management and accident AstraZeneca Young Health Programme investigation.
We also ran a global employee awareness campaign In November, we launched the AstraZeneca Young Health to reinforce the importance of safe driving practice.
This community programme is designed to help our new global requirement that hand-held mobile phones and disconnected young people around the world understand and deal other devices should never be used while driving.
Our long-standing with the health issues they face.
Adolescent health remains an Road Scholars scheme in the US continues to be a valuable underserved part of the healthcare agenda and this long-term channel for building awareness and improving driver skills.
Outside investment programme aims to make a measurable and sustainable the US, our Drive Success programme takes into account the difference for disadvantaged young people.
We are working with different driving environments in the various countries in which we expert partners, Plan Ltd and Johns Hopkins School of Public operate and provides a high-level framework of common standards Health, to identify the needs in our local communities and to help and measures to be applied by each country.
Performance is address these needs with a combination of work on the ground, monitored centrally and low-score markets are targeted for research and advocacy.
We will also be providing employees with increased support on implementation.
the opportunity to contribute through local volunteering, donations and fund raising.
46 Delivering our strategy Responsible Business AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Building capabilities Following the Chilean earthquake in March 2010, we provided medicines to hospitals in need through the Chile Ministry of Health.
AstraZenecas contribution to helping improve health in the developing world centres on our dedicated research of new and We donated $100,000 to Teleton, a major national Chilean charity, to support a recovery and rebuilding campaign, and $75,000 to effective treatments for tuberculosis TB, which still claims over 5,000 lives every day.
For further information about our research the British Red Cross to provide relief resources and shelter across the population.
effort see the Tuberculosis section on page 60.
Alongside this, we continue to work in partnership to strengthen healthcare capabilities in vulnerable communities.
Following the oods in Pakistan, we donated $100,000 to the British Red Cross Emergency Appeal, as well as sending medicines.
We In 2007, AstraZeneca and the African Medical and Research also continued to support the British Red Cross disaster response centre in Kuala Lumpur with a further $100,000.
This has enabled Foundation AMREF began a five-year partnership in Uganda to develop an integrated model for the management of malaria, HIV them to replenish vital stocks used in response to the Pakistan oods and means they will be able to continue to respond quickly AIDS and TB, the leading causes of ill health and death in the country.
For further information on this project, see page 49. and efficiently to emergencies in the Asia Pacic region.
We are developing an enhanced protocol for working with the AstraZeneca and the British Red Cross have been in partnership since 2002 tackling TB and TB HIV in Kyrgyzstan, Turkmenistan British Red Cross to ensure we are best placed to respond in a timely, consistent and effective way to future emergencies as and and Kazakhstan and, more recently, in South Africa, Lesotho and Liberia.
Over 13,000 people have been directly supported to when they arise.
complete their TB treatment across all our partnership countries and TB mortality and morbidity rates continue to fall in our partnership countries in Central Asia.
Community education initiatives continue to be delivered with a recent example in Liberia of a house-to-house TB education programme which reached nearly 32,000 people.
Our partnership with Axios International on the Ethiopia Breast Cancer Project completed in 2010, with a much broader impact than originally anticipated for a small pilot project.
In 2005, the country had only one cancer specialist, no mammography, no easy access to chemotherapy or hormonal agents, no cancer screening and no national treatment protocols.
Our partnership programme focused on strengthening diagnosis and treatment capabilities at Tikur Anbessa University Hospital in Addis Ababa, where the countrys only cancer specialist was based.
The hospital has now become a centre of reference for breast cancer treatment across Ethiopia.
Other activities included the creation of treatment protocols and standardised reporting guidelines: strengthening the referral system: setting up an institutional-based cancer registry: raising awareness of the facilities among healthcare professionals: and physician training.
The project was implemented in collaboration with the Ethiopian Ministry of Health and other health institutions and we also worked with the Ethiopian Cancer Association to help strengthen awareness and fundraising capabilities.
The pilot has created a sustainable model that can be successfully replicated in other countries and other disease areas and we are reviewing where else it might be applied.
Disaster relief We continue to contribute to disaster relief efforts.
As reported in our 2009 annual report, in January 2010, following the earthquake in Haiti, we donated medicines and contributed $500,000 to the British Red Cross Emergency Appeal and a further $100,000 to support their ongoing work to provide shelter and sanitation for those people made homeless.
We also made a donation of $400,000 to Partners In Health towards the building of a new teaching hospital.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Delivering our strategy Responsible Business 47 TB is the leading cause of death in people living with HIV.
Together, the two diseases are a deadly combination.
In Uganda, there is the added burden of malaria, which causes more illness and death than any other single disease.
The diseases are linked but Ugandans with TB HIV, malaria and other conditions have to attend separate health services for treatment.
Our partnership with the African Medical and Research Foundation AMREF is focused on developing a model for the integrated management of TB, HIV AIDS and malaria that provides a framework for effective and efficient healthcare at local and national levels.
Working in collaboration with the Ugandan government in the districts of Luwero and Kiboga in central Uganda, the partnership has focused on increasing laboratory diagnostic capacity and improving community-based healthcare management.
Progress to date includes the completion and handover to local district management teams of four new laboratories and the establishment of 328 village health teams with over 1,300 people trained in health promotion in their local communities.
In addition, a study of drug logistics management revealed significant knowledge gaps and out of stock supply problems.
Subsequently, 108 health workers have been trained in drug logistics management to help prevent shortages.
Who is improving my healthcare?
Because health connects us all For more information on our work with AMREF and other partnerships in the developing world go to our website, astrazeneca.
