Delivering our strategy People Nurturing a diverse and talented workforce With approximately 61,000 people in over 100 countries worldwide, we value the talents, skills and capabilities that a global workforce brings to our business.
Our people strategy 61,000 defines our approach to managing our 61,000 employees worldwide workforce and supports the delivery of our business strategy.
Our people strategy is built Employees by geographical area % around four key priorities which we believe are critical to delivering our business objectives: UK developing our performance culture: developing Sweden 13.6 Rest of Europe our talent pipeline: increasing our leadership North America 14.9 and management capability: and simplifying Latin America 23.9 our organisational design.
We use a range Africa, Asia and Australasia of metrics to track progress against these 6.8 17.1 priorities, which are reported quarterly to our human resources HR leadership team.
23.7 Developing our performance culture A key priority of our people strategy is the continued development of a performance culture across the organisation.
By strengthening our focus on setting high quality objectives aligned to our business strategy, we will ensure that performance at all levels of the organisation delivers value.
The Board is responsible for setting our high-level strategic objectives and monitoring performance against them see the Operation of the Board section from page 109.
Managers across AstraZeneca are accountable for working with their teams to develop individual and team performance targets, and for ensuring that our people understand how they contribute to overall business objectives.
We will continue to empower our leaders to drive performance, to hold our managers accountable for understanding and delivering Our people strategy is built around the against the standards required, and provide the tools necessary keypriorities we believe to be critical to to reward outstanding contributions.
These Our focus on optimising performance is reinforced by performanceinclude developing a high performance related bonus and incentive plans.
AstraZeneca also encourages culture, strengthening our talent pipeline employee share ownership by offering the opportunity to participate in various employee share plans, some of which are described  in the Directors Remuneration Report from page 119 and also in Note 24 to the Financial Statements from page 173.
Lynn Tetrault Executive Vice-President, Human Resources and Corporate Affairs 36 Delivering our strategy People AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Developing our people Fifty one percent of our global workforce are women and twenty five percent of senior managers reporting to the SET are women.
We encourage and support our people in achieving their full potential by providing a range of learning and development L&D As part of developing a global diversity and inclusion strategy, we have identied the need to look more closely at the advancement programmes which are designed to build the capabilities and encourage the behaviours needed to deliver our business strategy.
Working with an external expert, we completed an extensive research project involving employees across a wide range of countries to understand what is preventing We are implementing a global approach, supported by the creation a greater number of women from reaching more senior levels in the of our global talent and development organisation, to ensure that business.
Findings were shared with the Board and the SET, which high standards of L&D practice are applied across the organisation.
resulted in the formation of a global steering group chaired by our We continue to develop and deploy instructor-led and online CEO and made up of senior leaders from across the business.
development resources, which we aim to make available to all employees to increase access to learning and to support The steering group is focused on driving change in three key self-development.
areas that emerged as themes from the research: Leadership & Management Capability, Transparency in Talent Management We recognise the importance of good leadership and its critical & Career Progression and Work Life Challenges.
This work role in stimulating high levels of performance and engagement.
will continue to inform the development of our diversity and Our leadership development frameworks are focused on the inclusion strategy.
core capabilities which we believe are essential for strong and effective leadership.
These capabilities are dened for each level Engagement and dialogue in the organisation and apply to all employees.
The development of a pipeline of future global leaders is a high priority and we work We use a variety of global leadership communications channels to engage our people in our business strategy.
In addition, to identify individuals with the potential for more senior and complex roles.
These talent pools provide succession candidates for a local leaders and managers hold regular meetings with their teams.
We also use the intranet, video conferencing and Yammer range of critical leadership roles across AstraZeneca.
We regard these individuals as key assets to the organisation and we a social media tool to encourage dialogue.
We added a feedback mechanism to our annual global employee survey FOCUS in 2010 proactively support them to reach their potential through, for example, global talent development programmes and targeted and received over 22,000 comments on a variety of topics, which are now informing our 2011 engagement plans.
We complement our leadership capabilities with a set of manager We measure levels of engagement, the effectiveness of our communications and other areas critical to the performance of accountabilities which define what we expect from our managers.
Building line manager capability is supported by a suite of global our business through our annual FOCUS survey.
The results are communicated to all employees.
Eighty eight percent of our learning programmes which address people management, change management and other critical capabilities.
people participated in our 2010 survey, reecting their continued confidence in this feedback mechanism.
Although our employee engagement score declined by one percentage point from 2009, The significant shift in the footprint of our global workforce has leadership category scores improved by five percentage points and placed a high priority on acquiring and retaining key talent.
Our the leadership communication score improved by four percentage strategic workforce planning SWP framework enables the points.
The survey also identied the key areas for attention in 2011, business to develop the workforce required to deliver our strategy including work life balance, change management and further by ensuring that the right skills are in the right place at the right improvement in leadership communications.
time to successfully deliver our business objectives.
SWP generally takes a longer-term view of five to seven years and helps us identify and develop the necessary HR solutions to attract, retain, develop and deploy our workforce.
FOCUS engagement scores We remain committed to making full use of the talents and resource 2010 83% of all our people.
We have policies in place to avoid discrimination, 2009 84% including on the grounds of disability.
Our policies cover recruitment 2008 82% and selection, performance management, career development and promotion, transfer and training including re-training, if needed, for 2006 80% people who have become disabled and reward.
There is no FOCUS engagement score for 2007 as the survey was biennial until 2008.
Diversity and inclusion Our global workforce provides a diversity of skills, capabilities and creativity and we value the benets that such diversity can bring to our business.
We aim to foster a culture of respect and fairness where individual success depends solely on ability, behaviour, work performance and demonstrated potential.
As we reshape our organisation and geographic footprint, our continuing challenge is to ensure that diversity in its broadest sense is reected in our workforce and leadership, and integrated into our business and people strategies.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Delivering our strategy People 37 Delivering our strategy Simplifying our organisational design We constantly look for ways to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of our organisation.
As outlined in the Research and Development and Sales and Marketing sections from pages 26 and 32 respectively, in 2010 we have improved accountability and decision making through the creation of single global Commercial and R&D functions, each led by a single accountable leader.
In addition to these structural changes, the composition of our global workforce has changed signicantly in recent years.
Our strategic focus on business growth in Emerging Markets and an increased biologics capability has meant the workforce in these areas has grown substantially as shown in the Sales and Marketing workforce composition gure below.
This increase has been accompanied by headcount reductions through restructuring in R&D, operations, support functions and our sales and marketing workforce in Established Markets.
The net effect of these changes since 2007 has been to reduce our total headcount from 67,400 to 61,000.
Our business change activity in 2010 and over the next three to four years will predominantly be associated with the implementation of our R&D and Commercial strategies.
The changes are designed to make sure that we are building critical capabilities, driving efficiencies and aligning resources to business opportunities.
As announced in the first half of 2010, these programmes are planned to impact 10,400 positions by 2014, with a reduction of 2,600 positions in 2010.
We work to ensure a level of global consistency in managing employee relations, while allowing enough exibility to support the local markets in building good relations with their workforces, taking into account local laws and circumstances.
To that end, relations with trade unions are nationally determined and managed locally in line with the applicable legal framework and standards of good practice.
However, each change programme has its unique challenges and a standard solution may not always be appropriate.
Where this is the case, the appropriate solution is developed through consultation with employee representatives or, where applicable, trade unions, with the aim of retaining key skills and mitigating job losses.
Following a period of consultation, we made a number of changes to the UK dened benefit pension scheme in 2010.
These changes resulted in some localised industrial action.
Sales and Marketing workforce composition Emerging Markets Established Markets 2010 46% 54% 2002 16% 84% 38 Delivering our strategy People AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Who is protecting me from new infections?
Seventy years ago, the discovery of antibiotics revolutionised the treatment of bacterial infections and saved millions of lives.
But the growing problem of bacterial resistance threatens to put global health at serious risk.
Finding new antibiotics that will be effective against bacterial resistance is not impossible, but it is challenging.
It is also an area that has not been a primary focus for the pharmaceutical industry in recent years.
AstraZeneca is one of a few key players that has continued to invest in antibiotic research and in 2010 we made a regulatory submission in the EU for a new antibiotic, Zinforo, that will provide new treatment options for Gram-positive infections such as those due to MRSA.
Another clear example of the challenge is provided by tuberculosis.
TB claims 5,000 lives every day and multi-drug resistant TB affects half a million people annually.
To accelerate development of new treatments, a collaboration led by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the TB Alliance, and the Critical Path Institute has brought AstraZeneca, including our dedicated TB facility in Bangalore, India, together with other pharmaceutical companies, government agencies, donors, advocates, academics and NGOs.
No single organisation can win the bacterial battle.
We need a vibrant pipeline of new classes of antibiotics.
Working together creatively in partnership with others we believe we can make a greater contribution to that goal.
Because health connects us all For more information go to the Therapy Area Review from page 50.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2010 Delivering our strategy: R&D 39
