Highlights Business Review Corporate Governance Corporate Social Responsibility Financial Statements Spectris is committed to creating business growth through adding value for our customers whilst also ensuring that our own impact on the environment is minimised.
Introduction Spectris is a leading supplier of  instrumentation and controls.
Our 6,000 employees operate from 134 offices in 29 countries around the world.
Our products are used to monitor and control research and manufacturing processes, enhancing productivity and reducing environmental impact for customers in a wide range of industries.
We are committed to creating business growth through adding such value for our customers whilst also ensuring that our own impact on the environment is minimised and that we adhere to high standards of corporate social responsibility generally.
Spectris continues to meet the criteria for membership of the FTSE4Good index, the leading responsible investment benchmark.
The FTSE4Good inclusion criteria are enhanced regularly and demand continued improvement in order to maintain inclusion FTSE4GOOD in the index.
The criteria are assessed on a regular basis by the independent research Index member organisation EIRIS.
Corporate governance Details of how the company complied with the principles of the Combined Code during 2010 and will henceforth comply with the new Corporate Governance Code are described in detail in the Directors Report.
Overall responsibility for developing corporate policies on environmental, social, ethical and health and safety matters, and for reviewing their effectiveness, lies with the Spectris Board of Directors.
These policies are mandated across all business units and applied within each particular business, taking account of local legislation and regulation.
All policies are reviewed periodically and any updates are communicated to the operating companies.
Each year we require the president and finance director of each operating company to confirm that their business has complied in full with our corporate policies.
Any instances of non-compliance must be reported.
There were no material cases of non-compliance in 2010.
This certification forms an integral part of the companys system of internal controls, and is regularly reviewed by the groups internal audit function and considered annually by the companys external auditors.
Compliance testing is a formal part of internal audit reviews.
Through a structured review process, the internal audit function undertakes visits to group locations on a rotational basis.
These visits involve an assessment of the business key internal controls as well as compliance with the groups policies and procedures.
The results of internal audits and any cases of non-compliance are reported to the audit committee.
Environment and climate change Our core business of providing instruments and controls for the design and manufacturing processes of major industrial companies helps our customers to reduce their environmental impact in a number of ways.
We offer our customers products and technologies to reduce energy consumption, make more efficient use of resources, and control emissions.
Furthermore, a number of our products are critical to the development, manufacture and maintenance of renewable energy generation technologies such as wind turbine generators and solar panels.
Examples of the use of Spectris products having a direct beneficial contribution to the environment are shown on our website.
Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010 29 Corporate Social Responsibility continued We also take the continuing reduction in our own environmental impact seriously, endeavouring to employ non-polluting technology wherever possible in our operations and taking steps to reduce our energy consumption further.
Design processes take into account the operational lifetime of every product and end-of-life removal or disposal.
Consideration is also given to environment-friendly production, packaging and shipping.
Our environmental policy is published on our website.
Approximately half of Spectris manufacturing operations by turnover are certified to ISO14001.
No significant environmental incidents were recorded in 2010 and the company received Our policies no environmental fines.
are published on our website Overall, Spectris has a low climate change impact, as our products do not require at www.
com substantial manufacturing processes at our facilities see below for details of supplier impacts.
Although we fall below the threshold for full participation in the UK CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme and are only required to submit an information disclosure, we recognise the importance of managing our impact on the environment and are working to improve our environmental performance further and reduce our carbon emissions.
To this end, we employed environmental consultants WS Atkins to undertake a sustainability and responsibility review during 2010 and are in the process of acting on their recommendations, as detailed below.
We take seriously the need to manage our carbon emissions and in 2010 WS Atkins helped develop a reporting tool to collect data on electricity, gas and fuel oil consumption across our global operations, which will enable us to monitor and better manage our energy use.
To support this initiative, we have established a new Key Performance Indicator for energy consumption to provide a baseline against which future performance Key Performance Indicator can be measured see chart.
Using the data we have gathered, we have commenced a 2010 energy consumption programme to evaluate the potential for improvement around the group and will develop MWh per m revenue appropriate action plans for delivery.
92.8 We will participate in the 2011 Carbon Disclosure Project as a further part of our We estimate that the above energy consumption commitment to monitoring and managing our environmental impacts.
We are also metric covers 100% of our operations.
reviewing the impact of water usage across our businesses and plan to assess the feasibility of collecting data on waste management throughout the group.
Employees We employ a highly skilled technical workforce, averaging around 6,000 people in 2010, in 134 offices throughout the world and are committed to providing our people with a creative working environment with scope for individual responsibility and achievement.
Compensation and benefits, which are in line with other leading companies in the sector, are designed to reward the achievement of objectives.
Our employment policy is published on our website.
As part of our culture of respect, we believe that people with varied backgrounds and perspectives add creativity to the company and thus we encourage diversity in the workplace.
We are committed to providing equal employment opportunities in terms of recruitment and employment, training and development, and promotion, regardless of race, colour, religion, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, age, disability or military veteran status.
Our value of treating others with respect carries over to our policy against workplace discrimination and harassment.
We strive to create a culture of honesty, respect and professional excellence whilst maintaining a healthy balance between working and personal lives, with initiatives such as part-time and job share opportunities providing family-friendly working conditions.
Employee surveys are carried out in a number of companies to measure the views of employees on company issues and action plans agreed to address the issues raised.
Initiatives such as the Savings Related Share Option Scheme, available to all UK employees, and grants under the groups Performance Share Plan made to senior management across the group, are designed to encourage loyalty and performance.
30 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Highlights Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements A commitment to training and personal development emphasises the importance of retaining staff throughout the group and ensuring that all employees are encouraged to realise their full potential.
Annual reviews provide feedback on performance, set objectives and identify training and development opportunities.
Data on employee turnover is monitored by individual businesses and reported to the Board on an annual basis.
Malvern and Servomex, our two principal UK businesses, have received the Investors in People award for their programmes of training, appraisal, employee development and skills recognition.
Investors in People Graduate recruitment programmes and student work placements exist in a number of companies, providing opportunities for young people, particularly scientists, to be Malvern, Servomex introduced to the business environment.
Health and safety We take health and safety seriously and strive to provide a workplace at all of our sites where all employees feel safe and protected from harm.
Our policies regarding workplace health and safety are implemented throughout the group, with each operating company responsible for compliance with local legislation and regulations and ensuring that the highest standards of health and safety are achieved by its employees and by sub-contractors and suppliers.
The companys health and safety policy can be viewed on our website.
Audits of health and safety policies and procedures are undertaken at all major locations by external assessors acting on behalf of the groups insurers on an annual basis and recommendations are made for improving practices where appropriate.
Any serious health and safety incidents are required to be reported by the managing director of the business in an accident report to the company secretary, who reports on such issues to the Board.
All accidents are thoroughly investigated and appropriate corrective and preventative actions put in place.
No work-related serious injuries or deaths have been reported in the last ten years.
Nevertheless, in 2010 we established a formal reporting system which enables us to monitor and measure work-related accidents or ill Key Performance Indicator health resulting in lost time in excess of three days, which in the UK are reportable to the 2010 Accident Incident Rate AIR Health and Safety Executive HSE under the RIDDOR regulations.
The resulting data is Reportable accidents per 1,000 employees shown opposite, expressed as a Key Performance Indicator, as recognised by the HSE, and records the health and safety situation throughout the group.
5.3 Work-related accidents ill health resulting in We will work with our operating companies to reduce the AIR to the lowest possible level.
lost time in excess of three days.
Within the reported figure, significant work-related incidents resulting in lost time in excess of 20 working days included two stress-related cases, two cases of repetitive strain injury and several cases involving injuries to limbs sustained as a result of falls in the workplace.
Human rights Spectris believes in the fundamental rights of people in all parts of the world and is committed to adopting internationally recognised human rights standards wherever it operates.
The companys human rights policy, which is available on our website, is consistent with the Principles of Human Rights as set out in the International Labour Organizations Core Conventions, and includes policies on non-discrimination, harassment, pay and forced labour.
Spectris takes its commitments to human rights seriously and our operating companies are required to ensure that all employees are aware of the policy and understand it.
The Code of Business Ethics also contains a section on human rights and employees are required to ensure that all company operations adhere to these important standards.
Pay practices are monitored to ensure they are non-discriminatory.
The region president is responsible for ensuring that the highest ethical standards are maintained in all of our Asia-based operations.
We have a number of sales offices in China and also factories supplying high quality weighing components and particle characterisation instruments.
These comprise modern facilities, employ skilled workers, adopt employment conditions consistent with best local practice, and pay wages that are higher than average for the area.
Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010 31 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Spectris considers human rights as part of its due diligence process for acquisitions, ensuring that the core labour rights, including non-discrimination, equal opportunities and freedom of association, of the company to be acquired are taken into account.
Ethics Our core values honesty, empowerment, ownership, delivery and speed underpin the way we work and are set out in our Code of Business Ethics the Code, which is available on our website.
The Code applies to all employees of Spectris and is available in all 15 languages relevant to our operations.
It provides a clear framework for how we do business and includes policies on anti-bribery and corruption, dealings with customers, Our values suppliers and colleagues, conflicts of interest, and human rights.
All employees have participated in a training course and received a printed copy of the Code, and each Honesty operating company has a nominated Ethics Compliance Officer who is responsible for Empowerment ensuring compliance in their business.
Compliance is also monitored by the internal audit function as part of the risk assessment process.
Ownership Delivery On-line training modules supporting the ethics programme were introduced during 2010 and further modules will be implemented in 2011.
Speed All operating companies are required to comply with export control regulations governing shipment of products and the appropriate compliance procedures are in place.
Our export control policy can be viewed on our website.
Employees are encouraged to report any concerns they may have over fraud, including bribery and corruption, unethical business practices or conduct, dangers to health and safety, or breach of company policies, via the groups whistle-blowing policy.
This is supported by a telephone and internet-based multi-lingual hotline enabling employees and others to report concerns, anonymously if they wish.
All whistle-blowing reports are summarised for the audit committee on a six-monthly basis.
In the past 12 months the hotline has been used on a number of occasions and the reports followed up to a successful conclusion.
Spectris is committed to protecting the career and reputation of employees who report wrongdoing in accordance with established procedures, so long as their disclosures are delivered in good faith and seek to safeguard the best interests of the group.
Community Our social responsibilities extend to the communities in which we operate.
Our companies provide charitable assistance to local causes and also participate in a range of activities and educational initiatives in support of their local communities.
These include providing apprenticeships and work placements for students, working with local schools and colleges on science projects, and sponsorship of scientists attending key scientific conferences.
Total donations to charities and community causes in 2010 were 27,429, of which 8,286 were in the UK 2009: 19,955 of which 6,042 in UK.
This included donations in response to disasters such as the Haiti earthquake and the Pakistan floods and to charities such as the International Red Cross as well as to local sports clubs, schools and colleges and local arts and educational projects.
The company also makes contributions in kind to a number of projects.
For example, as part of Boulder Countys annual Day of Caring, in the USA, ten staff from Particle Measuring Systems volunteer a half day each to help on local projects for charities.
At Microscan, in Renton, USA, 15 employees volunteer one hour each on a weekly basis to help local elementary school pupils with maths, reading and special education activities.
At HBM in Darmstadt, Germany, the company provided work placements for 13 pupils and also held in-house seminars for students from the technical university.
It is Spectris policy that donations or provision of support in kind to political parties or campaigns are prohibited.
32 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Highlights Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Customers Spectris sells  instrumentation and services to a large number of customers around the world.
We have developed close working relationships with our customers and in many instances involve them in the development of new products to ensure they meet their requirements.
Surveys of customer satisfaction are conducted on a regular basis, for example via web-based questionnaires where customers are asked, amongst other things, to rate product performance and the quality of documentation, and to specify overall satisfaction.
Suppliers Spectris has no significant suppliers who are wholly dependent upon the companys business.
Suppliers are paid in line with contractual and legal obligations.
We recognise that our strategy of outsourcing non-core manufacturing does not absolve us from responsibility for the environmental impact of our suppliers and we work to help them reduce their impact on the environment and ensure that their products meet relevant legislation.
Outsourcing of products and services is only to quality-approved organisations which are regularly inspected and audited by the groups strategic sourcing team and local management.
Due to the high technology content of our instrumentation and control products, suppliers of our parts need to have leading edge manufacturing equipment and are subject to rigorous qualification processes which cover both their SA8000 technological capabilities and their quality and regulatory conformance.
In order to gain Auditing against this standard will improved assurance from suppliers, particularly in the areas of human rights, working commence in 2011 conditions, health and safety, and environmental issues, significant suppliers those providing bespoke parts, assemblies and systems, both new and current, will be screened against relevant criteria stipulated in the social accountability standard SA8000.
The initiative will commence with Asia Pacific, with the intention that all significant suppliers, and all new suppliers, in this region will be audited by the end of 2011, and the programme will then be extended to suppliers in other regions based on experience gained.
Contractual arrangements The company has no contractual or other arrangements which are essential to the business of the company, nor any key customers or major suppliers upon which it is dependent.
Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2010 33
