Corporate social responsibility Spirax Sarcos two main businesses are associated with An increasing interest in providing steam users and users of peristaltic and sinusoidal sustainability from virtually pumps with energy-efficient, safe, environmentally friendly and cost-effective solutions for their fluid handling applications.
all customer segments is being witnessed.
Steam usage today is widespread.
Virtually everything we eat, wear, build or drive has had steam used during the production process.
It remains a significant and flexible The Board has continued to embrace and apply the general industrial fluid.
An increasing interest in sustainability from Corporate Social Responsibility CSR principles in conducting virtually all customer segments is being witnessed and its business in a socially acceptable and sustainable way with energy, water and effluent costs continuing to rise, having due regard to the relationship of the Company to the Group is well placed to offer customers its expertise its employees, customers, investors, suppliers and society and suitable solutions to make steam systems safe, help generally.
In particular the Board focuses on social, ethical and minimise consumption and reduce cost.
As an example, environmental SEE matters and health and safety issues.
our operating company in the USA is involved in the This report follows the practice in recent years of illustrating Department of Energys Save Energy Now programme, the Boards commitment to meeting the requirements being one of the 32 founding members.
laid down by the Association of British Insurers and the reporting procedures and actions taken within the Group This growing interest in sustainability makes the special in this connection.
The Group has developed further its features of the peristaltic and sinusoidal pump ranges awareness of CSR issues and has continued to make produced by Watson-Marlow even more appropriate today.
improvements, particularly in the areas of health and safety They are ideal for handling the fluids associated with treating and environmental matters.
waste, so conserving water and recovering energy.
With the pump ranges designed to ensure controllability, reduced The Board achieves compliance with the principles of CSR energy consumption in use is one of their key features.
by the management of the risks concerned within the normal operations of the Group such that the necessary Despite the widespread use of steam, knowledge of its policies, systems and procedures are embedded in Group application and steam system design is diminishing.
The importance of involvement of employees and recognition of this, the Group is focusing on universities and suppliers in meeting the standards required by the Board colleges to help build this knowledge, as well as participating is inherent in the day-to-day business operations.
Meeting with schools to encourage an interest in science and the standards required in the operation of our business as it engineering as careers.
affects communities and customers is also a specific objective Product developments are carried out with customer reflected in our strategic plans and annual planning.
New products released in 2010 The Groups operations are carried out under the Groups long included an accurate means of measuring the performance standing Management and Business Code which is regularly of steam traps and hence identifying costly leaks early, reviewed and with which general managers are required to a new design of vent head that reduces water and energy certify compliance.
A copy of this is posted on the Group loss from vent pipes and an improved range of valve website: www.
This Code positioners with one of the lowest energy consumptions formalises policies followed over many years by the Group, on the market.
the main areas being: The Group continues to monitor the potential savings in Compliance with all applicable laws and regulations CO based on customers use of a selected range of our 2 products.
In 2010, based on the same methodology used Operation of the internal controls established by the Group in previous years and assessed externally by the AEA Group, an estimated 3.3 million tonnes of CO were potentially saved, Having proper regard for all stakeholders in the business 2 a figure that remains significantly higher than the CO 2 Prohibition of bribery or corrupt practices produced during manufacture and distribution.
Commitment to fair treatment of all employees Energy, water and effluent savings can be made through the direct use of some of our products, but there are indirect Recognition and improvement of all health, safety and savings to be made as well.
The US Department of Veteran environmental matters.
Affairs VA recognised this and instigated a programme to install steam meters in VA hospitals where the information the meters produce helps deliver reductions in consumption.
22 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 The Group also recognises that the achievement of good Recognition is given to individual employees needs and quality products and services, the maintenance of health and requirements throughout the Group and, where possible, safety, and the achievement of good environmental practices flexible working arrangements are considered where the are an integral part of running the business and require circumstances are justified.
Employees are encouraged consideration as part of the day-to-day operations of the to apply their skills, knowledge and energy.
The Group Group and are reflected in the Groups performance.
recognises the importance of its employees and their training as a competitive advantage.
The responsibility held by Board members for the entirety of the Groups operations, including the implementation The Group is committed to equality of opportunity for of its policies, enables the Groups Management and all regardless of gender, race, age, disability, religion or Business Code and Group policies to be applied on a sexual orientation.
This applies equally to recruitment and consistent basis.
The Groups decentralised structure to the promotion, development and training of people provides for detailed local management of SEE matters by who are already part of the Group.
The Group takes the general manager in each Group company, who reports seriously its obligations to the disabled and gives full to, and is monitored by, the appropriate Executive Director and fair consideration to applications for new positions and regional general manager.
These reporting procedures or employment from current or prospective employees within the Group enable the Executive Directors, who have regardless of any disability and having due regard to direct responsibility for implementing policy, to monitor, report the individuals particular aptitudes and abilities.
and take any appropriate action.
SEE training is provided for The Group is willing to make reasonable adjustments newly appointed Directors appropriate to their experience, to premises or employment arrangements if these knowledge and previous training.
substantially disadvantage a disabled employee or As part of the risk management process explained on page 34, prospective employee.
Every effort is made to find a the risks involved in not achieving appropriate SEE standards suitable alternative job and, as necessary, training for are assessed and any significant risk is monitored by the those who are unable to continue in their existing role Board following half yearly reports from all Group companies.
The Group considers and applies appropriate policies The Groups newsletter is distributed by electronic through the Groups Management and Business Code mail to all Group companies monthly and is made in the following areas: available to employees.
Individual Group companies have either a local newsletter, intranet site or a regular i Employment policies communication informing employees on the progress The Group has developed five Core Values which of their company.
The Group encourages the growth define the culture for our business and the behaviours of employee share ownership.
The Core Values have been communicated to all employees and managers have ii Community involvement been asked to integrate them into all their people The Group has a Charitable Trust which makes management activities and day-to-day work.
The Core donations both to registered charities and in response Values are: Respect: Accountability: Passion: Integrity to appropriate requests for support from bodies which and Delivery.
They define our desired behaviours and the are not registered charities both in the UK and overseas.
qualities that we should all live and work by.
In the case of overseas donations the decision to donate is made by the local general manager.
In total The Group supports and applies the principles of human in the UK the Group donated 111,500 in 2010 to rights in its operations including equal opportunities for registered charities and other good causes, including employees regardless of gender, race, religion, age, the National Star College, Crack Cancer Campaign disability or sexual orientation.
Board members and Cobalt, Cheltenham Festivals Science and Literature, Human Resources satisfy themselves that the terms Everyman Theatre Restoration, Cheltenham Open Door, of employment in Group companies worldwide are Winstons Wish and UNICEF.
The Group has a policy of non discrimination and does not tolerate bullying and or harassment in any In the UK the Group donated form.
The recruitment procedures throughout the Group 111,500 in 2010 to registered avoid employment of underage staff.
Care has been taken to provide for a culture of openness and honesty.
charities and other good causes.
The Group operates personnel policies designed to meet the needs of its Group companies and employees around the world.
Channels of communication appropriate to the local operation have been established to allow employees to be properly informed and voice their views and concerns.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 23 Financial statements Governance CSR Financial review Business review Overview Corporate social responsibility continued iii Supplier relations In 2010 an estimated 3.3 million The Group policy is to use suppliers of goods and tonnes of CO were potentially 2 services which maintain appropriate quality standards in saved significantly higher their operations and avoid employment of underage staff.
Suppliers must consistently achieve the standards than the CO produced during 2 required by ISO 9001. manufacture iv Product stewardship Information and support is given through appropriate The operating companies in the Group are encouraged technical advice to provide a solution to customers to provide support to local communities through needs with installation and after-sales service being company donations, employee organised charitable integral to the Groups business.
The proper application activities, donation of equipment no longer required of products with due regard to environmental and safety and through provision of information.
considerations is dealt with in detail in the technical By way of examples: literature made freely available by the Group.
As part of its spend on Broad Based Black Economic v Corruption Empowerment, Spirax-Sarco South Africa Pty Ltd The Groups policy prohibits bribery or corrupt or has paid the school fees of children whose parents are anti-competitive practices.
In addition to provisions within employees of the company and who qualify for such service contracts, general managers, who head Group assistance.
In addition the South African company companies, are required to certify personally that all laws has sponsored the expansion of a small contractors and regulations have been met in their territory.
Detailed business, who is used as a subcontractor when the briefings on the UK Bribery Act 2010 have been company requires installation work to be carried out and given, and will continue to be given, to staff throughout a class of underprivileged grade one school children by the Group.
Furthermore, small donations were made to a cancer association and a school catering for vi Health and safety boys with challenging backgrounds The Company has a clear attitude to health and safety, which is that each operation will maintain a healthy and Spirax Sarco Engineering China Ltd donated safe environment.
The Group is committed to managing RMB100,000 to the Red Cross Shanghai Charity its activities around the world so as to safeguard the Foundation for the victims of the flooding in health and safety of its employees, customers and Southern China local community.
Spirax Sarco Ltd in New Zealand donated NZ$10,000 In the first instance the general manager of each to the 2010 Christchurch earthquake fund company has the responsibility for ensuring that this In India the local company continues to support a is effectively managed at the local level.
Each major hospital it established many years ago making provision manufacturing site has its own Health and Safety for both company employees and the local community.
Committee advised by a safety officer.
Both benefit from an established welfare programme General managers report the health and safety record based in company provided premises supporting of each Group company in a standard form to the community initiatives, particularly for women and responsible Executive Director in an exercise copre-school provision for children ordinated and monitored by Mr M E Gibbin who is Watson-Marlow Ltd is a sponsor of Falmouth Maritime responsible for overseeing all health and safety matters.
Museum and The Cornwall 100 Club, a charitable In addition to the site Health and Safety Committees foundation supporting the community, a Wildlife referred to above, a separate UK Health and Safety Guardian of the Cornwall Wildlife Trust and made Audit Committee composed of UK based Directors and charitable donations totalling 10,000 during the year senior managers meets every six months to verify the performance of the UK Spirax Sarco business on health Watson-Marlow Inc. USA, supports local charities and safety and environmental issues.
including The Wilmington Firefighters Association a member of the International Association of Firefighters, the Dana Farber Cancer Institute and Lazarus House a local food pantry and homeless shelter In the Netherlands, Watson-Marlow donated to the Red Cross for the Haiti disaster, supported the KWF Cancer Foundation and continued to support the Annual International Wheelchair Games in Delden.
24 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 The Group ensures that the necessary resources are The Group has been awarded available for health and safety training and companies a carbon disclosure leadership within the Group seek, as necessary, professional advice regarding the implementation of safety programmes.
index of 60, demonstrating a For example, in the UK Spirax Sarco has an established year-on-year improvement.
training programme which is provided to new shop floor employees and refresher courses are provided to all existing shop floor employees.
Further e-learning training modules have been rolled out including manual Spirax Sarco has been ranked within the top ten handling, fire safety and VDU use.
Spirax Sarco in Italy UK companies for ecology.
The Observer newspaper and Chtellerault, France gained certification for the published the Good Company Guide showing results international Health and Safety standard OHSAS 18001. from independent research carried out by The Co-operative Asset Management.
The assessment In the UK, Spirax Sarco strengthened its management considered how the UKs leading companies might of health and safety on its main manufacturing sites be affected by five key sustainability issues: resource as we progress the construction phase of the depletion, climate change, pollution, demographics consolidation of these sites onto a single site.
The Good Company Guide actions have included: concluded that Spirax Sarco was helped by ecological Full-time dedicated Construction Design and sustainability factors.
Management supervision for the site Investing in energy-saving technologies within the most Development of building and machinery handover energy intensive areas of its operations, the Group is processes for relocation of machines focused on improving the environmental and operational efficiency of its manufacturing base.
Pre-risk assessment and post relocation support for equipment moving between countries as we develop The Groups commitment to UK manufacturing, our manufacturing sites worldwide.
consolidating three manufacturing sites onto a single site, provides both economies of scale and offers vii Environmental opportunity to better manage and reduce our The Group continues to refine and improve the environmental impacts.
This project makes use of robustness of its carbon reporting.
Since 2007, the existing buildings, all of which have been upgraded to Group has reported its carbon footprint to the Carbon surpass regulatory requirements, reduce exposure to Disclosure Project and has been awarded a carbon the CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme previously known disclosure leadership index of 60, demonstrating a as the Carbon Reduction Commitment and help year-on-year improvement.
The total for scope 1 and improve long-term environmental performance.
scope 2 emissions for 2010 is 29,868 tonnes of CO e 2 Other, complementary, strategic projects are showing a slight reduction, despite an increase in underway that focus on optimising the Groups global business volume.
The Group continues to improve manufacturing network.
The aim of these projects is its management of scope 3 emissions specifically in to shorten our supply chain to improve responsiveness.
A breakdown of the emissions Two key outputs should result in making our operations is shown in the pie chart below.
more sustainable: the first through a reduced requirement for inter-company freight and the second manufacturing Groups annual review of greenhouse gas emissions products closer to the customer reducing the transport Breakdown of scope 1 and scope 2 emissions by source requirements and related emissions.
29,868 tonnes of CO e 2 Environmental risks are identified across the business and reviewed by the senior management team.
The progressive adoption of an environmental management Business travel system across the Group continues.
Early in 2011 30% scope 1 our operations in Cheltenham successfully achieved Electricity ISO 14001 accreditation.
The target is to have all Group 45% scope 2 operations ISO 14001 accredited by the end of 2012.
Natural gas 15% scope 1 Gas oil 7% scope 1 Other 3% scope 1 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 25 Financial statements Governance CSR Financial review Business review Overview
