Corporate soCial responsibility statement Corporate responsibility is integral to the way Spirent conducts its business and we are committed to advancing our policies and systems across the Group to ensure that we address all aspects of corporate social responsibility CSR.
These include in particular our corporate practices in terms of ethical behaviour, how we motivate, support and reward our employees, how we care for the environment and our community involvement.
The Board takes ultimate responsibility for CSR and is committed to developing and implementing appropriate policies while adhering to a fundamental commitment to create and sustain long term value for shareholders.
Ethics Spirent expects that all of its business is conducted in compliance with high ethical standards of business practice.
We apply these standards to all dealings with employees, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
During 2010, Spirents employees were again clearly reminded of the standards expected of them by the regular communication and explanation of Spirents Vision, Mission and Values statements.
The Groups Ethics Policy, which has been approved by the Board, is available on our website at www.
Our Ethics Policy has been developed to ensure that the Groups business is conducted in adherence with high ethical and legal principles and sets standards of professionalism and integrity for all employees and operations worldwide.
The following is a summary of the Ethics Policy: all employees have the right and responsibility to ensure that Spirents business is conducted with high ethical and legal principles: our policy is to operate within applicable laws: discrimination or harassment of any kind will not be tolerated: as a matter of policy, we do not make political donations: no bribes shall be given or received: conflicts of interest must be avoided: we aim to be a responsible partner within our local communities: and employees are encouraged and supported to report, in confidence, any suspected wrongdoings whistleblowing.
Appropriate ethical behaviour is reviewed as part of the Groups Spirent participates in the Second Harvest Food Bank.
30 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010 overview business review governance financial statements Employees are conducted annually and are linked to the goals of the Spirent is its employees.
To sustain our competitive advantage, the organisation.
An online performance management tool was Group is committed to creating and maintaining an environment introduced to all employees in early 2010 to align individual goals where all employees can develop to their fullest potential, have the with Company strategies and objectives.
opportunity to give back to their communities, and advance their careers.
Spirent employees come from a variety of diverse Spirent demonstrates that it values its employees through several backgrounds and bring with them a broad range of skills and reward and recognition programmes.
One way we reward and experiences from engineering to sales to supply chain as well recognise excellence is through our Global Recognition Programme, as business functions such as finance, human resources, and which provides spot awards and one-time cash incentives to information technology.
By the end of 2010, we employed more recognise exemplary contributions that demonstrate one or more of than 1,400 people in over 25 locations in 12 countries.
Spirent provides project based incentives to recognise and reward employees for extraordinary work that results in To sustain our competitive advantage and bring together this significant overachievement of critical projects.
In 2010, Spirent culturally diverse group of employees, Spirent has built a global reinstituted its Patent Award programme, which rewards employees culture based on four values being creative, competitive, customer for being innovative, while protecting the Companys investment and focused and collaborative.
These values form the foundation of intellectual rights and property.
Because Spirent believes in sharing Spirents ability to inspire innovation and enrich the lives of millions its success with its employees, all employees now participate in of people around the world.
some form of variable compensation.
For example the Growth Sharing Plan provides an annual incentive payment based on the By encouraging and rewarding innovative thought and action by our achievement of corporate growth and profitability goals.
Because our employees across the globe, we inspire innovation within Spirent, our employees have regularly asked for the opportunity to participate in industry and our customers.
To accomplish this, Spirent employees Spirents growth as our investors do, starting in January 2011, US and have a number of career paths and internal recognition programmes UK employees may purchase Spirents shares via monthly payroll for both technical and non-technical staff.
We plan to expand this opportunity to other locations opportunities are structured to align with our organisational over time.
objectives and to help employees in furthering their career aspirations.
For example, we recently implemented a technical career Along with career opportunities and competitive compensation, the ladder across the global engineering organisation to build our importance of two-way communication is recognised particularly as it technical expertise and provide future career opportunities.
Internal relates to the business and its performance.
Our employees opinions transfers and job rotations, for example, greatly benefit the career matter to us.
In March 2010, employees were asked for their views on development of our engineering team.
As a result of these activities a wide range of issues relating to compensation and benefits, and others, more than 7 per cent of employees received a promotion communication, employee engagement and commitment, in 2010. innovation, manager quality and work environment.
The survey invited employees to rate each area and provide written comments Employees are provided with numerous learning and development about improvements recommended in the organisation.
More than opportunities to fulfill their potential.
For example, our US employees 70 per cent of our employees globally responded, and we developed enjoy a tax free tuition reimbursement benefit for classes taken specific action plans based on the employee feedback that will towards college level degrees such as a master of business increase the engagement of our employees and foster a stronger administration or master of science in electrical engineering.
In addition, informal meetings between many variety of courses and training opportunities are also available to of Spirents executives and small groups of employees were, and employees globally to enhance their skills.
We recently implemented continue to be, held on a regular basis, with the aim of sharing an engineering managers training course to drive stronger leadership perspectives among a broad cross section of our team members.
in areas such as project management, performance management and Other tools aimed at facilitating two-way communication include employee development.
Spirent receives training grants that allow regular all employee meetings with our CEO and other executives employees to take on-site skill training or attend classes at a local at all locations, employee focus group meetings and the continued community college in software and other applicable subjects.
In expansion of our employee intranet.
China, we provided new manager training, English education and communication skills workshops.
The Group is committed to providing equality of opportunity to all existing and prospective employees without unlawful discrimination Leadership and management development programmes are regularly on the basis of religion, disability, gender, age, marital status, sexual reviewed and updated as the competition for talent increases and the orientation, race, ethnicity or any other protected status.
With regard leadership needs of our business grow.
Formal performance reviews to employees who become disabled, the policy is to take all Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010 31 cOrpOrate sOcial respOnsibility stateMent CONTINUED reasonable steps, including retraining, to ensure that they can remain to comply with all applicable environmental legislation in all in employment wherever practicable.
We encourage diversity and jurisdictions in which we operate and to adopt responsible opportunity, which is reinforced through the Groups Ethics Policy.
To achieve these goals the Group strives to integrate sound environmental management into its business Health and safety strategies and continually improve environmental performance The Chief Financial Officer is the director appointed by the Board to for the benefit of all its stakeholders.
have responsibility for the health and safety performance of the Group.
No major health and safety issues were reported by the Chief The full policy can be found at www.
com in the About Us Financial Officer to the Audit Committee and Board during the year.
The health and safety risk profile of the Group improved slightly again The Groups main environmental impact is due predominantly to the in 2010 as further Group manufacturing moved to an outsourcing effects produced by offices housing employees, internal IT systems model and this trend is expected to continue in 2011.
The main risks and travel.
All business units continue to take positive steps to reduce of the Group continue to be based around final test and assembly of energy consumption, such as better space utilisation, more efficient products and working environment issues such as ergonomics and running of equipment and machinery, and sensor controlled Repetitive Strain Injury.
The Group continued to have very low equipment.
During 2010 the Group reduced the square feet used by accident rates in 2010 and no incidents required any hospitalisation.
We have also reduced the number of servers in our IT data centres The Group Health and Safety Policy places responsibility for the by 20 per cent.
We have invested in and are actively using video management of health and safety on local management who are conferencing to reduce travel across the Group.
Where possible, supported by local external advisers where necessary.
It is the business units monitor energy consumption, water consumption and Groups intention that each business unit should have a senior waste production.
Environmental waste management in the Group individual designated as being responsible for ensuring the business continues to improve with most business units operating waste unit conforms to local statutory health and safety regulations as well minimisation schemes mainly focusing on increased recycling.
An annual questionnaire on health and safety of our UK businesses is ISO-14001 registered.
performance is completed by all our business units and any issues are addressed and resolved.
Independent external reviews of the The vast majority of our products continue to be manufactured by Companys health and safety performance are conducted annually outside contract manufacturers and we check the environmental at selected business units.
Regular designated health and safety policies of these suppliers through audits and surveys.
Spirents largest awareness training programmes are also carried out.
contract manufacturer, responsible for 60 per cent of our contract manufacturing services, is not only ISO-14001 certified, but also has an reduction programme.
In 2009, the programme reduced Spirent recognises the importance that health and safety, as with extensive CO 2 other corporate responsibilities, is managed successfully throughout the manufacturing site CO output as measured by reduced base line 2 all levels of the organisation.
Successful health and safety electrical consumption by 10 per cent over 2008.
This is a reduction in management contributes to Spirents overall success by preserving CO emissions of approximately 2.1 million kilograms in 2009.
2 and developing staff and physical resources, thereby reducing costs and liabilities and is an expression of its corporate responsibility.
Improvements in Spirents order fulfilment logistics have led to significant reductions in air freight and corresponding reductions in Spirent is committed to continually improving its health and safety carbon emissions.
Orders for customers in APAC and EMEA regions performance and is also committed to employee wellbeing by are directly fulfilled from our key contract manufacturer in Asia.
This encouraging the adoption of healthier lifestyles by its staff members.
eliminates air freight to the US and then back to APAC and EMEA Regulatory requirements and the outline of care form the basis upon customers.
28 per cent of Performance Analysis shipments, which Spirents commitment is achieved.
By realistic planning, review representing approximately 51,000 kilograms of freight, now ship and development, Spirent continues to achieve a successful health direct from Spirents Asia contract manufacturer.
and safety management programme and appropriate resources are made available for this purpose.
Wherever possible our products are designed and manufactured to take account of the recycling and disposal of the product at the end Environmental of its lifecycle.
Our products are also designed to reduce the amount The Groups Environmental policy applies to the Company and all of power consumed.
Two examples of this are our 1Gb and 10Gb its subsidiaries worldwide.
The Group is committed to the concepts products where we have reduced the power consumption by port in 2010 by 42 per cent, and 70 per cent, respectively.
of pollution prevention, minimising environmental impacts and eco-efficiency.
The main aim of Spirents Environmental Policy is 32 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010 overview business review governance financial statements Our business units comply with both The Waste Electrical and Local community support of non-profit agencies Electronic Equipment Regulations and The Batteries Directive.
We recognise the significance of our communities through our New products are designed to meet the Restriction of Hazardous relationship with local non-profit agencies.
Our employees help their Substances Directive RoHS, also known as Directive 2002 95 EC, communities by volunteering their time to various programmes and even though Spirent Communications hardware products are classified donating materials and equipment to local causes.
as Category Nine Monitor and Control Equipment, and are therefore currently out of scope with the RoHS Directive.
All Spirent The Group has formed lasting partnerships with several local Communications hardware products will be in compliance with the non-profit organisations to provide essential resources and RoHS Directive at such time they are brought in to scope.
Under the UKs services to those in need.
During the winter holiday season in 2010, new mandatory carbon emission trading scheme CRC Energy Efficiency our employees in the US participated in a food drive for the Los Scheme, Spirent is only required to make an information disclosure.
Angeles Regional Food Bank and also for the Santa Clara County Second Harvest Food Bank.
Community Spirent aims to build stronger and healthier global communities through education, charitable donations and support of non-profit agencies in the communities in which we operate.
Working with established non-profit organisations maximises the impact of our community building initiatives.
Education The Group has established links with certain public and private non-profit educational organisations to help students develop the skills needed to succeed in the global economy.
Throughout 2010 we continued to support education by offering internships and work experience programmes.
As part of Junior Achievement of the National Capital Area many of our Maryland office employees are involved in local activities that enabled volunteers to teach students Team Spirent London to Brighton Bike Ride 2010. financial literacy, work readiness and entrepreneurship.
Volunteers served as role models providing both education and inspiration.
In our New Jersey office, we partnered with a local high school to Charitable donation policy provide job shadowing opportunities to students interested in Our businesses are encouraged to support the particular needs pursuing a career in engineering.
of their local community by contributing to local charities and participating in community initiatives.
Support takes the form of In the US, we hired 11 interns in multiple locations, ultimately hiring employee time and skills, gifts in kind and cash donations.
Spirent more than half as regular Spirent employees.
In addition, 12 new donated to the California Highway Patrol CHIPS for KIDS and engineering graduates were hired in our Honolulu, Calabasas and employees participated in the Angel Tree programme by working with Sunnyvale offices during 2010.
Spirent plans to expand both the new the Salvation Army to purchase Christmas gifts for underprivileged graduate and intern programs during 2011, building our relationships children.
In Ottawa and Beijing, employees provide school assistance with local universities and colleges.
Following the earthquake in Qinghai, China, our employees delivered donations to the stricken area.
In the UK Spirent Spirent also periodically provides work experience opportunities sponsored employees who participated in charity fund raising events, for local students.
In our Beijing office, we increased the number of such as the British Heart Foundations London to Brighton Bike Ride on-site internship opportunities to more than 20 students from top and the Brighton Marathon.
universities in China, including University of Science and Technology Beijing, the Graduate School of Beijing Institute of Technology and In addition to these employee activities, Spirent made charitable Beihang University.
These internships help students develop cash donations of $81,000 in 2010 2009 $143,000.
professional knowledge as well as enhance their competitiveness in society.
Our engineering managers are routinely invited to speak at these universities about Spirent and career opportunities in the engineering field.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2010 33
