corporate responsibility report the Board recognises the importance of balancing the the Bonus share scheme, described in the directors interests of all its key stakeholders, including customers, remuneration report on page 51, is intended to motivate employees, shareholders, suppliers and the communities further the Groups uK permanent employees in uK retail, in which it operates.
a formal corporate responsibility Brands and Head office, provide them with a direct and policy was adopted last year and the Board is committed substantial link between Group performance and their to applying and developing this policy at every level of the remuneration, and encourage employee participation in business.
last year we reported that the focus of our corporate there is continuation of the staff Forum that was responsibility activities were in five key areas, employees, established in shirebrook, comprising elected Health and safety, customers, the environment and the representatives from across departments and community, and this remains the case.
the Group has representatives of management.
the Forum meets developed Key performance indicators Kpis in respect of monthly and discussions cover issues ranging from pay, these areas, which are further discussed in this report and holidays, hours, health and safety, working conditions, in the chief executives report and Business review on equipment needs and developments in and the page 8. these Kpis are based solely on our uK operations.
the Forum encourages open discussion and a Board member will attend at least once a this report examines each key area in turn, reviewing the year.
Minutes of the Forums meetings are posted on notice current situation, the facts, figures and our successes to boards and representatives are encouraged to seek and date, and the opportunities for the present year and for the reflect the views of their constituents.
the Group recognises the right of employees to membership of a trade union and has entered into an agreement with the trade union unite in respect of employees collective bargaining of pay, hours of work and holidays of certain groups of employees in the national distribution the Group currently employ 16,017 in the uK and 1,343 centre.
as the business continues to grow it is the skill and enthusiasm of these employees that are the Group is committed to the equal treatment of its key to its success.
employees and has formal policies in place that are reviewed on a regular basis.
the equal opportunity and in the uK, 94% of our employees work in our stores and in diversity policies ensure that employees are treated as store management.
5.9% of the uK workforce work at our individuals, fairly and with respect providing fair and shirebrook campus, of which 3.0% work in our national equal opportunities to employees regardless of age, distribution centre, and 2.0% in the Group Head office, gender, ethnicity, social background, religion, disability or Finance, Buying, Brands, retail and it departments.
uK Workforce 58% are male and 42% female.
every effort is made to provide disabled people with employee retention is one of our key Kpis.
this Year 17.0% equal opportunities for work, training and promotion.
of our uK employees left the business: the vast majority of applications for employment by disabled persons are given them were from our stores.
full and fair consideration for all vacancies in accordance retention of employees is extremely important both with their particular aptitudes.
Where an existing employee in terms of retaining expertise, and as a measure of becomes disabled the business makes every effort to employee satisfaction.
the Board receives a monthly provide continued employment in the same or similar report on the turnover of employees.
job or by offering retraining in order that the employees employment within the Group may continue.
the Group believes in rewarding employees with fair salaries together with the opportunity to earn additional We continually review and update all our policies and pay in the form of bonuses.
We monitor our rates of pay procedures.
a new employee handbook that has been against national statistics on an annual basis.
We believe tailored for each department continues to be rolled out that performance based rewards are beneficial to the during 2010. business and foster greater employee involvement in it, and this policy starts at the Board and flows down to all levels of the business.
section 3 MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE the Group places great importance in the training and all national distribution centre employees are given development of employees.
We want them to be able to appropriate training upon joining the Group, on health and perform their duties to the best of their abilities while safety matters, communication and relevant aspects of wanting to retain these skills within the business.
english is not the first language of many of these employees, and the Group acknowledges that as 2010 will see the international training centre at it recruits from a diverse talent pool the needs of these shirebrook extended.
the aim of the staff training and employees must be addressed.
accordingly, training often development department is to use the training centre involves the use of interpreters, and training materials, to provide the best, state of the art facilities for our team policy documents and building signage are usually in to achieve their best.
our goal is to give every employee multiple languages.
the opportunity to be inspired, stimulated, motivated and empowered to do a better job.
the Group promotes and fosters a culture of personal development for all.
the Groups policy is to always look for comprehensive induction training for managers and area internal promotion before external recruitment.
managers takes place at shirebrook covering health and safety, environmental awareness, customer service and the day to day running of a retail unit.
during 2009, 172 Health and safety managers and assistant managers attended this training and the beginning of 2010 has seen 52 attendees.
the Group is committed to appropriate standards of health and safety performance.
the Board has ultimate each retail unit ensures that all its employees receive responsibility for Group health and safety performance, induction training.
the Groups training strategy is to and receives updates on incidents from the Head of retail train managers who are then tasked to ensure that all operations on these matters.
their employees receive training that is tailored to the circumstances of their own business unit.
We monitor how there were no environmental prosecutions or work well training is being filtered down into the workplace by related fatalities in the business during 2009 10. during undertaking surveys of our store employees.
the Year 1,428 2009: 1,397 accidents across the Group were reported to Head office, and of these 59 2009:45 the management training programme that was introduced were reportable to the Health and safety executive.
the programme covers interview of accidents were slips, trips and minor lacerations that skills, communication, people skills and this year it has occurred within the stores.
the increase in accident figures focused on employment law at work.
during the Year 175 has coincided with an increase in the store portfolio but employees attended the programme compared to 113 last the number of accidents per store has decreased by 5%.
the continued emphasis on health and safety training within the business has improved awareness of reporting the Group, as reported last year, has introduced refresher procedures and recording of incidents under health and training as part of a rolling programme, to ensure that all safety legislation.
employees reinforce their existing skills and update their knowledge and practices.
during the Year the stores have had an electronic reminder system introduced.
this ensures that amongst other things the specialist training programme has continued during Health and safety checks are carried out before the store the year.
areas covered by our specialist training are can physically close at the end of the working day.
this footwear, rackets, cricket and golf.
since inception the will, again, increase the profile of Health and safety while footwear master class has seen 178 employees attend.
improving the recording of such checks and procedures.
Brand training was launched in october 2009 it saw 410 training is undertaken in house by a team of qualified employees attend a one day product training session and experienced health and safety officers.
Going forward regarding nike merchandise over 13 separate days.
again the health and safety team will continue to train store in March 2010, 365 employees attended training where employees and monitor health and safety standards, and particular focus was on the FiFa World cup.
the training the Group is committed to maintaining these standards.
days allow our business partners to promote the features, advantages and benefits of their product to the public through our employees.
sports direct international plc annual report 2010 p. 59 corporate responsibility report continued customers the Group aims to ensure that all its customers enjoy a during the Year the Group has made positive steps to quality customer service and that they are provided with ensure that the good results achieved in the previous year products that are safe and fit for purpose.
the business were built upon and the monitoring of the stores energy recognises that customers have diverse needs and works performance was bought in house, to allow a greater level constantly towards meeting them.
Monitoring customer satisfaction and responding to smart meters have been rolled out to almost all smaller correspondence is a continuous process.
customer service stores during the Year which has increased the number of teams collate management information on service levels stores being constantly and remotely monitored from 188 and this is circulated to the Board on a monthly basis.
all to 358. written complaints are recorded, including an analysis of investments have been made in the majority of the least the nature of the complaint so that trends can be assessed efficient stores to bring their performance up to the and appropriate action taken.
this Year 5,020 complaints expected standard.
this has contributed to a pro rata were logged with our customer service team, an increase saving across the largest 189 stores of 8.7%.
this saved of 4% on last year.
last year we reported that we were the equivalent of 3,607 tonnes co. implementing an online customer contact form, which 2 was successfully rolled out during the Year.
the online When compared with the base year of FY08 the total contact form reduces the time it takes for our customers reduction in energy usage across the largest 189 stores is to contact us and has increased the volume of contact from 15.6%.
online communication reduces the amount of time it takes for us to respond to their queries thereby increasing our service levels, whilst reducing the print and Improvements in Energy Efficiency largest 189 stores postage costs for both the Group and customers.
100.0% the Group is constantly working on ways to improve FY08 customer service at all levels within the company from the retail stores, head office and through our website.
95.0% FY09 environment 90.0% as a Group we are aware that our operations impact the environment in a number of ways and it is our 85.0% responsibility to manage effectively the areas we have direct control over while attempting to influence the Fy10 actions of other areas that are outside of our control.
We seek to reduce the negative impact the Group has on the 80.0% environment while working towards compliance with the Governments carbon reduction commitment.
Building upon investigations last year we have identified property, in 75.0% particular energy usage in our stores, transport and waste Kwh sqft day management at both our shirebrook facility and in stores as areas, where we can make a difference.
during the Year the Group was awarded the carbon the emphasis continues to be on good housekeeping, trust standard in recognition of progress made in the supported with targeted investment to ensure that high management of the carbon footprint of the Group.
energy consumption reduction as reported last year, the single most significant element continues to be a key performance measurement.
of the carbon footprint of the Group is the usage of electricity.
electricity usage contributes to approx 85% of the footprint.
section 3 MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE the second biggest contributor to our co emission is the the Group has a code of ethics that it requires every 2 fleet of vehicles that service the stores.
transport fuel supplier to adhere to.
amongst other matters the code accounts for approximately 14% of the carbon footprint.
provides for fair treatment of workers ensuring products We continue to drive down our emissions in this area by are made in a safe environment and in accordance with adjusting the frequency of re-supply to shops according to all the relevant local and national laws, by workers who size and seasonality, monitoring vehicle load factors, and are treated with respect and are paid fairly for what they ensuring that the fleet is regularly updated with the most do.
it ensures there is no child labour and no use of illegal modern fuel efficient vehicles.
means or materials in the production of goods.
the business has made further progress with its recycling the Group has worked for many years with two leading and reducing the amount of waste that is put into landfill.
supply chain companies in singapore and in south Korea to procure much of its own brand goods.
during the Year the Group increased the quantity of recyclable materials collected from shops, and diverted the Group believes that using their local knowledge, waste streams from the Head office and central expertise and experience, benefits the business and warehouse operations from using landfill to a local waste the communities in which they operate more effectively to power scheme.
than would be the case if the Group carried on its own procurement activities in those countries.
Both companies Where possible we recycle electrical waste, ink toners, have the highest social and business ethics codes which redundant it equipment and light bulbs.
this Year we match our code of ethics, the Bsci code of conduct which recycled 1,539 2009:1,148 units of electrical equipment.
is based upon the united nations universal declaration of Human rights, iso9001 and the social accountability 8000 the Group recycles waste paper, cardboard, metal, and sa8000 code.
during the Year 33 tonnes of waste paper, 5,847 tonnes of cardboard, 124 tonnes of metal and 385 tonnes of the Group relies on those supply chain companies to plastic were recycled.
90% of the recycled plastic had been inspect all suppliers and manufacturers premises.
Where possible we also recycle Frequent inspections are carried out randomly at short the wood that we collect at our distribution centre.
in the notice to ensure that the goods meet the Groups quality past all wood was sold for recycling, but it has now been standards as well as assessing continued compliance determined to be cost effective to repair pallets, and a with sa8000 and the Groups code of ethics.
We cease programme of repair began in 2009 10. immediately to work with suppliers who do not meet our criteria.
the Group has always kept its transit packaging to a minimum by the use of metal roll cages.
Where it is the Group complies with an internationally recognised list necessary to send transit packaging to shops e. g. to of chemicals that are banned for use in fabrics.
the supply ensure cleanliness of clothing, it is returned to the centre chain companies conduct random tests on fabric which are for re-use or recycling as appropriate.
then taken to a recognised laboratory for quality testing and to check that these banned chemicals are not being as reported last year all stores now use biodegradable used.
carrier bags and provide the option of a bag for life.
the Group has forged long term relationships with our aim for the coming years are to further implement suppliers who have demonstrated that their work practices utility smart metering, improve energy efficiency across are consistent with the Groups standards.
approximately the stores and to continue to minimise waste.
40% of the Groups current suppliers have been working with Group companies for 10 years or more.
the Group endeavours to promote the participation in a community wide range of sporting activities primarily for children We recognise that consumers and stakeholders are that would not normally have access to the expertise or becoming increasingly interested in where we source our equipment needed for the sport.
the Group continues to procure merchandise from manufacturers who can show that they uphold ethical employment and trading practices.
sports direct international plc annual report 2010 p. 61 corporate responsibility report continued community continued slazenger are the exclusive cricket equipment supplier one million children have now been involved in chance to to the countrys most recognised grassroots cricket shine since its introduction 5 years ago.
development programme, chance to shine, which is in addition, dunlops global d squad talent support run through the english cricket Boards charitable arm, programme continues to increase participation and the cricket Foundation.
chance to shine is a national performance levels of the most talented juniors in tennis campaign delivered through individual projects throughout from around the world.
each project provides a structured coaching and competition programme for a group of schools that would not normally have the chance to participate in the sport.
the schools are supported by professional qualified coaches, who are specifically trained to work in a school environment, as well as providing equipment and training for teachers.
dunlop Brand ambassador Fernando Verdasco with members of dunlops d squad.
over 800 children are continuing to benefit from the programme as a result of sporting equipment provided by dunlop.
dunlop has supported the development of its most talented junior players through the provision of 27,000 worth of tennis equipment in the past year.
the Group also continues to supply the international tennis Federation with tennis equipment to their Junior development programme which promotes tournaments for young people aged between 14-18 years old in central america, the caribbean, south america, eastern europe, africa, asia and the pacific regions.
dunlop donated in the slazenger Brand ambassador Michael clarke during a chance to shine region of 5,000 of equipment during the Year.
in the united states, everlast one of the Groups specialist in 2009, chance to shine benefitted 384,105 children and boxing brands supports numerous initiatives.
it provided over 109,332 hours of coaching assists in running the new York Golden Gloves, the most along with cricket equipment to the value of 130,000, prestigious amateur boxing tournament in the country by supplied by slazenger, to enable the programme to run providing products such as gloves and personal protective successfully.
section 3 MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE this is a grassroots initiative that benefits men and women age 16-34 as they compete in amateur boxing and around 900 boxers compete each year.
everlast supported this programme by supplying $20,000 worth of equipment.
everlast donated $7,300 to the american red cross for Haiti relief through its sponsorship of professional boxer and WBc Welter Weight champion andre Berto who originates from Haiti.
everlast is an official Breast cancer research Foundation licensee.
the Breast cancer research Foundation BcrF is dedicated to finding a cure for breast cancer by funding clinical and genetic research.
the foundation benefits women of all ages who have been affected by the disease as well as women who may be at risk in their lifetime.
everlast makes donations to BcrF based on the sale of related training gloves, hand wraps and key chains.
each year everlast donates a minimum of $15,000 to BcrF.
usa Boxing is the national governing body of amateur, olympic-style boxing, and is the united states member organisation of the international amateur Boxing association aiBa.
as a national governing body recognised by the united states olympic committee, usa Boxing is responsible for the administration, development and promotion of olympic-style boxing and is a non-profit organisation.
everlast assists usa Boxing with a mixture of boxing related product anually to the value of $60,000.
this helps the mens, womens, and junior olympic boxing programmes whose primary ages are 14-34 years, as well as coaches and officials.
sports direct international plc annual report 2010 p. 63
