Scottish and Southern Energy 64 Annual Report 2010 Corporate governance continued Safety, Health and Environment Advisory Committee work.
A healthy, committed workforce safe working conditions.
SSEs Safety is clearly central to business success.
Management System focuses on five Ps: SSEs policy is to deal with all sickness k Policy: defining how things get done absence in a sympathetic and constructive in SSE: way, helping people make a speedy return k People: helping employees to act safely: to health and to work by seeking and k Processes: managing risks and acting on medical advice.
During 2009 10, delivering safe systems of work: the average number of days of absence k Plant: maintaining the integrity from work was 5.31, compared with 5.89 of plant and equipment: and in the previous year.
k Performance: managing and improving SHE performance.
Environmental management Colin Hood SSEs main environmental impact is Safety performance Safety, Health and Environment generally regarded as emissions of carbon During 2009 10, SSEs Lost Time Advisory Committee Chairman dioxide from electricity generation see Reportable Injury Rate was 0.03, page 17.
At the same time, many of the compared with 0.07 in the previous year.
Companys day-to-day operations take place Its Total Recordable Injury Rate TRIR, in areas which are environmentally sensitive.
covering lost-time, reportable and medical treatment injuries, was 0.14 per The Committees priority is to make sure 100,000 hours worked, compared with that the five Ps apply to environmental Members and meetings 0.16 in the previous year.
This translated Attendance management and that negative impacts in into 73 working days lost as a result of Membership at meetings particular, pollution to the local environment injuries across SSE, down from 361 in the are prevented.
SSEs duty to protect the previous year making it SSEs best-ever Colin Hood environment starts when work is first year for safety performance.
The objective Committee Chairman 3 3 planned at any particular site and continues is to make performance better still.
Thomas Andersen 3 3 until SSE clears up that site and leaves it.
The number of dangerous or potentially The membership also comprises certain The key target in any single year is to dangerous road traffic accidents involving senior executives, namely the Group ensure there are no environmental SSE employees driving Company vehicles Services Director, Director of Generation incidents which result in SSE receiving an was 0.34 per 100 vehicles, compared with and the Group Safety, Health and enforcement notice from the Environment 0.37 the year before.
The Chief Agency or the Scottish Environment Executive also attends when required.
There were two such Contractors safety performance The Assistant Company Secretary is incidents during 2009 10.
In November The safety of contractors working on SSE secretary to the Committee.
2009, SSE was fined 20,000 following an sites is largely the responsibility of their escape of diesel from a holding tank at employers, but SSE works actively with The Safety, Health and Environment the Loch Carnan power station on Uist its contractors in increasing their safety Advisory Committee has three main in November 2008. standards.
For this group, the TRIR was responsibilities.
They are to: 0.31 per 100,000 hours worked, compared Good environmental stewardship involves with 0.5 in the previous year.
k ensure that SSEs health and safety on-site energy efficiency and management policy and environment policy of waste, and SSE has specialist managers The construction and operation of wind statements are adhered to: responsible for these areas.
The goal of the farms offshore presents new challenges k set safety, health and environmental waste management policy is to minimise and risks to SSE.
Significant progress targets for improved performance: and waste and the unnecessary use of natural has been achieved to establish the best k monitor safety, health and resources by re-using and recycling possible safe working procedures to environmental performance in SSE.
During 2009 10, 5,461 tonnes manage these activities.
of waste were sent from SSEs offices In exercising these responsibilities, the and depots for disposal at landfill sites, Health and Safety Executive Committee focuses on SSEs Safety and a fall of 21.75%.
Judith Hackett, Health and Safety Sustainability values: Executive Chair, spoke at SSEs Priorities for 2010 11 conference on safety for contractors in k we believe all accidents are October 2009.
Her theme was that a fully The Committees priorities for 2010 11 preventable, so we do everything safely integrated health and safety system needs remain to: and responsibly, or not at all: and employee involvement and engagement, k we operate ethically, taking the longcompetent and relevant expert advice k support progress towards SSEs term view to achieve growth while and guidance and strong leadership.
ultimate goal of injury-free working: safeguarding the environment.
The Committee endorses this view.
k promote the health and well-being of people working for SSE: and Policy Health promotion k ensure effective environmental People in SSE have many different working SSEs Health and Well-being Action Plan management throughout SSE.
environments from full-scale industrial provides the basis for workplace health Colin Hood processes to offices.
One thing is the programmes and initiatives, all designed Chairman same, however: everyones role in achieving to help employees be in good shape for
