51 Introduction to SSE Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information organisational culture and to provide a that: We strive to get better and smarter over the next 10, 20 or 40 years.
fulfilling place for people to work.
and more innovative and be the best in These range from electricity storage everything we do.
to developments in social networking.
Training and development The skills and competencies of employees As a spur to employee participation, idea are critical to the energy sector in the UK, generation, continuous improvement and Community and the Republic of Ireland and elsewhere.
operational excellence, SSE maintains and charitable activities SSE needs to ensure the safe and efficient promotes a Licence to Innovate scheme, operation of its businesses and the reliable under which any employee can suggest SSE encourages its employees to be provision of services to customers.
In ideas for improving the way SSE operates, active citizens in the communities in addition, SSE needs to develop new consistent with its core values.
People which they live and work through, for skills and flexibility to manage new with ideas with significant potential are example, its Into Action scheme.
It is, therefore, critical granted a Licence to Innovate, under matches the contribution of employees that employees of SSE have the training, which they can spend two months who are either raising money for, or giving development and work experience they researching further their proposal.
time to, a charity, or who are involved in need to fulfil their potential.
In order to Subject to the outcome of the research, running local community or youth sports do this, SSE uses a range of delivery the idea may then be piloted prior to groups, up to a limit of 500.
Its focus on media for training.
safety is reflected in Make it Zero, which rewards business units that deliver a full During 2009 10, SSE invested 2.2m in Over 2,000 Licences to Innovate were year without any lost-time or reportable externally-provided training, taking the issued during 2009 10, of which over 400 injuries with a donation to a charity of total to 7.7m over the last three years.
A number of Licences the business units choice.
This helped to deliver training to 3,600 have created value in excess of 1m.
employees during the year, in addition Others have contributed to improved Through these and other schemes, such to the 7,800 people who received formal performance in specific areas, such as as financial support for programmes near in-house training.
In the past two years, driving safety a critical issue for SSE, SSEs wind farms, SSE made payments SSE has opened new technical and which has 6,000 Company vehicles on of 3.4m to charitable and community general training centres at Thatcham and the road in the UK and Ireland.
programmes in the UK during 2009 10.
These centres enable people to is building on this during 2010 11 with the train in the types of environment in which SSEs focus on innovation complements development of a company-wide employee they will eventually work, providing a its work in research and development, volunteering programme and further realistic experience in a safe, controlled where new processes, services, products promotion of and support for the recently setting.
This training is supplemented and technologies are created, enabling introduced Give As You Earn scheme, to by operational awareness days, during it to remain a successful company in the give employees maximum choice in the which best-in-class working practices future.
During 2008 09, SSE created a cause they support, and facilitate them are demonstrated to employees through corporate research and development doing so in a tax-efficient way.
detailed coaching and assessment in function, which now works with people operational environments.
throughout SSE and external organisations such as the University of Strathclyde, the Corporate responsibility SSE recognises that the continued University of Reading and KEMA, a leading success of its business requires the authority in energy consulting and testing index ongoing development and growth of and certification.
SSEs focus is on the employees, as well as the effective following key areas: smart homes: Everyone who is employed by SSE is recruitment, retention and development renewable energy: carbon capture and expected to demonstrate and deliver of talent into its business.
As part of this storage: customer attitudes and energy responsible business practice in whatever process, SSE has in place a succession efficiency: appliances: street-lighting: they do.
As a result, SSE does not have planning process and offers a range of smart electricity grids: and telecoms.
a separate corporate responsibility development programmes suited to the division or committee, believing it is not needs of school leavers, trainees, trainee In total, during 2009 10, SSE invested an add-on, and should not be treated as engineers, graduates and apprentices.
3.7m in research and development such.
This Annual Report is intended to In 2009 10, 260 people were recruited activities.
This was in addition to the 12m demonstrate that SSE is a responsible through these schemes.
which SSE Ventures invested in companies company, and further information during 2009 10 which are developing and is provided in its A-Z of Corporate deploying renewable, sustainable and Responsibility at www.
energy efficiency-enhancing products Innovation, research and services.
See page 30. Business in the Communitys and development Corporate Responsibility Index provides The horizon of SSE Ventures and an authoritative benchmark for companies The SSE team of people has extensive of SSEs research and development to evaluate their practice in four key knowledge, expertise and know-how.
activities is mainly the next decade, areas of corporate responsibility: New ideas, improvements to process including influencing current operational community, environment, marketplace and design and innovation have been development and deployment activities.
and workplace and performance in a range key to SSEs successes to date and are SSE also maintains a long-term outlook of environmental and social impact areas fundamental to the Companys ability through the work of its Central Research material to their business.
In the results for to adapt to the challenges of the future.
Unit, which examines in detail issues the Index for 2009, released in April 2010, The Companys Excellence value states which could affect SSE and its customers SSE retained its Platinum Plus rating.
