22 23 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY business review AnnuAl report And Accounts 2010 connecting business decisions with environmental, ethical and social concerns we understAnd the OuR FRAmEwORk importAnce of corporAte SSLs products are designed to help people to enjoy more healthy and fulfilling lives, and we appreciate the importance responsibility, both to of connecting our business decisions to environmental, our business And to our ethical and social concerns in order to ensure this.
Our framework to maximise and enhance our commitment to consumers.
we work corporate responsibility has four key elements: hArd to ensure thAt we in the mArketplAce demonstrAte good prActice Covering the whole supply chain from raw material in the mArketplAce, the selection, third-party supplier assessments and in-house manufacture to product delivery and workplAce, the community effective communication with consumers.
in the workplAce Reflecting the core areas of our global human resources strategy resourcing, reward, communication and development and health and safety for all employees.
in the community Supporting work carried out by SSL in global, national and local communities.
It includes the Durex Network, relationships with national health authorities and SSLs responsibilities to shareholders.
in the environment Committing SSL to continual improvement in its practices in environmental care, environmental performance and SSL continues to sustainability.
be a member of the FTSE4Good index EmPLOYEE OPINION SuRvEY our 2009 employee opinion survey found that 85 per cent of staff responding are proud to work for ssl, and 86 per cent understand how the work they do contributes to the goals of their business unit.
baseline protection, a comprehensive exercise undertaken in the mArketplAce at the Venus building SSLs largest office has shown that a globAl freight development progrAmme significant additional amount of business continuity risk can SSLs global freight development programme was launched be mitigated for a comparatively modest expenditure of in 2007 in response to the increasing spend on freight and money and effort.
The Venus project was enhanced by the need for greater visibility of transit stocks.
simulating an actual disaster scenario, rather than the more One area of focus has been the optimisation of conventional route of publishing an agreed procedure.
This logistics from our internal supply points in Asia Pacific, which successful approach is now being deployed in other key account for 80 per cent of total volume.
This has delivered a business locations.
33 per cent increase in the volume shipped in 40-foot containers over the year, with a 10 per cent increase in fill rate.
in the workplAce These sustainable improvements represent a reduction in excess of 500 containers per year, which provides employee opinion survey environmental as well as financial benefits.
Our employee opinion survey, which is now run annually, provides staff with a formal opportunity to communicate their views about SSL and the way the business is run.
third pArty supply Audits We perform quality audits on third party suppliers across We distributed online and paper versions of the survey in November 2009, and it was completed by more than our product range as part of SSLs duty of care to the consumer and to ensure business continuity.
The results revealed that 81 per cent of respondents are satisfied with SSLs global leadership and 50 manufacturers supply SSL with products, and audits are designed to assess their ability to consistently manufacture direction, compared with a norm of 63 per cent for other companies, while 85 per cent of those surveyed said they products while meeting quality, safety, efficacy and regulatory requirements.
feel proud to work for the Company.
Some 79 per cent of SSL staff are satisfied with their job, while 86 per cent said In 2009, SSL recruited an auditor in China to review our locally-based third parties, which has resulted in significant they understand how the work they do contributes to the goals of their business unit.
We have also worked in partnership with two potential suppliers to help them achieve the ISO 9001:2008 quality All participating business units received detailed reports covering their results and local action plans were management standard.
developed to address the areas that the survey highlighted as needing improvement.
Our next survey will be carried out business continuity review at the end of this calendar year.
We have undertaken a top-level review of business continuity arrangements in our key factories and commercial offices.
Whilst appropriate levels of insurance will continue to provide 24 25 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY business review AnnuAl report And Accounts 2010 SSL continues to partner with dance4life to raise awareness of the safer sex message.
dance4life uses the power of dance and music to inspire, educate and mobilise young people to take action against HIV and Aids.
incentive plan, for senior executives.
All eligible UK employees employee policies SSL provides a safe, positive and supportive environment for will be invited to participate in the UK savings related share option scheme, an all employee share scheme, shortly.
The employees around the world.
SSL is committed to valuing diversity and promoting equality.
SSL will take steps to ensure scheme was approved by shareholders in July 2009. that opportunities for employment, career progression, promotion, training and development and the support ssl leAder progrAmme systems that contribute to employee satisfaction are equally In January 2010, 30 SSL staff took part in the SSL Leader accessible to all.
No employee or potential employee, whether Programme at the IMD business school in Lausanne, full-time, part-time or temporary, will therefore receive less Switzerland.
This week-long programme is the first in a series favourable treatment due to their race, colour, sexual of initiatives aimed at our talented managers around the globe.
orientation, nationality, ethnic origin, national origin, disability, The objective of the programme is to prepare our managers age, religion, gender, marital status or trade union to take on greater responsibility and gain an understanding membership.
of how to align leadership skills to the Companys business SSL is committed to equality of opportunity in all objectives, improve strategic thinking and anticipate key issues its employment practices, policies and procedures.
Any for the business in the future.
Feedback from the programme employee who becomes disabled will be given the fullest was extremely positive.
The next group of 30 managers will support to maintain or return to a role appropriate to their attend a programme in November.
experience and abilities within the Company.
We have a range of local, regional and global in the environment communications tools and forums to inform and involve SSL takes its responsibility towards the environment staff in the broader business.
This includes our employee very seriously, and this is reflected in both our five-year magazine, Be Inspired, which is published in nine languages, Environmental Plan, which was launched in 2008, and our three times a year.
Many sites also have employee forums, annual Environment Report, which assesses how we are team briefings, conferences and intranets that not only keep performing in this area.
There have been a number of staff abreast of Company news and results, but also invite achievements in this field in the last year.
their views and encourage two-way communication on matters that may concern them.
world environment dAy The SSL Open Door Policy encourages employees to To recognise World Environment Day, SSL invited local tertiary report any instances of unsafe or unhealthy working practices, students to develop global employee engagement activities dishonesty or malpractice in complete confidence.
Open including a green pledge campaign and environmental Door is promoted through leaflets and posters at all SSL sites.
Our sites across the globe also contributed, The Group operates a number of employee share from rubbish clearing in Canada to tree planting in India.
schemes, including the Performance Share Plan, a long-term COmmuNITY INITIATIvE GREENER PACkAGING our strategy in managing how products impact on the environment is based on improving efficiency, reducing unnecessary material use, evaluating the environmental footprint of packaging and reducing the environmental effects of products.
European Youth, was published in June 2009.
It focused on environmentAl highlights In October 2009, Project Lumen was launched at the Stakehill whether young people in seven Eastern European countries felt they had received enough sex and relationships education UK distribution centre to reduce electricity consumption by using energy efficient lighting.
An 83 per cent saving in and the factors influencing this perception.
A press conference in Serbia was successful in achieving broadcast electricity was achieved when low energy lighting was fitted with sensors so the lights were activated only when needed, and print media coverage with a clear call to action for the government to introduce nationwide sex education in schools.
and the sites current year-on-year electricity consumption is now down by 31.2 per cent.
The World Health Organization, meanwhile, has been referencing FOGS reports during planning meetings for In March 2010, Maintal in Germany became SSLs first office location to be awarded the ISO 14001 Environmental Reproductive Health Indicators in the European Union.
In June 2009, Peter Roach, Vice President of the Durex Management Standard.
The standard enables firms to control the environmental impact of their activities, products and Network, spoke at The Global Business Coalition on HIV AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria in Washington, DC.
The coalition, of services, and we expect more office locations to be awarded ISO 14001 in the coming year.
which SSL is a founding member, is dedicated to combating these three pandemics through the business sectors unique A real effort has been made to reduce the packaging required in the Scholl Biomechanics range.
The Gel Bunion skills and expertise.
The conference was a good opportunity to make other business representatives aware of the importance and Metatarsal protection sleeves, for example, were 3 previously packaged in boxes that had a volume of 250cm of social investments in public health and some of the specific benefits to the corporate sector.
The packaging has been redesigned and these products now come in a carton that has a volume The Durex Network also contributed to a successful 3 condom zone at the ninth International Congress on AIDS in of 126cm and weighs 9.02gm savings of 50.4 per cent and 62.4 per cent respectively.
Asia and the Pacific, which took place in Bali, Indonesia in August 2009.
For more details about our environmental activities please see this years Environmental Report, which can be accessed at www.
thAi sex educAtion teAcher trAining As part of our ongoing commitment to promoting sex education in Thailand, SSL invited hundreds of teachers to in the community attend a conference to discuss the future of sex education in the durex network the country.
SSL formed the Durex Network in 2005 to formalise the work More than 400 teachers from across Thailand attended Durex had been doing for many years to promote the safer sex the Durex Train the Trainers Phase Two conference, which message and raise awareness of HIV AIDS and condom use.
aimed to raise awareness about sexual health and explore new Durexs fourth Face of Global Sex FOGS report, Sex approaches to the issue.
and Relationships Education: Assessing the Gaps for Eastern
