Health, Safety and Environmental Committee report The Committee receives reports on trends in health and safety indicators 9.1 Composition of the Health, Safety and across the Group as well as information on significant accidents involving the Environmental Committee Group.
Key performance indicators are provided and reviewed in respect of The membership of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee is each major operating division.
Training is provided to the Committee on summarised in section 6.7. health, safety and environmental matters.
The terms of reference of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee The Committee liaises with the Remuneration Committee in determining any are available on the Groups website at http: www.
com health and safety objectives to form part of the Executive Directors personal scg csr corpgov committees health07.
The safety and security of our customers, our people and others is fundamental to our business.
Public transport is the safest way to travel and health and safety is at the top of our agenda.
9.2 Operation of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee The Committee considers health, safety and environmental issues across the Group and reports to the Board on these matters.
The Committee also approves the Groups overall strategic safety framework.
It has access to internal safety executives and also external consultants.
Janet Morgan Executive management is responsible for ensuring that local health and Chairman of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee safety policies and procedures are consistent with the overall framework.
23 June 2010 Managers from each of the Groups key divisions attend meetings of the Committee from time to time providing the Committee with an opportunity to question and challenge management on health, safety and environmental matters.
The Committee also receives reports from the Groups Environmental Strategy Group, which comprises a number of managers and is responsible for overseeing the development and implementation of the Groups environmental strategy.
The Committee visits operational locations to observe health, safety and environmental management in practice.
Committee members attend meetings of the Safety Committees of individual business units from time to time, such as the South West Trains Strategic Safety Group.
