Corporate Social Responsibility Report for the year ended 28 November 2010 environment and workplace.
The We engaged with the Cardinal Hume following details progress made against Centre in Westminster to develop a soft our CSR strategic objectives in 2010. skills workshop for clients of the centre that may be long-term unemployed or have never been employed.
The Cardinal Hume Centre works with Community homeless young people, refugees, We want to give those that most need asylum seekers and migrants by it opportunity and aspiration this helping them find employment and applies to the communities in which we break the cycle of homelessness and work and beyond.
We have a wealth of exclusion.
We helped them to learn talent and energy at SThree that can and develop key communication skills be harnessed to benefit communities and to develop their presence which local to our offices and we will Introduction will help them in future interviews and continue to partner with charities and allow them to feel more positive.
We believe that proper understanding community groups to facilitate this.
and management of our social and Fulfilling our community commitments 2010 also saw us working with the environmental impacts are important to influences the way we do business Paddington Academy a non-selective the continued success of our business.
and we hope they will contribute to our school in West London for 11 to 18 year As we focus on long term success, our continued success.
Our volunteering olds and offering our employees the CSR strategy, called Giving Something and fundraising policy underpins chance to volunteer at the academy.
Back, concentrates on tackling issues all the work we do for communities We have agreed a series of activities, that will have a sustained effect on our and enabled us to clearly state to the first being a teacher mentoring local and international communities, employees how they can get involved scheme for our senior managers.
our environment, our people and with our community work.
Whilst our policy developed in 2009 Activities that took place in 2010 outlines how employees can get We strive to be the best company include: involved in volunteering supported to work for and we cannot achieve by us or arranged by the individual, this without being a socially and Volunteering we now have online application environmentally responsible business.
Our main focus for any work we do forms and an approval process that Our global success will be increasingly in the community is young people, ensures everyone can benefit from the reliant on the breadth and effectiveness especially those classified as NEET experience.
Each permanent employee of our CSR programme and we now Not in Education, Employment or at SThree is entitled to two volunteer have a solid base linking people, Training.
To that end, we worked hard days per year that can be used to committees and policies to make this with Time & Talents to find ways of attend a volunteering activity.
programme an integral part of how we providing support to young people to run our business.
As a corporate partner of Time & Talents Westminster, we meet regularly Principles We continue to work closely with Time with other corporate, community In 2007, we defined our corporate social & Talents Westminster, a not for profit and third sector partners to share responsibility ambitions that underpin partnership enabling private, public and our collective experiences and work everything we do as follows: voluntary sector organisations to work together to build a strong network together to deliver effective Employer that will benefit each partner and Give those in the community that Supported Volunteering ESV.
We hosted an most need it opportunity and membership of this organisation employability working group in spring aspiration: gives us access to charities that are 2010 with the objective of setting the R espect the environment we live interested in employers providing agenda for any volunteering done in in: skilled volunteers that would take a lot this area within Westminster.
Give back to the people who of effort and time to achieve ourselves.
work so hard to make this a great Finally, 2010 also saw us partner with company.
Our ITJobBoard team worked with the University of Birmingham through Whizz-kids on their high profile Blue the funding of two scholarships Peter campaign.
The Marketing team focussed on raising the aspirations of What happened in 2010?
developed a marketing strategy for the talented students.
The funding will help Giving Something Back concentrates campaign and have subsequently been students from a background without on three areas: community, involved in the roll out of it.
SThree plc 40 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued for the year ended 28 November 2010 experience of higher education or where parents are not in professional occupations, to experience university life, while rewarding them for achieving excellent academic standards.
Fundraising Raising funds for charitable causes has always been important at SThree and we continued to fundraise for some great charities in 2010.
Our current charity partner, SOS Childrens Villages, has benefited from major fundraising events Dress Down Days and a prize draw at our annual Battersea Christmas party.
SOS Children provide homes for orphans and abandoned children worldwide and were chosen at the end of 2008 because of their young person focus and international scope.
As a growing international company, we wanted to have a charity partner that represented our network of offices around the world.
SThree employees taking part in the Dusseldorf Run4ideas We are very pleased to have raised our UK operations and implemented were compliant with the scheme when nearly 100,000 for SOS Children this individual carbon reduction plans it was first introduced in April 2010. year, when matched funding is taken for each UK office during 2010.
introducing technology to allow us Carbon footprint and energy to hold meetings and conferences management In support of SOS Childrens Villages via video links and the web, we will In late 2008, a strategic decision 60th anniversary celebrations, we continue to reduce the amount we was made to conduct a Companysponsored the purchase of flip travel and lessen our contribution to wide initiative to establish our cameras in support of their Our Africa worldwide CO2 emissions.
carbon footprint and reduce energy project.
consumption whilst also taking steps To measure and manage our carbon to increase recycling by 50%.
Adian We are very proud of this and are emissions in the UK, we continue to Consulting were engaged to manage looking forward to raising more in 2011 work with the energy consultancy, and deliver the project using a phased with our future focus being to enable Adian Consulting.
This will change the approach.
employees in each region to choose a way we manage energy at SThree and local charity to fundraise for and to have will lay the foundations for becoming Phase One looked into data availability an international network of community an energy efficient company in in relation to carbon emissions champions throughout the Group to the future.
Our carbon footprint is associated with office energy engage employees and ensure that we disclosed below.
efficiency, business travel and our maximise impact in this area.
In addition, waste Currently, less than 20% of FTSE management and utilities cost companies publish this figure although management were singled out for Environment this will undoubtedly increase with future consideration and action.
Phase the introduction of the UK Carbon Two verified preliminary findings and With 1,800 employees spread Reduction Commitment Energy identified opportunities for change.
across the globe, managing our Efficiency Scheme CRC.
Although Adian Consulting visited and surveyed environmental impact is a challenge we fall outside the requirements of nineteen SThree offices in the UK and one that we are fully committed CRC due to the amount of electricity and inspected landlords plant rooms, to.
We have started to measure and we use, we are pleased to say that we service equipment and installations.
reduce our carbon footprint throughout SThree plc 41 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued for the year ended 28 November 2010 The end goal of both phases was a minimise the impact of this travel on success in 2011.
We will be piloting a carbon footprint figure for our business the environment, we will be offsetting Woman in Management programme in the UK, with the findings as follows: all incentive-related travel through with the aim of increasing the number ClimateCare.
of female employees moving into The Companys UK carbon management roles and the number footprint was estimated at 2,423 Workplace, Values & Ethics of female managers being promoted tonnes for the year 2008 9: to senior roles.
Focus will also be on We want our people to thrive in the implementation of a consistent 85% 2,054 tonnes w as due to the workplace and consider it our method of measuring and monitoring building related energy usage: responsibility to provide an engaging, our diversity footprint.
supportive and safe environment that 15% 369 tonnes w as due to encourages them to make the best business travel excluding car use of their talents and personalities.
We welcome anyone with the skills and abilities to succeed and are Phase three of our carbon emissions committed to offering our employees a project ran throughout most of 2010 balance of professional development, and saw the implementation of benefits and rewards.
By not putting several energy saving and energy any restrictions on the type of people management initiatives across UK we recruit and by treating everyone offices.
The project will also see us equally, we have established a truly implement systems and processes to diverse workforce.
We regularly enable the in-house measurement of review our working practices to our carbon footprint in future years.
ensure that they meet the needs of As we make efforts to reduce our our employees and the cultures we carbon emissions as a Group, we are operate in.
committed to offsetting our footprint We will continue the roll out of the every year by investing in carbon health and safety project established Understanding our employees and reduction projects across the globe.
in the UK in 2009 to all international having highly engaged individuals offices as well as further developing who want to be part of our future is As we open more and more offices our online learning portal to deliver critical to achieving our goals.
To this globally, we will look to decrease the worldwide training programmes.
end, September 2010 saw the launch environmental impact of each new of the SThree Rapport Survey, our first office and will provide guidance to This year the Group redefined its employee engagement survey.
The employees on how they can take ambition and rolled out a Values survey objectives were to understand personal ownership of environmental programme designed to achieve it.
employee perceptions about working issues while at work.
The programme will systematically for SThree, identify levels of employee embed the values into every aspect engagement, highlight areas for Offsetting of the business and successful improvement in order to inform action implementation of these values will As a result of the carbon footprint planning and to use the survey data to help the Group attract, and retain, high project, we have started to implement drive change in the business.
In total, quality candidates, whilst driving high ways of managing our energy and 82% of our people participated, an performance across both sales and reducing our carbon emissions in the excellent response rate!
To add to our commitment to respecting the environment, we will The survey focused on 14 dimensions The Groups Ambition, Single invest in carbon reduction projects including External Customer Focus, Organising Thought and Values are through ClimateCare to offset our Leadership, Culture, Performance listed below: annual carbon footprint.
This means Management, Reward and Recognition that we will have invested around and Employee Engagement.
Managers Ambition: Our ambition is to be the 22,000 in projects in 2010. across the Group have shared the most respected and highly valued results with their teams and action international, specialised staffing We have taken a number of steps to plans have been created, with the next services business.
reduce the amount of business travel survey scheduled for September 2011. our employees make over the last Single organising thought: two years, although we are conscious Previously being awarded diversity Recognising and developing talent.
that this area still represents over accreditation was an important step for 10% of our carbon footprint figure.
To the Group and we want to build on that SThree plc 42 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued for the year ended 28 November 2010 Our values: RESPECT: Respect for yourself, team, company and clients ENERGY: Our relentless desire to succeed RAPPORT: Our ability to build trusted relationships with people REWARD: The joy of reaching our goals and achieving success The comprehensive programme will consist of training for all employees: office branding: a new reward scheme: updated HR policies: and an extensive communications campaign, all continuing into 2011.
In line with the above, the Group takes ethics extremely seriously and already has in place a Code of Business Employees from the SThree Singapore office at an incentive event Conduct and Fraud Response Policy, with work also well underway to evaluate how best to comply with the new UK Bribery Act.
As part of this, the Group already has in place a dedicated independent whistle blowing hotline, as part of the arrangements set up and monitored by the Audit Committee, so that employees are able to report any matters of concern, where this does not conflict with local laws or customs.
Alternatively matters may be reported via the Group HR Director or Group Company Secretary.
Summary We are well on track with our CSR programme and fully expect to make even greater progress during 2011.
Russell Clements Chief Executive Officer 28 January 2011 Children in the SOS Aleppo village, Syria, where an SThree employee completed a charity motorcycle ride SThree plc 43
