Corporate Responsibility Stobart Group takes its corporate and social responsibilities seriously.
The company has been responsible for numerous positive environmental initiatives and is widely active in the communities associated with its facilities.
Environmental Responsibility Stobart People Stobart Rail makes a major contribution to reducing carbon Stobart has excellent training programmes for all employees.
The pollution and road traffic.
Each year, compared with road transcompanys drivers training programme includes an on going port, Stobarts trains save 15,500 tonnes of CO, 14.9 million Level 2 NVQ in driving a Heavy Goods Vehicle, which 50% of Sto- 2 road miles and cuts fuel usage by 67 percent.
bart drivers have already successfully completed.
Every driver will have completed their CPC or equivalent training programme on At 83.7 percent, Stobarts load utilisation is the best in the SSOW Safe Systems of Work and SAFED Safe and Fuel Effihaulage industry, making journeys more economically and envicient Driving Skills by 31 August 2010.
SAFED will help to reduce ronmentally efficient.
the Groups carbon footprint and cut costs.
The new fleet of Scania trucks are all Euro 5 compliant.
More Cash incentives are offered for drivers who keep the revs in the than 88 percent of the current Stobart fleet complies to either green, maximise use of cruise control, cut wasteful engine idling Euro 4 or Euro 5 pollution regulations.
and minimise harsh use of brakes.
A new 18-tonne Volvo diesel-electric hybrid has been trialled As the Group has grown, so have the number of new employees, and will begin making deliveries from Stobarts Park Royal hub often integrated from other companies which the Group has purinto central London next year.
Each one is trained to understand the Stobart culture of The proposed new Enviro-Trailer, developed by Stobart and professionalism, good housekeeping and excellent standards of currently awaiting EU approval, will deliver much greater fuel-topresentation.
The Enviro-Trailer will reduce pollution and cut Stobart is committed to promoting from within and encourages the haulage industrys carbon footprint.
This new, more career development.
The Management Development Programme efficiently proportioned semi-trailer can offer up to a 13 percent MDP is creating and nurturing the future management team and increase in carrying capacity.
Several of Divisional DirecLess than a metre longer than a standard trailer tors started off as juniors within the business.
and actually shorter when the existing trailer has a forklift mounted on the back the Enviro-Trailer remains within the 44-tonne weight limit.
The new rear-wheel steering actually reduces road wear and improves manoeuvrability.
Fuel consumption is not increased, boosting efficiency.
With the new trailer already approved by MIRA, a proposal for its use is now before Government.
Stobarts Environmental transport offering is at the cutting edge of sourcing and distributing biomass fuels, a major factor in sustainable power generation.
Stobart Airs revamped airport at London Southend offers a 20-minute shorter air journey from mainland Europe than other London airports a 40-minute saving for a round trip, with commensurate reductions in fuel use and carbon emissions.
Stobart drivers get efficiency training to reduce their fuel use, saving the environment and reducing waste.
29 Stobart Group Limited Business Review Health and Safety Managing Risk Health and Safety is a key performance indicator.
In the past year, Commentary on our internal control and risk management is included there was an excellent safety performance record, with within the Corporate Governance Report on page 43, however, we accident incident rate at 0.53 2009: 0.43.
These figures are arrived have specifically identified the Climate Reduction Commitment at by dividing the number of RIDDORS by the number of hours Energy Efficiency Scheme, CRCEES, as a key consideration to our worked x100,000.
0.09 of the movement in the RIDDOR rate can be environmental approach.
explained by the extreme bad weather in January and February The legislative pressures are all aimed at encouraging compa- 2010.
By integrating safety systems we are confident all accidents nies to reduce the environmental impact of their activities by are correctly reported.
introducing and implementing good energy management Working Smarter-Working Safer initiative developed to include techniques, which complements the Group objectives of reducing poster and credit card campaign, Positive Performance Pyramid environmental waste and reducing its carbon footprint.
including workforce engagement to encourage the reporting of Further significant potential is offered by Stobart Biomass Products near misses in order to further reduce the number of RIDDORS Limited, which could provide impetus to develop bi or tri-generawithin the Group.
tion, utilising biomass as a fuel source, at a number of sites, Following a recent full site tour at our major 450,000 sq ft Daventry especially sites with chilled warehousing requirements.
Site, Northampton Fire Service commented how impressed they For any energy and environmental strategy to succeed, it is imporwere with the site controls implemented and the high operational tant to enlist the support and active participation of staff members standards attained.
to maximise the benefits of manual control, opportunity identificaThe dedication and commitment to Business Systems Quality tion and procedure implementation.
We therefore plan to promote within the Group has unified systems within the Divisions, ensuring and support an Energy and Environmental Strategy ESS, encomthat all sites and customer locations are audited on an, at least, passing KPIs, Action Plans and Information Dissemination.
Positive progress and improvements are evidenced at all depots, with compliance continuing to improve overall.
Audit Social Responsibility results have been aligned with Health and Safety to provide an overall balanced scorecard approach.
Stobart Group understands the importance of helping people both in our local communities and nationally, through sponsorship, donations and direct involvement.
We have a varied programme in place, with our Super Brand status playing a major part in supporting worthwhile charities such as local hospices and large charities such as Cancer Research.
Some examples of our achievements include: Auction of truck name at the Emerald and Ivory Ball in aid of Cancer Research, raising: 6,000 Support for local charitable trust race day, donation: 1,500 Support for Muscular Dystrophy campaign, donation: 8,000 Support for Cancer Research Ltd Marie Curie Cancer Care, donation: 8,000 Support for local hospices: 6,600 Stobart Group have supported the Madeleine McCann campaign by creating awareness of the campaign through the livery on one of the trailers tramping around the UK.
We sponsor Carlisle United FC and also their local school of excellence, which offers young people the opportunity to be part of the future their local football club.
In addition, we sponsor Widnes Vikings RLFC, supporting our presence in the community.
A Stobart Professor of Logistics has been created through a partnership with the University of Cumbria, launching a groundbreaking national project for logistics and transport.
Stobart Group brings its world-renowned brand and years of experience to the project.
Stobart Group also recognise the importance of offering young people the opportunity to learn about our activities.
As part of this positive drive, we are aiming to attract high calibre candidates aged between 16 and 18 to join Stobart Group as Apprentices.
