Synergy Health plc 35 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Corporate and Social Responsibility Synergy is committed to operating in a responsible and ethical way Ethical conduct throughout all areas of its business.
We have a strong belief that this We recognise that these goals cannot be achieved without a strong ethos should be transmitted into how we treat all our stakeholders commitment to being a fair and open partner with our employees, employees, customers, suppliers and the wider community.
We have recently published Our policies and procedures will be continuously developed a code of ethics which sets out our commitment to managing our to re ect these basic principles, throughout the organisation.
business in a responsible and fair way by: Setting clear standards of honesty and integrity on the way we deal Our ability to provide solutions to minimise the risk to patients and to with each other and all external stakeholders: raise standards remain key priorities in supporting the delivery of health related services.
We recognise that we must invest in the best people Respecting our employees and having zero tolerance of any form and technology to maintain and improve the world-class standards of racial, sexual or religious discrimination: already achieved.
Receiving an absolute commitment from our employees to behave This focus is maintained not only in decontamination services, which honestly in any dealings with their colleagues and all external is supplying millions of sterile instruments to operating theatres around stakeholders: the world, but in sterilisation services, healthcare solutions and linen Delivering the highest quality services and never deliberately management, providing vital support to frontline healthcare providers.
misleading or misinforming any client or customer: As such the effort to improve the quality of the services and products we supply is a constant imperative to the success of the Group.
Treating all information from customers, clients and suppliers as con dential: We describe in further detail how we strive to achieve these goals: Respecting and complying with the laws, traditions and cultures of all the countries we operate in and minimising any negative environmental impact by all practicable means: Protecting our investors by applying high standards of corporate governance and accountability: Having clear and unambiguous policies and procedures for employees to report breaches of the code.
The code is fully endorsed by the Group CEO and supported by the Board, and the Senior Executive Board of Synergy.
Therefore all employees are required to comply with its objectives when carrying out their duties for the Group and reporting instances when they feel the code has been breached.
A training and communication programme will be rolled out during the remainder of the year to ensure all employees across the Group are aware of their responsibilities under the code.
Risk management Risk management provides a tool that allows the Group to evaluate factors that could negatively impact the business.
It reduces the likelihood of supply disruption resulting in a more stable partnership between the Group and its employees, customers and suppliers which is essential given the services that we provide to hospitals and the wider health-related sector.
Through the Director of Risk Management a structure of risk management groups have been formed covering all the major areas of the business.
These groups are responsible for regularly reviewing and reporting to the Senior Executive Board on the changing risk pro le they face and its implications for the business.
This structure has been used proactively within the Group to identify, evaluate and reduce the risks to patients, customers and the business now for a number of years.
The Risk Management groups have operated throughout the year in each region and respond to the changing risk pro le by assessing any new challenges as they arise.
The terms of reference for the groups are to identify, assess, mitigate, monitor and report on the risks within their area of responsibility.
Those factors that present the highest risk are rapidly escalated to the Senior Executive Board where necessary.
36 Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Corporate and Social Responsibility In each of our regions these groups comprise of senior managers Health and safety from different disciplines, usually headed by the regional CEO, so all The introduction of the Corporate Manslaughter and Corporate potential risk factors can be considered.
Each group meets twice per Homicide Act 2007 in the UK emphasises the legal, in addition to year and produces a report that is circulated to all members of the the clear moral duty, we owe to our employees and anyone else who Senior Executive Board allowing comments and suggestions to be maybe affected by our activities.
Our Group Safety Standard has incorporated.
The report also contains a register of all risks that are been introduced to assist managers to understand and implement clearly ranked in order of potential to harm the business.
This system safe systems of work across the Group.
Core activities, such as hazard allows us to identify which risks need to be prioritised for action and assessment, manual handling, and contactor control, are seen as to mobilise our resources accordingly to reduce our exposure.
essential requirements in attaining a safe workplace and training has been provided to managers and other employees to further improve One key example of this process, in 2009, was our reaction to the performance.
potential threat of an in uenza pandemic where key members of the Risk Management groups were mobilised, using remote conferencing, To ensure that our facilities continue to run safely and our employees to rapidly draw up contingency plans in the event that the pandemic are not exposed to substances or conditions that may cause them would affect any of our operations.
harm, we implemented an independent audit system across our UK sites in 2009.
Every site was fully inspected and reports Quality management prepared that clearly identi ed where improvement was required.
To ensure that quality standards are not only maintained but wherever These improvements have been delegated to individual managers and possible improved an independent quality system has been developed regular checks made to monitor progress towards ensuring compliance.
Highly experienced quality management professionals To further embed the safety ethos, safety meetings with managers on work closely with their operational colleagues to implement documented regional and local levels have been held, which have identi ed action systems that comply with international standards.
A rigorous regime plans that will result in a more proactive approach to safety management.
of internal audits, designed to identify and rectify any weaknesses, Such meetings also foster a spirit of co-operation and help greatly with is carried out in support of the system.
The audits also provide the the introduction of best practice ideas and techniques.
opportunity to implement best practice and reduce non-compliance rates to the lowest practicable levels possible.
We have also been working closely with our insurance providers who can bring a wealth of experience to solving work related health and Synergy clearly recognises the long-term success of the Group safety issues.
We welcome this additional assistance and see it as an depends on its ability to consistently provide services of the highest example of how organisations can work together for the advantage quality.
It is only by constantly challenging our current performance that of both parties.
we will continue to capture market share in an increasingly competitive trading environment.
Last year this approach resulted in a number of Over the past 12 months, business units have been required to collect successful new business projects including: and report on accidents, and incidents which are reviewed each month by the Senior Executive Board.
This allows us to focus attention on The transfer of decontamination services at the King George Hospital those areas which require remedial action.
at Redbridge: By initiating a new vehicle driver management programme we have The development of a new suite of infection control products almost halved the number of vehicle accidents resulting in an insurance including Azo Max Active, which in an independent clinical trial claim.
We are currently working with another of our insurers to provide at the Manchester Royal In rmary signi cantly outperformed the more one-to-one training for our commercial vehicle drivers, to promote current gold standard product.
These innovative offerings improve patient safety at the point of delivery Our objective is to improve accident and incident reporting this year so by helping to maintain the cleanest possible environment and reducing we can make further improvements to the way we respond to any acute the spread of infections such as MRSA, combined with our low defect or chronic safety related problems at an early stage.
This will include rates this illustrates our ability to deliver the highest level of service to extending accident reporting at all sites outside the UK and Ireland healthcare providers.
region, which will allow us to benchmark performance across the whole Our stated strategy is to expand geographically and introduce our Group and implement global solutions.
services to a wider market in Europe and particularly Asia and Africa.
Whilst most of the above activity has been focused in the UK and This commitment to quality was demonstrated when our site at Ireland there have also been inspections and audits of sites in the Suzhou became the first decontamination facility in China to be Netherlands, Germany and South Africa based on the Group Safety accredited to ISO 13485 and ISO 9001.
We will operate all new Standard.
There is a clear commitment within the Group to extend this facilities in accordance with international standards e. g. ISO 9001, process and ensure that all our businesses are operating to a common ISO 11137, to ensure all healthcare providers can expect products standard that will either match or exceed any local legal requirements.
and services delivered to the same high quality as we provide in our We remain determined that all our employees should be afforded the existing operations.
highest levels of protection from work-related injury irrespective of the geographical location of their workplace.
Synergy Health plc 37 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 We continue to recognise and invest in the safety and welfare of our We plan to provide training for our drivers in 2010, which will not only employees who remain our most important asset.
The active participation improve awareness on the road, but also modify their behaviour towards of our employees in risk assessment and the maintenance of a safe driving in a way that reduces fuel consumption and vehicle wear and workplace are also recognised as key components in the ongoing tear.
This training is conducted in partnership with our motor insurers development of a world-class Group.
These areas will be developed and again re ects the inter-company co-operation that is a growing further over the next 12 months with increased training for our trend in the modern business environment of partnerships formed managers who carry the day-to-day responsibility for implementation for mutual bene t. of the Group Safety Policy.
Our employees The environment We acknowledge that our employees represent the Groups principal Over the past 12 months by carefully managing the demand for energy, asset and that its continued success is intrinsically linked to attracting and controlling our emissions to air, land and water, we have striven to and retaining talented and committed people.
We also recognise that improve our environmental performance.
We have sought to do this the opportunity for all employees to develop their individual skills and by a combination of actions: sourcing the most ef cient energy rated talents and build a career within the Group is a key factor in realising equipment reducing the carbon impact of our products: using recycled our recruitment goals.
Our Human Resources Department works closely materials where possible: and sharing best practice, technological with managers and employees to meet their aspirations for personal and operational, across the Group.
Overall, across the Group on a growth and improvement which bene ts them and the Company.
like-for-like basis, we reduced our CO2 emissions by 1.6% avoiding Last year our focus was on: the release of 693 tonnes of carbon dioxide.
On a Group wide basis we have targeted an initial reduction in energy consumption of 5% for the Engaging and developing employees at all levels in the Group, through: forthcoming year.
Listening to the workforce through employee forums and employee works councils, where the majority of our employees are now Our further commitment to these objectives is clearly demonstrated represented.
A target of 100% representation has been set for at our newest ethylene oxide sterilisation plant at Suzhou in China.
the end of financial year 2010 11.
It utilises a state of the art catalytic converter designed to remove toxic gasses from the process exhaust.
This environmentally friendly Development of a Senior Leadership Community, including regular technology has been installed in China despite the fact that local webinars to keep all involved, cross company projects pulling in regulations would permit us to operate at lower cost without it.
leaders from across the business, providing a vehicle for the cascade We, however, recognise our long-term responsibility to protect the of information.
environment and to minimise the impact of our operations, and Skills development for supervisors in decontamination, a bespoke expect that our customers will also recognise this value.
development programme to enhance the Team Leader and Following detailed analysis of utilities consumption at our existing Supervisor skills 75% of the target population have now been facilities, we have designed more energy ef cient equipment and through the programme and the remaining 25% will be completed infrastructure for the new decontamination services units that we in 2010. are currently constructing.
This will enable us to further reduce both Developing and embedding a strategic approach to talent management our consumption and operating costs.
and the emerging leaders, through: In the UK we are well underway with arrangements to comply with Implementing a systematic approach to identifying and assessing our obligations under the Carbon Reduction Act 2008 and the CRC organisational capability through the annual Organisation Capability Energy Ef ciency Scheme.
This begins its three year introductory phase Review process, which has resulted in 50% of critical roles being with the Footprint Year which runs from April 2010 to March 2011. lled by internal candidates.
The scheme will provide positive incentives for responsible organisations Focusing on the individual development of identi ed talent, through that reduce their environmental impact and we are dedicated to board quarterly talent reviews.
For the year we have achieved a reduction in the UK on a like-for-like business basis on CO2 emissions of 5.5%.
Continuing investment in developing the knowledge base of managers, through the Chartered Management Programme and the Warwick By careful management of our UK car eet we have reduced the Business School management development programmes.
number of company cars by more than 20% targeting the disposal of older less fuel ef cient vehicles.
We have also revised our procurement Ensuring a pipeline of future managers via our Graduate Management policies such that no new company cars with emissions greater than Training Programme, through: 140g CO2 per kilometre will be supplied and we would hope to reduce A continuing commitment to recruiting and developing high calibre this gure further in future years as more environmentally friendly graduates who undertake a structured 17 month training programme.
The successful development of graduates from our 2008 intake, in Our van eet has also been updated in 2009 and new vehicles order that they can take up positions in China in the autumn of 2010, employing stop start technology are being introduced.
As many of as part of our Asian growth plans.
these run in highly urbanised areas this feature should contribute to reducing eet emissions.
We have also begun to explore the possible Community support introduction of zero emissions electric powered commercial vehicles, The Group encourages all its businesses to work with local charities.
although currently these do not meet our operational requirements.
The Group supports fundraising events for community projects We will continue to actively monitor developments in this area.
