Business review Performance Managing environmental impacts Communities Managing environmental impacts is very important at Tate&Lyle.
Environmental risks are included in the Tate & Lyle aims to play a positive role in all the communities Group-wide risk management process, and are reviewed in which we operate.
Over the years we have developed a and assessed regularly.
Further information on the risk Group-wide community involvement policy that forms one management process is on page 45. of the core components underpinning our ethical behaviour.
This involves building long-term relationships with local Measuring data partners to deliver a shared objective: establishing strong, We collect detailed data and report results from each safe and healthy communities by investing time and operating unit quarterly, using a comprehensive system.
resources into projects that directly address local needs.
The data is then aggregated to create a single set of environmental performance indices for the Group, adjusted Overview to take account of acquisitions and disposals.
Many of our employees participate in our community partnership programmes.
Our community involvement Management systems benefits our employees by enhancing the local community, Environmental management is integrated into operational offering significant personal development opportunities systems, training and monitoring activities, and enforced and making Tate & Lyle a company for which they are through a robust reporting system.
We have a documented proud to work.
Group Crisis Management System, which enables an Each year we support around 200 organisations, ranging effective and professional response to incidents of a serious from long-established charities to fledgling community and or urgent nature.
The system also covers Tate & Lyles organisations.
Community support takes many forms, response to third-party crises that could have a significant depending on the needs of the organisation.
It includes impact on our business.
funding, employee volunteering, consultancy, donation of products and equipment, and, for selected partners, free Training use of the Companys warehousing, office accommodation Employees receive regular training on managing and meeting room facilities.
environmental impacts and changes in legislation, so that they are always aware of important and relevant issues.
Operating units have environmental management committees Charitable donations that meet regularly to monitor progress against agreed Our Corporate Donations Committee oversees community improvement targets.
It selects projects that target local needs and deliver the most positive impact, and ensures that our community work reflects our broader responsibilities Customers and suppliers as a company.
Our guidelines for funding and support are: We work closely with our customers to ensure our systems meet their requirements.
n education 50%: We also brief all on-site contractors about key environmental n envir onment 25%: issues to ensure that we are managing our environmental n health 15%: and impact effectively.
In the financial year to 31 March 2010, Tate & Lyles total Investing in renewable energy sources worldwide charitable donations were 714,000 2009 Energy use is very important to us.
Not only is it a big 699,000 and total global pro bono contribution in goods contributor to our overall carbon footprint, but it is one of and services was estimated at 235,000 2009 221,000. the most significant costs in our business.
To help reduce energy costs and improve our environmental performance, we are developing technology to use renewable energy Actual community spend by allocation sources.
For example, our biomass boiler at our London Year ended 31 March 2010 sugar refinery is designed to supply up to 70% of the sites energy requirements.
Arts 8% Health Outlook 15% We have formulated an action plan for 2010 designed to manage our impact on the environment.
Specific actions include: Education 56% n r educing energy and water usage per unit of production Environment 21% and minimising all waste produced by our processes through continued focus on efficient operation at all times, supported where beneficial by capital investment: n actively working to eliminate any incidence of noncompliance with environmental permits: and n continued evaluation of our primary carbon footprint across the Group and the achievement of associated reductions through the use of benchmarking and best practice.
36 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2010 We support many initiatives and organisations involved in community regeneration all round the world.
Here is a selection from each of the UK and the USA.
UK n Community Links: a local charity working to r egenerate the area of Newham in east London n Community Food Enterprise: a social enterprise impr oving community access to affordable fresh fruit and vegetables in east London n Richar d House Childrens Hospice: Londons first hospice for terminally-ill children, which we have supported since it was founded in 1996 n T ate Britain: supporting art projects for children at this London gallery n East London Business Alliance ELBA : we ar e a founder member of this regeneration agency for east London, which connects business to local people, public and community partners to enable social and economic change.
We support ELBAs initiative to capture long-term benefits from London hosting the 2012 Olympic Games.
USA n Educational institutions: including Millikin University, Purdue University, the University of Illinois, and Richland Community College n Decatur Park District: we fund a number of youth activities as well as annual park district events that provide recreational opportunities for the entire community n Decatur Community Foundation: we ar e a founder member of this organisation created in 2000 to provide an endowment to support a broad range of programmes that benefit the Decatur, Illinois community.
Employee volunteering Tate & Lyle employees around the world make great efforts to support their local communities.
Their involvement is vital to maintain good, long-term relationships.
Our employees join local committees, advocate their causes and provide mentoring and business skills.
Volunteering also brings benefits to Tate&Lyle.
Employees tell us that they benefit hugely from community work, which helps them develop their skills and become more rounded as individuals.
Further information on some of our employees volunteering activities around the world can be found on our website, www.
Outlook We continue to encourage our employees around the world to get involved in supporting their communities.
In 2010, we will be focusing our spend more closely to ensure it is used in areas where it can be most beneficial.
Find out more about Tate & Lyle at www.
com Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2010 37 Shareholder information Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
