Business review Performance Managing safety Outlook Maintaining a consistently safe and healthy workplace for our We were saddened to learn that shortly before this report people requires effective, proactive management.
We operate was published, a fatality occured at our joint-venture plant in network safety committees in the Americas and Europe that Turkey.
The Board has been informed and a full investigation share knowledge and experience between plants with the is under way.
aim of ensuring consistently high standards of safety across While our employee safety record is good, we want every site Tate&Lyle.
In order to maintain consistency across The core elements of our approach to safety are: Tate & Lyles plants and operations, safety leaders from across the Group have developed a new strategic global safety plan n an incr eased focus on the human and behavioural aspects for the Group.
Going forward, we will measure ourselves of safety: annually against world-class safety performance indicators, n utilization of the networking concept to make ef fective use improving the co-ordination, scope and presentation of of available resources: safety reporting data to help us identify issues and events in n impr oved communications on issues of safety throughout advance.
Contractor safety and physical behavioural auditing the Group: and safety training will continue to be areas of focus in 2010. n sharing of best practice, including the use of leading By implementing the global indicators and promoting the indicators: active involvement of management, employees and n auditing of safety and loss contr ol programmes: and contractors in our safety efforts, we aim to improve safety n active involvement of Company executives to pr omote and performance further and come closer to world-class safety audit safety programmes.
Projects and activities Our network safety committees and their task forces Environment undertook a wide range of safety projects in 2009.
Some examples include: Tate & Lyle believes that companies must take steps to manage their impact on the environment.
As a consequence n Gr oup-wide behavioural auditing and training.
During 2009, we are committed to conducting our business in a our operations in the Americas introduced a new five-step manner that is sensitive to the environmental needs of employee training programme called SafeStart: the communities within which we operate.
This aim will n use of a thir d-party and insurance audit teams to review be achieved by upholding defined, key environmental Occupational Safety and Health Administration and standards in all of our operations, and we actively regulatory compliance, and fire protection programme: encourage our business partners to demonstrate similar n sustained ef forts to keep the families of employees levels of commitment.
involved in the overall safety process through promotional items, contests, and safety days: Overview n ongoing use of r ecognition and award programmes to Managing our impacts to produce a more positive result is identify and reward outstanding safety performance and good for the environment and also brings economic benefits mark safety milestones: and to Tate & Lyle.
When reviewing our environmental footprint, n continued work in managing and monitoring contractors, we focus on those impacts which have most effect on the along with on-site contractor training.
environment and over which we have direct control.
Our three most significant environmental impacts are, in order Awards of magnitude, energy use, water use and non-hazardous Tate & Lyle runs a number of annual, Group-wide safety solid waste production.
Energy use is by far our most awards.
To qualify for entry into our Global Safety awards significant impact, and therefore has highest priority.
In programme, plants must operate the entire year without lost recent years, we have also reported our carbon footprint, time, and meet other world-class safety criteria.
Winners in an increasingly important global measure of overall 2009 were: environmental performance.
n Lar ge plant over 250,000 employee hours per year : Tate & Lyles environmental policy applies to all our locations, Amylum Nisasta Turkey and fully integrates environmental management into their n Small plant fewer than 250,000 employee hours per year : operational systems and procedures.
The Board reviews the Plaistow UK.
policy and environmental performance annually.
The policy can be found on our website, www.
Our Flagship awards are made by the US and European Safety Committees on a divisional level.
Winners in 2009 calendar year results 2009 were: We focus our measurement and improvement efforts on the n US Asia lar ge plant: Singapore areas with the greatest environmental and financial impact.
Compared to 2008 figures, and using normalised indices for n Eur ope large plant: Amylum Nisasta Turkey consumption per unit of finished product output, our results n Small plant: Dayton, Ohio USA.
for the 2009 calendar year were: n ener gy consumption remained the same: n water consumption decr eased by 4%: and n non-hazar dous solid waste production decreased by 24%.
Although we did not meet our target of a per-unit 3% reduction in energy consumption in 2009, we are pleased to report that we have reduced both water consumption and waste production per unit of output, following increases in 2008.
34 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2010 Carbon footprint Environment key performance indicators This is a measure of the impact that a person, organization or product has on the environment in terms of the amount of Group energy index carbon dioxide produced during a given period or product cycle.
Calculating our total carbon footprint helps us to manage our overall environmental impact and benchmark our performance year on year.
0.79 0.79 0.79 Primary carbon footprint Primary carbon footprints measure the carbon associated with production from the point of arrival of raw materials at specific sites to the point of departure of products from those sites, and covers emissions generated through the combustion of fossil fuels and from transportation within our sites.
Tate & Lyles primary carbon footprint in the 2009 calendar year across all its large sites was 0.39 tonnes of CO per 2 tonne of production.
This represents a 2.5% reduction from 07 08 09 0.40tonnes in the 2008 calendar year.
Our primary carbon footprint figures for 2007 0.39 and 2008 0.33, as disclosed in last years annual report, have been restated on a like-forGroup water index like basis with 2009.
Secondary footprint Secondary carbon footprints include indirect as well as 0.84 0.81 0.81 direct carbon dioxide emissions from the entire lifecycle of a product or service, including those associated with product manufacture and eventual breakdown.
Retail sugar Raw cane sugar milling is almost carbon neutral.
Cane grows in the field, waste fibre powers the factory and the cane re-grows each year, often up to five times without the need for replanting.
It is then transported by ship to Tate & Lyles refineries in London and Lisbon, a mode of transport that 07 08 09 produces very small levels of CO emissions per tonne.
2 In 2008 our Sugars business began a 12-month project to measure the secondary carbon footprint of its refining Group non-hazardous solid waste index business, from cane field to supermarket and on to consumer use and disposal.
The business received official accreditation of the results of this study from the UKs Carbon Trust in July 1.65 2009.
The carbon footprint of our retail cane sugar is 380g of CO per 1kg bag significantly less than that of beet sugar.
2 Tate & Lyle granulated sugar packs started carrying the 1.26 Carbon Reduction Label from September 2009.
We believe 1.02 that we are the first to receive independent accreditation and display our carbon footprint on retail sugar packs.
Other sugar products We have also calculated and gained accreditation for the business-to-business carbon footprint for some of our UK-based bulk sugar products to enable our customers 07 08 09 to estimate the footprint of their own products when using Tate& Lyle ingredients.
Since the majority of our products are 1 Primary carbon footprint shipped in bulk, business-to-business footprints are the same Tonnes of CO per tonne of production 2 as the secondary footprint, less the carbon dioxide associated with packing materials and packing materials waste.
0.40 0.40 0.39 Violation, abatement and compliance orders The vast majority of our operations completed 2009 without significant incident.
Where Tate&Lyle inadvertently contravened regulations, we reacted immediately with an action plan to correct the problem.
07 08 09 The smaller the index, the better the performance.
1 The primary carbon footprint of Tate & Lyles large sites.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2010 35 Shareholder information Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
