vocational rehabilitation can have benefits n Communications: we ar e developing a for both the employee and the employer.
campaign to educate employees better After the end of the financial year, in April 2010, about the wellness programmes and services the Government introduced the new Fit Note, available to them.
a new medical statement from doctors that allows them to advise patients how they might Volunteering be able to work with the right support, rather Many employees across Tate & Lyle contribute than simply saying they should or should not their own time and money to charitable work.
This is in line with Tate & Lyles vocational enterprises and local concerns.
We support rehabilitation policy which was introduced in them with donations: every year we match 2000.
The adoption of this practice has proved funds raised for charity by our employees, and extremely effective in reducing sickness give donations to local community projects absence and expediting employee recovery our employees are involved in.
We also from illness and injury.
encourage employees to take part by promoting volunteering across Tate & Lyle and celebrating the work they do.
Further information on how We give people opportunities we support our local communities is on pages 36 and 37. and challenges to stretch themselves and make the most of External environment their potential.
Competition The bulk starch market, within which our food We also share elements of our programme with and industrial ingredients businesses compete, is partners.
For example, we have helped two concentrated around a relatively small number of community partners with absence management large participants who operate in many different training and advice, and we host regular visits application areas, including food, beverage, from groups of trainee GPs and doctors from paper and pharmaceuticals.
The USA accounts Occupational Health Diploma courses to help for over half of global starch production.
Our their understanding of occupational health main competitors in the USA for corn wet in a factory environment.
We also offer work milling and starch-based products are Archer experience for trainee occupational health nurses Daniels Midland Company ADM, Corn Products from South Bank and Brunel Universities.
National Starch part of Akzo Nobel N. V. is also a competitor, particularly Europe in relation to some higher-value modified food Many of our mainland Europe plants offer similar and industrial starches.
Penford Corporation health programmes to the UK.
These include: is a competitor in the North American paper Company-sponsored fitness programmes: health starch industry.
and wellbeing awareness campaigns: healthy menu options in employee restaurants: and In Europe our main competitors are Cargill, Syral annual health and fitness check-ups.
part of Tereos, Roquette Frres, Danisco, Kerry and National Starch.
USA Competition for our European sugar business Tate & Lyle continues to provide programmes comes mainly from British Sugar a subsidiary and tools to help employees become better of Associated British Foods plc, Sdzucker, informed consumers of their own healthcare Nordzucker and Tereos.
services, as well as encouraging them to adopt healthy lifestyles.
Some examples of our Governmental regulation programmes include: Some of the markets in which Tate & Lyle n Blue Points system: we of fer this web-based operates are subject to significant influence system to all employees via our healthcare from legislation or regulation.
It provides a platform for employees EUSugar Regime is most relevant to Tate & Lyle to initiate and track healthy behaviours.
and affects our European sugar and corn Employees earn points for meeting certain processing operations.
health targets, which can be redeemed online In the USA, the main regulation is the Renewable for health-related items.
Fuel Standard programme, which requires that n Health risk self-assessment: we encourage gasoline sold contains a minimum volume of fuel employees to complete this online selffrom renewable sources, and affects our corn assessment, which is then reviewed by processing operations in the USA, including medical experts from our healthcare provider.
These experts then give feedback and recommendations to employees.
n Health and fitness: many plants of fer exercise facilities or Company-sponsored fitness programmes.
n Stopping smoking weight management: employees enrolled in the Blue Cross Blue Shield health plan have access to various programmes either to help stop smoking or to manage their weight: this includes discounts with various weight management firms.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2010 15 Shareholder information Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
