Business review What we do Training and development People Our employees are vital to the success of our business.
It is a key objective for the Group to Running a diverse business like Tate & Lyle, which attract and retain top-quality talent, and to ensure develops, manufactures and sells a wide variety that our employees develop and grow in their roles of products and services to customers in different and meet new challenges as their careers progress.
markets across the world, relies on a team of highly skilled, motivated people from a wide We run a series of international programmes to range of disciplines.
develop management skills and share management ideas across the Group, as well as for graduate To attract and retain the best people, Tate & Lyle trainees.
As part of the changes announced must be a place where people want to work.
following the review of the Group, we will be For us this is about giving people opportunities considering how our training and development and challenges to stretch themselves and make programmes most effectively support a the most of their potential: clear direction and performance-driven culture.
inspirational leadership: and a supportive working environment.
Remuneration We review our remuneration policies regularly in New leadership light of market trends, the needs of the business This financial year saw changes in the leadership and the prevailing economic environment.
Javed Ahmed became Chief policies are designed to attract, retain and reward Executive in October 2009, and Rob Luijten joined employees with the ability and experience needed as Group HR Director in February 2010.
Along with to execute the Groups strategy.
This year, in light the organisational changes explained in the Chief of the strategic changes to the business explained Executives review, their priority for employees in the Chief Executives review, the Remuneration will be to develop a stronger performance-driven Committee has set out a new policy and strategy culture throughout the Company.
This change for executive remuneration to focus more closely process was already underway as we published this on performance, and this is explained in the annual report and is focusing on values, behaviours Directors remuneration report.
We will be looking and HR processes across the world, to align these at similar principles in reviewing remuneration more closely with performance and results.
policy throughout the Company in due course.
Employees Communications We cover a wide geographical area and our people Good communication is essential if employees encompass a broad range of skills and disciplines are to understand and embrace the Companys in areas such as food science, sales and marketing, goals and objectives.
To be effective, engineering and support services.
At 31 March 2010, communication must be two-way, and Tate & Lyle employed 5,666 people across the Tate&Lyle actively encourages employee Group.
The average number of employees in the involvement and feedback.
One of our principal Group during the year is given in Note 9 on page 74. channels is the Group-wide quarterly magazine, The following charts show the split of employees which includes Company information and by the four existing business divisions, and news as well as covering contributions from by geography.
Other channels for consulting and informing employees include e-mail, the intranet, briefings and management roadshows.
Employees by division Employees by geography As at 31 March 2010 As at 31 March 2010 Sucralose Asia Paci c Health and wellbeing 4% 11% We aim to lead the way in employee health.
Latin Programmes differ across the Group according Sugars America Europe, Middle to local needs, but all are based on the principle 26% Food & Industrial 12% East & Africa Ingredients, that the Company has a role to play in helping 43% Americas employees improve their health by providing 44% information, advice and other support on health and wellbeing.
Our long-term goal is to raise North America the standards of employee health and wellbeing Food & Industrial 34% throughout Tate & Lyle, through sharing best Ingredients, Europe 26% practice and ideas across the Company and with healthcare partners.
Equal opportunities UK We believe in equal opportunities regardless of Tate & Lyles nurse-led occupational health gender, sexual orientation, age, marital status, programme emphasises education and prevention disability, race, religion or other beliefs and ethnic and has often been referred to as a model for other or national origin.
Our policies, practices and businesses and public sector organisations in the regulations for recruitment, training and career UK.
Key initiatives include educating employees development promote equality of opportunity while in health and wellbeing, and providing vocational being appropriate for the relevant market sector rehabilitation as an alternative to sickness absence and country of operation.
Our aim is to encourage certificates, as well as health promotion activities, a culture in which all employees have the an occupational health clinic, advice on healthy opportunity to develop fully according to their eating, and counselling services.
individual abilities and the needs of the Group.
The Group remains committed to the fair treatment Tate & Lyle has long understood the benefits of of people with disabilities regarding applications, trying to help employees return to work as soon as training, promotion and career development.
is practical after an illness or accident.
Early return An employee who becomes disabled would, to work in a well managed workplace through where appropriate, be offered retraining.
