Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Directors Report: Business Review Our Corporate Responsibility approach As a major homebuilder we have social, ethical, environmental and economic responsibilities that we take extremely seriously.
We believe that addressing corporate Highlights from the 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report responsibility makes sound financial sense for our Company and is an essential part of good governance.
Our 2010 Corporate Achievements in 2010 Responsibility CR Report sets out our approach to and performance on the wide Our Raploch development in Scotland won a series of awards for community range of CR issues that are relevant to engagement and skills and training at the Homes for Scotland Quality Awards ourbusiness.
An overview of the report is and the Scottish Home Awards.
What we do Monarch Corporation was ranked best housebuilder for customer satisfaction The report reviews our approach to CR in three sections.
The first section in Ottawa by JD Power and named 2010 Home Builder of the Year by the looks at our overall response to CR and Building Industry and Land Development Association.
This includes details on our CR and sustainability management structure, identification of risks and Taylor Morrison was named Volume Builder of the Year and received a total opportunities, stakeholder management of 19 awards in the Greater Houston Builders Associations Houston Best and our response to climate change.
Our homes and communities The second section focuses on our Site manager Mike Crawford came second in the large category of the Supreme commitment to building sustainable homes and communities and our aim to Winners Awards at the NHBC Pride in the Job Awards.
We received a total of achieve high levels of build quality and two Regional Awards, 17 Seals of Excellence and 55 Quality Awards.
The key areas of focus in this section are design, engaging with communities, environmental sustainability, Our groundbreaking Evergreen community in Toronto, Canada won awards enhancing economic growth and customer care.
for building innovation and excellence as well as green marketing at the EnerQuality Awards for Excellence.
Design We strive to build appealing and affordable homes and to create communities where With our consortium partners, we received outline planning permission for our customers will enjoy living.
Design is Cranbrook, a major new low carbon urban settlement near Exeter in Devon.
about architecture and landscape, but it is also about environmental, social and Building will start in 2012. economic sustainability.
There is a wide range of issues that we consider when We developed a UK Waste and Resources Strategy and Action Plan in designing communities.
2010 after an in-depth analysis of all waste streams identified significant Engaging with communities opportunities for cost savings and environmental benefits from improved We seek to be a good neighbour and resource use.
to engage with local communities and other stakeholder groups.
Community consultation is an important part of the We completed the first prototypes of our new UK house type range planning process for UK housebuilding during 2010 and undertook research to explore consumer perceptions and will become even more significant with the governments new Localism of the new range.
We have a strong track record of consultation when developing larger scale communities, such as our Raploch development in Stirling, Scotland and For more information see our online CR report we are ensuring that this knowledge www.
com  CRreports and expertise is transferred across our 26 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Directors Report: Directors Report: Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Directors Report: Business Review Stakeholder engagement business.
We want to be an organisation The way we work which listens, responds and ultimately The third section looks at the way we We aim to be a responsible homebuilder delivers local requirements in the most manage our business in the areas and to listen to the opinions and ideas appropriate way.
of human resources, health, safety of our stakeholders.
We have identified and environment and supply chain our stakeholders as: Environmental sustainability management.
We have a strong track record in Investors delivering energy efficient homes and Employees Customers communities with a wide range of We seek to develop our employees Employees sustainability features.
As a Company, we potential and help them to progress are committed to building energy efficient through our Company.
We strive to treat Residents and other groups in the and sustainable homes and communities.
employees fairly and with respect, and to communities in which we operate We engage regularly with government, provide a safe place for them to work.
We Suppliers, sub-contractors and other industry bodies and other organisations seek to identify and develop their skills business partners with regard to sustainability issues.
We are and talents, further improving the already Local, regional and national government in dialogue with these stakeholder groups high calibre of our workforce.
Landowners and land agents about the financial viability, technical Health, safety and environment Planners and regulators feasibility and other implications of the We are committed to providing a safe Code for Sustainable Homes.
Our aim is Housing associations place in which our employees and to help government to create practical and Trade associations and industry bodies sub-contractors can work and to high achievable policies that increase energy standards of environmental management.
Charities, NGOs and other groups efficiency and lower carbon emissions.
During 2010, we maintained our focus interested in sustainable homes and Having undertaken considerable research on health and safety and it continues communities into delivering energy efficient homes, we to be a non-negotiable top priority for We regularly and proactively engage with believe that a fabric first solution is the our Group.
We also take environmental our stakeholder groups and maintain an most practical and affordable approach.
We have extremely thorough investor relations This means focusing on improving the a comprehensive and fully integrated energy efficiency of the building fabric programme.
Members of our senior health, safety and environmental HSE an area in which we have considerable management team represent the Company management system in place in the expertise before considering on site on a wide range of government, industry and UK.
In North America, Taylor Morrison renewable energy.
other committees and steering groups.
has a company-wide health and Enhancing economic growth safety programme while environmental We recruit the majority of our office and management is tackled at a Divisional level site workers from the areas in which due to differences in regional legislation.
In the UK, we also provide Supply chain management We value feedback and welcome affordable housing and contribute Suppliers and sub-contractors play comments on our Corporate significant sums to infrastructure and a vital role in helping us to build high Responsibility Report or any community facilities through planning quality homes and communities for aspect of our approach to obligations.
We are involved in a range of our customers.
We strive to work in corporate responsibility.
regeneration schemes that are creating partnership with our suppliers and subvibrant new communities on formerly Please e-mail us at: contractors, and to treat them fairly and rundown or disused land.
We aim to do business with our larger developments integrate retail CRreport@taylorwimpey.
com those who understand and aspire to our and office space that provide additional business aims and values Or write to: employment opportunities for local people.
The Group Company Secretary The 2010 report is our fourth annual Customer care Taylor Wimpey plc CR Report as Taylor Wimpey plc.
It We focus on continually improving our 80 New Bond Street demonstrates our work and achievements standards of customer care and our during the period from 1 January to London customer experience.
One key area for 31 December 2010 and the full report W1S 1SB the UK in 2010 was ensuring compliance is available online from 30 March 2011 with the Consumer Code.
All relevant On 28 March 2011 the Companys at http: www.
com employees, including Board members, Registered Office will move to  CRreports attended a detailed one day briefing Gate House, Turnpike Road, session.
We also set up an induction High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire, programme for new employees and are HP12 3NR.
monitoring compliance with the Code.
com  CRreports 27 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
