Our people at a glance As we grow our business were developing our people to become leaders for the future.
People Improved attendance levels put an additional four million hours 472,000 4m into UK stores and depots in shares awarded China Graduate under Shares In 98m Success scheme Programme recruiting tomorrows of our people leaders today have a personal 195,000 stake in Tesco We believe that businesses perform best when they are run by local people for local customers.
of people on However, we also understand the importance of the boards of sharing knowledge and experience around the our international Group.
Our China Graduate Programme helps businesses balance both these requirements whilst ensuring are local to that we recruit top talent for the future to grow 50% that country with the business.
Each year we recruit a small number of highNew graduates recruited this year potential graduates who are fluent in both English and Mandarin.
The graduates spend seven months being trained, supported and developed in the UK before taking up a specific role in China.
As with all our graduates, we are committed to equipping these individuals with both the technical and leadership skills they will need to 810 progress through the business.
This unique scheme has been running for four years now and is gaining a strong reputation amongst university leavers.
Last year we attracted almost 1,000 applicants for just 12 places.
Previous years graduates have gone on to managerial roles across a variety of functions in China.
UK 183 International 627 32 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Our business Our people No-one tries harder for customers Our people are crucial to our success Our Values are No-one tries harder Despite the tough global market in Last year we had more people on for customers and We treat 2009 we continued to invest in pay development programmes than people how we like to be treated.
These values are interlinked and on our core rates and in a tough financial year our pay competitiveness underpin everything we do at We have continued to develop our Tesco.
We know that by managing improved in most markets.
apprenticeship training in the UK.
our people well in a culture of Since 2004, 83% of the employees trust and respect they will in turn In many developing markets, who embarked on the scheme have try their hardest for customers.
employees place most value on good been awarded an Apprenticeship in basic pay and being paid fairly for Retail Skills equating to five GCSEs By offering competitive pay and overtime and these are our priorities.
at grades A to C. This training is benefits and an opportunity to In Malaysia, for example, where there completed entirely in the workplace.
develop a long-term varied career is no legal minimum wage, the with good training, we are able to minimum a Tesco employee will The first 17 students to complete the keep our people motivated, committed receive is 30% more than the Poverty Tesco Foundation Degree graduated and excited about working at Tesco.
In Thailand this year we in July.
The Foundation Degree in In the UK, for example, in our internal introduced a staff discount linked Retail delivered and awarded by Viewpoint staff survey this year, to Clubcard.
Manchester Metropolitan University we improved on 24 out of the is a two-year development 25 measures and attendance levels In the UK, our reward package leads programme aimed at providing workimproved again, putting an additional the market on pay and benefits.
We focused retail training to managers at four million hours into our stores are one of the few FTSE businesses Tesco.
We now have 60 people on the and depots.
to still have an open defined benefit scheme and are working on ways to pension scheme, which is greatly make it grow.
Rewards and benefits valued by staff.
We regularly offer Our people are crucial to our staff the opportunity to experience We believe that even in difficult times success and it is essential that our brand.
For example, we offer staff it is essential to invest in future talent.
they feel rewarded for the work great deals on our Retailing Services Thats why this year, while many other they do and supported in their Tesco Mobile offers exclusive staff businesses were cutting their graduate development.
We offer good pay tariffs and Tesco Bank offers deals on schemes, we increased our graduate across all our businesses, as well as Home Insurance, Life Insurance and intake to 810, including 535 in Asia.
benefits in each market that reflect Travel Money which not only reward employees priorities.
our staff but encourage them to Tesco Academy become advocates for our services.
As a leading global company, Tesco aims to offer the very best training Through share ownership and share and development for all its employees.
incentive schemes, 195,000 of our The Tesco Academy helps provide an people have a personal stake in Tesco.
opportunity to get on for all our Employees were awarded shares people.
It develops thousands of worth a record 98m last May world-class leaders through excellent through our Shares In Success training in leadership, management scheme.
Over 55,000 staff were able and technical skills.
to benefit when Save As You Earn schemes matured in February, giving them access to shares worth 144m.
Training and development We are committed to providing opportunities for our people to get on and turn their jobs into careers.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 33 Our people We treat people how we like to be continued treated Everyone is welcome at Tesco Over the coming year we will be We also understand the importance In 2009 we received around 1,700 investing nearly 30m in a purposeof increasing mobility.
As a global employment-related calls to the built, carbon neutral training facility business were developing leaders helpline across the Group.
This is an in South Korea, set to become our with a global perspective and now increase from last year, showing that Tesco Academy hub for Asia.
The have 34% of our Directors with at employees are gaining confidence in new Academy will help ensure that least one year of experience outside the service.
Most calls relate to the development of our people in their home country.
personnel issues, commercial issues, Asia keeps pace with the rapidly security and trading law.
This year we enrolled our second issues are referred back to the store or group of senior Directors on to our resolved through grievance procedures.
In the UK, our European Academy Advanced Leadership Programme provides a hub to bring our managers an 18-month course aiming to Diversity and inclusivity and directors from around the world accelerate capability and prepare We strive to provide an inclusive to the UK.
We annually bring our individuals to become future business environment where all difference 100 most senior leaders together leaders.
The first intake graduated is valued, people are able to be to share the long-term strategy, earlier this year.
By July all will have themselves, enjoy coming to work develop their leadership skills and been promoted, with two thirds and realise their full potential, build their network.
The aim is to working outside the UK.
regardless of their gender, marital develop confident leaders and create status, race, age, sexual orientation, a community of experts.
Our Work Level 3 to 4 Options creed, ethnic origin, religion or belief, programme is our main vehicle for or disability.
Developing leaders the internal development of our future As our business grows and diversifies directors.
Programmes have been Three women in Tesco are currently we need more leaders to run the running very successfully in the UK being coached as part of the FTSE many substantial businesses and for around three years, and we have 100 Cross-Company Mentoring functions within the Group, several of rolled the programme out to Asia, Programme.
The Programme, which would rank as major companies Europe and the US in the last year.
launched in 2003, involves FTSE 100 in their own right.
Chairmen and CEOs acting as Whistle-blowing mentors to senior women just below We now have 480 people at Director Our whistle-blowing policy and board level in other FTSE companies.
Of these, 50% helpline is now in place in all countries.
The mentors guide and advise work in our International business Protector Line is a 24-hour women in the management of their a combination of local hires and confidential telephone line and email careers so that they are better people moving from the UK business.
address for employees to raise ethical positioned to be considered for board issues and also report grievances.
Our Chairman, David All calls are logged and investigated Reid, is currently working with his by the appropriate function and all second mentee from outside Tesco.
serious matters are brought to the attention of the CEO.
The feedback is monitored by the compliance Location of our 480 Directors committee in each business.
The Group Audit Committee annually reviews the number of calls and the quality of investigation and reviews UK plans to ensure our staff are aware of the facility.
50% International 50% Watch the video: www.
com tescoworksforme 34 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Our business Tesco works for me... Marcia Tesco employee Cheshunt... you are given the opportunity to go as far as you want Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 35
