Directors Report Sustainability System for hotels and other tourism companies: more hotels have been audited CONTINUING TO against the Travelifecriteria.
Particularly close to my heart is the support we can give to those less fortunate than INVEST IN OUR FUTURE ourselves.
I continue to chair the Board Longevity is one of our key business of Trustees of the Thomas Cook Childrens objectives and to be a successful business Charity and insist that our Company pays today we need to be economically, all administration costs so that every penny environmentally and socially sustainable.
donated goes directly to help children.
When For the Thomas Cook Group, that means the devastating earthquake hit Haiti in addressing a wide range of long-term January, we donated space on our planes to challenges, including maintaining a the Disasters Emergency Committee, ying committed and engaged workforce, out surgical teams, medical kits and portable providing a great holiday experience for water supply equipment.
We also provided customers whilst ensuring their security financial support from customer donations and safety, improving fuel ef ciency and to Just A Drop, a charity who developed a monitoring the carbon emissions from speci c project helping displaced families our planes: and encouraging sustainable in Haiti return to theirhomes.
practices within a global supply chain.
Tourism today is very different from Our achievements in 2010 include our when Thomas Cook started out, but his UK airline becoming the countrys first socially responsible spirit lives on in our to receive accreditation to the ISO 14001 company: and I believe our commitment to international standard for environmental hen Thomas Cook created sustainability makes us a stronger business management.
This accomplishment the first package holiday helping us to ensure that the Thomas Cook is testimony to Thomas Cook Airlines Wnearly 170 years ago in Group is still here in another 170 years time.
investment in improving environmental 1841, he did so with a sense of social performance across every area of its responsibility.
His determination to operations, from onboard recycling to improve the lives of working people saving energy in the hangar.
We also rolled by giving them opportunities to out our employee Sharesave scheme to learn through travel was pioneering.
the Group, giving everyone who works Today, the business of being a with us the opportunity to share in our socially responsible travel company success.
In addition, we maintained our Manny Fontenla-Novoa is more complex.
commitment to the Travelife Sustainability Group Chief Executive Of cer A SINGLE GROUP CULTURE The PROUD values Our people strive to deliver the highest standards of service as expected by our customers.
It is therefore our people which mark us out as different from our P competitors.
By embedding our vision and Pioneering our future values in our people strategy and people processes, we have created a single culture across the Group which supports our people For more information, please see our sustainability R to make a real difference to the success of report Travel the World without Costing the Earth Results orientated our business.
which is published annually and sets out our policies, focus areas, activities and performance.
To Our vision and values conserve resources, this will be available only online Our vision We go further to make dreams in February 2011 at www.
com come true, is embedded amongst our people O sustainability.
Our annual sustainability report is through promotion of the PROUD values, a Obsessed with customer service aligned with the Global Reporting Initiatives GRI G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and meets set of five values which are the cornerstone level B requirements.
of the actions of our people.
We embed these values through the PROUD awards, which U reward individuals or teams who have really United as one team gone further to make dreams come true for our business and our customers.
Our values are reinforced in all our people processes.
In this way, we have developed a single group D culture, which is shared by our 31,000 people Driving robust decisions across the 21 countries in which we operate.
38 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 TH017 p38 45. indd TH017 p38 45. indd 38 38 21 12 2010 21 12 2010 22:28 22:28 Directors Report Directors Report Financial Business Review Corporate Governance Statements PERFORMANCE The following table shows performance to date against our 2010 targets.
Further detail on progress, together with targets for 2011, will be included in our online sustainability report to be published on our website in February 2011 at www.
com sustainability Target Progress Comments Employees Relaunch and increase uptake of Group-wide allSharesave offer launched.
23% of UK employees and 10% employee Sharesave Scheme of non-UK employees are now participants in either the 2008 or 2010 scheme or both Further increase employee engagement index score Engagement score has increased year-on-year within each segment Establish succession plans for the senior leadership An in-depth review has been conducted and succession population plans are in place, with the next formal review in April2011 Customers Redesign and update sustainable tourism microsite to Achieved, website was nominated for a sustainability involve our customers award in early 2010 Ensure 51% of retail employees complete the Training package developed and ready - delivery planned maketravelgreener.
com training package for 2011 A set of preferred practices in health & safety have been Health & safety Continue to share best practice in health and safety so as rolled out across all markets and all properties are audited to create greater consistency across the Group.
Progress against these standards the Group strategy for employee safety and introduce a Group-wide health and safety system to enable consistent reporting across all divisions Environment UK Group and retail premises to reduce electricity and gas Smart meters now being installed to ensure we have consumption by 3%, and to establish baseline gures for accurate and timely information moving forward waste and water so as to set targets for FY 2010 11 Engage at least two other segments of the Group in our Worked with Thomas Cook Northern Europe in activities to promote UN World Environment Day Thomas Sunwing properties Cook World Environment Week Reduce CO emissions from Group airlines by 0.7% by On target 2 the end of FY 2009 10, excluding the impact of eet replacement Expand the onboard recycling programme in the UK Already achieved to include all inbound long haul ights Conduct a mapping exercise to identify which Scope 3 On target CO emissions indirect emissions other than those 2 resulting from electricity consumption are relevant and measurable for Thomas Cook Group Establish a Group environmental database for assessing Have met with suppliers and prepared a business case our impacts across the Group and setting reduction forreview targets: implement across all segments Investigate options and establish external veri cation Options have been examined and a decision taken not of environmental data and our sustainability report to pursue this yet Suppliers Community 51% of UK mainstream customers to be staying in Currently at 41% which represents over 1m customers accommodation audited against Travelife criteria 25% of UK mainstream ski customers to be staying in Achieved.
30% of ski customers staying in Travelife accommodation audited against Travelife criteria audited properties Establish Travelife as the supply chain management tool Used by UK, Belgium, Northern Europe and being of choice for all Group business segments considered by Germany At least 30 excursions showcasing animals to be audited Achieved Incorporate sustainability criteria into UK and Group Achieved within UK, planned for Group in 2011 purchasing process Raise 250,000 for the Travel Foundation Achieved Publish a policy on Sustainable Tourism Achieved, published in February 2010 Raise 900,000 for the Thomas Cook Childrens Charity On target to achieve 1m over 12 months Support and engage with End Child Prostitution, Child Supported and piloted the training tool and are working Pornography and the Traf cking of Children for Sexual towards creation of child protection sex tourism policy Purposes ECPAT in developing a training tool for the and appropriate training tourism industry and pilot within one business area in the UK achieved partly achieved not achieved Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 39 TH017 p38 45. indd TH017 p38 45. indd 39 39 21 12 2010 21 12 2010 22:28 22:28 designed for the top 100, are underpinned Employee communication and Our people strategy by the PROUD values and ensure that leaders engagement guiding principles are assessed and developed to a common Thomas Cook places a great deal of standard, no matter where they are in the importance on internal communications to We believe that engaging and motivating Group.
Executive development is supported create universal understanding of the Groups our 31,000 people will give us a greater through a broad range of activities including agenda.
The Group Chief Executive Of cer and more sustainable competitive secondments, coaching, mentoring and visits the business segments throughout the advantage than anything else we do.
year and communicates regularly to update Providing all our people with inspiring Group employees on the Companys progress Our Executive reward offering provides a and visible leadership, strategic and performance.
direct link between performance and reward.
direction, and effective  incentive plans are underpinned Regular communications within the segments based reward and recognition are by stretching financial and personal objectives keep our people up-to-date on the latest amongst the top priorities of the senior and longer-term share-based plans are business and market developments.
dependent on Group financial performance addition, our key markets also host annual Our Vision and Values provide clarity and shareholder return.
These incentives are conferences to review the previous years on our ambitions for the business, and designed to attract, retain and reward the performance and set out the priorities for fide ne the way we work together, as strongest performers in the industry.
one Group, to achieve our goals.
Remuneration report on pages 59 to 69 for Employee engagement survey further information.
We believe our top 100 managers the We want to ensure that Thomas Cook key leadership group are critical to our remains a great place to work and theres success.
We focus particular attention nobody better placed to tell us how were on personal development, succession doing than our people.
For the third year, planning and incentives for this group.
we have conducted a Group-wide employee We track the success of our people engagement survey run by Expert Training strategy via a number of feedback Systems ETS, an independent specialist mechanisms, including an annual third-party.
Group-wide employee engagement The survey gives everyone across Thomas Cook survey, and act on what we learn.
and our family of brands the opportunity to share their open and honest views on how Our people processes they feel about working for the Company, We embed the PROUD values through all our what were doing well and how they believe people processes.
Recruitment and retention: We aim to recruit The feedback from the survey shapes our and retain exceptional people who subscribe action plans for change over the coming year.
annual survey results and action plans Learning and development: We invest shared with our people appropriately to ensure our people maximise standard set of questions across all their potential and contribution to our segments, focusing on people engagement business.
For example, in the UK, our 24,224 responses 76% of employees Academy is a learning environment which provides access to a variety of development results benchmarked internationally and learning activities both online and faceEmployment policies Group result for 2009 of 3.83 out of to-face to assist our people to go further in Thomas Cook Group is committed to treating 5 which ETS class as excellent their career with Thomas Cook.
everyone fairly and reasonably according employee satisfaction has increased yearto their individual merits and abilities Performance review: We have robust on-year since the Group was created three measured against our justi able business performance review processes embedded years ago needs.
Therefore, any form of unlawful across the Group which are underpinned identi ed areas for action are business discrimination, directly or indirectly, on by our values, and guide how we coach our segment speci c the grounds of sex, gender reassignment, people to get the best from themselves Inspiring and visible leadership pregnancy, colour, race, nationality, ethnic or and others.
In 2010, we conducted a comprehensive national origins, sexual orientation, disability, Reward: Our people share in our success.
review of Group talent and succession age, religion or belief, or because someone is We recognise and reward both the covering the top 100 executive positions in the married or is a civil partner is not tolerated.
achievement of results and the manner Group.
This gave the Group Executive Board Thomas Cook Group also aims to re ect in which they are accomplished.
Certain the opportunity to assess the strength of the the diversity of the community in which it parts of the business, speci cally UK and talent pipeline across our key leadership operates because it values the individual India, also reward individual performance positions, and work together to identify our contribution of all employees and recognises which is in line with the PROUD values.
rising talent so we can give them development its legal and social responsibilities.
Through participation in our international opportunities across our segments.
This Thomas Cook Group is committed to share plan, Sharesave, all employees have process will be repeated early in 2011. promoting equality and all employees have a the opportunity to share in potential The Group has established a series of duty to contribute towards ensuring that the long-term rewards linked to the growth Leadership Behaviours which clearly PROUD values are upheld and that the culture in our share price.
articulate what it takes to be a great leader and working environment are free from in Thomas Cook.
The behaviours, which are harassment and discriminatory treatment.
1 Source: ETS ECHO employee engagment survey FY09 40 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 TH017 p38 45. indd TH017 p38 45. indd 40 40 21 12 2010 21 12 2010 22:28 22:28 Directors Report Directors Report Financial Business Review Corporate Governance Statements Thomas Cook airlines are already relatively For the second year, Thomas Cook Group CUSTOMERS ef cient.
However, over the past year, a responded to the Carbon Disclosure Project.
Through our vision, We go further to number of environmental and fuel saving This voluntary reporting scheme, which is make dreams come true, we demonstrate initiatives have been implemented across our backed by 534 investors representing US$64 our commitment to the highest levels of Group airlines.
trillion of funds under management, requires customer service.
We measure our success respondents to report on their climate through local customer satisfaction surveys: The installation of extensions known as change governance and strategy, risks and for further information see page 7.
The winglets to the wings of three of the UKs opportunities and their greenhouse gas unique set of circumstances caused by the B767-300 aircraft and on nine of Condors emission footprint.
volcanic ash cloud enabled us to demonstrate B767-300 Boeing eet during 2010 has the lengths we go to look after our customers generated fuel savings of 5%, through SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT as set out on pages 7, 16 and 17. improved aerodynamics and reduced drag.
Thomas Cook UK adopted the Travelife Sustainability System in 2007 as a means HEALTH & SAFETY The UK airline has further demonstrated of engaging in sustainable supply chain We made good progress against our Group its commitment to the environment management with accommodation providers health and safety objectives during the year.
by achieving a certi ed environmental in destinations.
Since then, our team of We implemented Thomas Cook Preferred management system to the international trained Travelife auditors has assessed Practice, a programme of continuous standard ISO14001.
It is the first airline in the our highest volume properties against the improvement in health & safety requiring UK to achieve this standard and has enabled environmental and social criteria.
In 2010, the global co-ordination of information and the airline to identify, control and improve we now have over 41% of our UK mainstream reporting systems with some local policies and its environmental impact and performance customers staying in hotels audited against decision-making.
Supplier hotels must sign through set objectives and targets.
Of these, 18% of passengers are up to these standards and all properties were Cook Northern Europes airline is also staying in hotels which have achieved award audited against them in 2010.
Our reporting implementing ISO14001 and is aiming to level status of Bronze, Silver or Gold.
of incidents has improved which allows us to become certi ed before the end of 2010. pick up trends, anticipate issues and cascade We are now focusing on building a united Other environmental initiatives include that knowledge across our destinations.
approach to developing sustainable supply eco-labels being placed on every UK aircraft ENVIRONMENT chain management in destinations, as by the boarding doors to show passengers We realise that the main impact of our Thomas Cook Belgium and Northern Europe the impact of their ight in emissions and business on the environment comes from are also members of the Travelife system.
noise, as well as onboard recycling.
aviation and therefore we continue to focus By rolling this out across the Group, we hope The Group is continuing to collect and our efforts on increasing ef ciency, more to create a consistent set of standards, create analyse data on emissions in preparation effective environmental management and better partnerships with our suppliers and for the potential introduction of mandatory the reduction of emissions from our aircraft.
raise awareness of sustainability, enabling carbon reporting in 2012.
The UK customers to make a more informed choice As reported in our Operating Review on pages business is also affected by the Carbon at the time of booking.
26 to 37, Thomas Cook airlines achieve some Reduction Commitment Energy Ef ciency of the highest load factors in the industry Scheme CRC and is developing a carbon meaning that each aircraft departs with a management strategy to meet these further high occupancy.
THOMAS COOK CHILDRENS CHARITY MAKING DREAMS COME TRUE FOR SICK AND DISADVANTAGED CHILDREN Funds for the Thomas Cook Childrens Charity are raised through customer donations, when booking a holiday and by donating unwanted coins on return ights, together with employee fundraising.
The UK provides administration services for the charity free of charge meaning that all income directly bene ts sick and disadvantaged children.
Successful grants have included: in Cancun, Mexico funds were used to build a Kindergarten for disadvantaged children with running water and toilets - facilities the children had not had before: computers, wide HD screens and ight simulator software installed in 10 childrens hospices across the UK to provide children with the pleasure of ying a virtual plane: a project in Kenya giving blind and visually impaired children the chance to lead a normal life: and a cottage hospital in Goa for abandoned street children.
Working with one of its charity partners, Happy Days Childrens Charity, funds enabled more than 2,000 sick and disadvantaged children to experience a day trip or a holiday.
The charity also purchased two mini buses for its second charity partner CHICKS Country Holidays for Inner-City Kids.
