Corporate Responsibility Autonomy is committed to supporting the principles of economic success, environmental stewardship and social responsibility.
We believe that by acting as a responsible corporate citizen we will not only minimize business risk, but also enhance our reputation as a business partner and employer.
Further, by advocating and resourcing staff development and community engagement, we believe that we can differentiate Autonomy from other employers and create a business where people want to work.
our shareholders but also endeavours to consider the interests of all of our Our Approach stakeholders, including employees, customers and suppliers, as well as the Our business strategy and our Corporate Social Responsibility CSR local communities and environments in which we operate.
We proactively strategy are closely linked.
Meeting the needs of our society creates the encourage and respond to feedback from all our stakeholders, through best opportunities to grow our business in the long term.
There is one quarterly consultations and through our corporate communications strategy.
vision at the heart of everything we do: We aim to revolutionize the way The Autonomy website includes a written record of our ongoing dialogue computers process human-friendly information, automating otherwise with the investment community, which we make available for all our manually intensive processes, resulting in a positive impact for our stakeholders to view.
Our CSR strategy is designed to help us realize this vision.
Monitoring The Board is committed to monitoring the companys corporate social In addition to generating economic value for all our stakeholders, our responsibility policies in key areas.
Management monitors the companys primary business activities contribute a range of benefits to the wider day-to-day activities in order to assess risks in these areas and identify society in which we operate.
Our technology portfolio allows companies to actions that may be taken to address those risks.
Given the company's make greater use of digital information and improve operational efficiency, relatively small size and minimal social and environmental impact, we thereby reducing climate change that results from the mass production of believe that there are few risks to our short and long term value proposition corporate literature, and inefficient manufacturing and distribution networks.
arising from these matters, although we consider the potential to deliver In addition, our information governance software helps to regulate greater value by responding to these issues appropriately.
As a result at enterprise information, which in turn helps to promote ethical business present the Board has not linked the management of these risks to practices.
In this context we take regular account of the significance of remuneration incentives, given the difficulties in measuring the changes to social, environmental and ethical matters to our operations as part of our those risks objectively.
The Board believes the company has adequate regular risk assessment procedures, with such matters regularly considered information to assess these matters, and effective systems for managing by the executive directors.
The companys website includes a section dedicated to corporate ethical, employment and environmental issues.
Oversight Sushovan Hussain, Chief Financial Officer and Board Director, has been Policies appointed by the Board as the director responsible for all matters relating to Whilst the Board considers that material risks to the company arising from corporate social, ethical, employment and environmental policies.
This social, ethical, employment and environmental issues are limited, given the year management renewed the companys ethical policy, which sets forth nature of the companys business, policies have been adopted in key areas the principles that guide our strategy, and implemented a number of to ensure that such risks are limited.
Examples of policies and practices in specific programmes.
these areas are given below.
Stakeholder Dialogue The company endeavours to be honest and fair in our relationships with customers and suppliers, and to be a good corporate citizen respecting the laws of the countries in which we operate.
The company is accountable to Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 21 Corporate Responsibility strategy.
We also produce a regular employee newsletter to introduce People people to each other from around the world and share news with all.
As of the beginning of 2011, Autonomy employs approximately 1,900 people worldwide and, in order to continue to grow as a business, the Reward and Recognition company needs to continue to recruit and retain only the best talent.
To support the goal of attracting and retaining the best people, Autonomy Therefore it is our policy to pursue practices that are sensitive to the needs provides competitive and fair rates of pay and benefits in each local market of our people.
The company strives for equal opportunities for all of our where it operates.
employees, including disabled employees, and we do not tolerate harassment of, or discrimination against, our staff.
In 2010 Autonomy continued to extend its industry-leading sales compensation plan across all sales persons worldwide, including those Priorities from recently acquired companies.
In addition, during the year Autonomy The companys priorities are: increased quarterly and annual bonus targets for individual exceptional performance below director level.
Providing a safe workplace with equality of opportunity and diversity through our employment policies.
Share plans are offered to incentivize and retain employees.
In 2010 Encouraging our people to reach their full potential through career approximately 260 individual grants were made to employees, recognizing development and promotion from within where possible.
them for their contributions by being awarded employee share options Communicating openly and transparently within the bounds of which vest over three years.
commercial confidentiality, whilst listening to our people and taking into account their feedback.
Employment Policies Recognizing and rewarding our people for their contribution and Autonomys employment policies are developed to reflect local legal, encouraging share ownership at all levels.
Autonomy seeks to maintain high standards wherever the group operates, as Autonomy aims to ensure that it The company respects the rule of law within all jurisdictions in which we is recognized as an employer of choice.
Autonomy considers its employee operate and supports appropriate internationally accepted standards relations to be good.
including those on human rights.
Our equal opportunities policies prohibit discrimination on grounds such as race, gender, religion, sexual orientation Talent Management and Hiring or disability.
This policy includes, where practicable, the continued During 2010 we increased our focus on increasing our strong base of employment of those who may become disabled during their employment.
All managers are encouraged to hold The companys policies strive to ensure that all decisions about the regular performance discussions with their direct reports.
appointment, treatment and promotion of employees are based entirely on merit, and continued development of the company is made with the We want to attract the best and brightest graduates to work in all of our maximum practicable involvement and input from employees.
A globally consistent graduate recruitment programme has been in place for a number of years, hiring top graduate Training and Development hires across the company.
Autonomy is committed to helping people reach their full potential through ongoing training and development.
In 2010 Autonomy provided in excess We aim to create a working culture that is inclusive to all and believe that of 4,250 days of training, and funded a tuition reimbursement budget of having a diverse workforce helps to meet the different needs of our nearly $20,000.
We cultivate a working environment in which continual customers across the globe.
We do not condone unfair treatment of any feedback is encouraged.
Together with performance reviews, this enables kind and offer equal opportunities for all aspects of employment and all employees to take responsibility for their professional development, with advancement regardless of race, nationality, sex, age, marital status, frequent opportunities to enrol in scheduled internal training courses, sexual orientation, disability or religious or political belief.
This also applies weekly presentations from subject experts and our annual training to agency workers, self employed persons and contract workers.
conference attended by employees from around the world at the start of each new financial year.
Human Capital Management We consider human capital management of paramount importance, Employees with Disabilities including issues of staff satisfaction, the quality of and investment in our The companys policy is to give full and fair consideration to suitable workforce.
We encourage all our stakeholders to engage in continual applications for employment from people with disabilities.
If existing dialogue on this topic, in line with our efforts to promote transparency and employees become disabled they will continue to be employed in the same accountability in all areas of our corporate governance.
We believe that job or, if this is not practicable, efforts will be made to find suitable these measures will help to ensure our long-term success in a competitive alternative employment and to provide appropriate training.
industry where attracting and retaining a highly skilled workforce will ultimately result in higher cash flow per employee.
Benefits and Communication Employees receive benefits including private medical healthcare: health, travel and life insurance: pensions 401k plan and sabbaticals.
We align the interests of employees and shareholders by providing equity participation through share option plans and the Autonomy Employee Benefit Trust.
We support family-friendly initiatives such as a child care voucher scheme in the UK and a flexible spending account in the US.
We promote knowledge sharing among employees and hold regular internal conferences to increase awareness, enable collaboration between engineering teams and to educate employees on corporate and divisional 22 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate Responsibility In general, we believe the quality and breadth of that dialogue serve as the waste paper is minimised by promoting paperless processes and best indication of the success of our human capital management practices, downloadable software products.
We have also operated a carbon neutral above all interaction with our employees themselves through the air cooling system during the hottest months of the year at our management chain, rather than looking to abstract numerical indicators.
Renewable energy sources are also being However, we are able to provide the following statistics which offer investigated.
The provision of cycle sheds, showers and changing facilities quantitative reassurance that this dialogue is becoming more and more at the companys Cambridge, San Francisco, Pleasanton, Munich and effective in promoting industry leading working practices.
Dallas offices facilitate greener commuting, and the extensive provision of telephone and video conferencing equipment offer an alternative to international travel, where appropriate.
The companys environmental Industry policy is published on our website.
In terms of products, certain technical Autonomy Average innovations during 2009 lead to the reduction in power consumption in the Productivity 1 server architecture we make available to customers by over 85%.
Absence days per year.................. 3.4 7.4 Gender 2 As noted above, the company monitors key consumption indicators, most Percentage Female......................... 23% 25% effectively at our headquarters in Cambridge, UK where we have the Retention 3 largest number of employees.
com 5 Goldman Sachs Sustain 2010 Report data from 2007 The only material increase in these metrics in 2010 related to the use of supplied water at headquarters.
This arose primarily due to the installation Health and Safety of a canteen for employees in the building.
Prior to the new canteen all The safety and welfare of employees, contractors and visitors is a priority.
employees needed to travel for lunches, and all food for business meetings We have adopted UK health and safety legislation as the global corporate was supplied from offset.
We believe that on balance the on-site canteen standard due to its depth and breadth.
Our global internal facilities review has reduced the companys environmental impact, in addition to providing a evaluates the appropriateness of all sites with a goal of consistency of nice place for employees to relax and have lunch with their colleagues.
Since incorporation, Autonomy has had no serious issues and retains a very low accident rate less than one Ethical Business Practices recorded accident per 100 employees annually.
Health and safety issues Autonomy is a software development and sales company based in the UK are communicated to employees through various media including the with overseas sales and development operations.
Autonomy does not intranet and email.
As part of our induction process, employees are have manufacturing operations.
All employees are expected to behave introduced to health and safety information relevant to the office in which ethically when working for the company and this is reflected in our policies they work and policies applicable across all sites.
which are detailed in the staff handbook.
The Environment Charitable Giving It is the companys policy to ensure, by encouraging environmental best The company maintains a number of charitable giving policies.
Our core practice in the business, that our operations have as little environmental philanthropic foundation under the corporate commitment programme is impact as is consistent with our business needs.
The effect on the education.
The company also budgets annually for specific charitable environment of our activities is monitored, where appropriate, with regard to requests from individual staff members, in areas where we have an the low overall environmental impact of our primary activities as a software opportunity to make a significant and measurable impact in the non-profit publisher.
As a developer of software the company has no manufacturing sector.
The companys matching gift programme matches employee facilities and our premises are composed exclusively of offices.
Staff make donations to non-profit organisations meeting the companys requirements use of computers to generate intellectual property.
This involves neither for charitable donations.
Finally, the company permits employees to hazardous substances nor complex waste emissions.
The vast majority of volunteer a certain number of hours of paid time per year to the charity of the companys sales comprise software that is normally delivered their choice provided that the charitable organisation meets the companys electronically to customers.
Outmoded office equipment and computers are general requirements for charitable donations.
resold or recycled to the extent practicable.
The company actively encourages every employee to work together to The company recognises the increasing importance of environmental meet the requirements of all of the above policies.
issues and these are discussed at Board level when appropriate.
A number of initiatives continued in 2010.
An environmental action plan is By order of the Board, implemented at group and departmental level through various initiatives.
These include monitoring resource consumption and waste creation so that when targets are set for improvement they are realistic and meaningful, ensuring existing controls continue to operate satisfactorily and working Andrew M. Kanter with suppliers to improve environmental management along the supply Company Secretary chain.
The company has recycling facilities in all of our primary offices, and 22 February 2011 Autonomy Corporation plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 23
