Corporate responsibility Acting responsibly At ABG we believe it is critical to establish mutually beneficial relationships with the communities in which we operate.
Maintaining our social licence to operate is central to our ethos of responsible mining.
It will help to ensure a stable operating environment for our existing assets and allow our Exploration team access to prospective ground.
We believe that our people are our most valuable asset, and our Over the course of 2010, positive developments were evident in all objective is to become the employer of choice.
We respect, value and of these areas, and there has been a marked improvement in the support our people, and we are firm believers in investing in them to relationships between our Company and our local stakeholders, improve their skills and increase their job satisfaction.
We are committed particularly at North Mara where a number of legacy issues are being to providing the training and development opportunities they need to proactively addressed.
advance in their careers and deliver .
Social management expertise Guided by our corporate vision that everyone goes home safe and Operating in rural areas of Tanzania necessitates dealing with certain healthy every day, safety is our most important consideration.
We intrinsic challenges, with limited infrastructure and social services in believe that work-related injuries or illnesses are unacceptable, and place, and many members of the communities in which we operate have set a zero incidence goal for the Company.
Over the past year, we faced with the daily challenges of poverty.
That the countrys mining have implemented various health and safety initiatives to promote the sector is in its relative infancy means that our host communities have achievement of superior safety performance among ABG workers by high expectations of the economic benefits that an individual privateproviding them with the skills and knowledge to perform their tasks sector organisation can deliver.
ina safe and reliable way.
These challenges demand a strong understanding of the complexities At ABG, we also strive to meet high environmental standards of the operating environment in Tanzania.
Consequently, ABG has while continuously pursuing new avenues and opportunities for instituted an energetic and committed Community Relations team of 50 improvement.
We adhere to Tanzanias environmental laws and full-time employees with expertise in social management.
During 2010 incorporate international best practice into our activities.
This is all Community Relations staffing levels were increased at three of our four part of our commitment to reviewing and incorporating external best mine sites and at North Mara internationally recognised consultancies practice into our own environmental policiesand procedures.
continue to support the mines community relations and resettlement programmes.
Recognising ABGs focus on future expansion, during Community relations 2010 the Community Relations function liaised more closely with our ABG is committed to operating in a socially responsible way over the Exploration and Projects personnel to focus onlaying the foundations entire life-cycle of our mines, to ensure that local communities have for effective community relations at the earliest stage possible.
theopportunity to share in the benefits of ouractivities.
In addition to the work this team carries out, we also enable effective The most important ways in which we do this are by: social management through: identifying and mitigating any potential negative impacts of mining: our senior management teams extensive experience of operating inAfrica: engaging in an open and meaningful manner and respecting stakeholders priorities and concerns: a culture where it is the responsibility of every employee to behave like an owner and act as a positive ambassador for the Company in maximising community members opportunities to benefit from our host communities: employment and local procurement: and close collaboration with other disciplines such as environment, developing programmes to assist local communities to pursue their security, human resources and health and safety: and own long-term socio-economic priorities.
the development of a community relations management system that will combine all our existing requirements, guidelines and tools into asingle streamlined approach.
Community Relations as a function not only deals Working closely with with how we manage potential social impacts communities in Tanzania that mining creates but also how we enhance opportunities and benefits for the communities Developing positive community relations is a core where we live and work.
part of the way ABG does business, not only as a corporate responsibility but as a vital requirement for our continued operational success.
com 56 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Highlights from 2010 and our targets for 2011 Focus Achievements in 2010 Targets for 2011 Improvements made to ABGs management team Continue development of ABG as an employer of choice Employees throughout the year and successful secondment and continue improvement of employee skillsets.
programme to address personnel capacity issues faced at Buzwagi.
All of ABGs operations achieved one million working Implementation of an ABG health and safety plan Health and Safety hours without lost time injuries in 2010. that will emphasise developing leadership skills in line management, common OHS standards, and continued development of Tanzanian employees in the OHS profession.
Improvements in hydro carbon management and Continued improvement in energy efficiency and Environment changes in the type of energy used at our operations have further reduction in carbon dioxide emissions.
resulted in significant energy efficiencies and reduction in carbon dioxide emissions.
The establishment of a formal site grievance mechanism.
Devote additional resources to community relations Community relations This allows us to address concerns raised by stakeholders atexploration and development projects.
in an appropriate and constructive manner.
Externally, we continue to develop our community relations practices We maintain an ongoing dialogue with individuals, community leaders, through engaging with key organisations including: government representatives and non-governmental organisations.
Furthermore, we have: the International Council on Mining & Metals: established a formal grievance procedure which allows local the World Bank: and stakeholders to have any complaints investigated and resolved: the Global Business Coalition on HIV AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria.
trained and employed local community members to act as village In 2011, we expect to have the opportunity to improve our performance liaison officers providing a two-way conduit of information by learning from the findings of a community benefit study conducted andfeedback: in 2010 by the Tanzanian Ministry of Energy and Minerals and the created liaison centres within the communities around three of our World Bank.
The study assesses the impact of mining operations in mines to ensure that all community members have easy access to Tanzania, and features our mines at Bulyanhulu and Buzwagi.
information about mine activities: and used sports programmes to build local relationships and convey key Stakeholder engagement messages on issues such as public health.
We are committed to inclusive and transparent community engagement in order to build and maintain trust with our host communities and to ensure that our activities are informed by their perspectives, concerns and priorities.
This process involves identifying stakeholders, engaging in disclosure and consultation processes and operating appropriate and effective feedback mechanisms.
We give specific consideration to inclusivity and gender-sensitivity in all our activities.
This calls for effective collaboration and engagement in order to bring together the key ingredients the health challenges facing our host communities with key stakeholders.
In my role, I look at how forsuccess.
and ensure that we are focusing our public health we can form partnerships to deliver sustainable initiatives appropriately.
During 2010 I began leading ABGs workstream community development initiatives to enhance to conduct Health Impact Assessments around all health, education, water and sanitation provision.
Stephen Kisakye, ABG Community our operations and projects.
Working together with Tri-partite partnerships involve the community, Health and Development Coordinator the government these studies will help us map out government authorities and development partners Annual Report and Accounts 2010 57 Corporate responsibility continued Social impact identification and mitigation At North Mara, we have assisted local businessmen in forming a chamber of commerce and the establishment of a savings and credit coIdentifying and mitigating any potential negative impacts of our operative, which provides microfinance.
At Bulyanhulu, we assisted with operations is at the heart of our approach to community relations.
We the formation of the IBUKA, a local community co-operative, whose acknowledge that large-scale mining operations in rural communities 5,288 members from 12 villages benefit from the income they generate can have negative as well as positive implications for local residents.
from the labour and business services they provide to the mine.
So our commitment is to strive to minimise any negative impact, while ensuring that the opportunities our operations present result Community development in a positive legacy for our host communities.
Leaving a positive legacy requires a strong understanding of the social We believe that the foundation of effective community relations and economic relationships between our mines and the surrounding involves embedding social impact identification and mitigation in communities.
A sustainable legacy also represents a shift from a traditional our day-to-day operations and making these integral elements of the philanthropic approach to strategic social investment, partnership way that we operate, from the exploration stage right through to mine development and integration with the Tanzanian governments closure.
Some specific examples of this approach include: development plans.
comprehensive Social Impact Assessments conducted at the Our Community Relations teams work closely with host communities feasibility stage and systematically updated during the life of mine: to create and implement integrated development programmes that involvement of the community relations function in all risk take local priorities, concerns and needs into account, and focus on assessments: long-term sustainable development.
Our operations seek to tackle the efforts to avoid, or at least minimise, involuntary resettlement by ongoing challenges of poverty, illegal activity and inadequate social exploring alternative project designs whilst also addressing legacy service provision.
In doing so, we liaise closely with local government challenges from previous resettlement programmes: authorities as well as a broad range of development partners.
our multi-functional workstream on road safety: Education collaboration with the exploration team on community engagement We believe education and economic progress go hand in hand, and and influx management: and work closely with the Tanzanian Education Authority to support alignment with the security team on our approach to illegal mining the Governments priorities and programmes.
ABG supports the and trespassing and the protection of human rights through the development of school infrastructure in host communities and helps Voluntary Principles see security and human rights.
to facilitate stronger school attendance through the provision of educational scholarships.
During 2010 we commenced a workstream to conduct Health Impact Assessments HIA at all ABG operations and development projects to At Bulyanhulu, the mines scholarship programme enables Company assess potential impacts on public health and to inform our community employees to become actively engaged in assisting the local community health programmes.
and is now receiving further support through funds raised by Barrick employees based in Canada.
At North Mara we are working with the Local employment and procurement local Government authorities to find a comprehensive solution to Increasing local content has been recognised as a key opportunity for previous challenges faced by mine-community educational initiatives.
mining operations to serve as catalysts for local economic development and within ABG increased focus has been put on local employment Community health and local procurement.
Jobs and business opportunities are both key In addition to its employee health programmes, ABG continues to be benefits that our host communities expect to secure.
recognised for its support of public health initiatives.
We have built strong partnerships with Government health authorities and a range of ABG seeks to recruit from our host communities as much as possible.
non-governmental organisations in order to combat HIV, malaria and However, the low education levels in some of the rural areas in which tuberculosis and to improve access to health services.
Examples of these ABG operates makes always hiring locally a challenge.
As one means of partnerships include: addressing this, ABG has provided funding for a national programme to HIV awareness programmes, condom provision and training develop the skills required by Tanzanias mining sector.
The Integrated of peer health educators with EnGender Health and Population Mining Technical Training IMTT programme, which commenced in : 2008, is a joint project of the Tanzanian Chamber of Minerals & Energy and the Tanzanian government.
We provide sponsorships to young provision of a farm to Shidepha a local health NGO to enable people living near our operations to attend IMTT and we offer them income-generation by persons affected by HIV AIDS: the possibility of employment at our operations upon the successful advocacy and awareness-creation for malaria prevention with completion of their programmes.
Malaria No More: training in dental services for government clinical officers by We attempt to give preference to purchasing goods and services Bridge2Aid: locally or regionally.
We have held information seminars in our host communities explaining the breadth of business opportunities available surgery for burns and cleft palates by Volunteer Surgical Missions as well as the process required to become a supplier to ABG.
com 58 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information training and staffing of government health facilities with the As part of ABGs commitment to development and training, we TouchFoundation.
encourage and sponsor employees who wish to pursue full-time, part-time or online studies.
At present, over 100 students are using our Our community health initiatives also provide an opportunity for employee study assistance programme in universities across the world us to involve our contractors and suppliers in benefiting our host and we have disbursed approximately 130,000 on employee study communities.
For the past three years, we have held a fundraising assistance.
We also facilitate payments for membership of professional dinner in Dar es Salaam which has, to date, contributed US$200,000 bodies for all employees.
towards Volunteer Surgical Missions Australia-Tanzania for lifechanging surgical operations.
Our commitment is not confined just to our employees.
We also offer a variety of career starters programmes that enable Tanzanian citizens to Development and training commence their careers in the mining industry, give them an opportunity to gain practical experience and offer sponsorships for professional training.
As large-scale gold mining is a relatively new industry for Tanzania, weinitially encountered a dearth of experienced mining professionals to We have memoranda of understanding in place with the University meet the Companys requirements.
In response, we have implemented of Dar es Salaams College of Engineering and Technology and with a two-pronged solution.
We are providing on-the-job training to all Muhimbili University of Health and Allied Sciences.
These allow us employees, and are working with technical colleges and universities to to provide training opportunities for students in areas close to our develop educational and training programmes that will produce a new operations, a scholarship programme for lecturers, project sponsorships wave of Tanzanian mining professionals.
and bursaries for the best-performing students and laboratory equipment for the universities.
Hundreds of students have benefited As ABG continues the expansion of our business operations, we believe from these programmes and sponsorships, and we are proud to it is more important than ever to develop our human capital.
We are announce that two recipients of our scholarships recently completed proud of our diverse workforce, and strive to attract a broad mix of their Masters in Metallurgy and Mining Engineering from the employees from both the traditional and non-traditional mining labour Laurentian University in Canada and are now assistant lecturers at the markets.
This approach reflects the Companys philosophy of equal University of Dar es Salaam in Tanzania.
opportunity and rests on the belief that a diverse workgroup gives a competitive advantage to our business, and allows us to create a unique While expatriates are often necessary for the design and construction company culture.
phase of a mines development, when possible we reduce their numbers as the mine goes into production.
It is our goal to employ expatriates We want to see our employees reach their full potential, so we only when needed.
constantly seek to: improve the workplace environment: Environment provide support tools and training for personal development: Our Environmental Policy drives our commitment to responsible actively provide opportunities for professional development and environmental management and wise environmental stewardship.
career advancement: and We are in the process of implementing an environmental management provide opportunities for assignments within the Barrick Group.
system at each of our operations to complement our existing Our two-year Compass Graduate Development Programme aims to environmental reporting.
Going forward, this system will set the provide a structured development programme for new graduates, standards for our environmental conduct.
Existing environmental developing their talent as a corporate worldwide asset.
The programme, reporting systems and procedures record all significant environmental which attracts the best candidates from universities in Tanzania, impacts and incidents and track our corrective measures and focuses on developing graduate technical and leadership skills actions taken across all our sites.
In addition, regular third-party and blends at the face work experiences with technical learning audits are undertaken to give us an independent assessment of our objectives.
In addition to formal training, the graduates benefit from .
hands-on knowledge and experience of areas including courageous Materials leadership, frontline management, continuous improvement, presentation and communication skills, field-level risk assessment We use ore and process materials such as consumables and reagents to .
extract copper and gold and to produce gold dor.
Key consumables used are fuels, explosives, cyanide, nitric acid, sodium hydroxide, The Management Development Programme and Intermediate lime and grinding media.
We have processes in place to manage all Management Development Programme, run by the University of consumables, and we actively seek to use best practice in transporting Cape Town, aim to equip managers with essential business knowledge, and storing consumables and reagents.
basic management and leadership skills.
The Supervisory Leadership Development Programme helps potential supervisors acquire the skills necessary to managing others, while the Graduate Diploma in Engineering is a course designed to cater for the needs of our seniorengineers.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 59 Corporate responsibility continued Energy Water We obtain our energy from fossil fuels and purchased electricity.
ABGs sites are situated in different climatic regimes: Buzwagi is in an area of low rainfall 700mm per annum while North Mara experiences Direct energy produced and consumed within our operational high rainfall 1,300mm per annum.
Water is mainly used for ore boundaries includes fuel to run mobile equipment, to produce power processing, dust suppression and rock blasting.
We obtain our water and heat onsite, for the aircraft we operate and for explosives used to from both surface and groundwater sources.
The largest consumption represents mobile diesel use and million cubic metres of make-up water at our operations: 1.9 million electricity generation.
Indirect energy is also produced outside our cubic metres were sourced from groundwater and 2.9 million cubic boundaries, comprising the power we purchase from TANESCO.
This metres from surface water.
makes up 85% of our total electricity usage at our operations and is sourced largely from renewable hydro-power.
Total water used 2010 in litres per tonne of ore processed We examine opportunities to reduce reliance on diesel power generation where possible.
The North Mara grid connection project is a key example Key of this.
North Mara is currently running on an 80:20 split with TANESCO Bulyanhulu: 790 and has realised a 79% reduction in carbon emissions largely as a result of this project.
Buzwagi: 608 North Mara: 554 As part of our aim to conserve energy, our operations are undertaking Tulawaka 100% : 680 a large number of efficiency improvements having assessed their energy usage and identified areas for making improvements in consumption.
Energy pro le for operations for 2010 Biodiversity Key ABG is involved in efforts to protect, manage and reclaim lands.
We Diesel: 67.0% manage 15,550 hectares of land that we either own or lease including Purchased Electricity: 31.7% surface rights and mineral rights.
Of this land, less than 18% has been Explosives: 1.0% disturbed for mining activities.
Of the disturbed area, 71 hectares have Propane, Petrol been reclaimed to agreed post-mining uses.
& other fuels: 0.3% Our Biodiversity Standard requires that we neither explore nor initiate mining within World Heritage sites and that we respect the requirements of legally designated protected areas.
Fauna and flora surveys are undertaken on an annual basis on all our sites.
We remove and stockpile top soil from the areas disturbed by mining activities.
We have closure plans at each operation that aim to minimise the area disturbed and to mitigate our impacts, leaving behind reclaimed lands that will support productive post-mining land use.
Reclamation occurs throughout the mine life.
The International Cyanide Code The International Cyanide Code guides submit to regular independent third-party best practice for transporting and using audits.
Bulyanhulu and Tulawaka have cyanide.
It is a voluntary initiative that is cyanide detoxification plants.
North Mara widely supported by major gold producers will install a similar plant during 2011, and who maintain a registration with the the Buzwagi plant is undergoing upgrades International Cyanide Management to reduce cyanide levels in discharge and Institute ICMI.
Three of ABGs four sites enable this Code certification to be applied are currently certified against this Code and for by the beginning of 2012. www.
com 60 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Emissions, effluents and wastes At ABG, we place a strong emphasis on the training, competence, health and wellness of our employees.
As part of this, we provide We monitor emissions, effluents and wastes generated by ouroperations.
opportunities for learning, as well as reinforcing and monitoring the application of learned skills and knowledge on the job.
We track greenhouse gas GHG emissions, and are actively working toimprove our energy efficiencies and identify alternative technologies.
We have made a significant investment in procedures and controls, and We also consider the management of climate related risks at all stages have implemented various health and safety training initiatives as a of our mine life cycles.
Continued energy efficiencies and innovative means of giving workers the skills and knowledge they need to perform energy strategies will serve to minimise GHG emissions of our total their tasks in a safe and reliable way.
Our commitment to health and emissions for 2010.
Indirect GHG emissions make up 52% of the total safety is reflected in the significant safety milestones we achieved in and direct emissions 48%.
2010, with each of our mines achieving one million working hours without lost-time in injuries.
In addition, ABG in total completed the Total GHG emissions fourth quarter of 2010 without a Lost-Time Injury.
in kilograms per tonne of ore processed Mine LTIFR TIFR Hours worked Key Bulyanhulu 0.14 1.81 8,486,643 Bulyanhulu: 107 Buzwagi 0.00 1.45 4,565,071 Buzwagi: 32 North Mara 0.06 0.56 6,470,636 North Mara: 39 Tulawaka 0.09 1.83 2,183,615 Tulawaka: 81 ABG 0.08 1.36 21,705,965 Despite the positive achievements of the past year, there were four work-related fatalities at Bulyanhulu in 2010.
On 16 March 2010, there was a rock fall incident at the Bulyanhulu mine, which resulted in three Programmes are in place to manage dust, hazardous and nonemployee fatalities.
ABG suspended mining activities for the rescue hazardous non-process waste, waste rock and tailings the finelyand recovery mission, and also for a period of mourning on 18 March ground material that remains after the crushed and slurried ore passes 2010.
Mining activities were restored on 19 March 2010, however the through the process.
Our tailings storage facilities are subject to risk areas affected by the rock fall remained closed until the completion of assessments and are independently audited on a regular basis.
In investigations into this incident.
A team composed of Health and Safety, addition, tailings storage facilities are subject to an annual review to test Engineering, and Geotechnical experts from other Barrick operations physical and chemical stability.
At Bulyanhulu, paste material is placed and support staff in Toronto thoroughly investigated this incident.
As underground to fill the mined-out voids.
On average, 40,000 to 50,000 a result, all underground work areas were assessed by a geotechnical tonnes of paste is back-filled into the mine each month.
This paste can expert before work was restarted, with more extensive geotechnical contain up to 40% of tailings material, thereby reducing the amount evaluations following the initial assessment.
Ground support systems required to be stored above ground.
were also reviewed and assessed to ensure they provide a safe working environment and employees were retrained in the installation of these Health and safety systems.
Regular inspections are made to ensure that both the correct The health and safety of our workforce is a critical component of ground support system is used and installed properly.
Prior to this ABGs culture, and we have a comprehensive health, safety and incident, the ABG Group had experienced no employee safety-related risk management system for our underground and surface mining fatalities since 2006. operations.
We also require all contractors to provide and maintain a safe and healthy work environment, and ask that they meet, as a minimum, our health and safety standards.
The Jatropha Biofuel Project Bulyanhulus Community Relations than 200,000 jatropha curcas plants.
department is managing a project By the end of 2016, the plantation will to produce biofuel for use at the have increased to cover 1,246 hectares mine, employing 92 members of the containing over 5.5 million jatropha neighbouring community and sourcing plants within the Bulyanhulu lease area.
Since 2007, 121 The first batch of oil-bearing seeds is hectares have been planted with more expected to be harvested in 2011.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 61 Corporate responsibility continued In addition, one employee died while using a faulty electric kettle to Health risk assessments form a key part of this system, and we are heat water and as a result we implemented a robust inspection regime continuously seeking to identify hazards, to evaluate exposure potential, to control and manage health risks, and to monitor health-related and conducted extensive re-training for our employees on using incidents.
The operational aspects of the programme comprise health electrical appliances.
surveillance, training and competence, medical care and management, Having recognised that driving incidents account for half of all record-keeping and reporting, health promotion, employee assistance potentially dangerous incidents, we have introduced a Drive First programmes, mine life cycle planning and community health.
initiative, as part of a driving improvement programme, to educate We have also implemented HIV AIDS awareness and prevention and help employees improve their driving.
The initiative has received a programmes, as well as tuberculosis and malaria programmes, positive response from employees, and has highlighted the importance for our employees, their families and the local communities at all of safe driving at our operations.
We are also in the process of installing ABGs operating mines.
All of our mine sites also have clinics that advanced technology in our light vehicle and haul truck fleets that provide voluntary counselling and testing for all employees and their provides real time in-cab coaching to our operators so that safe driving families.
They also provide follow-up care and treatment for HIVbehaviours are reinforced.
We provide two day Courageous Safety Leadership training to Security and human rights employees and contractors at supervisor level, where they are given theopportunity to focus on those personal actions and behaviours that We believe that effective security controls, standards, policies and promote the goal of everyone going home safe and healthy every day.
procedures contribute to the safety and protection of our employees Building on this training, non-supervisor-level employees are provided aswell as the communities in which we operate.
with a one-day course and subsequent refresher training to build on the Operating in some areas of Tanzania requires ABG, as well as the skills initially learned in the programme.
The programmes are designed Tanzanian government and the local communities, to deal with law to empower and encourage employees to take the initiative and reward and order issues.
A number of these issues have been related to specific them for identifying potential safety risks and speaking up when faced events such as instability in areas at the time of elections, while others with a safety issue.
are longer term challenges, such as events of trespass and vandalism by Another key initiative involves training employees in the use of intruders seeking to unlawfully take gold and other property from ABG risk-management tools.
This focuses on identifying new hazards and operations.
These challenges vary depending on the location of the risks that result from changes and improvements to ABGs facilities, operation and other circumstances.
For example, the North Mara mine designs and plans, from exploration stage to closure.
It enables our is located close to the Tanzanian border with Kenya, which attracts a people to assess such changes and their consequent impact on people, number of transients and illegal miners.
This area has had continuing environment, processes, equipment and facilities, so allowing them to law and order challenges, including illegal intruders at the North Mara mitigate the challenges involved.
At Buzwagi, in 2010, ABG uncovered a syndicated theft ring involving employees collaborating with external parties to remove fuel One of the most significant components of our health and safety from the operation.
ABG has implemented, and continues to identify, management system is the global health programme, which we are alternatives to manage these security issues in a manner that places at its implementing to ensure compliance with international, national and heart the safety and security of people, property and assets.
local legislation as well as ABGs own policies and standards.
The health ABG employs security staff, retains security contractors and engages programme emphasises health controls through a systematic approach with the Government of Tanzania and the communities in which we to the anticipation, identification, evaluation, control and monitoring of health hazards and exposures in the workplace.
Since 2008, we have also introduced a comprehensive security of an Occupational Health Manager for ABG was made to help management system, with continuous training programmes in place at accelerate the implementation of this system.
Central to this are the Voluntary Principles.
These Water conservation We control our water resources carefully Buzwagi, rainwater is collected by a 73 ha at all our operations and believe that plastic lined area and stored in a covered 3 water should be managed as a community 1,500,000 m water storage pond for use as resource, respecting the rights of other make-up water in the process.
Our sites have conducted water we use is recycled through our process risk assessments related to water, and facilities.
For example, at Bulyanhulu up we implement systematic monitoring to 95% of the mines water requirement is programmes of water supply, storage, usage recycled through our practice of surificial and discharge.
In a unique approach at paste technology in our tailings deposition.
com 62 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information are a set of guidelines by which companies in the extractive sector can addition, in accordance with the MOU, the police are specifically maintain the safety and security of their operations within an operating required to receive human rights training before being assigned framework that ensures respect for human rights and fundamental to the mine sites.
To our knowledge, ABG is the first and only freedoms.
Our majority shareholder, Barrick, is a signatory participant, private company to comprehensively engage with senior Tanzanian and ABGs security management system adheres to this commitment to government officials and local law enforcement agencies to encourage respect people and their rights as laid out in the Voluntary Principles.
and support the provision of Voluntary Principles training to these agencies and the adherence to international human rights norms.
We also continue to invest in security improvements, including the installation of additional perimeter fencing and walls and CCTV ABGs private security employees and contractors also all receive cameras in certain sensitive areas.
We also make efforts to educate the training and regular refresher courses in the security management local community about the inherent safety dangers associated with systems including human rights and use of force training.
Security personnel comply with a strict use of force procedure that is compliant illegal mining and intrusion on to the mine sites and operational areas.
with the Voluntary Principles and has been validated by internal and ABG supports the Tanzanian Police Community Policing Unit and external experts and shared with international human rights groups has assisted in establishing a pilot of community policing in the North as a part of the Voluntary Principles process.
In addition, security Mara area.
The community policing initiative was recognised by the US personnel are required, at all times, to comply with all applicable Department of State in their 2009 Human Rights report on Tanzania.
policies and procedures of ABG, including the ABG Code of Conduct.
This programme is reflective of the fact that armed violence and Most importantly, we maintain a continuous process of engagement criminality impacts not just on ABG and its employees and contractors, with individuals and local community groups based in and around our but also impacts negatively on the wider community, and as such, mines in order to create an environment that issafe for our staff and acommunity based solution is desirable.
We have entered into memoranda of understanding MOUs with the Despite the challenges and as a result of the above initiatives, the Tanzanian police force for the provision of police force patrols in the co-operation between ABG and the police in working to develop general area surrounding the mines for the purpose of maintaining community policing has led to a decrease of crime and violence in the law and order.
The support provided by the mines is limited in scope general community.
Also, significant security-related incidents and and is conditioned upon police compliance with all relevant laws production stoppages as a result of violent incidents at the mine have and international enforcement principles, including the Voluntary declined over the past two years, and the overall security situation in Principles.
Pursuant to the MOUs, the police must follow all relevant the region and at the mines has improved.
In contrast to the situation domestic laws and must operate outside the mine sites except in experienced by some of the region during the 2008 elections, the emergencies, when they are specifically called to enter the site.
In security environment during the 2010 elections was generally calm.
Addressing the challenge of HIV AIDS ABG has made a concerted effort disposes individuals to HIV.
ABG provides to combat HIV AIDS by bolstering condoms to community members.
prevention initiatives and supporting As a member of the Global Business care and treatment services.
To help Coalition for Tuberculosis, AIDS prevent new infections, ABG has and Malaria, ABG has been able partnered with USAID, Engender Health to join forces with other corporate a renowned international NGO and members to define new strategies and Deloitte & Touche under an innovative .
public private partnership called the P3P project.
The objective is to train HIV AIDS poses a significant threat not and empower volunteer Peer Health The HIV AIDS fight is one only to our employees but also to the Educators to provide information about communities in which our operations are that we can win but only with HIV AIDS to their colleagues and the located.
Recent surveys indicate that the concerted and collaborative broader community.
These peer educators average prevalence rate for the regions emphasise the benefits of voluntary in the Lake Zone of Tanzania is 7%, with efforts from all stakeholders.
counselling and testing and condom use.
some regions showing a prevalence of up The programme has seen an increase in to 9.6%.
These statistics show the need for Stephen Kisakye, ABG Community peoples knowledge about HIV AIDS and comprehensive programmes to address Health and Development Coordinator a reduction in risky behaviour that prethis scourge.
