48 COMMITTEES AND CORPORATE PROFESSIONAL RESPONSIBILITy ADVISERS STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2010 Secretary: The Company has not produced a separate corporate responsibility A. S. Pike statement in the report and accounts since it believes these matters are sufficiently important to receive the personal attention of individual Audit Committee: directors rather than risking less focus through the exercise of collective C. J. Bunker Chairman, J. Coleman, P. Jansen responsibility.
Instead full details of those areas normally covered by such Remuneration Committee: a report are contained either in the reports of the directors responsible for A. H. Simon Chairman, C. J. Bunker, such matters, or in a separate report, as explained below: J. Coleman, R. Walker Nominations Committee: Environment Environment report on pages 37 to 42 R. Walker Chairman, C. J. Bunker, J. Coleman Health & safety Health & safety report on pages 43 to 45 Health and Safety Committee: Supply chain Chief Operating Officers review of the year A. H. Simon Chairman, J. P. Carter, R. Walker Employees Chief Operating Officers review of the year Executive Committee: Community relations Chief Executives review of the year G. I. Cooper Chief Executive and Committee Chairman, J. P. Carter Chief Operating Officer, The Board takes into account, environmental, social and governance P. N. Hampden Smith Finance Director, matters in its conduct of the Companys business.
The Board believes N. G. Bell Category Managing Director, that it has adequate information to identify and assess the major environJ.
Bird Managing Director, Wickes, mental, social and governance risks and as part of the system of internal A. J. Davidson Chairman, Specialist Merchanting, control receives reports on the risks associated with these matters.
The C. Kavanagh Group HR Director, Board has received briefings on such matters during 2010.
M. R. Meech Group Property Director, J. Mescall Chairman, General Merchanting, A. S. Pike Company Secretary & Lawyer, R. D. Proctor Supply Chain Director Investment Bankers Advisors: HSBC Bank plc: Nomura International plc Corporate Broker: Citibank: Credit Suisse Bankers: The Royal Bank of Scotland plc: Barclays Bank plc Solicitors: Slaughter and May, London: Linklaters LLP, London: Clifford Chance LLP, London: Hewitsons LLP, Northampton Auditors: Deloitte LLP, London Registrars: Capita Registrars, Huddersfield 20386.04 proof 2 31 03 11
