Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 27 Strategic overview Health and safety The health and safety of our employees and Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous From management trainee customers is of great importance to TUI Travel.
Below are the incidents to business development The Group Health & Safety department sets a clear statistics for 2009 10. direction for the Group to follow, founded on the With a Masters in International Local and national authorities continue to visit TUI Travel Health & Safety policy statement signed Tourism Management, excellent various premises owned by the Group offering by Peter Long.
The department actively directs language skills and a real passion advice and alerting us to issues.
No enforcement for the leisure travel industry, and supports all Sectors in the design and notices or convictions have occurred within the Olga Kaidala was well placed to implementation of comprehensive safety 2009 10 financial year.
join the TUI Travel PLC International management systems.
Management Trainee programme Customer safety in April 2009.
Employee safety During 2010 the Group Health & Safety function Thanks to the diverse nature The risks faced by employees across the was further developed and deployed.
A UK team of our business, Olga had the business vary enormously: from a low-risk office of 20 staff, managing an overseas team of 65, opportunity to gain broad environment to the high-risk airline engineering continued to provide support to all Sectors, commercial experience during her environment and everything in between.
The with extensive checks and audits carried out on traineeship.
First, she worked on majority of incidents that occur still remain in the KPI reporting and hotels and resorts accommodation, transport and activity suppliers.
slip, trip, fall and manual handling categories which, projects in the UK.
During her There was also an increased focus on identifying although not necessarily major, can lead to longplacement in Germany, she looked and managing sickness and illness outbreaks in our term injury.
at website usability optimisation overseas destinations, with additional training and for Carhiremarket.
com and got Workplace risk assessments continue to be external intervention through the use of Preverisk involved with the brand new conducted, highlighting areas where additional a third-party hygiene consultancy.
Her next control measures need to be implemented.
assignment took her to Poland, Group Health & Safety continues to facilitate Where significant risk exists, risk assessments are where she worked on Managing the ever-increasing level of cooperation and used as the means of understanding the various for Value implementation and the coordination on Health & Safety issues facing our sales reporting tool before joining hazards involved and identifying and implementing high-volume packaged product businesses in the the Accommodations & Destinations appropriate control measures, whether this be Mainstream source markets.
Sector for her last placement, additional training, personal protective equipment focusing on strategic projects.
or a change in the work process.
The Specialist & Emerging Markets and Activity Having gained a comprehensive Sectors continue to receive guidance, support, Individual businesses within the Group continue overview of our businesses tools and resources to ensure appropriate bespoke to develop their own safety management systems, commercial opportunities and safety management systems are implemented at receiving assistance and advice from the Group challenges, Olga joined the business business unit level within each Sector.
This year a Health & Safety function.
For example, in the development department of our number of the Safety Management Systems have Accommodation & Destinations UK employees continue to undertake the baseline reached maturity evidenced by audits carried out Sector in a permanent role as a health and safety induction training, Safety in by Group Health & Safety across all Sectors.
business development executive, Your Workplace.
This e-learning programme based in Majorca, Spain.
In her provides a consistent level of training, alerting Group Health & Safety has coordinated and role she contributes to shaping a employees to the different types of hazards managed with the A&D Sector, the growth and competitive strategy for mergers they may find in their workplace.
Additional development of the Sure2Care online due and acquisitions for the Sector.
programmes are being developed including one diligence system.
A&D continues to be a major for noise awareness which is specifically aimed user of this system with over 25,000 of its suppliers at airline employees.
In total, the system is in use by some 45 brands across the Group, with all Within the UK, the Group continues to report Sectors represented.
any relevant injuries, diseases or dangerous occurrences under the RIDDOR regulations UK employee incident data October 2009 September 2010 Airline Crawley INCIDENT CATEGORY Airline equivalent UK & Ireland businesses Total Number of incidents 464 49 22 535 Number of RIDDOR over 3-day incidents 14 26 4 0 44 Number of RIDDOR major incidents 4 3 2 0 9 Number of RIDDOR fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 Where an incident occurs outside of the UK it is not reportable under the RIDDOR legislation, but the business reports them as a RIDDOR equivalent.
