24 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Strategic overview People Our team Group Management Board Our colleagues The strategic direction of the Group is set by the As the worlds leading international travel group 1.
Peter Long Group Management Board GMB in conjunction we have a workforce of approximately 49,000 Chief Executive with the Board see page 42.
At TUI Travel there is a clear link of tour operating and function experts drawn between the Groups overall strategy and the role 2.
Paul Bowtell Chief Financial Officer from across the Group.
This highly experienced that our people play.
We recognise that by building international team manages and executes TUI the most capable and engaged teams we can 3.
Dr Volker Bttcher Travels day-to-day operations and is responsible deliver optimum business performance.
Managing Director, Central Europe for the overall performance of the Group.
Bart Brackx During the year, and post-year end, there have Managing Director, Western Europe An important strength of TUI Travel is our been changes.
Richard Prosser left the GMB in diversity.
We operate in approximately 180 July 2010 following the decision to restructure 5.
Andrew John countries worldwide and as a result have a Group Legal Director the Specialist & Emerging Markets Sector.
and Company Secretary 1 October 2010, John Wimbleton was appointed Managing Director for the newly combined The composition of our top 250 senior leadership 6.
Jacky Simmonds Specialist & Activity Sector.
team highlights some demographical aspects of Group Human Resources Director our Group.
Over a quarter of our senior leadership Dermot Blastland, Managing Director, UK & Ireland, 7.
Johan Lundgren team is female and the team is based in 24 retired with effect from 1 October 2010.
Johan Managing Director, Northern Region different countries around the world.
Out of Lundgren, Managing Director, Northern Region, our Groups total workforce, 41% of our managers 8.
Joan Vil also took responsibility as Managing Director UK & are female.
Managing Director, Ireland from that date.
Accommodation & Destinations We uphold diversity as a core tenet of our success.
Jacky Simmonds was appointed Group HR We do not tolerate discrimination on any grounds 9.
William Waggott Director from 1 October 2010 replacing Commercial Director and our ethos is that opportunities should be Bill Logan.
Bill Logan will remain with the Group available to everyone.
We have principles and in an advisory role to both Peter Long and the 10.
John Wimbleton guidelines in place, both Group-wide and more Managing Director, Specialist & Activity GMB throughout 2011. locally, to actively support this.
Paul Bowtell, Chief Financial Officer, resigned on 21 October 2010 and will step down from the GMB Engaging our colleagues and the Board with effect from 31 December 2010.
We believe employees who are engaged with William Waggotts appointment as Chief Financial our business will deliver the best performance.
Officer of TUI Travel PLC was announced on Its important that we engage our people in 30 November 2010. the strategy and goals of TUI Travel so they understand how they contribute to our success.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 25 Measuring and monitoring this is a key way to Involving our colleagues Launching our values in identify how we can improve high performance.
In the past year, a significant number of colleagues Russia and CIS This is why we measure engagement levels and in the Group have taken part in one of our benchmark ourselves against organisations in the employee surveys.
Our colleagues opinions have In Spring 2010, when launching TUI UK and globally as we want to understand how given us an insight into what we are doing well and Travel in Russia and Ukraine, it was we perform against national, global and highhighlighted areas of focus so that we can continue pivotal that our values became part of everyday life as early as possible.
It is not just about listening, it is about acting too, which is why there is ongoing activity We ensured that leaders of our As an organisation operating in a large number within our businesses to address the findings and businesses could relate to our values of countries, with a large workforce and multiple involve our people when making improvements.
and we tailored them to suit the brands, it is key that we can engage our colleagues Russian and Ukrainian local cultures.
so they deliver a great customer experience no In the latter part of 2009 we conducted the second The values were also aligned to matter where in the world they work.
Leadership Voice survey, which comprised 827 the brand values and adapted to: respondents from our leadership population Reliable, Inspiring and Responsible.
At TUI Travel it is not just about what we do, it leaders.
We wanted to track progress since 2008 These values incorporate our Groupis about how we do it.
In 2008 we developed the and set a new benchmark for an extended manager wide aspirations and are aligned with TUI Spirit with a number of colleagues across the what we are delivering for customers population.
The overall results confirmed that we Group to build our culture.
These values underpin in these new markets.
The launch have some great strengths that are common across our strategy, give our people a common purpose of the values included a series of the Group.
and help us to achieve our vision of making travel face-to-face presentations, inclusion experiences special.
Some of the results highlights included: in Day-One activities and launch communication literature delivered 95% of our leaders feel personally motivated Our values are: in local languages.
to help TUI Travel be successful Customer obsessed Training for key customer-facing 94% of our leaders feel well informed about Responsible leadership teams in the local retail networks the performance of our business and destinations was based around Value driven 93% of our leaders are proud to work for the values.
The values are now an Playing to win important part of everyday life in TUI Travel our businesses in Russia and Ukraine The values are supported by Winning Behaviours 93% of our leaders feel their business looks helping us to make our customers that clearly illustrate what it looks like when we live for new opportunities to deliver profit and our teams smile as TUI Travel our values at TUI Travel.
We continuously look develops in this region.
The results were particularly strong in the to ensure that what we do is aligned to our vision category focusing on profitability, commercial and values, both on a global and more local level, advantage and how we add value to customer particularly by working with managers throughout experience, highlighting our commitment in this our organisation.
field and the success of our responsive and flexible 6 7 8 9 10 www.
com 26 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Strategic overview People continued business model.
It is also clear that our significant are also a vast number of tailored initiatives in our Blue Voice success efforts to develop our leaders are both valued and Sectors and businesses to build our colleagues skills.
When TUI Nordic asked their We have continued our commitment to attract colleagues in Sweden, Norway, In addition to surveys, we have a range of talent and find our leaders of tomorrow.
We Denmark and Finland to complete proactive employee forums in place to ensure we have a range of national graduate schemes in their annual employee survey, Blue have an ongoing dialogue and involve colleagues place in our Sectors and businesses and we also Voice, their aim was to ensure they with matters that are important to them, both offer a Group-wide International Management were on the right track to success through elected employee representatives and Trainee Programme.
in the eyes of their people.
directly with teams in meetings.
The results were very positive.
The objective is to attract and develop high-quality Not only was there a high response people to be future commercial leaders in our Attracting and developing talent rate but results had significantly business.
The programme stretches over 18 months As a large, international organisation we can offer improved in the majority of and includes five work assignments in different exciting career prospects for many of those who join categories from the previous year.
businesses and countries to ensure a full overview Progress had also been made on us.
However we dont just want to attract talent, we of the Group.
In the past year, we had an intake of KPIs linked to key strategic areas want to ensure that we develop our people too so 11 international management trainees, all high-calibre of leadership, engagement and that we can build our capability internally.
candidates with solid academic results and excellent effectiveness.
The results showed a At TUI Travel we put significant effort into ensuring language skills.
strong link between having attended the values training and living the that we develop our talent pipeline for the future new values.
and talent is reviewed at Board level regularly.
Driving high performance We have Group-wide leadership development One of the main responsibilities of our leaders and In TUI Nordic, Blue Voice is more programmes designed for senior leaders, managers is to drive performance and develop, than just a way to find out what colleagues are thinking at a certain providing a great opportunity to enhance skills coach and motivate their people to achieve success.
point in time, it provides a strategic and to network with colleagues from across Its essential that our colleagues are provided with tool for managers which is linked to our businesses.
regular feedback on their performance.
Our people both organisational and personal need to understand what needs to be achieved This includes our very successful TUI Horizons long-term goals.
It helps managers and how that links to the overall strategy as an focus on the right things, make Programme, aimed at high-potential middle organisation.
improvements and act, all key managers in the talent pool who have been aspects of being an organisation identified as our future leaders.
The aim of the In line with the TUI Spirit, we dont just have that drives high performance and programme, which is delivered by internal as well performance reviews to evaluate what our people rewards Winning Behaviours.
as external experts, is to develop numerate, do how they achieve is equally important.
It is analytical leaders who engage with their people our objective to reward and encourage absolute to drive high performance in their businesses.
commitment to providing our customers with We have extended this initiative to cover a Horizons quality service as well as encouraging a teamMaster Class aimed at Horizons alumni.
The format oriented environment where our people are is short, targeted workshops designed according to free to innovate and collaborate.
business and personal development needs.
There HR strategy People and Operational Effectiveness imperative Building the most capable and engaged teams to deliver optimum business performance aim Engage our Build leadership Effective colleagues capability Organisation design priorities Effective and Efficient HR Operations underpin www.
