28 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Strategic overview Sustainable development Sustainability is regarded as a serious business Our four strategic priorities issue across TUI Travel, with many brands making for sustainable development are: it an integral part of business processes, supplier operating standards and performance metrics.
We have already experienced a range of business Carbon management benefits, including cost efficiencies, quality improvements and the enhanced engagement Goal: To reduce TUI Travels airlines direct of customers, colleagues and suppliers.
carbon emissions by 6% by 2013 14 against A sustainable future In 2009 10 we were pleased that our performance a baseline of 2007 08 in terms of total was recognised as follows: TUI Travel PLC works with Forum carbon emissions as well as relative carbon for the Future, a UK sustainable For the third consecutive year TUI Travel was emissions, based on 2008 09 operational development NGO.
We are a featured in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership structure and plans.
core partner in the Tourism 2023 Index and was ranked 6th in the FTSE 350 project which sets out to help the for its approach to carbon disclosure UK outbound travel and tourism www.
net Destinations industry understand the challenges it faces and plans for a sustainable TUI Travel continues to be listed on the future.
Supplier Management Goal: All suppliers in FTSE4Good Index in recognition of its our destinations follow sustainability practices transparency and for meeting strict social, environmental and governance standards.
and have continuous improvement programmes in place.
TUI Travel was awarded the Worlds Responsible Tourism Award in 2009 Destination Projects Goal: TUI Travel, working www.
com with partners, will make measurable improveFor further details on awards and our latest ments to local livelihoods and environmental Sustainable Development Report, see protection in destinations.
com sustainable development Sustainable development strategy Our colleagues TUI Travels sustainable development strategy is based on consideration of the key issues affecting Goal: TUI Travel colleagues are engaged and the Company, now and in the future.
It is regularly empowered to take action on sustainability reviewed in consultation with internal and external for the future success of the Company.
Our four strategic priorities for sustainable development align with TUI Travels strategic imperatives.
Our customers We encourage all TUI Travel businesses to Goal: TUI Travel businesses deliver quality develop their own strategies, aligning with communications designed to raise customer Group and Sector priorities and the related interest and demand for sustainable holidays.
Our sustainable development goal is to minimise our environmental impact, respect the culture and people in our destinations and offer real economic benefit to local communities.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 29 Managing sustainable development Our key achievements in 2009 10 include: This year, the Group has maintained and Our CO per Revenue Passenger Kilometre 2 enhanced its governance structure for RPK across TUI Travel airlines in 2009 10 is sustainable development.
Johan Lundgren, 76.1g an improvement of 2.6% since 2008 09 Managing Director of the Mainstream Sector, making us one of the most efficient airlines Northern Region, is responsible for reporting in Europe and beyond.
on sustainable development to the Group In 2009 10, TUI Travels airlines carbon Management and TUI Travel PLC Boards.
footprint was 5,260,500 tonnes, saving more Dermot Blastland, Managing Director of TUI UK & than 500,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide.
Ireland was recognised at the TTG Travel Awards Eco vessel for European 2010 and by the British Travel & Hospitality Out of the 500,000 tonnes of CO saved, 2 waterways Industry 2010 for outstanding contribution to 26,000 was due to TUI Travel airlines fuel sustainable tourism.
The Group Management conservation programmes.
Inland Waterways have circa 1,000 Board acts as the Steering Committee and sets We established a TUI Airlines Biofuel craft throughout the European the strategic direction and long-term objectives inland waterways.
Members of the introduce a new environmentally 76% of TUI Travel airlines aircraft are now Board have been working with PwC to prioritise friendly hybrid eco vessel which fitted with fuel-saving winglets.
operates with a combination of solar sustainable development risks and opportunities.
Our airlines are preparing for the EU Emission and diesel power.
Over the course of Each strategic priority has a Board-level sponsor the next five years, 500 craft will be Trading Scheme and reporting requirements and is underpinned by our commitment to introduced into the fleet.
applicable from January 2012 and are working integrate sustainable development into the with PwC on a readiness review.
TUIfly Nordic was awarded ISO 14001 certified The Group Sustainable Development departments Environmental Management System and role is to drive change towards a more sustainable Thomson Airways and Jetairfly are working company and to forge Sector leadership.
Our towards ISO 14001 certification in 2010 11.
Group-wide workstreams meet regularly to tackle Our UK businesses have prepared a strategy issues and develop programmes of work.
Each to comply with the UK Governments Carbon Sector of our Group has a sustainable development Reduction Commitment legislation to date coordinator or team with a remit to develop and 71% of TUI UKs Retail Estate has implemented implement sustainable development strategy Automatic Meter Readers to improve day-tosupported by a network of champions.
Carbon management We have developed collaborative partnerships Travel and tourism are responsible for around 5% with many stakeholders whose insight and of global CO emissions UNWTO, 2007.
As a 2 guidance is helping us to develop our position leading tour operator, our challenge is to prepare on aviation and climate change.
Examples include: for a low-carbon society by further reducing our Forum for the Future, EU Cleansky project, UK environmental impacts.
We have committed to Sustainable Aviation and Sustainable Aviation reduce TUI Travels airlines direct carbon emissions Fuel Users Group.
by 6% by 2013 14 against a baseline of 2007 08 in terms of total carbon emissions as well as relative carbon emissions based on 2008 09 operational structure and plans.
See page 18 for our progress.
TUI Travel has a carbon management strategy in place covering aviation, water transport, major premises, ground transport and flagship hotel properties.
We are monitoring and preparing for regulatory proposals on climate change that could have a fiscal impact.
In 2008 09 the carbon emissions from our airlines accounted for 89.6% of TUI Travels In 2009 10, there has been a circa 1% incremental reduction in absolute TUI Travel carbon footprint.
We are making reductions in airline emissions against the previous year.
these emissions through the strategic venture with This achievement has excluded the significant Air Berlin, ongoing aircraft fleet replacement, and emission reductions achieved by TUIfly following the strategic venture with Air Berlin fuel conservation measures.
whereby Air Berlin took on the scheduled flying business of TUIfly.
com 30 TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Strategic overview Sustainable development continued Destinations Several businesses supported reforestation We know that the leisure travel industry can have projects including TUI Central Europe both positive and negative impacts on communities committed to planting 57,600 wild olive and and the natural environment, depending on how pine trees in a nature reserve in Majorca and these impacts are managed.
We are committed to Nouvelles Frontires committed to planting learning more about how our holidays can benefit 15,000 trees in Madagascar.
local livelihoods and protect the environment TUI UK & Ireland worked with the Overseas and putting this into practice.
This is fundamental Development Institute to better understand to preserving the quality of our product in years the socio-economic impact of an all-inclusive to come.
Holiday Village hotel in Turkey we are putting British Travel Awards what we have learnt into operation.
Supplier management In 2010, Thomson Airways was We are conscious of the pressures that tourism TUI Travel has an extensive supply chain operating awarded Environmentally and can place on local populations and resources and across the globe see page 44.
These businesses Socially Responsible Airline for therefore work collaboratively with communities, are the gatekeepers to TUI Travels sustainability the fifth consecutive year and First local and national governments, NGOs and trade performance in our destinations.
By focusing on Choice won the Environmentally associations to support sustainable management sustainability our suppliers are able to achieve cost and Socially Responsible Large Tour of destinations and to shape our strategy in this Operator for the fourth consecutive efficiency savings which ultimately give customers area.
Examples include: Dutch Association of year.
Exodus won a silver award for better value for money.
Our challenge is to extend Travel Agents and Tour Operators, Deutscher the Environmentally and Socially the reach of our influence to all suppliers and to Responsible Small Tour Operator ReiseVerband, Association of British Travel Agents, monitor their progress.
The Tour Operators Initiative, Forum for the Our key achievements in 2009 10 include: Future, The Overseas Development Institute, Born Free and The Travel Foundation.
Environmental and social contractual minimum standards for accommodation suppliers and Charitable giving the Travelife Sustainability System have been In the last year, our businesses supported many adopted by our Mainstream tour operating source market and destination charities.
Our businesses and some of the Activity and Group-wide charity policy and guidelines help Specialist & Emerging Markets businesses businesses to ensure transparency, report annual www.
monies collected and manage charity relationships Over 400 hotels achieved Travelife awards by see page 44. the end of Summer 2010.
Our key achievements in 2009 10 include: 27% of TUI UK & Irelands customers stayed in Travelife-awarded hotels and they launched Ongoing support for the Family Holiday new build and operational environmental Association FHA which is the TUI Travel PLC guidelines for flagship hotel properties.
Boards nominated charity providing holidays to disadvantaged children and their families.
The source markets in Mainstream Central Europe organised a destination sustainability Thomson Sport was one of the official partners supplier conference in Turkey.
for Sports Relief 2010, a charity that helps vulnerable people both in the UK and overseas.
8 TUI Nordic Blue Village flagship properties in Europe and Turkey were ISO 14001 certified.
Across the Group businesses supported the Haiti earthquake aid effort through colleague We have implemented a Travelife animal fundraising activities, corporate donations, attraction audit programme for major animal cargo space and seats on TUI Travel aircraft attraction excursion venues.
and support for those colleagues who had lost Destination projects family members.
TUI Central Europe has TUI Travel is involved in hundreds of projects launched a five-year project to support the designed to improve the livelihoods of local people reconstruction of homes and a school in Haiti.
in destinations and protect the environment.
Our key achievements in 2009 10 include: TUI Travels Mainstream businesses signed up to the Child Protection Code, committing the businesses to the six criteria of The Code www.
org and TUI Nederland began a three-year child protection project in Brazil.
com Group at a glance Strategic overview Business performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 31 Our colleagues Our customers Our aim is to make sustainable development Across the business we have been proactive in tangible to each and every colleague within our raising awareness of sustainability issues with our business.
We communicate regularly about the customers.
To achieve many of our goals we need progress we have made on our journey towards customers support both through the purchases securing a sustainable future for our industry and they make and the personal actions they take.
We continue to build sustainability into our colleague are working to raise awareness, influence choice, inductions and training programmes, including change behaviour, and develop and promote new development programmes for managers.
products to encourage responsible holiday choices.
We have a Group Code of Conduct which covers Our key achievements for 2009 10 include: Education project for girls a wide range of sustainability issues, including in Brazil TUI Travel businesses are communicating with human rights, business ethics and transparency customers on sustainable development issues In 2010, TUI Nederland began a and commits TUI Travel to upholding the principles and have launched many brochures dedicated three-year child protection project of the UN Global Compact.
in North East Brazil, working in Our key achievements for 2009 10 include: collaboration with Plan Nederland Holidays Forever was launched in 2010, a and ECPAT Nederland.
The project sustainable tourism campaign and microsite We organised sustainability awareness-raising aims to give vulnerable girls a good giving visitors information on Thomson and initiatives at head offices and overseas, during education and help finding a job in First Choices sustainable tourism activities.
which TUI UK & Ireland overseas colleagues the tourism industry.
co. uk celebrated World Environment Day through a variety of environmental themed childrens Many of our businesses offer customers the entertainment, green competitions and beach opportunity to carbon offset.
TUI Travel, in clean-ups and 2,000 colleagues attended TUI partnership with ClimateCare, has invested Deutschlands Green Day.
in five exclusive renewable energy projects in destinations important to our business, that The Activity Sector re-launched its charity are scheduled to deliver in excess of 400,000 day scheme giving every colleague a day tonnes of CO reductions by the end of 2012.
2 to volunteer for a chosen charity.
TUI Travels senior management were regular TUI Travel businesses request feedback from public advocates for more sustainable tourism customers regularly and some offer the opportunity in the media, at industry and governmental to comment on the environmentally and socially events.
For example, Peter Long, Chief responsible aspects of their holiday.
In 2009 10 Executive of TUI Travel, took part in a Hot we commissioned international consumer research Seat interview on World Responsible Tourism into holidaymakers perceptions of sustainability to Day at the World Travel Market 2009 in London.
The study involved almost 4,000 online interviews in eight of our key We have developed a number of core questions source markets.
The findings revealed that: relating to Responsible Leadership and sustainable development that businesses and Sectors include 70% believe holiday companies should be in colleague opinion surveys.
Our 2009 10 committed to preserving natural environments Leadership Voice survey confirmed that: and 55% fair working conditions.
80% of leaders agreed that my business acts 46% would book a more sustainable holiday responsibly on environmental matters 73% if they were more readily available.
66% would change their behaviour on holiday 83% of leaders agreed that my business acts if it helps the environment.
responsibly in the local communities in which For details of the research, see we operate 66% in 2008 09. http: www.
com reportingcentre We also gather feedback from colleagues on sustainability issues through focus groups.
