4 Corporate responsibility and our business Creating shared prosperity For Tullow, corporate responsibility runs through every aspect of how we run our business, including The oil and gas industry is long-term by nature, given the capital Governance, our Code of Business Conduct, Human resources required and the many decades between successfully finding Resources, Environment, Health & Safety, Supply oil or gas and the useful life of a field or basin.
Two major projects in Chain Management, External Affairs, Information two new oil countries in Africa have focused our attention on the need Systems Management, Risk and Investor Relations.
to create and share prosperity as these projects evolve and develop.
We are in the process of more clearly defining how we can contribute to social and economic development, both within and outside our core business activities.
Our goal is to engage in wide-ranging and open consultation so that we build meaningful opportunities to contribute that are both relevant to our local stakeholders, and aligned with the growth objectives of our business.
Visit the new corporate responsibility section of our website for up-to-date information on the systems, policies and procedures that underpin our approach to corporate responsibility.
Over the last year we have planned and held several www.
com  external stakeholder events that have provided critical input into identifying and prioritising many Stakeholder engagement of Tullows material issues.
These included Our stakeholders include local communities, community consultation and disclosure initiatives, government national, regional and local, NGOs a multi-stakeholder forum and meetings with SRI bothadvocacy and development, intergovernmental managers as part of investor relations initiatives.
organisations, academics, investors, the media and Communities employees.
While we have always aimed to be open In 2010, we held regular meetings with local and transparent in all that we do, our size and scale leaders to explain our projects: we held informal means that a more strategic approach to building round table discussions with community groups to relationships is needed.
listen to and discuss their concerns: we held four There are genuine inherent risks in failing to three-day introduction to oil and gas courses understand and respond to what is important to for a number of external stakeholders from local ourstakeholders and these can translate into real government, media, NGOs and CSOs Civil Society business and opportunity costs.
Organisations and local business people: and we undertook briefings about the dangers of fishing In 2010, we undertook the first steps in the process near our operations and reinforced this education of developing a detailed external stakeholder drive through poster campaigns and local radio engagement plan with a focus in the first instance on programmes.
These are in addition to the daily Africa.
This will help us to shape a genuine dialogue contact our community liaison officers have with with supporters and critics of Tullow at a global the communities near to our operations.
and local level and to respond appropriately to theirneeds and concerns.
It will also help us to Investors demonstrate the depth of our heritage in Africa There is a very active annual investor relations andour desire and commitment to creating shared programme at Tullow, details of which are contained prosperity there and to promote and contribute to in pages 80 and 81 of this report.
In 2010, we took the development of the continent.
This in turn part in agrowing number of meetings interactions facilitates the creation of an operating environment with Socially Responsible Investment SRI managers.
that enables us to successfully continue our growth We have a multi-disciplinary team that addresses strategy and deliver our business plans.
The need investors questions on all aspects of corporate to improve external stakeholder engagement, responsibility, in person or in writing, and we have particularly in Africa, is a Board-level key corporate also contributed to the work of individual SRI risk for 2011. managers working on evolving methods for assessing CR performance.
We held one group meeting for SRI managers in 2010 and plan to formalise a programme for building relationships with SRI funds in 2011. www.
indd 65 65 29 03 2011 29 03 2011 09:49 09:49 Directors Report: Business review Corporate responsibility
