4 Sustainable supply chain The shift in Tullows size and scale and the profile of our assets means we have a continuous demand for services.
This is enabling us to forge stronger relationships and offer longer-term commitments to our suppliers.
Apart from the opportunity to maximise Tullows expenditure to create business benefits, it also enables us to influence our suppliers behaviour in critical areas such as safety, local content and the environment through leveraging our contract performance management processes.
At the heart of building a sustainable supply chain is localising supply by fabricating, manufacturing and sourcing as much as possible as close to the point of use.
This means that those supplies are provided to us by indigenous companies.
By sourcing close to the point of use we greatly reduce the distance over which our supply chain is spread and this in turn greatly reduces the impact on the environment, project cost and time.
In terms of the environment we can also improve our supply operations, particularly the use of green technology for managing and developing logistics handling, particularly in new projects such as Uganda.
National local content Local content National local content means sourcing goods and Consolidated Shipping Agency Limited Conship is a leading services from local companies who employ local Ghanaian logistics company with offices in Tema, Accra and people.
This brings benefits to countries through: Takoradi.
The company started working with Tullow in February 2010, Local business development goods andservices : supporting Tullows imports and exports for the Jubilee project.
Employment opportunities skills training and Since working with Tullow we have refined and improved our careerdevelopment : and reporting, accounting, EHS standards and complied with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
I think our company now meets the standards Sustainable local economic development.
We have also just been awarded the Gold Star Award for World Quality Commitment 2010 and this has only been In January 2011, our first logistics supplier open day was held in Kampala, Uganda.
The event was possible because of our association with Tullow.
We really are very grateful for this opportunity.
organised by Tullow to discuss the opportunities available to logistics companies to support the Read the full interview with MacDonald Vasnani, CEO of Conship development of the Lake Albert Rift Basin.
Over 320 about his company and their work with Tullow at people attended, 180 from Uganda and a further www.
com casestudies 80people from East Africa.
135 organisations participated, including 90 logistics companies.
The event provided the opportunity to bring together local and international logistics companies: enable For more information on compliance see Chairmans introduction to corporate governance suppliers to learn more about working with Tullow: identify the challenges and opportunities in the logistics sectors: and understand the development needs to build sustainable logistics management p72 in-country.
indd 67 67 28 03 2011 28 03 2011 15:59 15:59 Directors Report: Business review Corporate responsibility
