Directors Report: Business review Corporate responsibility Creating shared prosperity We are working to create and share prosperity so that countries where we operate and local communities can participate in the benefits of our success.
Highlights National local content External stakeholder engagement We also have a role to play in developing local or national We are taking a more strategic approach to our external content by using local contractors and suppliers, hiring stakeholder engagement and the work to define and local staff, creating opportunities and growing the skills roll-out this will be completed in the first half of 2011. base in the countries where we operate.
Materiality Over the last year we have held several external Environment stakeholder events that have provided us with critical In 2010, we had zero high potential environmental input into identifying and prioritising material issues incidents which is a strong performance in the context for Tullow and the industry.
ofthe high levels of activity across the Group and the transition from development to production in Ghana.
Social enterprise In 2010, we invested $2.6 million in 70 projects: Health & safety over 70% ofthese were in Africa.
We focused mainly In 2010, there were seven Lost Time Incidents LTI in on local community health, education, environment Tullow 2009: five and 11 High Potential Incidents HIPOs and .
There were seven malaria cases 2009: eight.
We did not achieve our stretch target of top quartile industry safety performance.
Ethics & integrity A new Group Compliance Manager has responsibility People forTullows anti-bribery and corruption, and regulatory A continuous challenge for us is to build organisational compliance programmes worldwide.
As soon as the UK capacity to meet the needs of our major projects and Bribery Act is finalised we will be introducing a new growth opportunities, while still maintaining our unique Codeof Business Conduct.
Sustainable supply chain The shift in Tullows size, scale and profile of ourassets Nationalisation means we have a continuous demand for services.
This In Uganda, 84% of our employees are nationals and in will help us influence our suppliers behaviour in critical Ghana 86% of our employees are nationals.
We are investing areas such as safety, local content and theenvironment.
in training and developing skills so that local people can participate fully in the new oil industry in their country.
Supporting education in Sierra Leone We believe in making a contribution to the broader development of a country as soon as we have been invited in.
Partnering with Playhouse Foundation in Sierra Leone, weve provided 500 sets of school furniture to primary schools in Kono District, creating jobs for 18 young local welders and carpenters trained by the St. Josephs Vocational Institute in Lunsar.
For more information visit www.
com casestudies 64 Tullow Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Accounts TU062 p62-69 AW2.
