Directors Report: Business review Corporate responsibility continued Environment, Health & Safety rules, which follow accepted industry good practice and bring consistency to safety standards across There was lots of activity in the EHS team in 2010, highlights of which are included here.
An HIV AIDS awareness programme was developed in 2010 and will be environmental performance across the business included an excellent EHS performance in Ghana as extended to Tullow worldwide this year.
Malaria cases did improve during 2010 as a result of a this project moved from the development stage into production.
This continues today as the Jubilee field comprehensive malaria management programme butthe death of a contractor in early 2011 has placed ramps up to gross plateau production of 120,000 boepd.
TheEHS leadership team structure was malaria awareness and prevention as a key Boardlevel corporate risk for this year.
reviewed during the year and a decision was taken to concentrate the role of the EHS leadership team into developing EHS strategy and providing EHS risk For more information on Macondo management oversight.
In addition, a decision was see Production and development taken to develop an EHS management structure in each of the Regional Business Units.
During 2010, 22EHS training courses were held: 199 attendees p26 participated, representing the equivalent of 560 days of training.
People The Groups safety performance was good overall with Over 250 people joined Tullow on a permanent the highlight being a significant reduction in vehicle basis in 2010 and overall our total workforce incidents.
However, there were increases in LTIs increased by 40% to 1,232 people.
As a result the Groups stretch safety maintained a very low level of staff turnover at 1.3% and industry top quartile performance targets for for the year.
In 2010, we followed-up on our first LTIFR were not achieved.
A safety stand-down was global employee survey which was conducted in conducted across Tullow mid-year and Tullow safety 2009.
This gave us the opportunity to address many Managing fishing intrusion in Ghana Offshore drilling rigs and other exploration and production infrastructure attract fish, which in turn attract fishermen.
The fishing vessels present a hazard to oil installations and operations, and the installations and operations present a safety hazard to the fishing crews.
Offshore oil and gas operations in West Africa need to co-exist with native fishing communities and their activities and we are taking a collaborative approach to the issue.
For more information visit www.
com casestudies 68 Tullow Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Accounts TU062 p62-69 AW2.
