Directors Report: Business review Corporate responsibility continued Employees In a five-year period since 2006 our employee numbers have grown from 250 people to over 900 full time employees at the end of 2010.
To develop and implement an employee communications and engagement strategy we set up an internal communications function.
This was particularly important in the context of the growth in the number of employees and an ever changing organisation.
We now have a small team in London supported by internal communication specialists in Ghana and Uganda.
Multi-stakeholder forum In early 2011, we held our first multi-stakeholder forum in the UK, which brought together experts from civil society, policy making, media and business for a broad, structured discussion to assess Tullows Corporate Responsibility activities.
The participants provided feedback on the key factors that they believe affect our business, and challenged us to respond on how we could best manage these issues in the future.
Materiality While it is important for us to understand what Enterprise development issues are relevant and material to our external stakeholders, it is just as important for us to reflect In 2010, the Tullow South Africa team in Cape Town began working with on and respond to the issues raised.
We have made a new charity, The Clothing Bank, after hearing about them on local radio.
progress in capturing the results, findings, concerns Tullow sponsors their Enterprise Development Project, which recruits and questions raised by our stakeholders this year.
and trains unemployed mothers from the Cape Town area to run retail As a result we are compiling a matrix of material trading businesses: with the overall objective of making them issues identified in our multi-stakeholder forum, financially and socially independent.
ininterviews with Executive Directors and senior For more information visit www.
com casestudies management and stakeholder mapping process to more easily identify recurring themes.
Examples ofissues thus far are: Developing in-country skills so that we can employ nationals in our local operations for the Local content and national industry skills benefit of the oil and gas industry.
development: This year we will be generating project ideas, Deepwater Macondo, climate change and setting up governance structures, developing a biodiversity: and funding policy and identifying partners for a formal Building relationships with governments launch in 2012.
The primary role of our Social andregulators.
Enterprise Committee is to ensure that the Groups social enterprise policy and activities are aligned Social enterprise and integrated, and that they reflect business and In 2010, we continued to support local communityexternal stakeholder priorities.
based projects primarily in the areas of health, education, environment and enterprise development.
In addition to strategic social enterprise investment We invested $2.6 million in 70 projects: over 70% we will continue to invest in local community ofourtotal investment was in Africa.
We took the projects in the areas of health, education, enterprise opportunity to review our approach to strategic development and environment to support a diversified Social Enterprise investment and have decided to and fairer society.
focus our investment on: Building capacity in the local national supply chain by developing and using local contractors and suppliers: and 66 Tullow Oil plc 2010 Annual Report and Accounts TU062 p62-69 AW2.
