Section 1: Overview Operating and Financial Review Corporate Responsibility CR Our highlights of 2010 include: UBM and people Expanding our flagship NGO Events to A key element to creating long term shareholder value newcountries.
is our ability to attract, develop and retain the most talented people at all levels.
We do this in a variety of Completing our first Global Employee ways the most important of which are detailed below.
Setting up a global environmental reporting system.
Diversity Further developing the UBM Online Community as We are a global business with employees, customers, the key communication and information sharing tool.
partners and suppliers from a wide range of cultures Enhancing our portfolio of leadership and backgrounds.
On the At a glance on page 3 you .
will have seen how international UBM is in terms ofits revenues and offices locations.
During 2010 we On page 13 you will have seen that one of our employed an average of 6,141 people around the world.
keystrategic priorities is to deliver our business The figures below highlight the diversity of our people.
responsibly this relates to how we engage, motivate and support our people, how we manage our 2009 2010 environmental impact and how we support the % % communities in which we work.
As we grow UBM, Gender diversity particularly in new countries, it is important that we Male employees 44.67 44.85 do so in a positive way.
I am pleased to report that Female employees 55.33 55.15 Global Engagement inthe feedback from our first global employment Survey, 2010 Manager breakdown engagement survey our commitment to CR emerged 77% of our employees Male 57.84 55.89 as one of our key strengths as an employer.
But we wereimpressed with our Female 42.16 44.11 commitment to CR.
must continue to develop, innovate and progress Ethnic diversity toensure we deliver our business responsibly.
Caucasian 55.2 57.7 77% We believe that, to be truly effective, corporate Asian 32.9 33.1 responsibility should be embedded in the business culture at all levels and each division is responsible Latin Hispanic 6.6 4.9 forthe development and implementation of CR African Caribbean 3.7 3.3 initiatives in line with our core principles, their Other 1.6 1.0 ownbusiness needs and in relation to the specific Diversity change influenced by Canon Communications LLC acquisition.
communities within which they operate.
Allowing diversity to flourish and recognising and We also recognise that Board support and harnessing the unique talents that every individual engagement is also crucial and remuneration policy can bring to the business enables us to respond to the for senior management is aligned with stakeholders rapidly changing business environment, to meet the interests.
For example bonus targets for senior diverse needs of our customer base, and to enhance management include measures aimed at developing creativity and personal development.
and progressing corporate responsibility activity and both myself and Bob Gray have bonus targets linked We seek to do this in a variety of ways: 1 to improved CR performance.
We have equal opportunities policies and David Levin programmes in place to ensure employees are selected Chief Executive Officer and promoted solely on the basis of their skills and United Business Media Limited ability to do the job.
Employees receive training on diversity including an online test, on induction, for new employees, 1 For more detail see the Directors remuneration report 9 equality and anti-harassment issues.
44 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 1: 2010 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements We offer a wide range of flexible working policies to Our 2010 achievements include: enable employees to balance the demands of work The Business Leaders Programme BLP, was and personal responsibility including working from refreshed and aligned with our strategic priorities, home, flexible hours, sabbatical leave, enhanced and was re-launched.
parental leave, part-time working, job-sharing and compressed working week.
2010 BLP had 16 high potential leaders drawn from seven countries who participated in modules in the We recognise the specific needs of individuals and, UK, US and India.
in particular, ensure that appropriate adjustments are made to enable the employment of disabled We introduced BLP mentoring to create a shared persons.
Should employees become disabled perspective on leadership talent across UBM.
Each during employment every effort is made, through BLP participant was paired up with a UBM senior appropriate training or other adjustments, to executive or Board director.
accommodate their disability and enable them to Two BLP alumni have been promoted into continue to pursue their career.
leadership roles in other parts of the Group since Our Code of Core Labour Standards guides business theprogramme finished in October 2010. relationships and sets high standards for ethical The European Leadership Development Programme working practices.
E-LDP was also refreshed and re-launched.
Work is underway to launch our first China Talent management Leadership Development Programme C-LDP in2011.
We place a particular emphasis on the development ofour people to achieve their full potential, and in In association with our Leadership Capability Profile 2010 we continued to develop and roll out targeted to articulate the leadership capabilities and skills that talent management initiatives and programmes.
will be critical to delivering business strategies across Wehave continued to embed strong succession UBM we have rolled-out an online 360 feedback planning and talent review processes into the fabric tool to all those reporting to a divisional CEO.
ofbusiness management practices, and across the We researched to create the Emerging Leaders Group our Divisional leadership teams engaged in Framework to express the leadership capability thethird cycle of a robust and systematic review of requirements for the broader management leadership roles and capability requirements in order population which is now embedded in our E-LDP to identify implications for succession planning and and an online 360 tool is being piloted in multiple talent development.
Areas where UBM performed above the external norm were: UBM Voice Everyone has theopportunity to be heard Commitment to social responsibility: andmake a difference...
Recognition and respect within the workplace: In July 2010, we invited 5,545 employees, approximately Commitment to supporting theenvironment: 95% of employees, to participate in the Survey.
Theonline questionnaire asked participants the extent to Encouragement to innovate: and which they agreed with 56 statements covering topics such The sense that employee contributions are valued.
as general employee satisfaction, internal communication, career development and CR.
Areas where we need to improvemainly revolve around 3,312 employees, approximately 60%, participated.
UBMs identity and communicating what the future holds Ourambition for 2011 is to increase the response rate forUBM.
andiseven included within the senior management bonusobjectives.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 45 Section 1: Overview Operating and Financial Review Corporate Responsibility CR continued Communication Regular UBM-wide updates from the CEO via the I am impr essed by the openculture we encourage Wiki keep employees informed of business strategy UBM is looking to foster an open, entrepreneurial, withinUBM.
and developments and enable them to share insights innovative business culture which allows individuals to Becky Li and provide feedback.
We believe that clear and open communication UBMConferences, Shanghai.
with employees is fundamental to fostering a positive Employment packages Reward culture and achieving our business aims.
strategies, policies, health, welfare The primary way in which we communicate and andbenefits share ideas is via our online community, the UBM Wiki, which has developed significantly since its We have developed policies on compensation, introduction two years ago, as highlighted below.
rewards and benefits that ensure that the best talent Wealso use a variety of other tools to communicate isrecruited, retained and engaged.
The objective is to with our employees.
ensure that all staff in all locations are treated fairly and In 2010, we undertook our first UBM-wide we aim to follow best employment practices within employee engagement survey UBM Voice.
This was the local markets in which we operate.
We promote the first time that we have undertaken a coordinated and reward based on merit and the individuals programme with employees across all businesses and contribution to the business.
Reward arrangements in all countries.
An ongoing dialogue with employees include bonus and long term incentive schemes payable is also promoted through divisional staff surveys with on the achievement of financial and personal objectives.
follow up action plans, appraisals, e-newsletters, town Detailed employment policies are in place across hall meetings, web chats, blogging, innovative use of our businesses, covering areas such as recruitment, webinars and wikis.
Theemployee consultative forums training, flexible working, paid leave e. g. maternity, such as town hall meetings offer a valuable vehicle for paternity, adoption, parental, carer and sabbatical the exchange ofinformation with management and leave, diversity, data protection, anti-malpractice also give employees the opportunity to meet and Whistle-blowing and other policies tailored to shareviews.
Annual page views m UBMS Online Community Canon integration 3.77 Interacting and communicating in UBMs online The Wiki facilitated coordination and collaboration among community allows individuals to identify and leverage theglobally dispersed integration team.
2.95 theskills, knowledge, experience and business positions The 350 new employees found the UBM Wiki to of peers and teams from across the business.
UBMWiki beavirtual welcome mat from all of UBM providing usage increased significantly in 2010 as our online community theinformation andresources to learn about their new moved from the start-up phase into becoming the primary employer and quickly become part of the UBM community.
place where all of UBM connects, communicates and collaborates.
These cross-UBM relationships are growing Volcanic eruption 09 10 stronger and multiplying, connecting on all levels and pulling UBM tighter together.
Thegraphs opposite, which include Employees used blogs, discussions and even created Content and collaboration 000 significant growth in usage in China and Asia, illustrate how anewgroup to spontaneously share information, assess theWikiisgrowing in importance.
risks and identify opportunities 33.32 Within days, UBM launched a revenue-producing 25.35 24.82 22.78 webinar about the volcanic ash crisis, drawing upon the expertise andconnections of UBM staff across multiple divisions andcountries.
09 10 09 10 Pages of Comments content created and responses 46 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 1: 2010 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements Ludgate House We are serious about taking care of our employees and UBMs principal environmental issues are energy recyling results % offer a wide-range of initiatives to achieve this such as: usage, waste recycling, transport, and paper sourcing 91.5 and usage.
Over the past few years we have made 88.8 86.2 Gym health club reimbursement schemes significant progress in measuring and reducing the 68.5 Cycle2Work schemes, secure parking for bikes environmental impact of our UK businesses.
andshower changing facilities Thegraphs on the left show how we have improved over the period.
Wellness clinics and programmes In 2010 the UBM Board set the objective of Flu vaccinations producing a global Carbon Report, championed by 07 08 09 10 Private medical cover CFO Bob Gray, to measure environmental outputs Health checks-ups for UBM as whole and implement initiatives Ludgate House toreduce negative impacts on the environment carbon footprints tCO e 2 Free eye tests seecase study.
5,399 Discounted prescriptions 2010 environmental initiatives and 3,885 successes include: A wide range of other benefits are also available, 3,339 3,380 3,413 withlocal variations between markets.
Benefits Achieving the Carbon Trust Standard in the UK.
include Sharesave, encouraging employee saving Several of our US offices qualifying for the Energy andshare ownership, Company pension schemes Star Rating.
In theevent of redundancies we 06 07 08 09 10 ensure thatproper procedures are followed with Signing up to the 1010 worldwide initiative affected staff in accordance with Company policies working towards a 10% reduction in carbon and local laws, and that redundant staff are treated emissions for 2010. fairly in accordance with local best practices.
Completing a server visualisation programme toreduce wasteful processing power.
UBM and the environment Consolidation of various sites to maximise space andenergyefficiency.
UBM is focused on reducing energy usage waste inthe workplace and on improving recycling.
Significant work undertaken by UBM Live towards Ouremployees are integral to achieving these aims BS 8901 accreditation for sustainable events.
and we continue to foster a culture of environmental Recycling 91.5% of waste at Ludgate House our awareness and responsibility.
We do this through principal UK office exceeding our 90% target.
regular electronic communications and environmental awareness campaigns, the sharing As a leading organiser of events all around the ofideas and good practice on the UBM Wiki, and worldwe promote practices that are environmentally changes to the office environment, all of which have responsible by running events to share best practice enhanced employee engagement to help us move inenvironmental matters, by reducing event waste towards a low carbon future.
anddriving improvements in sustainability across allour event activities.
United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 47 Section 1: Overview Operating and Financial Review Corporate Responsibility CR continued Some teams have run initiatives to improve the Some of our businesses are particularly close to many environmental impact including: of the key environmental issues facing us today.
Forexample, our Built Environment division runs No longer using any floor coverings or, where they Sustainability Now, a free virtual event bringing are used, using only recyclable carpets.
together professionals working across architecture, Using recyclable PVC banners.
engineering, quantity surveying, project management and construction to discuss, tackle and collaborate Reducing paper to a bare minimum by having onsustainability issues in the built environment.
online-onlybookings, online post-event evaluations, Other parts of the business encourage environmental online operations manuals and by having electronic awareness, for example a tree was planted for the first PressOffices.
5,000 downloads of each Information Week digital Using a green fleet of company cars and where issue, resulting in 60,000 trees being planted in 2010. employees travel to events we encourage use of rail and car-sharing rather than flying.
UBM in the community Using vegetable inks and dyes in production.
Over the past two years we have been shifting Working with venues to reduce energy and water ourcommunity focus away from more passive usage and to use more sustainable products.
philanthropic activities, such as simple cash Encouraging an awareness of, and a commitment donations, to more active engagement, looking to, improved environmental performance amongst tobring our expertise to bear in how we serve the suppliers, exhibitors and event sponsors.
communities in which we operate.
Whilst we Hosting Green awards for event exhibitors continue to make cash donations and recognise their or making charitable donations, such as at the value, our focus and energy is now in areas where Renewable Energy Show in Thailand where a webelieve we can make a significant contribution.
donation was made to The Green World Foundation Forexample our flagship NGO Events allow us for every visitor.
toharness our resources and the expertise of our employees to make a real difference see case studyopposite.
Environmental reporting Utility % of data 2010 carbon emissions tCO e 2 Going global Electricity 81 Gas 78 1.
Electricity 7,408 The first phase of the reporting process has involved Water 47 2.
Gas 886 globaldata collection in relation to our 156 office locations in35 different countries.
The process was led by the divisionalCEOs Waste 49 3.
Water 13 and each business now has a dedicated Environmental Total 64 4.
Waste 3 Coordinator who works closely with the Global Environmental Coordinator.
341 Total environmental impact for UBM estimated at: 2 The 2010 Carbon Report has established a base line for 8,294 tonnes of CO e from electricity & gas 2 future reporting on electricity, gas and water consumption, and recycling and waste.
The table opposite shows the utility data 3 44,475m of water used collected for the global property portfolio as a % of totalUBM 320 tonnes of recycled waste.
The result of the project is that we can now begin to track ourenvironmental performance over time for example examining our carbon emissions per employee or per sq ft. 48 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 1: 2010 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements We also offer complimentary or discounted services In 2008 our LDP participants visited five charities It has been amazing tosee what four passionate people to not-for-profit entities for example: inBrazil.
The LDP alumni have kept in touch with at PROATA have achieved in the charities and, to complement the initial cash the past two years with our PR Newswire offered free services for NGOs and donations made, they offer continuing support, cash donation and some corporations offering relief services during the Haiti brain support from the UBM advice and assistance.
PROATA, a Brazilian charity LDP alumni.
tackling eating disorders, is one such charity which Annemieke Timmers, PR Newswire also provided complimentary news has benefited from our support.
releases to all NGOs declaring commitments at the UBM employees are also encouraged to 2010 Clinton Global Initiative Conference, worth undertake volunteering activities and are given time US$70,000.
off each year, with pay, to volunteer: we run reading schemes with local schools, and in Brazil the Via its partnership with CSRwire, PR Newswire SoPaulo office of PR Newswire is dedicating one provided the CSR members with expanded day per month working with the charity ACER, to distribution to media, analysts and stakeholders help raise the standards of living, through education, thatspecifically have elected to track and follow of the children of the citys slums.
We operate a matched giving scheme through We frequently donate Events stands to NGOs which fundraising efforts by UBMs employees are toenable them to get closer to specific industries.
matched by the Company, together with a payroll Our Events in the US coordinate with venues giving scheme in the UK, whereby regular donations and local not-for-profit agencies to organise food by employees are matched.
The allocation of cash donations from Events to local soup kitchens and donations is based either on proposals generated by support centres.
At many of our Events we raise employees, or by reference to the level of volunteer money for charity and The Asian Awards in London work undertaken by employees.
raised 100,000 for Save The Children.
In total our During 2010 we donated 437,971 awards events raised 183,000 for charity in 2010.
2009:564,200 to over 75 charities, which As part of the Indian National Road Safety campaign represents cash donations only and does not include UBM India partnered with the Mumbai Traffic donations-in-kind such as the NGO Events, employees Police, and created road signs for raising awareness time or services offered on a pro bono basis, nor does it ofsafety rules and regulations.
include the donation of equipment such as computers.
NGO Events Making a difference Our NGO Events are unique, free events for the NGOcommunity, bringing together NGOs and CR practitioners on a large scale.
They enable NGOs to network, share bestpractice, raise their profile and build partnerships with business.
Our second NGO Brazil eventsaw more than 500exhibiting NGOs, twice as many as in 2009, more than1,100 conference delegates and almost 13,000 visitors nearly five times that of 2009.
Work has already begun on NGO Brazil 2011, while NGO UK Responsible Business 2011, will take place in March 2011 working in conjunction with Business in the Community.
Workis also underway for an NGO India Event.
br en U United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010 49 Section 1: Overview Operating and Financial Review Corporate Responsibility CR continued BSEC is UBM Built Environments largest event dedicated marketing channels, encouraging people to visit the stand to the design and construction of educational spaces.
and donate their time, expertise or products.
We have so far In2010 we invited a small charity in Africa, HSK, to join us on helped to raise 14,000, building work has started on the a campaign to build a secondary school in Kekopey, Kenya school, and during 2011 we aim to take a team, drawn from with the help of our BSEC community.
They exhibited at the across the BSEC community, to visit theproject.
show and we promoted the programme through our normal UBM works closely with external health and safety Health and safety experts to undertake regular independent health and We recognise that providing a safe working safety audits of our Events and we continually seek to environment for our employees, and for the improve and share best practice.
Our Internal Audit exhibitors and visitors to our many Events, is an department reviews health and safety issues at Events, essential responsibility of management and employees with particular emphasis on Emerging Markets.
Health and safety policy lies with the Office-based employees undertake annual online Board and each divisional CEO is responsible health and safety training courses and workplace formaking sure that their business operates in riskassessments.
compliance with relevant health and safety legislation and procedures.
Divisional CEOs also undertake Suppliers health and safety awareness training.
Our principal health and safety issues relate to We aim to do business in a consistent, responsible and our Events and, while local legal requirements may appropriate manner.
By working closely with venues, vary, our aim is to set benchmark standards for suppliers and contractors we encourage sustainability managing health and safety at our Events around the and environmentally responsible activities and sound world.
Contractors and exhibitors are made aware sourcing.
Through regular communication we ensure ofour demanding requirements with detailed health that our partners meet the same high standards that and safety guidance, and the majority of contractors we set for ourselves, including adherence to local laws have either undertaken formal health and safety and best practice.
training or plan to do so because we demand it.
We conduct surveys with suppliers, listen to their Wehave continued to seek to apply the highest feedback and share our knowledge with them.
Major standards in each of our Events taking account suppliers and contractors are audited on their green oflocal regulations and norms but also applying our initiatives, and wherever practicable we use locally own approach.
Risk assessments are conducted at our sourcedsupplies.
events and a health and safety manager is on site for the duration of the event.
50 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2010
