Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Strategic review Developing Ultras people Fig 1.
Retention rate within green zone 100 96% 96% 95% 80 five 60 To have an efficient organisation with 40 committed and competent people 20 2008 2009 2010 see all eight of the strategic tenets on pages 14 & 15 0 What people mean to Ultra Ultra has achieved high retention rates of those individuals Ultras fifth strategic tenet calls for an efficient organisation on the business senior management teams that are in the with committed and competent people.
The individual and green zone Fig1.
By developing and retaining the high team contributions made by Ultras employees ensure that the potential individuals in this zone, the Group is creating its strategies for growth translate from well intentioned ideals to next generation of business leaders who will be able to tangible results.
The success Ultra achieves in innovating to take up the challenge, when required, of continuing the meet customer needs is based on the broad range of skills and growth and expansion of Ultra.
All managers in Ultra, supported The succession planning element of the process aims to by HR professionals, work towards the aim of delivering an ensure that there are suitable successors for all the efficient organisation with competent and committed people management team roles across each business and other to meet the Groups business commitments.
Ultra has, as a result, been able to appoint It is vital to the continuing growth and success of Ultra that a high proportion of its leaders at Board, divisional and the quality of the management teams is constantly improved business levels through internal promotion.
Businesses must and that the right behaviours are encouraged.
Many also make sure that the talent pool is deep enough to cope businesses state that their people are the companys most with these internal appointments Fig 3.
Therefore, as well important asset.
Ultra varies this slightly: the Groups right as the people listed as successors, each business also people are its most important asset.
identies people with high potential.
The combined list represents Ultras high-yer talent pool and is used The structure of Ultra is characterised by a lean head ofce regularly to nd the right people to ll internal vacancies.
function fewer than twenty staff work at the head ofce in London and a high degree of authority and In a typical year Ultra recruits over 500 new employees.
responsibility is delegated to the 25 businesses.
Supported Over and above this, acquisitions bring new people into by their divisional Managing Directors or Presidents, the the Ultra team.
management team of each business is required to focus on Fig 2. three key outcomes: developing and delivering the strategy meeting or beating the budget developing the people in the business Each business is required to maintain a constant focus on growing the capabilities of the team and the individuals in the team.
Developing Ultras people succession planning and retention All businesses in Ultra utilise an organically developed organisation, succession and development planning Low Medium High Very high process.
In this, individuals are assessed against their Potential performance in their current role and their potential to perform a larger role.
This assessment positions the training & development individual on the performance versus potential grid shown The Group actively supports and invests in training and right Fig 2.
It recognises that any role in the business will development linked to business needs.
Each business is become more challenging as the business grows.
responsible for identifying the training needs of its Equal attention is given to enhancing the performance of employees and managing its own training budget.
This and retaining the individuals in the green zone of the grid typically takes place through individual employee and to addressing the challenges of the people in the performance and development reviews, which are held at amber and red zones.
This does not always mean that least annually.
Specic training programmes are provided those individuals in the red and amber areas must leave for individuals as necessary.
Often they need to be placed in a role more suited In 2010 over 20 different in-house training courses were to their talents and in which they can perform as required run in the UK and in North America.
Many of these are by the business.
courses that are tailored to the specic requirements of 16 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Performance Strategic review Developing Ultras people Fig 3.
Internal appointments at Executive Team, Fig 2.
Employee engagement across the Group 100 100 80 80 86% 84% 81% 60 60 77% 78% 76% 40 40 20 20 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 0 0 Ultra and the trainers have an intimate knowledge of how Culture the Group operates across all its businesses.
These training As noted above Ultra recruits a large number of people each events include programmes on leadership and management year as the business grows and new people also join through processes and techniques, along with workshops on Ultras acquisitions.
Ultra is committed to ensuring that the Ultra successful competitive strategy, strategic selling, programme culture is not diluted as the Group grows.
management and systems engineering processes.
Moreover, The culture of the Group supports the objective and in recent years Ultra has organised annual conferences for strategies as illustrated in the pyramid on page 3.
Ultra its business, engineering, marketing, finance and human defines culture as a set of inuences such as leadership resources leaders respectively.
In this way, that which makes styles and values which drive behaviours and in turn Ultra different and special is spread more broadly across the produce the desired results.
In addition, there is always value from networking The four cultural behaviours of its people that are highly across different businesses.
The cross fertilisation of ideas valued and encouraged by Ultra are: often spawns ideas for innovative solutions to fulll real customer requirements through internal teaming.
Leadership Entrepreneurship securing the talent pipeline Individual businesses provide a wide variety of training and Audacity development opportunities.
As well as tuition Paranoia reimbursement for shorter programmes, Ultra also provides Together these make LEAP.
a range of support including apprenticeship programmes, graduate training, work experience as well as sponsorships Engagement at bachelor, master and doctorate level.
Ultra also has very Ultra recognises the importance of committed employees strong links with a large number of universities.
and, using its YOURviews employee survey, first developed a Benets measure of employee engagement in 2005.
The survey is Another way that Ultra attracts and retains the right people is conducted in each Ultra business at least every two years to offer all employees competitive and comprehensive and the businesses across the Group have successfully benets, which are regularly reviewed.
The Group believes in improved engagement by 1 to 2% per year over the last rewarding its employees well for good performance.
and Canadian employees are offered medical plans and the Communities businesses promote and offer specic wellness programmes.
Ultra recognises the importance of being a responsible Ultra also places a high level of importance on share plans partner in the communities in which it operates and in that are open to all employees.
These are offered annually as which its employees live.
The Group has a positive attitude savings related share option plans in the UK, US and Canada to environmental issues and is pleased to support selected and enable all employees to share in the success of Ultra as a charities and to maintain links with its local communities.
Following the last invitation in 2010, over 55% of eligible US and Canadian employees opted to participate.
Ultra offers retirement benets to its employees around the world.
Further details are provided on pages 29 and 30.
Employee communication Gaining the commitment of everyone who works at Ultra involves effective communication and consultation.
This takes a number of forms such as the bi-annual Group magazine UltraNews, company-wide strategy and performance presentations, birthday and communication lunches, cascade team brief meetings, specic consultation groups and YOURviews employee surveys.
As a result of this focus on developing its people, Ultra is seen as an attractive place to work with many interesting and rewarding opportunities.
