Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility eight To meet our commitments see all eight of the strategic tenets on pages 14 & 15 Ultra believes that it should at all times be a responsible Business ethics corporate citizen and as such the Group complies with all Ultra has adopted a Group-wide Ethics Policy to ensure it applicable legislation in the countries in which it operates.
maintains a consistently high ethical standard in all Ultras policies relating to its corporate responsibility are countries where the Group operates.
All employees are generally established by the Board, with the individual required to comply with the Ethics Policy and with any businesses taking a major role in their implementation.
In the UK, the new Bribery Act has been passed by Parliament but will not come into force Relationships until the Government has issued guidelines on adequate customers procedures to prevent bribery and corruption.
Ultra is in the Ultra promotes excellent working relationships with all its process of enhancing its procedures in order to be able to customers with a special emphasis on meeting its demonstrate compliance with the expected contents of commitments.
To meet the sixth strategic tenet, it is these guidelines.
Outside the UK, Ultra complies with all intended that Ultra becomes a strategic supplier to its country-specic bribery and corruption legislation.
The Group receives direct feedback on relationships from the UK MoD Directorate of Supplier To assist the Board and the Chief Executive in ensuring that Relations and from many customers such as BAE Systems Ultra operates to the highest ethical standards, the role of where Ultra is one of five members of its Strategic the Ethical Overview Committee has been expanded to Supplier Programme.
Ultra continues to be recognised as encompass all Group operations.
The committee comprises a long-term partner to its customers with a variety of three independent members with outstanding records of achievements.
The members are: Ultras Command & Control Systems business regularly David Shattock Chairman, and former Chief Constable seeks feedback from its customers either through of Dyfed-Powys and latterly Avon and Somerset formal collaborative meetings such as the Major Major-General Tim Cross CBE former Commander of Equipment Supplier programme run by BAE Systems or British Army forces in Iraq through informal communications including unsolicited Martin Bell retired MP and former BBC correspondent direct contact.
Individual Ultra businesses work very hard to promote excellent relationships with customers and receive feedback in the form of metrics as well as recognition of exceptional performance.
There were outstanding results again during 2010.
For example, DNE was recognised by both Lockheed Martin and Northrop Grumman for scoring 100% against both delivery and quality metrics.
Most businesses conduct regular formal customer surveys.
suppliers Contracts with suppliers are placed following a fair, competitive tendering process on an arms-length basis or through formal teaming agreements.
Conicts of interest are avoided at all times.
Ultras supplier relationships engender a cooperative culture which assists problem solving and helps to accommodate changes of requirements where these occur.
Gain-share arrangements The committees remit is to receive reports of the Groups are also entered into where appropriate and provide operations, to review and comment on its policies, benets for Ultra, its suppliers and its partners.
procedures and conduct and to provide advice to the Board.
Operating businesses are responsible for agreeing the Ultra businesses produce a monthly compliance report which terms and conditions under which they conduct business is reviewed every six months by the Board.
Any instances of transactions with their suppliers.
It is Group policy that ethical non-compliances will also be referred to the Ethical payments to suppliers are made in accordance with those Overview Committee for investigation.
terms, provided that the supplier is also complying with During 2010 the Group introduced a new whistle blowing all relevant terms and conditions.
hotline through which employees can file anonymous 34 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Performance Corporate responsibility Fig 1.
Reportable recordable accidents per employee Fig 2.
The reportable recordable accident rate concerns that ethical or any other Group policies are not has been maintained over recent years Fig 1. being complied with.
Such reports are routed to the Lost time accident data has been recorded for the UK Chairman of the Audit Committee, or, in the case of the businesses for a number of years and this has been extended US businesses under the Special Security Arrangement or to all businesses from 2010.
The lost time accident rate per the Proxy Board, they are routed to the Chairman of the 200,000 hours was 0.55 for 2010. respective Security Committee.
Any reports are fully Environment investigated and remedial action taken if appropriate, with Ultra recognises that it is important, both for its employees feedback via the hotline made available to the reporter.
and the communities in which it operates, that effective Since the hotline was launched there have been four measures are in place to ensure that the Group minimises reports filed, none of which related to allegations of any the environmental impact of its activities.
Ultra has a formal unethical behaviour.
environmental policy that addresses compliance with Ultras Directors and employees are required to avoid environmental legislation, conformity with standards for air, conflicts of interest.
Any conflicts identified by the Directors waste disposal and noise, the economical use of materials are reported to the Board for it to consider how to deal and the establishment of appropriate environmental with them.
The Group operates a strict policy for the performance standards.
control of inside information and maintains a list of those Progress is monitored through annual reporting and a with access to such information.
All businesses must bi-annual audit process.
The Chief Executive is the main comply with the relevant national export control legislation.
Board member with overall environmental responsibility.
Ultra operates a strict policy of no political donations.
All The Managing Directors and Presidents of the operating Ultra businesses respect and comply with national human businesses are responsible for implementation of the policy.
Bi-annual external audits covering environmental matters Health and safety are conducted by independent, external, qualified auditors: Ultras eighth strategic tenet is to meet its commitments.
the next audits will take place in 2011.
As with health and One of the most important commitments Ultra has is to the safety, the audits and the resulting follow-up process have health and well being of the Groups employees.
A healthy, proved effective in reaching and maintaining high committed workforce working in a safe environment is standards of compliance across all sites.
necessary to achieve superior business results.
Ultra therefore places great emphasis on maintaining high Where appropriate, individual businesses have ISO14001 standards of health and safety, not just to employees but accreditation.
also to visitors and the local communities in which the Energy consumption is measured annually and, where Groups businesses operate.
possible, the data compared with previous years.
There All Ultra businesses are required to have a written local was no contamination of land during 2010, continuing policy, to have the necessary resources to implement the the track record of the previous two years.
The results of policy, to provide adequate information, instruction and the annual reports from each business are reviewed by the training for employees and to implement monitoring of Board annually in January.
In the UK, Ultra measures and health and safety standards.
The Chief Executive is the main reports on its packaging waste annually Fig 2.
Businesses Board member with overall health and safety responsibility.
are encouraged and incentivised to reduce the net amount The Managing Directors and Presidents of the operating of waste they produce.
businesses are responsible for implementation of the policy.
Ultra businesses have video communication and conferencing Bi-annual audits are conducted by independent, external, facilities.
These have been progressively installed and qualified assessors covering health and safety matters.
The upgraded over the last ten years and have proven highly next audit cycle will take place in 2011. effective in eliminating the need for travel in order to hold reviews and other meetings.
The most significant effect has Each business is required to submit a separate annual been a reduction in the amount of air travel undertaken.
report on health and safety issues.
The results of the audits and annual reports from each business are reviewed by the Board annually in January.
Incidents involving lost time or requiring external reporting are reported monthly.
Accident and incident data is Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 35 7.
