Corporate social responsibility report As a Group we seek to operate responsibly and ethically in all areas of our business.
We have a strong ethical belief in the way business should be conducted.
As a Group we seek to operate responsibly and ethically Following on from the success of the ISEIT and AMUM in all areas of our business.
We have a strong ethical conferences, AVEVA announced in 2010 an exciting change belief in the way business should be conducted and how to their successful conference series with the introduction employees should be treated.
We have integrated social, of the AVEVA World Summits.
The new Summits will become environmental and ethical policies into the way we do AVEVAs premier customer events held in multiple locations business and how we interact with our stakeholders around the world.
They will continue to focus on strategic including our shareholders, employees, customers, business, industry and technology issues critical to the suppliers and local communities.
The Chief Executive success of existing and future AVEVA customers.
has Board responsibilities for matters relating to the Groups culture and ethical policies, environmental Employees matters and customer and employee issues.
These matters The Group now has over 800 employees of whom are reviewed by the Board as part of its management of over 500 are based overseas.
2009 10 saw a review risk and maintenance of its core values is vital.
The Board of our growth strategy in the light of changes in the considers that it has sufficient information in order global economy and the refocusing of our investments to be able to assess these risks.
which resulted in some job losses.
Alternative options, including part-time working, retraining and career Customers and suppliers breaks, were offered to ensure that key skills were We seek to be honest and fair in our relationships with retained.
Job losses were kept to a minimum so as both customers and suppliers.
AVEVA has relatively few not to damage the longer-term business goals.
preferred suppliers, and evaluates potential suppliers We are dependent on the drive and commitment based on several factors including vendor policies, of our employees: they are our most important and reputation and contractual terms and conditions.
valuable asset and key to our continuing success.
We We have a policy not to offer, pay or accept bribes have continued to review the skills and experience or to accept substantial favours.
We encourage our needed to fill our critical roles and continue to recruit suppliers and customers to adopt the same principles in certain areas.
Retention and skill development is to which we ourselves aspire.
regularly reviewed by the Board as part of the risk management process.
We offer the highest level of support and continue to enhance our product offering to ensure our customers We recognise that we must excel in the management effective use of our software thus minimising waste of people and support employees to develop their careers and improving efficiency.
The Group is committed to within the Group, which assists towards maintaining its customers and has dedicated support staff within a high level of morale.
Staff turnover remains well its Group Solutions Centre to handle all support calls below the industry norm and positive retention and capture customer feedback.
programmes are being developed by the Group HR team.
Staff retention rate is a KPI which is monitored regularly In addition to sponsoring a variety of industry trade and at 31 March 2010, the retention rate was 93% shows, AVEVA hosted a number of customer focused excluding the impact of the redundancy programme events during the year, including the AVEVA Marine User which was completed in 2009 2009 93%.
We aim Meeting AMUM in Shanghai, China, and the International to be an employer of choice by: Symposium for Engineering Information Technology ISEIT, aiming to recruit, train and develop high calibre held in Berlin, Germany.
As in previous years, these events people and helping them to subscribe to our values provided a valuable industry forum to build relationships while continuing to grow the business in key areas: with the customer base and potential new customers, to obtain feedback on the product offering and to providing clean, healthy and safe working conditions: promote best practice in the use of our software.
AVEVA Group plc Directors report Annual report 2010 22 2 AVE ar10 front.
indd 22 01 06 2010 16:41:14 Overview Business review Corporate Governance Financial statements being an equal opportunity employer and not across the Group to enable them to access technical and tolerating any discriminatory actions or harassment generic training material.
This is particularly suited to an of our employees: we are proud of the diverse nature employee base so widely spread across different locations.
of our workforce: This initiative includes bespoke training for new recognising the requirement to provide facilities for employees and information for specific groups such disabled employees and taking all reasonable measures as graduates, managers, etc.
to meet any special needs an employee might have: Central Induction Programme encouraging fuel-efficient commuting through the Our successful Central Induction Programme has provision of car share networks, cycle sheds, showers continued to be enjoyed by new recruits and proved and changing facilities in the UK offices: and very beneficial in providing information and a welcome to the Company.
This is now being supplemented with offering flexible benefits in the UK to allow the E-Learning programme and local induction plans.
employees to select benefits to suit their lifestyle, During the year over 50 new employees attended and an Employee Assistance Programme to provide the courses hosted in Cambridge.
independent support for a variety of both work and non-work related issues.
Management development training programme Managing employees in a changing and demanding AVEVA will continue to review its benefits programme organisation with such diverse cultures and numerous throughout the Group to ensure that valued and locations brings a number of challenges.
AVEVA has cost-effective benefits are offered to all employees developed a training programme and a learning whilst remaining competitive.
The Groups employment framework to provide support for the management policies are continuously under review and are aimed at team.
The management development course has been meeting or exceeding the legislative requirements in the extended to include different levels of management and countries in which the Group operates.
Wherever possible, is led by our internal Training and Development Manager.
these promote a considerate and flexible approach to work life balance.
As part of this, the Group continues Graduate training programme to review and improve communication with employees The AVEVA graduate training programme has now been and has conducted surveys and held forums with extended to include graduates in our EMEA Sales Division employees to gain their views on key issues.
and in 2010 will be extended further to include North America and non-R&D functions such as business strategy and sales.
Training and development During the year an additional four new graduates were hired E-Learning and will undergo a two year graduate training programme In support of the development and retention of staff, gaining experience from different disciplines in the Group.
this year the Group launched E-Learning to all employees ICRC Ch.
Von Toggenburg Directors report AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2010 23 2 AVE ar10 front.
indd 23 01 06 2010 16:41:16 Corporate social responsibility report continued Training and development continued Environment Group-wide appraisal scheme As a developer of software the Company has no Developing skills is important to individuals and to AVEVA manufacturing facilities and therefore the Group developing people helps move the Group forward and is classed as low impact in environmental terms.
helps maintain the respect and reputation of our staff The majority of sales are for software which is delivered with our customers.
The appraisal process therefore: electronically to customers.
Our software products are created by very knowledgeable, talented individuals ensures staff receive regular, constructive feedback using computers and a variety of software development on their performance: tools.
There are no harmful chemicals or anything that links job descriptions and individual objectives with could give rise to noxious waste employed in the process.
AVEVAs business plans: and We purchase energy saving screens which are MPR II and TCO 03 compliant.
We have this year also had a survey sets and reviews personal skill development goals.
carried out by the Carbon Trust to give us guidance on further adjustments we can make to cut down on our Health and safety carbon footprint.
We use third party recycling vendors We have a legal and moral responsibility to ensure to assist us with the disposal of computer hardware in the safety and well being of all our employees whilst an environmentally friendly manner.
The Group actively carrying out their duties on behalf of the Group and undertakes recycling of waste products with printer also to maintain a safe environment for customers and toner, paper, cardboard and plastic recycled in many other visitors whilst on our premises.
We encourage employees to undertake Fire Safety and Electrical Safety audits are carried out recycling as much as possible.
In the last twelve months we have had one RIDDOR reportable accident which resulted in Travel no further action.
As a global business, our employees We encourage and support environmentally considerate undertake travel to many areas of the world to visit travel to work arrangements at all our principal office customers sites or to assist customers in the locations, according to local circumstances.
At our Cambridge deployment and testing of our products.
The Group headquarters this includes encouraging employees to regularly takes advice from the UK Foreign Office, cycle to work, share car journeys or use public transport.
the World Health Organisation and similar organisations There are a number of employees who take advantage of concerning health and safety in the various regions the excellent facilities for cyclists with staff encouraged where we operate for example we regularly updated to use these.
International travel is important to support employees on advice this year relating to the H1N1 virus and promote our business worldwide.
The level of and provided additional precautions in the workplace international travel is monitored on a regular basis to prevent the spread of infection.
and ways to reduce travel investigated.
AVEVA Group plc Directors report Annual report 2010 24 2 AVE ar10 front.
indd 24 01 06 2010 16:41:17 Overview Business review Corporate Governance Financial statements Video and web conferencing is utilised whenever practicable.
Employees are encouraged to participate personally in Recent investments to our core IT infrastructure across charitable and community activities with the Group also the Group has enabled more effective communication gift matching the efforts of employees who took part collaboration and is expected to continue to improve in the Chariots of Fire Charity Marathon, the Oxford operational efficiencies in the future.
to Cambridge Bike Ride and Red Nose Day.
During the past year we have donated 36,000 to a wide Educational partnerships range of organisations as summarised below: Skills shortages continue to be a challenge in most engineering companies and it will take some time East Anglian Air Ambulance for the recent increases in the number of engineering East Anglian Air Ambulance was founded in 2000. students at universities and technical colleges to close The charity provides 365 days a year air ambulance the skills gap that currently exists.
In recognition of this, service for Cambridgeshire, Norfolk and Suffolk, and in addition to its own in-house graduate recruitment which is 11% of the total area of England.
schemes, AVEVA actively supports the work of educational East Anglian Childrens Hospice EACH establishments and government bodies around the world EACH supports families throughout their experience of caring to narrow the skills gap.
The AVEVA Academic Initiative for children with life-threatening or life-limiting illnesses.
is a Group-wide programme whereby the Company: Mid-Anglia General Practitioner Accident Service MAGPAS works with universities and technical institutes to MAGPAS has provided emergency care in Cambridgeshire promote the use of AVEVA products within undergraduate and Peterborough since 1971 and works in partnership with courses and postgraduate research projects: the East Anglian Air Ambulance and the East of England works with government agencies to re-skill engineers Ambulance Service Trust.
for employment in other disciplines: and Arthur Rank Hospice works with engineering bodies to encourage school Arthur Rank Hospice provides specialist palliative care leavers to pursue careers in engineering.
to people living throughout much of Cambridgeshire.
The Hospice offers a safe, friendly and supportive The company provides both software and training support environment for those affected by cancer and other to enable engineering students to gain hands-on experience life-limiting illnesses.
The staff work to provide the best of the latest technologies and use these to undertake levels of end-of-life care to improve patients quality a variety of academic and practical projects directly of life, while also supporting their relatives and carers.
applicable to the industries in which they will work.
Headway In the 2009 10 financial year AVEVA provided support to: Headway promotes understanding of all aspects of brain Asia Pacific region: injury and to provide information, support and services to Over 30 universities, colleges and high schools in China, people with a brain injury, their families and carers.
India, Korea, Malaysia, Singapore and Taiwan.
Macmillan Cancer Support EMEA: Macmillan Cancer Support is a source of support, helping More than 15 universities and colleges in Algeria, with all the things people affected by cancer want and need.
Finland, France, Germany, Italy, Russia, Serbia, Spain, International Committee of the Red Cross Sweden and the UK.
The International Committee of the Red Cross, or ICRC, Americas: is a humanitarian organisation which aims to help those Seven universities, colleges and postgraduate institutes caught up in armed conflicts around the globe.
in North America and Canada.
The Princes Trust In addition, AVEVA has donated in excess of $800,000-worth The Princes Trust, founded in 1976 by The Prince of Wales, of engineering software and provided free, special training has become the UKs leading youth charity, offering a range courses to US initiatives aimed at re-skilling designers and of opportunities including training, personal development, engineers from the declining auto industry and upgrading business start-up support, mentoring and advice.
the skills of piping designers re-entering the plant The Outward Bound Trust industry workforce.
The Outward Bound Trusts mission is to unlock the potential AVEVA sees its Academic Initiative as a vital strategic in young people through discovery and adventure in the wild.
investment that will bring long-term benefits to the Help for Heroes engineering industries around the world.
Help for Heroes is a registered charity providing support to service men and women wounded in current conflicts.
Community involvement The Group is involved in a number of charitable and Marie Curie Cancer Care good causes.
The Groups policy has been to continue Marie Curie Cancer Care provides free nursing care to to support local charities in the areas that we operate cancer patients and those with other terminal illnesses as well as a number of national and international charities.
Directors report AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2010 25 2 AVE ar10 front.
