co. uk 06 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Long-term customer satisfaction is recognised as being essential to the attainment of Group goals, as is maintaining a reputation for integrity in all business and other dealings both with customers and suppliers.
CONTExT the Group believes it can only achieve its goals through the efforts of its employees.
Job satisfaction requires working environments that motivate cookson employs some 15,500 people with manufacturing facilities in over employees, together with opportunities for training and development to 35 countries serving customers in more than 100 countries worldwide.
Wherever they work, employees have the supply our customers with consumable products which they use in their right to be treated in good faith and with respect for the dignity of the manufacturing processes, for example in the production of steel, foundry individual.
All Group companies must ensure that recruitment, training, castings, electronics and jewellery products.
We operate in just in time promotion, career development, termination and similar employmentsupply chains with short lead times from order to delivery.
We therefore related issues are based on individual ability, achievement, experience have a relatively large number of small and medium sized facilities located and conduct without regard to race, colour, nationality, culture, ethnic close to our customers throughout the worlds major economic regions, origin, religion, sex, sexual orientation, age, disability or any other reason rather than large centralised factories supplying customers worldwide.
not related to job performance or prohibited by applicable law.
Our manufacturing processes are not energy intensive total energy costs are approximately 2% of revenue and do not produce large quantities of the Group is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance hazardous or other wastes and emissions.
and transparent investor communication, as discussed in more detail in the Our Governance section of this report.
POLICY cookson recognises that its operations impact a wide community of cookson seeks to be a good corporate citizen wherever it conducts business, stakeholders, including investors, employees, customers, business to observe all national and local laws and take into account regional and associates and local communities, and that appropriate attention to the local concerns, customs and traditions.
Bribery is strictly prohibited and this fulfilment of its corporate responsibilities can enhance overall performance.
message is being reinforced throughout the Group as part of the companys in structuring its approach to the various aspects of corporate social preparations to comply with the requirements of the new uK Bribery Act.
responsibility, the company takes account of guidelines and statements the cookson code requires all employees, officers and Directors to have a issued by stakeholder representatives and other regulatory bodies from duty of loyalty to the Group and personal interests that do, may or might around the world.
social, environmental and ethical matters are reviewed appear to conflict with Group interests must be avoided at all times.
by the Board, including the impact such matters may have on the Groups EmPLOYEE HELPLINE management of risk.
cookson has a 24-hour employee Business concern Helpline telephone particular emphasis is focused on the following areas: and e-mail facility.
this is an independent and confidential service Code of Conduct: requiring all cooksons businesses and employees through which employees worldwide may register any concerns about to comply with the highest standards of legal and ethical behaviour.
any incorrect or irregular practices they perceive in cooksons workplaces.
Health, Safety and Environment: protecting the health and safety HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONmENT HS&E of our employees, contractors, customers and the general public and cookson regards Hs&e matters as mainstream management responsibilities.
reducing energy consumption and waste in our operations.
the Board has overall responsibility for the cookson Hs&e policy and for Products and Services: developing innovative products and services monitoring its implementation.
executives and line managers at all levels which promote sustainability in our customers production processes are directly responsible through the normal management structure for and products.
Hs&e matters in the operations under their control.
particular emphasis is focused on the following areas: CODE OF CONDUCT Safety Performance: work-related injuries and illnesses.
the company has a code of conduct the cookson code, which has been distributed throughout the Group in 25 languages and by which all Regulatory Compliance: compliance with permitted air, water, waste our businesses are required to operate.
the cookson code emphasises and noise emissions criteria.
the companys commitment to compliance with the highest standards of Energy Usage: reducing electricity and gas consumed in our legal and ethical behaviour.
the cookson code is reproduced in full on the operations and hence carbon dioxide cO emissions.
the Groups Hs&e policy and related information can be found on the the cookson code sets out clear and simple principles covering: customers Groups website www.
and suppliers: employees: investors: society and Local communities: Health, safety and environment: conflicts of interest: and competitors.
A reporting system is in place to collect details of all Hs&e-related incidents throughout the Group and to produce quarterly reports Long-term customer satisfaction is recognised as being essential to the including the Kpis covering work-related injury and illness rates.
these attainment of Group goals, as is maintaining a reputation for integrity in reports and related performance improvement plans are regularly all business and other dealings both with customers and suppliers.
the reviewed by the chief executive with divisional management as part of cookson code defines how we must compete vigorously and honestly.
the normal business review cycle.
18548.04 24 03 2011 Proof 19 Cookson Group plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2010 07 the Board reviews Hs&e performance as a formal agenda item at least SAFETY PERFORmANCE once per year including the Kpis covering work-related injury and illness cooksons goal is zero work-related injuries and illnesses.
the principal rates and total energy consumption.
Any significant incidents are reported indicators of occupational safety and health performance that are used are to the chief executive and the Board as they occur.
based on the us Occupational safety and Health Administration recording requirements.
cookson operations worldwide report the days away cooksons larger manufacturing locations are progressively being incident rate the number of work-related illnesses or injuries, per 100 qualified for certification under isO 14001, the international standard for employees, that resulted in an employee being absent from work for at least environmental management systems.
those facilities handling potentially one day.
We also track the recordable incident rate the number of workmore hazardous materials are progressively being qualified for certification related injuries and illnesses, per 100 employees, that resulted in medical under the international occupational health and safety management treatment beyond first aid.
system, OHsAs 18001. certification to these international standards is not appropriate for all facilities, particularly smaller ones and those with very cooksons days away injury and illness rate has fallen from 2.40 in 2004 to limited environmental impact.
0.80 in 2010. the Groups recordable incident rate has improved to 1.7 in 2010 from greater than 4 in 2004. the Group now has 74 locations certified to isO 14001 and 34 locations certified to OHsAs 18001.
Cookson work-related injury and illness incident rates Facilities certified to ISO 14001 5 days away rate 80 recordable rate 4 70 60 3 50 2 40 1 30 20 10 REGULATORY COmPLIANCE Facilities certified to OHSAS 18001 Regulatory actions against cookson companies have been at a low level for several years.
this is indicative of the emphasis on continuous 35 Hs&e performance improvement across cookson in relation to statutory 30 obligations.
A small number of enforcement notices were issued to cookson companies in 2010, including several that assessed minor penalties.
25 20 cookson companies began implementing the european regulation for 15 the Registration, evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of chemicals ReAcH in 2008. each of the Groups businesses which manufacture 10 chemicals filed appropriate pre-registrations by the statutory deadline and 5 has otherwise complied, as applicable, with the regulatory requirements for the registration of chemical substances.
Like many manufacturers, some Group companies have potential environmental liabilities because of past operations at their current or former sites.
Where remediation is required, we work with external specialists and with government authorities to ensure that remediation is conducted effectively and efficiently.
co. uk 08 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY continued REDUCING ENERGY USE AND CO EmISSIONS PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 2 since 2004, cookson has operated a programme aimed at reducing cooksons products and services can significantly reduce the energy use and hence the associated emissions of cO. the programme environmental impact of our customers operations.
We believe that 2 trains employees to understand energy use and conservation principles by continuing to develop innovative products and services we can and introduces energy audits to assist high-use sites in identifying and create leading market positions in profitable businesses which promote implementing conservation measures.
We therefore maintain R&D spending at a high level and monitor this as a Group level Kpi.
the following chart shows cooksons electricity and gas consumption over the last seven years.
For example, our ceramics divisions steel flow control, linings and foundry products reduce the levels of energy usage and material wastage in the From 2005 to 2007 energy use was reduced markedly as a result of production of steel and foundry castings, markets where we are the these initiatives, notwithstanding growing revenue over the period.
in worlds leading supplier of consumable ceramics used to handle molten 2008 energy use increased relative to 2007, due to the acquisition of the metal.
similarly, our electronics division is a market leader in the supply of Foseco operations.
energy use in 2008, excluding Foseco, is shown on the lead-free and halogen-free materials used in the production of electronic graph below illustrating further reductions in the rest of the Group.
2009 gas use fell by 3% including Foseco due to the drop in the Groups activity.
in 2010 electricity use reduced marginally compared with 2009 in the renewable energy field, the ceramics division is the leading supplier and gas usage reduced by 8%, notwithstanding the increased level of of crucibles used in the production of multi-crystalline photovoltaic manufacturing activity.
wafers used to make solar cells and the electronics division has introduced new products for improved solar cell connectivity.
Cookson electricity and gas consumption in recent years we have developed significant metal recycling operations in both our precious metals and electronics divisions.
Here we recover and 38 400 refine our own and customers scrap solder and precious metals jewellery 36 products to produce high purity silver, gold, tin and lead products which 350 can be reintroduced into the supply chain.
this has involved building new 34 300 recycling facilities in the us and china and expanding recycling capacity 32 in europe.
in both precious metals and electronics markets there is an 250 30 increasing focus on the traceability of these metals to ensure they are 28 200 obtained from environmentally and ethically sound sources, for example 26 150 the Green Gold and conflict metals programmes.
We work closely with 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 our customers and suppliers in support of these initiatives.
Gas therms, millions electricity GWh, millions Gas excluding Foseco electricity excluding Foseco 18548.04 24 03 2011 Proof 19
