com Annual Report 2010 Business review Corporate social responsibility Being a good corporate citizen is an integral part of our business model Board level responsibility for Corporate Social Responsibility CSR rests with the Chief Executive.
In our corporately-owned operations, CSR management and monitoring is assigned to local management.
In licensee countries, our Regional Licensee Directors are responsible for promoting alignment with group CSR principles and policies.
CSR strategy is an integral part of our We try harder.
We are committed to the strategy of measuring the effects of our business operations on the environment and progressively reducing the impact.
We have a comprehensive environmental In the workplace we actively seek to ensure and country headquarters and rental stations, plus programme in place to ensure that we improve employee satisfaction, which together our shared service and call centres.
progressively reduce Co emissions in our with customer satisfaction, is fully recognised as 2 premises, offset non-reducible emissions, being essential for the long-term success of the our data is reviewed and analysed by an continue to introduce less polluting vehicles group.
our values are set out in our statement independent third party assessor working with onto our fleet and encourage our customers of business principles see www.
and partners to offset their emissions.
We are a member of the FtSE4good Index and In 2010 emissions from our corporately-owned We face challenges in setting formal overall the Kempen SNS Smallcap SRI Europe Index.
operations amounted to 15,901 tCo e, a reported 2 targets for energy consumption because in increase of 17.6% compared with 2009.
However, many rental stations, particularly at airports, we Environment with the restatement of emissions relating to share our location with other users, and thus Several converging factors make our green gas and electricity usage in the uK business and have limited ability to directly affect energy use.
agenda increasingly important, not least the to vehicle usage in Spain in 2009, the overall However, where possible, our corporately-owned need to align our CSR policies with those of our increase in emissions was 0.8%.
country headquarters and rental stations, plus customers.
We are installing on our fleet newly our shared service centres, have set individual developed electric vehicles, which are key in the Buildings and premises targets.
In addition, we have forged closer links drive for a low-carbon economy.
Added to this is During the year we have taken further steps with certain airport operators to introduce joint the stimulus from legislative pressures such as to make our buildings and premises more environmental initiatives, particularly in relation congestion charges in major cities and the greater environmentally friendly, and make it easier to recycling.
For example, we recycle office onus on companies to disclose carbon emissions.
for staff to play their part.
Initiatives include: equipment and computers in conjunction with local authorities and airports.
the largest of our impacts on the environment is R educing utility usage by conducting an greenhouse gas emissions.
Since 1997 we have internal Co emissions reduction programme.
2 on community matters, our corporately-owned offset such emissions through innovative renewable this included energy audits, installing operations have made good progress in providing energy and energy efficiency projects, and through motion sensors into lighting, and changing vehicles for community purposes and local reforestation.
For every metric tonne of Co to lower electricity consumption technology.
Local management produced, we fund an equivalent metric tonne to Measurements in germany indicate that has discretion to support staff that volunteer and be saved by climate-friendly offsetting initiatives in converting fascia signs to LED technology raise funds for causes of their choice, and the conjunction with the CarbonNeutral Company.
delivers energy savings of some 85%.
year has seen a lively range of charitable activities Signing our first green electricity contract, throughout our operations.
Examples include We measure our environmental impacts through under which the entire electricity needs of the staff volunteers running for Action against Hunger a management information system that integrates European headquarters from April 2011 to in France, employees supporting the Fair trade environmental reporting into financial reporting, March 2012 will be met from 100% renewable Association in Italy, and donating writing materials both tracking utility use and business travel.
the resources such as wind turbine, bio-mass and to a primary school in Kenya from the uK.
system encompasses our corporately-owned hydro systems.
com Annual Report 2010 13 Spain: Employee volunteering in Italy: The Mary Poppins foundation Barcelona Since 2001, this voluntary foundation has been supporting children with Every quarter, when employees of the Barcelona Call Centre commit cancer in the Paediatric Oncology Clinic of the Rome General Hospital.
12 hours or more of their own time to a charitable organisation, we It provides lodging and financial help for children and their families who donate 150 to that charity.
Typical volunteering in this highly successful visit Rome for cancer treatment from other countries, mainly in Asia and programme involves spending time talking with elderly people and helping Africa.
In the last 10 years, Avis has raised 45,000 for the foundation, with shopping or housework, or providing Spanish lessons to immigrant and collected 4,000 in 2010 to equip a sterile specialist treatment room.
Avis donates this money to the foundation through an amateur theatrical company, Dolphins Company, with which some Avis employees are involved.
Every year, Avis funds a charity performance for employees, Hungary: Toxic waste disaster customers, partners and consultants, with proceeds donated to the October brought Hungarys worst-ever ecological disaster as up to a Mary Poppins foundation.
million cubic metres of toxic red sludge escaped from a reservoir and poured through villages and towns eventually polluting the River Danube and affecting other European countries.
Seeking to help, the Avis shared service centre in Budapest BSC opted for donations boxes in the office which quickly filled up with 500.
We subsequently tripled this amount and sent 1,500 to the Red Cross resulting in a positive effect not only on the community affected by the disaster but also on the BSC team who united for a common cause.
com Annual Report 2010 Business review Corporate social responsibility continued Moving from our current 60-80% towards would have been derived from power stations Mobility 100% target for recycling the groups refuse.
As car usage in general shifts towards a more We recycle all paper, plastic and cans in A river hydro-power project in the mountainous economical and emission-conscious approach, some offices providing staff with recycling bins province of Yunnan, Southern China delivering we are exploring new growth opportunities, instead of waste bins and where possible electricity to the local power grid and displacing recognising that we are well placed to help shape have become totally paperless.
electricity that would have primarily been the evolution of environmentally compatible using e-learning and video-conferencing to derived from fossil fuel-fired power stations.
As part of this, we are encouraging the reduce travel.
Seven countries now participate, development of new solutions that both reflect with a resulting significant reduction in our European corporately-owned operations changing consumer behaviour and complement European travel.
maintained their CarbonNeutral status during the traditional car rental business.
Encouraging car-sharing at our European 2010, while Avis Norway and Sweden maintained headquarters by allocating priority parking their eco ISo 14001 standards.
one such solution is the Paris-based car-sharing spaces in our car park, reserved for staff who initiative oKIgo, now being re-launched as Avis travel together.
Licensees on Demand following the acquisition of Vinci Re-cycling water by washing our cars with rain Last year our licensee in South Africa achieved Parks interest in this operation.
Customers pay a water that has been collected and recycled.
Carbon Neutral Accreditation by offsetting subscription to have an Avis car available 24 7 for its greenhouse gas emissions for its internal rental periods as short as one hour.
Studies show Certifications electricity and fuel consumption to net zero.
this that sharing a car in this way effectively replaces We have worked with the CarbonNeutral year, seeking to reduce its carbon footprint further, up to eight individual cars.
Company since 1997 to offset our operational Co Avis South Africa has appointed EnviroServ Waste 2 footprint by purchasing offsets from independently Management to help implement an integrated A unique partnership formed with Citroen France validated and verified clean and renewable energy waste management system and recycling during the year is also geared to encouraging projects around the world.
Projects in 2010 programme at its offices around the country.
more prudent use of the car.
Entitled Business included: Pass, it enables us to offer leasing customers a Many of our licensees have put a range of different car for a period such as family vacation A biogas project at five farms in the creative ideas into practice, aimed at recycling where their needs are different from normal Netherlands to reduce methane emissions and more, while reducing energy and water usage working days.
this way, customers have an displace fossil fuels used to heat local buildings.
For example, in turkey and economic alternative to owning a larger vehicle, 2 Wind power projects in the Erode district of Zimbabwe licensees have been balancing their but still retain flexible mobility.
tamil Nadu, India, and at two sites in turkey.
Co emissions with tree-planting programmes.
2 these generate clean electricity that otherwise our group policy is to progressively reduce our impacts on the environment in every area of our operation.
Environment targets Progress Emissions reduction In 2010 emissions from our corporately-owned operations amounted to 15,901 tCo e, an 2 underlying overall increase of 0.8%.
Emissions offset We continued, and will continue, to maintain our CarbonNeutral status, and have a committed budget attached to this.
Fleet initiatives through a number of green steps, such as extending the Avis Eco Collection of low-emission vehicles, 55% of 2010 fleet purchases emitted below 140g Co per km.
2 We will reduce this further as electric vehicles enter the fleet during 2011. environment avis-europe.
com Annual Report 2010 15 In the year ahead we will pilot other Spain, germany, the uK, Belgium, Italy and and to make free transport available for environmentally friendly mobility solutions, with the Czech Republic.
In 2010, among many the aim of formally launching the best candidates.
E thanol-powered Saab 9-5 BioPower cars, other initiatives, we provided some 40 vehicles Ford Flexi-fuel and toyota Prius vehicles in from Avis France to help transport artists and Car portfolio Scandinavia.
equipment to a concert in aid of Les Restaurants Continuing the greening of our fleet, we have du Coeur, a charity that supplies free meals for signed a pre-order for 500 electric vehicles from By frequently updating our fleet, we ensure that people in need.
All profits from the concert go to Renault.
these will join our fleet in late 2011, and we are using the latest low-emission vehicles the charity.
In Italy, we provided a car for a month by the end of the year Avis customers in seven available, and we check them after every rental for use in helping the elderly in Milan during the countries will be able to hire the Renault Fluence to maintain their optimum operating efficiency.
ZE and Renault Kangoo Express ZE.
As a result of these and other changes, 55% of In addition to this activity across our corporate We have also extended the low-emission AVIS 2010 fleet purchases emitted less than 140g Co and licensee network, we support uNICEF on a 2 ECo collection launched in the uK late in 2009. per km, on a par with European norms.
variety of projects, as well as initiatives that are this guarantees customers a fuel-efficient, subparticularly important to local staff.
In the uK, 120 Co emission diesel model every time they Ongoing environmental focus for example, employees took part in the annual 2 rent a car from the new collection.
the year ahead will see us continuing to seek Santa Dash, a 5km run that raises money for opportunities to reduce Co emissions from all thames Hospicecare.
In Spain, Avis in Malaga 2 our fleet now includes several hundred new and our buildings and operations.
Specific initiatives supports people with disabilities by recycling environmentally friendly green cars that run on include further trials of various mobility options, waste paper, card and plastics through the fuels other than petrol or diesel, or use advanced along with our first large-scale trial of electric Disabled Parents Association.
these include: vehicles in our increasingly green fleet.
DRIVING ENGAGEMENT toyota Prius vehicles extended during the year GIVING BACK Developing our people to the uK.
Community our Human Resources vision is to enable people Honda Civic hybrids introduced in germany We aim to make a positive contribution to the to grow within our company developing both and Portugal.
quality of life in the communities where we operate.
In 2010 we Natural gas Volkswagen tourans in germany: invested in improving capability and engagement LPg-fuelled Volkswagens in Italy.
our community investment guidelines encourage at all levels.
BMW 1 series with stop-start technology in us to help with local environmental improvements Santa dash In the uK, employees at the group headquarters in Bracknell took part in the annual Santa Dash, a 5km run that raises money for thames Hospicecare, a local charity.
com Annual Report 2010 Business review Corporate social responsibility continued The quality of line management is critical to 2010 also saw a major drive on leadership recognise those who achieve good results in what the development of our organisation, and we development.
In partnership with Ashridge is still a tough business environment.
introduced workshops to help clarify requirements Business School in the UK we ran a 3 day and raise capabilities.
Employees in all areas of leadership programme for 50 senior managers, We have been particularly aware in 2010 of the our business took part in workshops to discuss focusing on the leaders role in shaping culture, need to thank our people at every opportunity for what makes a great Avis manager?.
Using the driving results, and engaging teams.
results of this we have: In addition, we carried out a comprehensive The We try harder.
promise Set out a management charter outlining exactly review of some 350 managers and directors We rely on our people to deliver the We try what is expected of managers.
looking at potential to grow within the company, harder.
promise and appreciate that it is essential Shared best practices across the organisation.
personal aspirations and possible career paths.
that we make Avis an enjoyable place to work Created a comprehensive line-manager Every individual reviewed was given open where employees can develop and grow.
development programme that we will roll out feedback.
We keep the spirit of We try harder.
alive Workplace through Company induction programmes and Always acutely aware that it is our people who We continued to review our organisation to ensure through our communications and training deliver our brand promise and bring We try we remain as effective and flexible as possible.
to life, we also invested in the skills of that encourage teamwork are widely used.
For our front-line customer-facing employees.
In the current economic environment it has proved example, every country recognises its Station even more important than ever to communicate of the Year and individual employees recognise In 10 stations across Europe we piloted advanced well with our staff.
Despite the tight control of colleagues who have demonstrated great customer service training, and as part of this costs and employee numbers, staff morale overall commitment or service through a scheme known implemented a series of local initiatives which remains very positive and we celebrate this as Making a Difference.
employees had identified as key to raising service and applaud success at every opportunity.
This proved highly successful in communicate regularly and openly at team level, In addition, most of our countries hold annual boosting skill, motivation and engagement levels and enable employees to have direct contact conventions that celebrate the brand, teamwork and will be extended more widely across Europe with senior management.
We continue to provide and public recognition of those who have in 2011. training and development opportunities and to exemplified the spirit of Avis.
Avis Portugal gave some truly hands-on support to a local organisation that cares for homeless people a group that Avis volunteers feel are often overlooked.
The Centro fide Acolhimento Casa do Beato hosts some 300 people every day for food, shelter and medical care.
Avis volunteers collected blankets and other necessities for delivery before Christmas, but followed this with an internal poster campaign This time, instead of an Avis shirt, well be using an apron and then providing, cooking and serving a special dinner for the homeless.
The whole Avis team felt they had made a real difference, and are now planning to help more social causes.
com Annual Report 2010 17 ETHICS contact centre in Barcelona we employ some Disability policy 30 nationalities, and in our group headquarters We are committed to encouraging the recruitment, we now have some 21 different nationalities development and retention of disabled people.
Specifically, the Company commits to: Equal opportunities Interview all internal or external applicants We operate in many countries with diverse with a disability who meet the minimum criteria employment practices.
Whilst respecting local for an advertised job vacancy.
circumstances, wherever we operate we follow Make every effort when employees become the principles of equal opportunity in recruitment, disabled to enable them to stay in employment.
take action to ensure that key employees, such as senior managers and managers with We make every effort to offer part-time and vacancies, develop an awareness of disability, flexible working arrangements to those employees so that our commitments are met.
who have personal and family commitments.
If an employee becomes disabled while working Health and safety for Avis, they are encouraged to notify the We continue to embed a robust health and safety Company and we make every effort to ensure culture across the group, with each country continued employment.
If appropriate, the required to report quarterly on key statistics.
Company will arrange suitable training and rehabilitation and will make any reasonable the majority of countries have increased training adjustments.
in this area, with many taking action locally to further improve performance.
For example, in our Diversity contact centre in Barcelona we held a health and During 2010 we continued to focus on developing safety week to raise knowledge and awareness a workforce that reflects the communities we amongst our employees.
During the week a series serve.
In particular, we continued to ensure our of activities took place including workshops and management structure reflects the international relaxation sessions.
the Avis Executive Board comprises six different nationalities.
In our our working climate As part of our drive to improve the engagement of employees, we introduced an exercise that enables us to monitor the working climate regularly.
At least quarterly, every line manager leads a discussion with their team regarding their commitment and motivation levels, team issues, and ideas for improvement.
the results of these discussions are aggregated at country level and reported to the Avis Executive Board.
this process enables us to remain sensitive to the working atmosphere and morale, and quickly respond to issues.
By ensuring ownership for the working climate with managers and their teams, we have been able to empower people locally.
