18 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 www.
com Business Review continued Corporate Responsibility The Board considers that the management of safety, health, We seek to stay well ahead of relevant environmental standards.
environmental, social and ethical matters forms a key element of Our manufacturing plants are regulated by Environmental Permitting effective corporate governance which in turn supports the long-term legislation and, as such, are subject to close monitoring of performance and sustainability of the business.
The Board has ultimate environmental emissions.
During the year there were four notifiable responsibility for SHE policy and performance and receives a report on events at our Rotherham plant: during a decomposition event there safety, health and environmental issues on a monthly basis.
The Chief was a release of white fume: on two occasions during prescribed Executive has Board level responsibility for overseeing these areas, routine air emissions monitoring the amount of fluoride measured which are managed in conjunction with all other business risks and are exceeded agreed limits: and on another occasion during prescribed covered by the internal control systems and procedures outlined on routine water emissions monitoring the amount of suspended solids page 27.
Senior executives are responsible for ensuring that the SHE measured exceeded agreed limits.
On all occasions no environmental policy is implemented in their departments and that all employees have harm was caused.
been trained in defined safe working methods as required.
A dedicated SHE department provides support to achieve this.
As in previous years, there have been no prosecutions, fines or enforcement action as a result of non-compliance with safety, health or A review of the Groups policies relating to safety, health and environmental legislation.
environment, employees and business ethics is set out below.
The principal environmental impacts of the Groups UK operations are Safety, Health and Environment SHE set out in the table below.
The environmental impact of our overseas operations is not considered material.
The Board believes that all employees should be able to work safely in a healthy workplace and that the Groups activities should not harm the Environmental impacts per tonne of VICTREX PEEK sold public or the environment.
Everyone in the Group is expected to place the highest priority on achieving these aims.
Good SHE performance goes hand in hand with good business performance.
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Victrex PEEK sales These policy objectives are achieved by: volume tonnes 2,339 2,508 2,626 1,547 2,535 Energy use GJ 181 168 196 255 209 identifying SHE hazards: 3 Water use m 210 189 148 183 155 assessment of the risks associated with the hazards: CO emissions 2 implementation of appropriate control measures, with external tonnes equivalent 9.4 8.6 9.8 12.8 10.5 guidance and advice being sought and used where appropriate: Hazardous waste post ensuring that all employees are appropriately and properly trained treatment tonnes 0.2 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 and understand what they are required to do: We are constantly striving to improve efficiency in all areas of our reviewing and learning from our own and other peoples operations, including energy use and therefore CO emissions, water experiences and taking on board new legislation and other 2 consumption and quantities of hazardous waste produced.
This is requirements: and achieved by implementing many procedures and projects, large and ensuring that all employees contribute to improving SHE small, across the business.
performance through regular and effective communication and consultation.
Energy usage, water usage and CO generation per tonne of product 2 sold reduced in 2010 because of increased production plant operation All employees have a responsibility to prevent injury and damage to and associated efficiencies.
Increased operation of our downstream health and the environment and to contribute to improvements in SHE processing plants and technical facilities has continued to increase performance through regular communication and consultation.
The Groups excellent health and safety performance has continued REACH with only two over-3-day reportable injuries during the year, when The REACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction an operator suffered a thumb injury and an operator suffered back of Chemicals regulations came into force on 1 June 2007.
The Group received the Royal Society for the Prevention of are outside the scope of the regulations, however, the Company is Accidents RoSPA Presidents Award in 2010 in recognition of working to ensure full REACH compliance for all materials involved in sustained occupational health and safety achievement after winning our manufacturing processes which do require registration.
Plans are ten consecutive RoSPA Gold Awards.
in place to complete full registration in phases from 2010 to 2018.
We do not anticipate any disruption to the supply of products arising from the regulations.
Although we cannot precisely quantify the cost of implementing the regulations, we do not expect it to be material for Victrex.
18297 07 12 10 Proof 37 Stock code: VCT Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 19 Employees retirement benefits based on local laws, custom and market practice.
Details of the Groups principal pension schemes are set out in note 16 The Board recognises our talented and diverse workforce as a key to the financial statements.
The Chief Executive is responsible for overseeing employee matters.
Our business success is a reflection of the quality Largely as a result of the above approach, Victrex has low voluntary and skill of our people.
Victrex is committed to seeking out, retaining employee turnover, 2.8% in 2010 2009: 3.3%.
and developing the highest calibre employees to maximise business growth and performance.
Assessment of ongoing training needs Business ethics comprises a key element of the annual appraisal process.
We have a formal global ethics policy which incorporates the Groups key principles and standards governing business conduct towards our We operate an equal opportunities policy and regard this as a key stakeholder groups.
We believe that we should treat all of these commitment to make full use of the talents and resources of all our groups with honesty and integrity.
Our policy is set out below.
employees, and to provide a healthy environment which will encourage good and productive working relationships within the organisation.
Our customers In Victrex, diversity encompasses differences in ethnicity, gender, We recognise that satisfied customers underpin our future commercial language, age, sexual orientation, religion, socio-economic status, prosperity, and that understanding and meeting their needs is key to physical and mental ability, thinking style, experience and education.
We believe that the wide array of perspectives that result from such diversity promotes innovation and business success.
As part of this We will seek to: policy, Victrex gives due consideration to employment applications have our products available to meet our promised delivery schedules from disabled people consistent with their capabilities and provides and deliver them when they are needed: every opportunity to employees who become disabled to continue continuously improve the quality and performance of our products employment with appropriate training and career development.
and services in line with customer needs: provide prompt technical support for the products that customers The Group places considerable emphasis on the involvement of its have purchased: employees and has continued its practice of keeping them informed on matters relating to the performance of the Group or relating directly provide timely, reliable technical advice to customers on new to them as employees, either formally through the Staff Committee, or product applications: informally via staff presentations, email communication and the Group collaborate with customers to provide innovative solutions to their intranet to which all employees worldwide have access.
material requirements: and operate to the highest ethical and business conduct standards.
Achieving our business goals requires an environment within Victrex where our employees feel engaged, empowered and capable of Our suppliers performing to the highest levels of their ability.
In 2010 we conducted Our commitment to our customers is underpinned by a strong an employee survey and 78% of staff participated.
employee engagement by asking questions about employees commitment to Victrex and their desire to continue working for us.
We will seek to: The survey also helped us identify opportunities to improve working environments and practices and support employees so they can do their maintain appropriate standards of business conduct in our dealings best work.
with our suppliers: encourage suppliers to adopt similar principles and standards of In recognition of the commitment and hard work of its employees, business conduct to Victrexs own: Victrex recognises those who have reached 10, 20 and 30 years where appropriate, collaborate with our suppliers to increase the unbroken service, including a celebratory lunch to mark the event.
performance, quality and efficiency of the supply chain: adhere to the contract terms agreed with suppliers: and The Company supports employee share ownership and, where practical, offers the opportunity to participate in share schemes.
As at encourage our suppliers to meet Victrexs own safety, health and 30 September 2010, approximately 83% 2009: 95% of employees environment standards.
worldwide were participants in employee share schemes, principally as option holders under the Companys employee share option schemes.
We also sponsor pension plans for employees throughout the world.
These comprise defined benefit or defined contribution arrangements, savings schemes and provident funds designed to provide appropriate 18297 07 12 10 Proof 37 Business Review 20 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 www.
com Business Review continued Corporate Responsibility continued Our employees Social and community We recognise that, whilst being an asset based business, Victrex relies The Group participates in a range of activities within the local heavily on the skills, experience and competence of our employees to communities where we operate, from charitable giving, offering produce our products safely and efficiently, develop innovative new apprenticeships and supporting science education and awareness in products and support business development in our existing and new schools, to sponsorship of undergraduates and the advancement of markets.
We will seek to: Victrex invests in recruiting and developing young people through our advanced engineering apprenticeship programme.
This scheme is based provide a clean, safe working environment which meets all on national standards, is fully monitored and trains apprentices to fulfil legislative requirements and to provide all the necessary training a tradesman role on completion of their apprenticeship.
support for employees to operate safely within it: provide appropriate remuneration for work carried out and equal In the UK, a proportion of the charitable donations budget is opportunities for development and career advancement: distributed by the Staff Committee mainly to local charities chosen be intolerant of any unacceptable working practices such as any from nominations made by employees.
National or overseas charities form of discrimination, bullying or harassment: are supported where there is strong employee involvement.
The Group prohibit the illegal use of drugs on our sites and encourage anyone made charitable donations of 5,008 2009: 4,094 during the year, of with any form of addiction to seek help: and which 2,342 2009: 2,110 were in the UK.
In addition, old computer equipment is given to either local schools or charities chosen by the be intolerant of any corrupt practices by any level of employee Staff Committee.
and encourage whistleblowing through our formal procedure if such practices are encountered.
In particular, improper payments are prohibited and no gift, whose value is material and could be interpreted as a form of inducement, should be offered or accepted by any employee.
Our shareholders Our shareholders are the ultimate owners of the business and we recognise that we have responsibilities towards them as stewards of their investments.
We will seek to: grow our business over time to maximise shareholder value: communicate in an open and timely manner regarding the performance, position and prospects of the business: and maintain sound systems of corporate governance to ensure that the Company is well directed and managed.
The environment We recognise that our operations have an impact on the environment, and that we have a responsibility to minimise this.
We will seek to: work within the regulatory frameworks of the countries in which we operate and apply appropriate standards: and minimise the environmental impacts of our operations as far as reasonably practicable.
Pictured: VICTREX PEEK polymer provides a competitive edge for racing bikes and other sports equipment used at Olympic level.
