People Vodafone employed an average of around 85,000 people worldwide during the 2010 financial year.
We rely on our people to maintain and build on our success and to deliver excellent service to our customers.
We aim to attract, develop and retain the best people and to realise their full potential.
We maintain high levels of employee engagement, investing in employees development and offering attractive, performance-based incentives and career progression.
Culture, communications and engagement We continued to optimise the shape and size of our organisation The Vodafone Way aligns all Vodafone employees to during the 2010 financial year.
The majority of operating companies Employees a common set of values and behaviours.
reduced the number of layers from the top to the bottom of their Aiming to be an admired, innovative and customer-focused organisation and increased management spans of control, resulting in 85,000 company operating with speed, simplicity and trust.
flatter structures with wider management accountability.
Several of Maintained high performance benchmark for our markets made significant organisation changes in the year: employee engagement.
Vodafone UK simplified its organisation structure, primarily in back During the 2010 financial year we launched a change programme office functions, resulting in 490 redundancies.
In the 2011 financial called The Vodafone Way.
The Vodafone Way is about being an year the UK will be recruiting for 170 new customer-facing roles and admired company in the eyes of our customers, shareholders and appointing 50 graduates into their graduate programme: employees by operating with speed, simplicity and trust.
The 233 redundancies were made across central commercial functions.
programme has defined a consistent set of values and behaviours for The majority of these were from the reshaping of the internet all Vodafone employees.
Many of our senior leaders have been services function which included the closure of Wayfinder, through a workshop to embed The Vodafone Way behaviours and Vodafones location based services organisation in Sweden: these workshops will be extended to all senior leaders during the 2011 the formation of the joint venture, Vodafone Hutchison Australia, in financial year.
The performance and potential of our employees are June 2009 led to 340 redundancies from Vodafone Australia: reviewed against the standards of The Vodafone Way.
Vodafone Ghana continued its change programme reducing employee numbers by 1,331 and recruiting more than 350 The Vodafone Way is very much about increasing customer focus.
Ghanaians into new roles in the business: For one day each month senior leaders in every operating country and Vodafone Turkey reviewed its organisation structure to the Group spend time with customers and customer-facing staff, such streamline processes and reduce duplication.
This resulted in as in retail stores or contact centres.
Insights from these customer over 300 redundancies.
Turkey has reinvested in hiring similar days are used to simplify customer-facing processes and improve numbers of new talent into key roles and building a graduate customer experiences.
recruitment programme: in December 2009 the legal merger of Arcor and Vodafone In November 2009 we carried out our fifth annual global people Germany was finalised and the two organisations have been survey.
The survey measures employees level of engagement successfully integrated following the creation of a single executive a combination of pride, loyalty and motivation.
89% of employees committee in March 2009. surveyed responded which is four percentage points more than last year.
The above organisation changes clearly had significant implications for the employees in these markets.
Changes were communicated We achieved an overall employee engagement score of 76% which clearly and transparently.
We offered a range of support to help means that we have maintained the high performance benchmark for affected employees find new jobs, for example outplacement services, engagement for the second year in a row.
The high performance insights into how to set-up their own business and training on interview benchmark is an external measure of best in class organisations that and resume writing skills.
Vodafone aims to treat all employees fairly, achieve strong financial performance alongside high levels of ensuring healthy employee relations through open communications employee engagement.
This achievement demonstrates that people and employee consultation.
continue to feel proud to work for Vodafone and are committed and willing to give their best.
Talent and resourcing Regular reviews of peoples performance and potential.
Regular, consistent and open communication is fundamental to Graduate recruitment programmes in almost all ensuring we maintain high levels of employee engagement.
people have access to information about our business through a Continued focus on increasing diversity and inclusion: global intranet with local translations and content where appropriate.
14% of senior leaders, two Executive Committee members Nationalities in top senior management roles The Chief Executive communicates directly with all of our employees and three operating company CEOs are female: and via regular email and video updates particularly focusing on business 26 nationalities are represented in senior leadership roles.
performance, strategy and The Vodafone Way.
This is reinforced with 26 local CEO communications in all our markets.
Relevant performance During the 2010 financial year we increased our focus on driving high and change issues are also discussed with employee representatives performance and building a strong base of talented leaders and from operating companies within the European Union, who meet employees.
All managers are encouraged to hold regular performance annually with members of the Executive Committee in the Vodafone discussions with their direct reports.
Annual performance dialogues are European Employee Consultative Council.
mandatory to enable each employee to receive a performance and potential rating which is the basis for development planning and reward Organisation effectiveness and change decisions.
Quarterly departmental and operating company talent Continued focus on efficient and effective reviews have been introduced, alongside annual development boards.
For most senior leadership roles, the Executive Committee review Headcount reduction in several markets including succession and key appointments each month.
Successful integration of Arcor into Vodafone Germany.
We want to attract the best and brightest graduates to work in all of our operating companies.
A globally consistent graduate recruitment programme has been introduced with a target of 230 top graduate 22 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010 Business Employees by location hires across the Group during the 2010 calendar year.
We have also In January 2010 we confirmed the closure of our UK defined benefit partnered with seven leading MBA schools to hire top MBA graduates pension scheme for future accruals on 31 March 2010.
All UK based 1 to join us and progress to key management and leadership roles.
employees were invited to join a new, enhanced defined contribution pension scheme, which we believe is now highly competitive in the 2 7 We aim to create a working culture that is inclusive to all and believe local market as well as more sustainable longer-term.
3 that having a diverse workforce helps to meet the different needs of 4 our customers across the globe.
We do not condone unfair treatment Health, safety and wellbeing 5 6 of any kind and offer equal opportunities for all aspects of employment Significant and increased effort to address the frequency and advancement regardless of race, nationality, sex, age, marital and likelihood of fatal accidents in high risk countries.
Germany 15.9% status, sexual orientation, disability or religious or political belief.
Italy 7.3% also applies to agency workers, self employed persons and contract The health, safety and wellbeing of our customers, employees and 3.
Spain 5.1% workers who work for Vodafone.
In the latest people survey 87% of others who could be affected by our activities are of paramount 4.
UK 11.5% employees agreed that people in Vodafone are treated fairly, importance to us.
Expansion in emerging markets and the application 5.
India 11.9% regardless of their gender, background, age or belief.
of the most rigorous and demanding tracking methodologies have this 7.
Other 40.3% year highlighted an unacceptable level of fatal accidents.
It is deeply The main focus of our diversity strategy has been on gender with actions regrettable that 27 fatalities occurred related to our operations in the taken to provide inclusive working policies and to increase inclusive 2010 financial year.
24 of these were third party contractors and three behaviour amongst managers.
Compared to the 2009 financial year were Vodafone employees.
Over 80% of these incidents occurred in there has been a slight increase in the percentage of women in senior India, Ghana and Turkey markets with a legacy of poor safety practice roles, up from 13% to 14%.
There will be continued efforts to increase and infrastructure, and a high rate of road accidents.
the proportion of women in senior leadership roles during the 2010 financial year.
Loss of life as a consequence of us doing business in any country is unacceptable to us and tackling the causes of these fatalities is a top More recently we have extended our diversity strategy to focus on priority.
Urgent action was taken to improve safety governance and diversity of nationality, industry background and technical experience.
awareness in these countries which has resulted in a significant 26 nationalities are represented in the senior leadership of the Group.
reduction in fatal incidents in the second half of the 2010 financial year.
In the countries where the majority of the incidents occurred we have Learning and capability development introduced a fatality prevention plan and linked this to the performance Global programmes continue to develop high objectives of each CEO.
The plan includes two key initiatives: adopting potential employees.
Det Norse Veritas International Safety Ranking System ISRS and implementing a set of absolute rules as mandatory requirements to We are committed to helping people reach their full potential through drive safe behaviour.
Further details can be found at www.
In our most recent people survey com responsibility and in the 2010 sustainability report.
71% of employees rated their opportunities to develop their skills and knowledge as good or very good.
Employment policies and employee relations We aim to be recognised as an employer of choice.
Inspire, our global leadership development programme, is in its second We strive to maintain high standards and good year.
The programme focuses on identifying and developing potential employee relations.
future leaders from within the Group.
The programme builds commercial capability and leadership skills through an 18 month fastOur employment policies are developed to reflect local legal, cultural track approach.
67 managers from 19 countries participated in the and employment requirements.
We aim to be recognised as an programme during the 2009 calendar year and 51 have started on the employer of choice and therefore seek to maintain high standards and 2010 calendar year course.
Of the managers who have completed the good employee relations wherever we operate.
programme, 40% have been promoted to a more senior role.
Our business principles set out our ethical standards and we have Performance, reward and recognition recently developed a code of conduct that defines what employees Extension of reward differentiation based on need to do to live up to our business principles.
New and existing individual performance.
employees will receive communication and training on the code of Replacement of UK defined benefits pension scheme conduct during the 2011 financial year.
with enhanced defined contribution scheme.
Key performance indicators We reward employees based on their performance, potential and KPI 2010 2009 2008 contribution to the success of the business and we aim to provide 1 Total number of employees 84,990 79,097 72,375 competitive and fair rates of pay and benefits in every country where Employee turnover rates % 13.0 13.0 15.2 we operate.
Global shortand long-term incentive plans are offered to Number of women in the top 33 out 29 out 26 out leadership and management levels and paid according to individual senior management roles of 228 of 221 of 211 and company performance.
Number of nationalities in the top senior management roles 26 23 20 In response to global economic conditions a pay freeze policy was introduced to the senior leadership team in the 2010 financial year.
Note: 1 Represents the average number of employees during the financial year.
Most operating companies did however award bonuses through global or local plans, with greater emphasis on rewarding strong business and individual performance.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010 23
