Performance Corporate responsibility Our approach to Corporate Responsibility CR is to engage with stakeholders to understand their expectations on the issues most important to them and respond with appropriate targets, programmes and reports on progress.
We understand that responsible behaviour is key to building and maintaining trust in our brand.
More detail on CR performance for the year ended 31 March 2010 will be available in our 2010 sustainability report and at www.
During the year our 2009 CR report won the Corporate Register Reporting Award monitored and reported at most local operating company boards on a regular basis.
We are included in the FTSE4Good and Dow Jones Sustainability CR is also integrated into our risk management processes, such as the formal annual Index and rated first in the Tomorrows Value Rating of the sustainability confirmation provided by each local operating company detailing the operation of performance of the telecommunications sector.
These processes are supported by stakeholder engagement which helps us to ensure Strategy we are aware of the issues relevant to the business and to provide a clear understanding of expectations of performance.
Stakeholder consultations take place There is increasing interest in how businesses are addressing the challenges of with customers, investors, employees, suppliers, the communities where we operate sustainability.
Our licences to operate are granted by governments that seek and where networks are based, governments, regulators and non-governmental evidence of responsible business practices.
Our research shows that consumers are organisations.
Established in 2007 the Vodafone Corporate Responsibility Expert becoming more concerned about sustainability.
Ethical investors and nonAdvisory Panel comprises opinion leaders who are experts on CR issues important to government organisations remain focused on issues, such as supply chain standards Vodafone.
The Panel met once during the 2010 financial year and discussed the and privacy, and our corporate customers seek information on our performance progress made on identifying low carbon product and service opportunities, and through questionnaires and meetings.
CR is relevant across all aspects of our activities and therefore we seek integration Our CR programme and selected performance information, as reported in the Groups into all key business processes.
The CR strategy focuses on CR issues material to the 2010 sustainability report, will be independently assured by KPMG using the Group and has the following main strands: International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000.
The assurance process assesses our adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard to capture the potential of mobile communications to bring socio-economic value AA1000APS addressing inclusiveness, materiality and responsiveness, and the in both emerging economies and developed markets through broadening access reliability of selected performance information.
KPMGs assurance statement outlining to communications to all sections of society: the specific assurance scope, procedures and assurance conclusions will be to deliver against stakeholder expectations on the key areas of climate change, published in our 2010 sustainability report.
a safe and responsible internet experience and sustainable products and services: and For the 2010 financial year our CR reporting comprises online information on CR to ensure our business practices are implemented responsibly, underpinned by programmes and a performance report.
Nine operating companies have produced our business principles.
their own CR reports during the 2010 financial year.
Key CR strategic objectives Information regarding our employees including diversity, inclusion, health, safety and Core initiative: wellbeing can be found in People on page 22.
Access to communications Performance in the 2010 financial year Safe and responsible Climate change Sustainable internet experience products and Access to communications services Our access to communications strategy continues to focus on responding to the Supported by responsible business practices needs of customers in emerging markets and increasing the accessibility of our products and services across demographics and individual capabilities.
Underpinned by values, principles and behaviours Emerging markets We have aligned the opportunity from mobile products and services in emerging CR governance markets to the United Nations Millennium Development Goals a blueprint agreed Our main focus is on implementing our CR programme across local operating to by all the worlds countries and leading development institutions to meet the companies.
For the purposes of this section of the annual report operating companies needs of the worlds poorest.
Under this framework we set a target to be recognised refers to the Groups operating subsidiaries and the Groups joint venture as a communications company making one of the most significant contributions to in Italy.
Vodacom, Ghana and Qatar are currently not consolidated in our CR reporting achieving the Millennium Development Goals MDGs by 2015. system but we intend to include them in reporting for the 2011 financial year.
We recognise that we also have influence with joint ventures, associates, investments, We have continued to support our local markets to develop commercial products partner markets and outsourcing partners.
and services with high social value through our social investment fund SIF.
In the 2010 financial year we adapted the fund criteria to identify propositions that Our approach to CR is underpinned by our business principles which cover, amongst contribute to one or more of the MDGs and eight projects were conducted under the other things, the environment, employees, individual conduct, community SIF the majority of which are relevant to MDG goals such as eradicate extreme and society.
During the year the business principles were reviewed and updated.
We poverty and hunger and combat HIV AIDS, malaria and other diseases.
have also created a code of conduct which provides a practical guide for employees in relation to how to comply with the business principles.
The new business principles and In February 2010 we announced the launch of Vodafone 150, an extremely affordable the Vodafone code of conduct will be communicated during the 2011 financial year.
handset that retails unsubsidised at below US$15 depending on the local market.
These innovations reduce the cost barriers to the adoption of mobile communication The Executive Committee receives a formal update on CR twice a year and the Board making new technologies available in developing countries a target under the continues to receive an annual presentation on CR.
A CR management structure is MDGs.
In the 2010 financial year we shipped 5.4 million Vodafone branded handsets.
established in each local operating company and CR performance is closely Approximately 55% of these cost less than US$50.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010 45 Corporate responsibility continued Further to the rapid take-up of affordable handsets we commissioned research and enabling them to share their locations.
Vodafone 360 was developed with users to better understand their socio-economic impact in India which quantified privacy and safety uppermost in mind: mechanisms which promote safe and benefits for customers such as reduced transport costs and increased appropriate usage, and protect users privacy, are core to the proposition.
users can review their profile and manage what, if any, information they wish to share with their groups of contacts on a single, easy-to-use privacy settings page on the Our mobile money transfer product, named M-PESA in Kenya and Tanzania and web, and from a privacy widget on the mobile device.
M-Paisa in Afghanistan, continued to grow during the 2010 financial year in terms of customers, transactions and the volume of money moved.
Across our markets We have continued to work on the issues of privacy and freedom of expression in the there are 13 million registered customers who moved US$3.6 billion during the 2010 human rights context throughout the financial year.
In particular, we are now finalising financial year.
a global policy on the way we provide assistance to Government law enforcement authorities to ensure respect for the human rights of our users.
Accessibility We commissioned research to better understand the market sizes for accessible Climate change products and services.
The research showed that age is closely correlated to Our climate change strategy has three key elements: limiting our own carbon dioxide capability loss and that we need to consider propositions that cater for multiple minor CO emissions, developing products and services to reduce the emissions of our 2 disabilities rather than only targeting a single capability loss.
customers and working with our suppliers to develop joint strategies for CO 2 emissions reduction.
Our centre of excellence for accessibility, led by Vodafone Spain, continues to develop the portfolio of accessible products and services.
During the year a new In 2008 we announced that by 2020 we will reduce our CO emissions by 50% against 2 wireless loopset was trialled in collaboration with Nokia and Oticon and we launched the 2007 financial year baseline which included all operating companies within the a new online training course for employees to raise awareness on disabilities Group throughout the 2007 financial year.
We have now restated our target to include and the products and services that we offer our customers.
Our markets in Egypt, all of our operating companies based in countries obligated under the Kyoto protocol Germany, Portugal and Italy also launched new products and services for the deaf including those that have joined the Group since 31 March 2007: this reduced the and hearing impaired.
In addition, Vodafone Australia has been removed from the target as it is no longer a subsidiary.
We are now seeking a 50% reduction Safe and responsible internet experience against a baseline of 1.04 million tonnes.
Our reputation depends on earning and maintaining the trust of our customers.
The way we deal with certain key consumer issues directly impacts trust in the business.
The primary strategy to achieve the 50% reduction is through direct reduction in CO 2 These issues include responsible delivery of age-sensitive content and services, mobile emissions through the evolution of network technology, investment in energy efficiency advertising and protecting customers privacy.
and by making greater use of renewably generated electricity.
Energy use associated with the operation of the network accounts for around 80% of our CO emissions.
In the 2 Responsible delivery of content and services 2010 financial year the total energy use of our operations, excluding India, increased by We continue to be heavily involved in industry work in this area.
This increase reflects the continued growth of networks in existing age-restricted content controls in the markets where such content is provided our work markets.
The total CO emissions for those operating companies covered by the 50% 2 is focused on providing a safe and responsible internet experience when using new reduction target decreased by 9%, to 0.94 million tonnes of CO. 2 media applications.
These have particular relevance to the mobile communications sector and have formed a key part of our activities during the 2010 financial year: Climate change strategies and energy intensity targets are being developed for those operating companies which are not covered by the 50% target.
In India In October 2009 we launched the first comprehensive website to help parents activities have been focused on improving the quality of data to establish a baseline play an active and essential role in their childrens digital world and better and support target setting.
The instability and limited coverage of the national electricity understand their use of mobiles, and online social media.
The Vodafone Parents grid requires diesel generation on the majority of sites.
We are trialling the use of Guide www.
com parents offers up-to-date guidance on challenging onsite micro-renewable generation and the use of batteries as the main power source issues such as childrens excessive use of technology, managing their reputations to reduce diesel consumption in remote sites where there may be no access to the and online identities in social media, safe access to location-based technology, electricity grid.
The majority of our network sites in India are managed by our joint cyber-bullying and the risks of meeting strangers online.
Estimated CO data for India has been reported alongside our 2 Together with other industry partners we have continued to develop the Teachtoday consolidated totals for the 2010 financial year and we continue to work with our suppliers website www.
eu providing advice for teachers and students to help to capture more accurate information.
create a safer online environment for children and young people.
Vodafone continued to be a board member of the newly formed UK Council for Child In the 2010 financial year the total CO emissions of our operating companies, excluding 2 Internet Safety UKCCIS.
Board members include senior figures from government, India, were 1.2 million tonnes.
The estimated CO emissions of our operations in India 2 industry, charities, academia and law enforcement.
The board sets direction at a were approximately 2.3 million tonnes which includes emissions from the network sites strategic level and there are a number of working groups including the industry and managed by Vodafone and the network sites managed by third parties, principally expert research panels in which we play an active role.
Vodafones joint venture, Indus Towers.
Consumer privacy and freedom of expression In the 2009 financial year we established a target to set joint CO reduction strategies 2 We know that users increasingly wish to exercise control over how their personal with suppliers accounting for 50% of relevant spend by 2012.
The strategies will help information is made available and recognise the need to ensure that internet commerce Vodafone, our customers or our suppliers to reduce CO emissions.
2 over mobile and new business models, such as advertising, gains the trust of both consumers and regulators.
We seek to ensure that our products and services are Sustainable products and services designed to address privacy risks and concerns, particularly those associated with social The information and communications technology ICT industry has a major role to play networking and media, as well as location-enabled applications and services.
in delivering wider benefits to society beyond its own operations.
Our industry is part of the solution to the challenge of climate change www.
com carbonconnections To make our commitment to our customers privacy clearer to our staff, customers and and can also contribute to more efficient delivery of public services.
external stakeholders, we are developing a set of core principles that will become a part of our global privacy policy.
These will form the basis of all of our privacy standards and In the 2009 financial year we published a report in conjunction with Accenture: provide guidance on a wide range of privacy issues across our business.
Carbon connections: quantifying mobiles role in tackling climate change.
The report provided detailed, quantified assessments of 13 wireless opportunities In October 2009 we launched Vodafone 360, a new internet proposition which can demonstrating that in 2020 these opportunities could save 2.4% of expected EU be accessed by mobile or PC.
Among the many features of Vodafone 360 is a rich emissions or 43 billion in energy costs alone.
This would require a billion mobile visual address book that provides users with many ways to communicate including connections, 87% of which are machine-to-machine M2M, connecting one piece aggregating their social networks into one view, showing whos connected to whom of equipment wirelessly with another.
We have established a dedicated M2M service 46 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010 Performance platform which aims to meet the expected rise in demand for M2M services around Responsible network deployment the world as more companies look to improve efficiency.
This unit has set a target of We recognise that network deployment can cause concern to communities, usually providing ten million carbon reducing M2M connections by 2013.
This target has regarding the visual impact of base stations or health issues concerning RF fields.
been restated from the 2009 financial year as we were not able to accurately define the global baseline.
For many years we have implemented a responsible network deployment policy covering these issues.
In recognition that we are increasingly working with outsourced We have established a new mobile health solutions business unit this year to accelerate partners in delivering the most efficient network we have commissioned an external the development of healthcare solutions.
Mobile technology offers significant party to analyse the systems and controls we have in place to ensure our contractors opportunities to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of health services.
this can be achieved using existing technologies and we are working with healthcare providers, governments and pharmaceutical companies to fully understand how we We continue to engage closely with local communities as part of the planning can help.
Our long-term programme of engagement with a range of stakeholders demonstrates that we place importance on acting responsibly.
In We are also working to reduce the environmental impact of our products and services surveys of external stakeholder opinion conducted annually over the last three and since November 2009 the Samsung Blue Earth phone has been introduced in years, an average of 83% of respondents regarded Vodafone as acting responsibly seven of our markets.
The phone is designed to be environmentally friendly and has a regarding mobile phones, masts and health.
full touchscreen and other advanced multimedia features.
We aim to comply with local planning regulations but are sometimes found to be in We continue to address the reuse and recycling of handsets, accessories and network breach.
This is normally related to conflicting local, regional or national planning equipment and we have worked with suppliers to ensure substances prohibited by the regulations.
During the 2010 financial year we were found to be in breach of planning Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive are phased out.
We comply with the regulations relating to 370 of our total 104,344 mast sitings.
Fines levied by regulatory EUs Waste Electronic and Electrical Equipment Directive through handset recycling bodies or courts in relation to offences under environmental law or regulations were programmes in all operating companies where it applies.
During the 2010 financial approximately 89,000. year 1.33 million phones were collected for reuse and recycling through collection programmes in 15 local operating companies.
5,870 tonnes of network equipment Supply chain waste was generated in all operating companies not including India with 98% of this We continue to work to improve labour and environmental standards across our supply sent for reuse or recycling.
This year we reviewed and updated our Code of Ethical Purchasing and Supplier Evaluation Scorecard.
Both now include more stringent labour and environmental Responsible business practices requirements for suppliers.
During the 2010 financial year we: Mobile phones, masts and health We recognise that there is public concern about the safety of radio frequency RF fields assessed 64 suppliers against our evaluation scorecard on social and from mobile phones and base stations.
For authoritative advice on potential health environmental aspects.
The scorecard allows us to identify strengths and effects from mobile phones and masts we look to independent reviews of the entire weaknesses in our suppliers sustainability management and performance body of evidence by panels of experts in the field, commissioned by recognised national programmes and highlight areas where improvement is needed.
Over the last four or international health agencies.
We provide access to such expert reviews of the science years we have evaluated over 638 suppliers: and on our website available at www.
carried out 24 on-site evaluations of high risk suppliers.
During these visits we identified 139 areas for improvement, mainly concerning the inadequacy of We understand that even with the current large body of scientific evidence, the World practices on health and safety and working hours.
Health Organization WHO considers there are a few areas where uncertainty remains and additional research is needed.
In 2006 the WHO identified the following Social investment three main areas for additional research: long-term more than 10 years exposure to The Vodafone Foundation and its network of 27 local operating company and associate low-level RF fields, potential health effects of mobile device use in children and the foundations have continued to implement a global social investment programme.
way the levels of RF fields absorbed are calculated.
We continue to contribute to the During the 2010 financial year the Company made a charitable grant of 18.0 million to funding of independent scientific research in these areas via national and international the Vodafone Foundation.
In addition, operating companies made charitable grants research programmes.
In 2010 the WHO plans to review again what further research totalling a further 17 million to their foundations and a further 4 million directly to may still be needed.
Total donations for the year ended 31 March 2010 were 41.7 million and included donations of 2.7 million towards foundation operating costs.
We require manufacturers of mobile devices to test for compliance with limits set by the International Commissions on Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection ICNIRP limits The Vodafone Foundation made grants to charitable partners engaged in a range of for specific absorption rate SAR.
Depending on the mobile device we require global projects.
Its areas of focus are: utilising mobile technology for the benefit of testing to be performed for use both at the ear and against, or near, the body.
We have all, sport and music as a means of benefiting some of the most disadvantaged young been actively engaged with the International Electrotechnical Commission IEC people and their communities, and disaster relief and preparedness.
standards organisation to develop a new global protocol for testing phones for use against, or near, the body.
This new IEC standard, to be published in 2010, better The majority of the Vodafone Foundation funds are distributed in grants through reflects the ways customers now use mobile devices.
operating company foundations to a variety of local charitable organisations meeting the needs of the communities in which they operate.
1 Key performance indicators 2 2 2 2010 2009 2008 Vodafone Group Energy use GWh direct and indirect 3,278 3,044 2,920 Carbon dioxide emissions millions of tonnes 1.21 1.22 1.30 Percentage of energy sourced from renewables 23 19 18 3 3 Number of phones collected for reuse and recycling millions 1.33 1.53 1.14 3 Network equipment waste generated tonnes 5,870 4,944 4,199 Percentage of network equipment waste sent for reuse or recycling 98 97 95 Notes: 1 These performance indicators were calculated using actual or estimated data collected by our mobile operating companies.
The data is sourced from invoices, purchasing requisitions, direct data measurement and estimations where required.
The carbon dioxide emissions figures are calculated using the kWh CO2 conversion factor for the electricity provided by the national grid, suppliers or the International Energy Agency and for other energy sources in each operating company.
The data excludes India, Ghana, Qatar and Vodacom.
Our joint venture in Italy is included in all years.
Amounts related to the 2008 financial year exclude Tele2 in Italy and Spain.
2 Australia is excluded as it is no longer a subsidiary: the comparative data for 2009 and 2009 has also been restated.
3 Amounts related to the 2009 and 2008 financial years have been amended.
Refer to the online sustainability report for further information.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2010 47
