Building more sustainable societies Vodafone has a key role in building more sustainable societies through our investment in local communities, effective management of our environmental impacts and innovation in our products and services.
Foundation The Vodafone Foundation is committed to providing assistance in the area of disaster response.
The Vodafone Foundation has developed partnerships which enhance long term disaster preparedness and is proud of its programmes with the United Nations Foundation, Telecoms Sans Frontieres TSF, and the World Food Programme.
TSF is a unique humanitarian NGO which uses Foundation funding to deploy lifesaving mobile and satellite technology anywhere within 48 hours of an emergency.
After the Haiti earthquake, Vodafone foundations donated 0.3 million to the emergency relief and reconstruction effort, and we helped our customers in Number of phones collected 14 countries to give a total of 4.7 million for reuse and recycling by text message.
1.33m 2009: 1.53m: 2008: 1.14m Corporate Responsibility Vodafone is in a strong position to make a Carbon dioxide emissions million tonnes significant contribution to building more sustainable societies.
Our products and services can help deliver more efficient 1.21 and effective healthcare, bring basic 2009: 1.22: 2008: 1.30 financial services to people in emerging markets, and help to reduce the carbon footprint of business and individuals.
We are also working hard to reduce our own carbon impact through increasing Product focus: energy efficiency and use of renewable Energy efficiency: Solar energy as well as behaving responsibly panels powering our base by seeking to manage environmental stations in India.
and ethical issues in our supply chain and ensuring that we earn the trust of our customers by the way we market and deliver our services.
Emerging markets Our access to communications strategy continues to focus on responding to the needs of customers in emerging markets and increasing the accessibility of our products and services across demographics and individual capabilities.
The cost of mobile handsets can be one of the most significant barriers for people in accessing and benefiting from the growing number of socially valuable mobile services.
In February 2010 we announced the launch of Vodafone 150, an extremely affordable handset that retails unsubsidised at below US$15 depending on the local market.
These innovations reduce the cost barriers to the adoption of mobile communication making new technologies available in Product focus: Vodafone 150 Excludes India, Ghana, Qatar and Vodacom.
Our most affordable handset to date.
