52 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Directors report Sustainability report Sustainability 1: Environment is a key part To reduce our energy use and carbon footprint of the Groups strategy and is embedded in 2: Health & Safety our approach To maintain a safe and to business healthy workplace through six key areas.
3: Employees To attract and retain the best employees 4: Communities To invest in the communities in which we operate 5: Products and technology To optimise the energy efficiency of our products and supply of products to low carbon industries 6: Ethics To conduct our business responsibly and ethically 53 Environment Communities What does Reducing our impact on the environment has been a Weir is a global company doing business in more focus in each of our operating companies for some than 70 countries and the impact we have on the this mean?
time our facilities are ISO 14001 compliant and local communities and economies is therefore of parhave individually made significant progress.
For the amount importance to the Group.
We respect the The strategy for each of first time in 2010, we report our greenhouse gas communities we operate in and we strive to make a these areas is set by the emissions in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas positive impact by the responsible running of our Board and responsibility Protocol scope 1 and 2 and the progress we are operations and by investing in the communities in for implementation rests making is evident from those results.
Our objective is a way that benefits both the local community with the Group Executive now to set improvement targets on a company basis and Weir.
Co-ordination to drive further sustained improvement.
and monitoring of Products and technology performance is managed Health & safety Many of the Groups products and services are used through the newly The health and safety of our employees continues to in low carbon applications such as nuclear power created Corporate be a priority for the Group with strong processes in generation, hydro power generation, wind power Sustainability Steering place to ensure the zero tolerance culture is enforced.
generation and flue gas desulphurisation.
We aim to Committee which is led This is evident from our lost time accident statistics expand the range of products supplied to such by the Group Legal and which have again improved year on year.
We are applications over time.
In addition, through our Commercial Director now looking to further improve communication of Engineering Excellence Committee we are continually with specialist health issues and to focus more on health and welllooking to enhance the energy efficiency of our representation from being activities in order to improve our employee products both through their manufacturing process across the Group in engagement and performance.
In addition, the and operation.
each of the six development of health and safety processes in our Ethics key areas.
supply chain which are less well developed and Investors, customers and employees are increasingly consistently applied will be enhanced.
focusing on environmental, social and governance Employees matters in their decision-making.
The Weir Groups Our employees are critical to the continued success sustainability strategy will enable it to demonstrate of the Group.
Increased investment in employee good performance in these areas which will enhance development programmes within the Group, in the Groups reputation amongst key stakeholders.
particular the Weir Graduate Development Framework The Group Code of Conduct, anti-bribery and corruand improved communication through the creation ption training and ethics hotline ensure that the of the Senior Management Group, will support the Groups zero tolerance to any contravention of policy Group in its goal of driving innovation, collaboration is upheld.
and global capability whilst also improving employee retention.
54 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Directors report Sustainability report 1: Environment We aim to continually improve our environmental Improvement is focused on the areas that have the performance in all our operations and through time most environmental and financial impact.
enhance the energy efficiency of our products.
Carbon footprint Whilst the Board is responsible for setting the During 2010 the Group decided to establish a corGroups environmental policy, its implementation is porate greenhouse gas GHG inventory to facilitate the responsibility of the Group Executive Committee.
consistent Group-wide reporting on the GHG impliMonitoring of performance is managed through the cations of its global business activities.
The GHG Corporate Sustainability Steering Committee.
inventory was developed to cover all material GHG emissions under the Groups direct control during Our environmental impacts including greenhouse the years 2009 and 2010.
The primary focus of the gas GHG emissions: material and solvent usage: GHG inventory was the collection of data in respect waste products and emissions to atmosphere are of our global energy use and emissions to atmosidentified and managed through our Environmental phere in accordance with scope 1 and 2 of the Management System EMS which are certified to ISO Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
We monitor upcoming legislation and share best practice across our operations.
LPG Scope 1 Fuel you burn ISO 14001 Natural Gas Scope 2 The Groups policy is that all its operations will be Petrol Fuel burnt for you ISO 14001 accredited or, in the case of new acquisiProcess emissions Scope 3 Flights Emissions from tions, a plan is put in place to achieve accreditation.
services you use ISO 14001 is an internationally recognised specificaand products Contractors you produce Electricity tion for an effective structured environmental manRaw materials agement system which helps organisations achieve environmental and economic goals as well as assistWaste disposal ing in the implementation of environmental policy.
An ISO 14001 accredited environmental management system provides our customers, employees The Group has engaged an independent consultant and shareholders with the assurance that our envito assist in the calculation of our 2009 and 2010 ronmental performance meets and will continue to global carbon footprint and help standardise and meet legal and environmental policy requirements.
improve our data collection methods.
The results are Through the Group Environmental, Safety and Health set out below: Forums, all new businesses are brought into line with Total CO2 emissions CO2 tonnes 000 best practice in the implementation of ISO 14001.
In addition, the Forums are a useful arena to allow local 150 133 120 and international environmental legislative developments to be monitored before they become law.
This 100 proactive approach allows us to conform with future environmental legislation before laws are passed by voluntarily taking action on specific issues.
50 Environmental improvements As part of the Groups commitment to continual 2009 2010 improvement, during 2010 the Minerals Division established an Environmental Improvement Team Total CO2 emissions by turnover KtCO2e m whose objective is to share best practice in environ- 100 85 82 mental management.
The team aims to implement 80 and maintain three active environmental improvement projects at each participating site, adding new 60 projects as each is completed.
The regions repre- 40 sented by the team are Europe, North America, South America, Australia, Africa and China.
20 Initiatives to improve the environmental perform- 2009 2010 ance of our operations include energy and water efficiency, raw material efficiency, waste minimisation and resource recovery projects.
55 2010 Our total greenhouse gas GHG emissions associRecycling reuse initiatives ated with our foundry, manufacturing and assemWeir Minerals Peru, Lima bly operations show an upward trend in absolute Our business in Lima, Peru has several initiatives terms but when normalised by turnover the Groups c20,000 involving local charities: GHG emissions are marginally down between 2009 tonnes of metal recycled at and 2010.
In the last fours years the paper recycled from our foundries the site paid for two scholarships for disabled We will look to implement formal improvement children.
targets across all our companies in 2011.
The company donates its wood to a local charFoundry recycling ity which builds childrens furniture and in this way 1,244 Through the Groups Environmental Improvement recycled 8.5 tonnes of wood in 2010. tonnes of wood recycled Team the five foundries have been working on a at our foundries number of environmental initiatives to improve the reuse and recycling at their sites.
Just under 20,000 tonnes of metal have been recycled in our foundry operations in 2010.
To put it in context this means that on average 75% of the metal poured at our 10,000 foundries is recycled metal.
The results of the foundry gallons of water now saved recycling can be seen in the following graph.
at Weir Floway Foundry recycling 000 tonnes 15 2009 Helping children in Peru 13 2010 95% 11 Weir Floway, Fresno, USA 9 of coolant water now reused Weir Floway decided in 2010 that it could improve its 7 by Weir Minerals Europe environmental impact by installing a new self-circulat- 5 ing hydro station at its on-site machine shop instead 3 of using the test laboratory several miles away from 1 the site.
The result is that the company now saves Metal Scrap Metal Timber 25% c. 10,000 gallons of water per annum by re-using the recycled metal recycled recycled internally purchased to third test water coupled with a saving on the cost and enviless sand sent to landfill per from party tonne cast by Weir Minerals ronmental impact of transporting parts to and from the customers Australia test laboratory.
Carbon reduction commitment CRC energy Weir Minerals Europe, Todmorden, UK efficiency scheme the CRC Our Todmorden facility has developed a new system The CRC is a UK emissions trading scheme ETS whereby 95% of coolant water is re-used.
This with the aim of cost-effectively reducing emissions 43% enables the site to re-use 20,000 litres of water in the service, public and other less energy-intensive per annum, with only 1,000 litres of oil now being energy saving by changing sectors by 1.2m tonnes by 2020.
The CRC will be disposed of as special waste.
lighting at Weir Power & a mandatory emissions trading scheme, targeting Industrial, Canada Weir Minerals Australia, Sydney large organisations whose emissions are currently During 2010, Weir Minerals Australia has had several not included in the ETS or Climate Change waste reduction projects including: Agreements of the European Union.
Registration of the qualifying sites within the Groups UK operations Within its foundry, it has reduced the tonnage of was completed, as scheduled, during 2010.
The used foundry sand per tonne cast sent to landfill UK businesses affected by the CRC will be required by 25%.
to monitor their energy use and buy allowances In 2010 the recycling of timber at the site diverted accordingly in forthcoming years as the scheme 430 tonnes from landfill to chipping into landscape rolls out.
Weir Power & Industrial, Fort St. John, Canada During 2010, the site changed its shop lighting from metal halide lights to T5 florescent lighting balancing the safety needs of the shop floor with the energy saving.
This equates to a 43% energy use saving per annum.
56 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Directors report Sustainability report 2: Health & Safety Managing safety Our existing businesses have achieved accreditaMaintaining a consistently safe and healthy worktion and all new acquisitions have detailed plans to place for our people requires effective, proacachieve OHSAS 18001 within an agreed timescale.
We operate a global network of Each business records all near misses and injuEnvironmental, Safety and Health Forums that share ries within their operations and these are analysed knowledge and experience between plants with the on a continuous basis to reduce the number of lost aim of ensuring consistently high standards of safety time accidents through improvement of the working across the Group and eliminating work-related injuenvironment.
ries, preventing pollution, conserving resources, complying with regulatory requirements and improvThe Groups policy on health and safety requires ing performance.
that all companies take a proactive attitude to the protection of their employees health and safety.
All companies carefully evaluate risks to personnel The core elements of our approach to safety are: wherever they are working and take appropriate steps to minimise such risks.
These include emphasis on the importance of behaviour by encouraging ensuring that project design engineers consider a culture of safety at all locations design factors that minimise or eliminate the risk of accidents to personnel during site installation and improving communications and sharing best practice commissioning.
All Group companies are requthroughout the Group ired to comply with local legislation governing health and safety at work and to conduct regular the active involvement of senior executives in formal health and safety reviews at plant and site promoting safety level.
These reviews are undertaken by nominated managers and employees to ensure that risks are the auditing of safety and loss control programmes properly evaluated, events leading to accidents are examined and appropriate remedial or avoidance The Group is committed to an accident-free health action initiated and subsequently monitored.
Formal and safety environment based on the belief that reporting procedures have been implemented so all accidents are preventable.
The Group Executive that the safety performance of individual companies Committee drives this commitment through operais monitored and peer-to-peer audits are conducted tions globally.
in order to provide a critical assessment of each companys performance.
The Groups policy is that all its operations will be OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety The increased focus on this important issue includes Assessment Series accredited.
OHSAS 18001 was full investigations of all accidents with follow up developed by the British Standards Institute as a reports to the Group Executive Committee on a health and safety management framework allowing monthly basis.
organisations to ensure that they are consistently Safestart and accurately identifying hazards and risks within The Group has adopted a behavioural system their operations.
Providing a platform for eliminatknown as SAFESTART which has been rolled out ing and managing these identified risks, the system to all operations and all new employees are given supports the organisation to continually improve its this training as part of their induction.
The Group is products, people and processes.
committed to maintain the profile of this programme OHSAS 18001 offers a proactive approach to reducacross all companies as the key to its success is ing accidents, near misses and other incidents year the involvement and understanding at all levels of on year.
57 Weir Minerals Africa Weir Minerals Africa Weir Minerals Africa found that their initial attempts Weir Minerals Africa organises an annual Wellness at SAFESTART implementation had been slow to Day which involves various health screening activities embed.
The company introduced a visual and percombined with general health promotion.
180 sonal format with a character and style that was employees were given blood pressure and prostate more in line with situations and environments that screening, cholesterol tests, advice on fitness employees can relate to.
The programme was reroutines and eye tests.
In addition, the company also named Umfowethu, meaning my brothers keeper.
organises an annual medical survey of all employees who are in hazardous areas of the site such as the Lost Time Accidents foundry or rubber shop and in December 2010 149 The Groups key measure of safety performance An example of employees were provided with an onsite Aids HIV is the number of lost time accidents LTAs.
SAFESTART posters testing and counselling clinic.
used by Weir Minerals The Group adopts a more stringent lost time Africa.
measurement criterion than the industry norm of 3 days.
The recorded LTAs use the Group definition of incidents resulting in lost time of more than 4 hours.
The results for 2008, 2009 and 2010 are as follows: 100 83 80 60 40 40 180 26 employees were given blood 20 pressure or prostate screening at Weir Minerals Africa 2008 2009 2010 Initiatives 149 Our safety committees focused on a employees were provided with onsite Aids HIV testing number of activities this year, including: at Weir Minerals Africa Group-wide training and behavioural Eye tests at Weir Minerals Africa auditing continued development of policies and procedures recognising and rewarding outstanding safety performance through award schemes 58 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Directors report Sustainability report 3: Employees We want to develop our people to their full potential.
Introducing the Senior Management Group We are committed to developing the best possible The Senior Management Group SMG was formed technical specialists and leaders and encouraging all in January 2010 to enhance communication across employees to achieve their potential.
the leadership team of the Weir Group and to provide a platform to help leverage our strategic agenda.
We aim to employ the best people for the roles we have and help those people to develop further, by The SMG is made up of around 300 senior employees giving them training, development opportunities and from across the Weir Group who are key to the management support.
development and delivery of the Groups strategy.
The SMG includes the key decision makers from The principles we apply are to: each business and function who have a direct hand in shaping the direction of each business within Weir Never deny development or promotion on the basis and are responsible for its success.
of any form of discrimination Encourage and support our employees to achieve For the first of the SMG meetings, senior leaders from their potential across Europe, Africa and the Middle East gathered in Glasgow in late August, with the Americas and Identify the training and development needs of Asia-Pacific regional meetings following soon after in ourselves and our teams and find ways to satisfy Fort Worth and Sydney respectively.
those needs The SMG has four key objectives: Use the Weir Group personal development plan PDP to identify and develop high potential Enable the Chief Executive to communicate with individuals the most senior employees Employ and retain people who share our values Enhance communication from the SMG across the and behaviours wider Weir community Work to maintain a business environment where Build upon the core strategic pillars and leverage individuals feel valued and respected capability across the Group and Support individuals in developing roles.
Create a standard Weir leadership journey for development and succession, including a tailored leadership programme for all members.
Senior management group regional meeting for The Americas at Fort Worth, Texas 59 Global conferences Here are some thoughts on the Weir Group from our recent graduate intake: 300 Engineering senior employees brought During the year the Engineering Excellence CommThe culture within Weir Group together from across the Weir ittee met in India attended by 36 participants, Group to form the Senior representing 25 locations from 14 different countries is one of a kind.
Theres an Management Group to share best practice and to identify priorities and focus activities to enable the development of a open atmosphere, with plenty Group-wide, world class engineering organisation.
of skills and knowledge sharThe objectives agreed were to: 75 ing.
It incubates leadership graduate trainees to be take replication of best practice to a recruited in 2011 qualities, encourages innovanew level tion and engenders trust and develop and implement Group-wide standards respect among colleagues.
43 leverage the Group-wide technical graduate trainees to be These are the foundations of recruited from emerging resources for the benefit of all the markets of South America, the Weir Group.
Weir businesses South Africa and Asia in 2011 Vinay Sharma, Weir India foster the development of engineering talent and identify strategic techIt is a solid culture, with nical capabilities that will support 16 Weir Group strategic growth plans.
children of employees in clear goals and objectives.
higher education supported by Weir India Procurement The implementation of Lean During the year, the Procurement Committee met in manufacturing and 5S serves Shanghai attended by over 40 participants from the procurement teams around the world to focus on as the basis for the structure the Groups global capability and collaboration and implementing a standard Weir Way of Working for of the Group in order to meet the procurement function.
Weir Graduate Development Framework During 2010, the Group has developed its graduate Fernando Tirollo, Weir Minerals South America development framework aligning the Groups three strategic pillars of Innovation, Collaboration and Global Capability.
There are currently 40 graduate Employee development trainees working across the Group in various We recognise that people are vital to the success locations and we plan to recruit 75 graduates in 2011, of our business.
Training and development play a of which 43 will be from emerging markets.
During major part in improving businesses and retaining the two year programme, graduates will benefit employees by developing the skills required for career from rotational placements to ensure maximum advancement and business process improvements.
exposure to relevant development opportunities.
Training and development is managed either on a A variety of mechanisms will be put in place to Group or company basis.
support the graduate as they move from an academic environment to an industrial environment and this The Group employee development programmes will be provided through induction, professional include induction and leadership development.
mentoring and a coaching relationship with a leader The induction training provides awareness training on from the SMG.
the Group standard procedures and processes and senior managers attend one of these courses within a short period of joining the Group.
The leadership courses are run for the Groups current and future leaders.
60 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Directors report Sustainability report 3.
Employees continued Case studies The principal aims of these courses are Weir India scholarships to provide: In 2010, the chairman Lord Smith launched Weir personal development Indias higher education scholarship scheme.
In order to support the children of Weir India employees in exposure to different disciplines their higher education and specifically to encourage engineering talent, Weir India is supporting 10 cultural integration children of employees in higher education through a two year scholarship and supporting 6 children networking across all disciplines and of employees through an engineering degree for operations four years.
a good understanding of what is expected of a Weir Leader an improved awareness of self, others in the business and the enterprise as a whole and accountability and commitment to developing themselves and others in the business.
The courses are aimed at developing existing and Launching the Group's education programme in India future managing directors and senior managers from across the Group to help them achieve their maximum potential.
Weir Power & Industrial Alloa, UK In November 2010, Scotlands First Minister Alex In addition, the global personal development plan Salmond MSP joined with the wind energy sector to analyses employee performance and enables formally launch the UKs first Modern Apprenticeship employees to receive the most relevant and tailored for the renewables industry.
Weir Power & Industrial, training to match their specific skills and needs.
Alloa is one of three companies in the UK pioneering the recruitment of apprentices for this training route accredited by National Skills Academy for Power - City & Guilds.
Allan Wilson centre Weir's renewables technician apprentice meets Scotland's First Minister Alex Salmond MSP at the launch of the apprentice programme, along with a fellow student 61 Sustainability report 4: Communities We believe that any investment in a community should Charitable donations create a meaningful and sustainable impact on that The total charitable donations of Group companies 238 community.
It should be relevant to the local needs made during the financial year was 333,900 2009: scientific calculators donated but at the same time aligned with our business and 252,000, as shown below: to local mathematics and carried out in partnership with local organisations.
science students in 2010 We aim to identify the possibilities for investment Community 65% through contact with local people and organisations Education and in particular we work very closely with local non 21% Health Government authorities and community groups.
333,900 13% donated to charity by the Education is a priority for communities worldwide.
We Group in 2010 are therefore committed to focusing on community projects with an educational theme whether it is mentoring at a local school, helping young engineers with their school projects, setting up scholarship schemes, arranging site visits to local colleges and The Groups Code of Conduct prohibits political universities to sponsoring the education of children.
contributions and therefore no political donations These are all ways we wish to make a difference in were made during the period.
the communities in which we operate.
The Code of Conduct states that Weir Group Community focus areas companies will be good citizens in the communities Education they are in by: Respecting the local environment Weir Minerals Africa, Rustenburg In 2010, Weir Minerals Rustenburg partnered with Setting an example by behaving in a manner the Joint Education Trust JET, a non-governmental consistent with the Code at all times organisation, to donate 238 scientific calculators to local mathematics and science students.
JET operates Supporting local communities who need help a number of partnerships between schools that lack through charitable contributions and employees even the most basic facilities and local industry.
giving of their free time Through a monitoring programme the calculators are Informing and updating communities about ongoing returned to ensure that the following years students projects in their areas continue to derive benefit from the scheme.
Over the targeted three year period the aim is that all students Respecting the traditions, cultures and laws of in the area have access to one of these calculators.
the countries and the local communities where we operate Trying to employ local people in our businesses wherever possible Listening to the concerns of the local communities and where possible, acting in a way that deals with their concerns.
Rustenberg students with their calculators 62 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Directors report Sustainability report 4.
Communities continued Emergencies Community Weir Minerals South America, Chile Weir Minerals Netherlands, Venlo On 27 February 2010, Chile was hit by a massive As part of the popular Venloop running event earthquake measuring 8.8 on the Richter scale and involving a half marathon and 10k run which attracts the consequential tsunami.
around 9,000 participants and 30,000 spectators, Weir Minerals Netherlands sponsored the childrens Weir Minerals South America helped by: competition.
Sending several trucks of food and water to those needing help, and Assisted any employee locate missing relatives.
As members of a local organisation that represents the largest mining suppliers the company has helped fundraising to build the new polytechnic in Constitucion, a city close to the epicentre of the earthquake.
Children's race at Venloop, Netherlands Weir Minerals Africa, South Africa Weir Minerals Africa has supported the Tembisa Child and Family Welfare centre since it opened 24 years ago to promote the interests, well being, safety and development of the children in their care.
The centre, which is local to the business in Isando on Chilean earthquake 2010 the outskirts of Johannesburg, clothes, feeds and educates 80 children from new born to age 18.
Weir Minerals Africa HR director Neil Voller visits Tembisa http: www.
co. za 63 Sustainability report 5: Products and technology Research and development has a vital role to play 2011 will see further investment in design, research in meeting our corporate responsibilities.
The develand development in which our corporate responsibil- 40% opment of new products that are more environmenity and business objectives are closely aligned.
of Power & Industrial Division tally friendly in both manufacture and operation input in 2010 came from within offers competitive advantage to ourselves and to Case studies the low carbon sector our customers.
Weir Minerals South America - Energy recovery We recognise that many of our products and servStarting in September 2009, a joint engineering ices are themselves contributors to environmental project between Codelco and Weir Minerals South protection in critical areas such as power generation America developed a micro-power station involving 14.8m and service.
the generation of electricity from the tailings being spent on research and transported from Codelcos mine.
This is the first Within the Power & Industrial Division 40% of input development during 2010 stage in the construction of a network of microin 2010 came from products and services suppower generators.
The electricity generated takes plied to low carbon industries in nuclear, hydro advantage of the force generated from the flow and biomass.
of the tailings in the same way as hydro power.
The turbine has a potential to generate 10 to 12 MW The acquisition of American Hydro in November when fully operative.
2010 and YES in December 2010 will significantly strengthen the Groups product and service offering Tailings are the liquid waste by-products from the in the areas of hydro and wind respectively.
mining process and must be transported to the tailResearch and development ing tanks or ponds for treatment.
During the financial year, the Group spent 14.8m 2009: 9.7m on research and development.
The expenditure reflects the Groups continued commitment to investment in research and development, applied to both the development of new leading edge materials technologies and existing product innovation.
The Groups worldwide pump technology centres focus on developing engineering process improvements through the use of a variety of analytical tools to design products with optimal wear life and improved safety and efficiency.
This maintains the Groups competitive advantage in the market and controls costs whilst improving quality.
Pumping station at Codelco's El Teniente copper mine in Chile 64 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Directors report Sustainability report 5.
Products and technology continued Acquisition of American Hydro Product efficiency Hydro-power is the worlds largest source of renewThe GEHO positive displacement pump is 15 to 30% able energy.
American Hydro, which the Group more efficient in terms of carbon emission than conacquired in November 2010 has a particular strength ventional pumping systems.
This technology allows in improving the efficiency of existing stations.
mine water to be pumped at higher densities savThis combined with the Groups existing service ing on power and capital costs.
GEHO pumps are capabilities means that we are now able to offer to designed to a 30 year life span and use fewer natural customers an attractive proposition to improve resources in their installation and running costs.
renewable energy output from existing hydro generation stations in an economically attractive manner.
Hydro runner, American Hydro GEHO pump operating fly ash disposal at an Australian power plant Acquisition of Ynfiniti Engineering Services YES During December 2010, the Group acquired a majority shareholding in YES which is a Madrid based company providing maintenance and other services to windfarms throughout Europe.
Wind power generation is a fast growing market in many of the countries in which Weir already operates and YES provides a strong platform from which to extend our position in this market.
Windfarms, a growing part of the renewable energy opportunity 65 Sustainability report 6: Ethics The Board is ultimately responsible for setting the The Code of Conduct is not restricted to bribery and governance and anti-corruption culture of the Group corruption but is much broader in nature and covers and ensuring that this is understood and communiother areas such as respecting our place in the world cated to all employees with the necessary reporting and integrity in the work place.
channels provided together with appropriate training The Code of Conduct is written in easy to understand and auditing.
Regular reports and feedback are prolanguage with practical examples in each section.
vided to the Board by the legal & commercial director who has been appointed to oversee this.
Ethics Hotline As part of the roll out of the Code of Conduct, the Driving Growth the Weir Way is a critical feature of Group established a dedicated independent and the Groups commitment to doing business at all confidential phone line that employees can ring times in an ethical and transparent manner doing to raise any concerns that they have concerning it right.
The chief executive in his communication to unethical behaviour.
Calls to the helpline are free and employees at the launch of the Code of of Conduct lines are open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
in December 2010 set out his expectation that all employees maintain the highest standards of integrity The communication of the Code of Conduct and the consistent with the Code which was launched ahead details of the ethics reporting line has been carried of the proposed implementation of the new UK out through use of the following media: the Global Bribery Act during 2011.
Intranet and posters at every Group location.
Code of Conduct Anti-bribery & corruption training The Code of Conduct provides a clear framework on Following the launch of the Code of Conduct the which to base decision-making and provides details Group introduced a mandatory e-learning training of what is expected from each employee to maintain programme for all at risk employees, including: the Groups high standards of ethical behaviour.
The Senior Management Group 300 The main purposes of the Code of Conduct are to: All sales and marketing employees around 1000 Set out clearly the behaviour expected from All purchasing employees 270 employees and stakeholders Initially there will be two modules one covering the Provide guidelines to help with applying Weirs UK Bribery Act, including the prevention of bribery values at all times and corruption and the second addressing the Code Enable employees to raise a concern or ask a of Conduct.
question if they are in doubt.
The Code of Conduct was rolled-out on-line 66 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2010 Directors report Sustainability report 6.
Ethics continued Each training module is run through a learning Supply chain management system hosted by a third party.
This The Weir Group sources components, materials and allows the Group to monitor the effective roll out of services on a world-wide basis.
Our suppliers are an the training.
Each participant is expected to complete integral part of the Groups business.
Relationships the modules within the specified timelines.
The first with all suppliers are built on total quality practices module relating to the UK Bribery Act has a set pass and principles to achieve best performance, product, rate and participants are awarded a certificate on delivery, service and total cost.
successful completion of the module.
Participants are We recognise that our supply chain activities have then expected to take the second module relating to a broad impact and that our responsibilities extend the Code of Conduct and again they are awarded a beyond our own operations and into those of our certificate for successful completion.
The Group has, therefore, adopted a refresh these modules on a regular basis.
In addition Supply Chain Policy to ensure that suppliers to the to the training aimed at the at risk employees, the Group comply with or exceed certain standards in Group is also developing training modules that will connection with their workforce, legal compliance, be rolled out as part of Town Hall meetings.
These health and safety, business ethics and environmental will be carried out by local trainers and the aim will be standards.
Our key supplier partners are expected to to introduce the Code of Conduct and what it means either have accreditation to OHSAS 18001 and ISO to all employees.
14001 or be able to demonstrate a plan to achieve it within a reasonable amount of time.
The Group will also be introducing an online certification process to enable all employees to certify on We recognise that our corporate responsibility also a quarterly basis that they are in compliance with the reflects the way we behave towards our suppliers.
The Group does not operate a standard policy in respect of payments to suppliers and each operating Communications company is responsible for agreeing the terms and The Groups Code of Conduct will be reinforced conditions under which business transactions are through an ongoing series of communications via: conducted, including the terms of payment.
The Group conference and all regional and funcIn addition, many Weir companies collaborate with tional conferences suppliers to address environmental considerations Induction days for new executives throughout the supply chain to our mutual benefit, particularly in areas such as raw materials, packagTraining courses for the SMG ing and recycling.
As part of the 100 day integration plan for new It is Group policy that payments to suppliers are acquisitions.
made in accordance with the agreed terms.
At 31 December 2010, the Group had an average of 72 days purchases outstanding in trade creditors.
