12 Annual Report 2009 10 Business review our people Our people are at the heart of our business.
It is important that we provide them with the development opportunities to reach their full potential.
There is something very special YOUR SAY Learning & Development about the people who work In 2009, Whitbread relaunched This year we launched our at Whitbread.
We listen to our its engagement survey, YOUR SAY groundbreaking apprenticeship people, because they are best into the business.
It accurately programme, which uniquely gives placed to understand what it is measures engagement, in a way all of our team members within that our customers want.
We want that is meaningful to every person Whitbread Hotels and Restaurants our people to flourish and it is in the organisation and enables the opportunity to gain a nationally important that we provide them timely action.
recognised qualification in the with development opportunities so workplace.
The programme is a that they can reach their potential.
The 2009 survey measured real demonstration of our strategic engagement through 18 questions, approach and commitment to A culture of leadership and provided a promising start.
having the best skilled team in In 2009 we made significant steps to The results can be seen in the the industry.
define our culture more clearly, with table below.
All parts of the a revitalised core purpose and set of business outperformed the Alongside the suite of vocational values the Whitbread Way Forward.
qualifications we also launched our This was defined using a series of Following the publication of the Skills for Life programme, providing workshops and interviews with a wide results, action plans were developed tutoring and support in the vital life cross-section of Whitbread people.
areas of literacy and numeracy.
To At the same time we refreshed date we are proud to announce that the corporate identity to more 2009 10 team engagement scores over 1,400 qualifications have been appropriately represent Whitbread.
awarded to our team members.
Whitbread overall 60% A new Leadership Framework, The Government inspectorate, which describes the skills Ofsted, has graded the hospitality Whitbread Hotels expected from our leaders, was and catering provision that is and Restaurants 60% developed during the year.
It has offered to our team members as already become an important Outstanding.
Meanwhile the Costa 61% tool in supporting the process of Skills for Life programme has leadership engagement behind been awarded the Business in UK norm group 54% our goal of customer focus.
It the Community Big Tick.
has reinvigorated the leadership development agenda to engage In 2010 the survey has been We have successfully launched our leaders in how we will lead expanded to help us understand into the business a full suite the Whitbread Way Forward, and how our teams view our new of management development achieve stretching personal and corporate responsibility strategy, programmes called Shooting Stars.
Good Together, and their experience The objective of these programmes of customer focus in Whitbread.
is to assist all our operational managers to develop to the next In the future, employee engagement suitable role in their career with us.
will be reported as part of the The programmes help us to develop WINcard, demonstrating our people all the way from Hotels genuine commitment to driving and Restaurants team member to engagement.
13 Being given a chance to gain qualifications has opened my eyes to the opportunities within Whitbread.
Leon Commissiong, Chef, Orchard Beefeater, Ruislip Over the past 18 months, over 600 of our people have been, or currently are being, developed through these programmes.
Whitbread Hotels and Restaurants appoint over 75% of General Managers internally.
In Costa we have relaunched our in-store induction and training processes.
As coffee is at the heart of Costas business, we have developed the Barista Maestro workshop on coffee-making skills.
Workshops are held at a number of Costa training academies around the world.
Costa has also developed the Shooting Stars programme.
It has Coffee is not only my profession been operational within the Costa but also my passion.
business since 2007 and comprises core skills development and training Gabor Kamondi, Barista of the Year for 2009 on management behaviours over a six-month period.
In 2009 the next stage of development to enable Costas assistant managers to become store managers was launched.
The Rising Stars programme follows a similar format to Shooting Stars and so far over 50% of attendees have been placed into a store manager role.
Completing my Skills for Life programme has given me a huge confidence boost.
Chloe Croft, Receptionist, Gatwick Crawley East Premier Inn http: annualreport.
