30 Annual Report 2009 10 Business review corporate responsibility Whitbread has always put a high value on being a responsible business.
Good Together is our way of uniting the power of our people, customers and suppliers.
In January 2010, Whitbread launched Good Together, an VENTILATION HEAT RECOVERY SYSTEM umbrella programme to improve HIGH-PERFORMANCE INSULATION USING NATURAL & RECYCLED MATERIALS sustainable performance and SUSTAINABLY-SOURCED corporate responsibility.
TIMBER FRAME RAINWATER HARVESTING RAINWATER HARVESTING Customer research tells us that ENHANCED BIODIVERSITY our customers really care about environmental and social issues SUSTAINABLY SOURCED TIMBER FRAME even in these times of recession.
On average, 65% of respondents across all our brands rated the issues as important.
We recognise that we are at the start of an exciting journey ENERGY-EFFICIENT ROOM TEMPERATURE CONTROL and our ambition is to lead the WASTE WATER HEAT RECOVERY SYSTEM GREY WATER RECYCLING LED LOW-ENERGY LIGHTING hospitality sector in providing our GROUND SOURCE customers with outstanding green HEAT PUMP products and services, without a significant price premium attached.
HIGH EFFICIENCY REFRIGERATION, DISHWASHER Good Together strategy & FRYERS We have focused our efforts on six important streams of activity, setting targets for achievement and behavioural change in each.
These themes were identified by our customers, our teams and We will be opening our first from market research as those that are most material to our purpose-built joint green hotel business.
They are: environment: employee engagement: sourcing and restaurant site at Burgess Hill, of products and services: customer engagement: health: and West Sussex in autumn 2010. community.
Delivering against these six areas is an important part of Whitbreads strategy.
We believe that Good Together is important in making Whitbread a business in which people will want to work, investors will want to invest and customers will be proud to visit and come back to again and again.
31 Jodie Slater, Manager of Costa in Sutton Coldfield, experienced a life-changing trip with the Costa Foundation.
Jodie opened La Esperanza School in Colombia Targets Communication and engagement Developing carbon and water We have set important initial targets In October 2009, we started to efficient buildings as follows: communicate Good Together.
Key We will deliver carbon efficiency Reduce CO emissions from our elements of our communications by incorporating retrofit measures 2 operations by 26% by 2020: plan included newsletters, intranet across our estate and by opening Achieve 80% of waste diverted micro-site, line managers support new sustainable properties.
In 2008, from landfill from Whitbread packs and a Good Together launch we built our first carbon and water Hotels and Restaurants sites by week of activity during which team efficient Premier Inn at Tamworth, February 2012: members made personal pledges.
which achieved an 86% reduction 100% of all Costa coffee in carbon emissions and a 66% production to be Rainforest Driving and measuring performance reduction in water usage versus Alliance certified by June 2010: We have included a fourth a standard hotel of a similar size.
Launch a purpose-built green stakeholder, called Good Together, We are now building a carbon and hotel and restaurant at Burgess on the WINcard.
Now we measure water-efficient hotel and restaurant Hill, West Sussex to open in and reward our people based partly in Burgess Hill which we will open autumn 2010 as shown in the on our success in reducing energy in autumn 2010. diagram on page 30: consumption.
Achieve 3,000 qualifications Achieving the Carbon Trust from the Hotels and Restaurants WaterAid partnership Standard apprenticeship scheme and train For team members one of the key In December 2009 we were four hundred Costa learners motivators is their desire to raise awarded the Carbon Trust Standard.
by the end of 2011: money for both local and national This award requires organisations Raise 1million for WaterAid charities.
As a hospitality business to measure, manage and reduce over two years: and we use a lot of water.
We wanted their carbon footprint and make Enable 15,000 children to be to give back to those communities reductions year on year.
Between educated as part of the Costa that go without the most basic 2007 and 2009 Whitbread achieved Foundation.
requirements of life safe water and a 4% improvement in carbon sanitation.
In June 2009 we joined efficiency, which is equivalent An integrated programme forces with globally recognised to saving 8,562 tonnes of CO, 2 We are working to embed charity, WaterAid.
or taking 2,446 cars off the road.
sustainability into everything we do to build even stronger brands, Costa Foundation Further information can be found inspire and motivate our team In 2006, we launched the Costa in our Good Together report at members, delight our customers and Foundation.
This was the beginning http: cr.
ultimately make our business better of our journey in helping the coffeeprepared to deliver continued value growers by raising money to build to our shareholders.
We know that, schools in their communities.
in an international organisation of over 33,000 people, this is a cultural and behavioural transition that will take time, but we have already taken some important steps forward.
