14 Annual Report 2009 10 Business review our customers Understanding our customers better than anyone else will give us real competitive edge.
Guest satisfaction scores Customer focus will look at ways of attracting more Premier Inn Customer focus is about retired sightseers and short break understanding our customers.
It is travellers to stay with us.
In Costa about targeting specific customer we will be looking for ways to meet Recommend 86.2% segments and providing the products the needs of the different customer and services that people want at a groups identified from the grab Satisfaction 87.5% price they are prepared to pay.
and go commuters to those looking to spend more time relaxing with We learn about our customers from a coffee.
By understanding our Intention to return 91.4% talking to them directly and from customers in this way we will be listening to our people who serve able to look after them better than Value for money 81.3% them every day.
We also look at our ever before.
competitors to understand what Source: Surveys conducted independently they offer to their customers and Committed to listening to customers by ORC International what we might learn from them.
We hold regular customer focus Once we have that information we groups to explore the thoughts and aim to get as much insight on our feelings of customers.
We consider customers as we can and then use customer feedback in all decision that to find ways in which to serve making.
Premier Inn guest satisfaction This is all part of what we call our programme relentless focus on the customer.
Key to delivering the Whitbread vision of being the most customerCustomer segmentation focused hospitality company in the During 2009 10 we embarked on world is ensuring that we accurately customer segmentation projects and robustly measure customer across Whitbread.
It is important that we of the segmentation work have always focus on whats important to been completed for Premier Inn and the customer at both a brand and Costa, while the project for the pub outlet level.
The aim was to define customer segments, The Premier Inn guest satisfaction establish the size of the opportunity programme e-mails approximately and Whitbreads share of each 1.5 million customers within 24 segment.
This deep insight allows hours of their stay to ask them us to develop strategies to build on for their feedback.
We receive successes and to win new customers.
a massive 500,000 responses every year, making the Premier Inn In Premier Inn we will give greater guest satisfaction programme one focus to new parts of the leisure and of the biggest and most robust business markets.
For example we programmes in Europe.
15 We focus on comfort, quality and value for money.
All Premier Inn room attendants are trained to deliver the standards our customers expect Premier Offers inspired Costa obtains insight from key Brand standards Costa by our customers competitors in order to provide Costa uses customer satisfaction A clear example of how Whitbread benchmarking data.
data to identify what is really has used customer feedback to important to the customer and, inform strategic decision making Costa has significantly improved its from this, has developed a robust is Premier Offers.
customer scores achieving a score set of standards which can be of 73% for overall satisfaction.
The measured to track operational Using the Premier Inn guest results of this study help to inform performance.
This is achieved satisfaction survey we conducted strategic decisions and marketing through a mystery customer a major research project to campaigns such as the successful programme which is conducted understand the needs of leisure 7 out of 10 campaign.
by independent agency, Re Act, users and price elasticity.
together with our brand standards Brand standards audit, which is completed by our Since the launch of Premier Offers Hotels and Restaurants internal team of auditors.
Over the we have seen significant increases Whitbread Hotels and Restaurants past year Costa has completed over in weekend occupancy and a huge use an independent audit company, 9,000 mystery customer visits and improvement on customer value for Hospitality Now, to measure brand standards audits, with stores money scores.
receiving a minimum of one visit Every site is audited at least twice per quarter.
Costa customer satisfaction per year using a 1,000 question audit Costa uses independent market to keep us delivering a consistent research agency, YouGov, to product to all our customers on deliver robust feedback from every visit.
In addition YouGov BrandIndex for hotels YouGov BrandIndex for coffee shops Both Premier Inn and Costa use the YouGov Rank Brand Rank Brand BrandIndex to benchmark performance relative to other Brands.
YouGov is the 1 Premier Inn 1 Costa only daily measure of public perception of consumer brands across a wide selection of 2 Hilton 2 Caff Nero industry sectors.
Respondents are drawn from the YouGov on-line consumer panel and 2,000 3 Travelodge 3 Starbucks on-line interviews are conducted every day in the UK for the BrandIndex measure.
4 Holiday Inn 4 Coffee Republic Source: YouGov BrandIndex scores from quarter 1 2010 http: annualreport.
