16 Our people Values in action Our aim is to attract, motivate and develop OuR Values people to ensure that Morrisons becomes Our Values help bring us together to achieve the food specialist for everyone.
our vision of becoming the food specialist for everyone.
The Values set out what we expect of each other in the business and what our customers can expect from us.
Our building blocks Can do 1 Values 2 Leadership Getting things done Values are incorporated in everything we do and We will develop effective leaders working to our are at the core of what we expect our leaders and Values because they create the right workplace colleagues to be about.
conditions in which customers receive a great service.
Fresh thinking Always looking for new and better ways of doing things One team Working well together 4 Performance 3 Talent Great selling and service Sustainable performance relies on having people in At Morrisons we believe that everyone has talent We love to sell and serve place to: grow the business: strengthen our unique and we are committed to selecting, developing Morrisons culture and deliver our vision of being the and growing the best people for our business.
Bringing the best out of our people At Morrisons we thrive on having highly There are 20,000 colleagues already working committed people who know how the business towards their qualification, making this the Were constantly learning and looking works and take pride in doing a great job.
largest programme of its kind currently in the to improve on where we are We continually invest in our people to ensure UK.
The Academy also incorporates our Craft that we deliver great business performance Skills Apprenticeship Programme.
Morrisons Great shopkeeping and outstanding customer service.
trains more fishmongers, bakers and butchers than any other retailer.
In the past year, 325 Setting high standards in all areas In order to achieve this our People Agenda people have successfully completed Traditional of the business focuses on four key areas: Values, Leadership.
Our focus on developing Talent and Performance.
people is grounded in the belief that better trained people provide better service to talent customers.
A great example of this can be seen Growing our own people has been part of in our wine department where we train our the Morrisons success story for many years.
department managers to the highest standards We believe in giving everyone the opportunity so they can provide the best advice to customers.
to progress from the shop floor to the top floor In 2009, our approach was recognised by the in our business.
With 80% of our employees Wine & Spirit Education Trust with an award promoted from within, we believe this approach of Educator of the Year.
creates a very strong culture and supports our commitment to the CSR social mobility agenda.
We are committed to ensuring that all employees, new and existing, are engaged in the future of To support this objective we launched the our business.
Success in this area is evidenced by: Morrisons Academy in 2009.
It delivers a range Morrisons of training and development that we use to bring company labour turnover dropped from 34.5% the best out of our people at all stages in their to 20.07% during 2009: Fresh Food Academy career covering everything from basic skills training to leadership coaching.
Structured 236 people celebrated 25 years service in 2009 training builds confidence and a sense of pride, and approximately 260 more to follow in 2010: 747 Level 2 NVQs have been awarded ownership and an ability to provide customers across the business in 2009. with the best service possible.
over 57% of our Senior Management Group have over 10 years experience in Morrisons: The Academy also encompasses professional and vocational qualifications.
Our Market Street more than 30% of our Senior Management retail training has been accredited to level two Group started on the shop floor: and Engagement QCF standards meaning we can offer employees a nationally recognised qualification.
By April 95% of our store General Managers are 2010 all our Market Street colleagues will be promoted internally.
We have engaged and consulted with accredited and qualified to Royal Society for thousands of employees at over Public Health standards of food safety.
We will 1,700 Joint Consultation Committee be the only food retailer to operate to this meetings during 2009. standard a major step towards realising our vision of being the food specialist for everyone.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2010 17 All of this demonstrates that our way of working trained and operational prior to opening their PeRfORManCe in aCtiOn... doors as Morrisons stores.
The result is that and our approach to developing future talent sit hand in glove with our strong heritage.
the entire re-brand, retraining and opening Today programme took less than six months.
Performance Recognition of our talent Morrisons has always had a unique view of Additionally, all team managers at our newly In 2009, Oracle Retail Week awarded service and performance.
Our philosophy is opened state of the art distribution centre in one of our managers Retail Manager to drive high standards by coaching our people Sittingbourne were recruited against our new of the Year.
Similarly the General to perform at their best.
Working with the UK Values-centric role profiles.
They then took Manager of Kidderminster store, also Centre for Coaching Excellence we are ensuring part in a series of workshops and leadership became the third Morrisons manager that the best examples of world beating sport are programmes to establish their own ways of to be awarded the Store Manager of translated into the front line of our business to working in line with our corporate values and the Year title at the Retail Industry give us a sharper edge.
In the past year, over 500 coaching culture.
Engaging the team in this Awards, following in the footsteps managers have been trained in coaching skills so process has resulted in a high performance, of the Newquay store manager in that they can focus both on developing our people, motivated culture that provides a blueprint 2008, and Anniesland store manager as well as driving performance and results.
for the rest of the business to follow.
Our Retail HR Director was also recognised at the Everywoman We set clear expectations and equip managers 2009 has seen a step-up in how we engage in Retail Awards as Hidden Talent to build pride in performance.
In this respect, our colleagues.
We have adopted an approach of the Year.
every manager across the business has been that gives each division clear ownership for the provided with a performance toolkit to enable communications agenda within their business them to drive great results every day.
This has area built around a well-supported framework been underpinned by the introduction of a clear for engagement.
We have continued to invest accountability framework that sets the standard in our relationships with trade unions whilst also for performance across all areas of the business.
developing non-unionised forums designed to drive continuous improvement and personal The performance of our people not only drives involvement in the business.
After a qualifying our business forward, it also consistently attracts period, all employees participate in either the employee stability external recognition for being best in class.
2009 Profit Share Scheme or Management Bonus Percentage % saw Morrisons collect the Store Manager of the Plan, ensuring that everyone feels a part of the Year award at the Retail Industry Awards for the challenges and successes of the organisation.
We also collected the Oracle Retail Week award for Retail Manager of the Year.
leadership 2009 78 Strong leadership is key to bringing the best Values & engagement out of our people and delivering business results.
2008 76 As we expand from a National to Nationwide Our continued investment in this area has seen Employee stability is measured as the percentage of business, it is essential that everyone entering a further 500 managers take part in the Leading employees who have been with us for over one year.
into the organisation understands and feels the Morrisons Way programme, designed to committed to our values.
equip our managers and leaders of the future with the skills and support necessary to drive Mo rrisons is a company that is Our recruitment processes have been completely our business forward.
moving forward in a way that revised to focus on selecting people who reflect gives every employee better the values.
Getting the right people in the right We have continued to integrate the Values-led roles, demonstrating the right behaviours, leadership profiles into our development prospects for the future.
What is key, and we ensure that our selection process programmes and, working in conjunction with Morrisons is doing is changing is supported by our values-led induction Bradford Business School, we have introduced programmes.
Our values are a key part of our a mini MBA programme for our senior leaders, the whole culture of this industry winning performance and we recognise the specifically tailored to the needs of our so that everybody who starts at importance they play in developing future growing business.
This year has seen the launch of our the company will have the chance Morrisons Essentials people development of promotion and a qualification programmes designed to ensure values-led Morrisons is therefore leading behaviour is embedded from the start.
Over 20,000 managers will complete the the way in the whole of the % programme during 2010. retail trade.
80 We carried out our second engagement survey in January 2009 and the results have informed of our employees are promoted from within.
The Prime Minister our people strategy in 2009.
This year we will We believe in giving everyone the opportunity The Rt Hon Gordon Brown MP continue to build on the feedback building a to progress from shop floor to top floor.
22 October 2009 strong foundation for the future of our business.
Taking the time to engage and involve our Retail industry Award employees pays off.
In 2009, we acquired 38 Co-operative and Somerfield stores.
This resulted in thousands of new employment opportunities and the training of 7,000 employees nationwide.
This has been supported store Manager of the year by 350 existing colleagues travelling between 1 0,000 3 years running 2007, 2008 and 2009. stores to ensure that our new employees were welcomed into the business and were fully new jobs created in the year.
co. uk annualreport10 Annual report and financial statements 2010 Strategic review 4 17
