14 CsR today Today: We believe by taking good care of what OVeRView we do today, we can make a real difference for Lets Grow tomorrow.
Our Corporate Social Responsibility The Lets Grow programme is now into its second year.
Weve been helping children CSR programme and our vision to be the food across the UK to learn about food provenance by growing their own fresh specialist for everyone are how we demonstrate produce.
Over 22,500 schools registered in 2009, with over 60% of all primary schools, our commitment to acting sustainably.
and 40% of all secondary schools in the UK actively taking part.
HOw we Manage CsR and business impact.
Those issues considered The management of CSR at Morrisons is led by most important are addressed through our Fresh Food Academy senior directors and integrated into the business CSR programme.
Policies that address our We are on track to train 100,000 colleagues by a Project Team of senior executives.
Steering responsible business practices are available to the governments QCF Level 2 Certificate groups are tasked with key areas: Environment, on our website.
by 2011 to enhance craft food knowledge, Society and Business, and operational colleagues food safety and customer service skills.
This across the business deliver the programme.
stakeholders is the biggest programme of its kind in the We engage with stakeholders on a regular basis, UK and provides employees with tailored environment and their input is vital to the way we develop training leading to a nationally recognised We focus on cutting carbon and preventing our CSR policies and programme.
These closely linked issues are integral to tackling the effects of climate change, business Progress Sustainable sourcing and resource efficiency and cost reduction.
Our current CSR programme has been managed The Marine Conservation Society Survey over a three year time scale 20072010 in 2009 found Morrisons to have a society operating towards achieving a set of targets in strong seafood sourcing policy and the We focus on supporting our vision to be the food each of the three areas: Environment, Society largest choice of sustainable seafood specialist for everyone and taking good care of and Business.
This has proven a solid foundation from their Fish to Eat list.
our colleagues, shoppers and communities.
of performance on which we can continue to build and develop our programme.
Highlights Championing British farming Business include reducing our carbon footprint whilst We are the only major supermarket to source We focus on being closer to source through growing the business, take-up of the Lets Grow 100% British fresh beef, pork, lamb and having our own supply chain.
The principles campaign in schools across the country, poultry.
We have set up a Farm Programme, of Responsible and Sustainable sourcing launching our Fresh Food Academy to train over investing in a series of activities with the underline our approach to business, recognising 100,000 colleagues and a commitment to core aim of working with farmers to develop the value of the resources on which we depend responsible and sustainable sourcing including a sustainable British farming industry.
to carry out our business.
100% British fresh beef, pork, lamb and poultry.
A selection of our CSR targets can be seen below.
issues and policies More information on all these initiatives can be found in our CSR Review and on Processes are in place to capture and address issues that are important to our stakeholders our website.
and material to our business.
co. uk today opportunities of each issue to our business are considered and assessed in terms of strategic Qualifications and Credit Framework QCF replaces National Vocational Qualification NVQ tonnes of carbon emissions CO e 2 CSR programme 20072009 10 Tonnes t Key highlights and achievements.
2009 1,235,760 CSR target Performance update Status 2008 1,270,608 Reduce carbon footprint cumulatively Cumulative saving of 56% Achieved in excess of target by 36% by 2010 2005 baseline 2007 1,235,410 Reduce Group energy use by 8% per Reduced by 5.2% Not achieved due to new manufacturing square metre by 2010 2005 baseline facilities, higher volume production and 2006 1,334,842 the unanticipated increase in stores due to the acquisition of 38 Co-operative 2005 1,477,141 Somerfield stores Our carbon footprint includes energy, waste, Reduce the environmental impact of standard Reduced by 39% Achieved plastic carrier bag use by 25% by the end of refrigeration and transport for our stores, 2008 2006 baseline offices, manufacturing and packing facilities.
NB: All years are calendar years Volume of waste to landfill reduced 34% and on target Will be achieved by the end of the by 50% by 2010 2005 baseline calendar year 2010 M orrisons carbon emissions from 2005 to 2008 inclusive have been updated based on increased Choose and support a Charity of the Year 1.8m raised for Cancer Achieved accuracy in the measurement and recording of for national fundraising, aiming for at least Research UK in 2009 electricity consumption.
1m donated each year SKM Enviros Environmental Consultancy Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2010 15 Tomorrow: We continue to look ahead and have setting Out taRgets fOR...
Tomorrow set new targets and initiatives for the next three years to 2013, to continuously develop our CSR We have reviewed the targets for our CSR programme covering a programme.
Our aim is to maximise the impact new three year period from 2010 our actions have on our material issues, making to 2013.
These targets focus our programme on the important areas a real difference for tomorrow.
that matter most to our business and those involved with it, and where we can continue to have a positive Managing CsR tOMORROw Targets for these are as follows: impact in the future.
We have also The management and governance structures for set ourselves a longer term target our CSR programme will continue in their current Our people to help us manage our carbon form.
They will be regularly reviewed.
100,000 colleagues to be trained to nationally footprint to 2020.
This target is a recognised qualifications by 2011.
This will be 30% reduction in carbon emissions environment: Carbon management achieved through our Fresh Food Academy.
We will focus on carbon management and contributing towards creating a low carbon Community economy.
The reduction of carbon emissions and Extend the Lets Grow scheme to include prevention of waste are the two material areas supporting the development of cooking skills where we can deliver good carbon management.
This will be delivered by building food skills knowledge and practical experience.
Emissions reductions We have set a long term target to reduce carbon health & Well-being Contribute to food education and support emissions by 30% by 2020.
Our strategy to achieve this includes: the use of energy efficient healthy, balanced lifestyles.
We will continue More information on our CSR vision to provide useful and relevant nutritional advice low emission technologies, effective energy and full details of our targets for monitoring, management and control, colleague and information for customers and colleagues.
2013 can be found in our CSR awareness, good housekeeping practices, Review and on our website: refrigeration efficiency and improvements, Business: Closer to source We will focus on responsible sourcing, aiming renewables, and transport efficiency.
co. uk today to be a leading supporter of British farming, to raise standards in the supply chain and to Waste prevention We have set a target for 2013 to bring our be a positive influence on sustainability.
This will be achieved through Responsible and waste to landfill down to zero.
Our strategy to achieve this is based on waste minimisation in Sustainable sourcing initiatives.
the supply chain and the use of waste processing technologies.
We will also be encouraging our Responsible sourcing We are committed to establishing an applied customers to reduce food waste.
farm research programme and set an audited gold standard for quality of supply, extending society: food specialist for everyone We will focus on demonstrating the benefits our code of practice with suppliers.
We will also extend our commitment to selling of being the food specialist for everyone.
This will be delivered through three working British products.
groups focusing on: Our People, Community and Health & Well-being.
Sustainable sourcing We will positively influence sustainability within our supply chain and avoid harm to vulnerable natural habitat.
emissions by type Today: Taking Good Care for Tomorrow Percentage % Our CSR programme for 2010 2013 focuses our efforts and aligns them with overall business goals.
Electricity 49.9% Gas 8.9% Environment Society Business Haulage 11.6% Waste 5.9% focus Employees travel Carbon Food Specialist Closer to to work 3.1% management for Everyone source Business miles 0.4% Refrigeration 20.2% initiative Emissions reduction Our people Responsible sourcing Waste prevention Community Sustainable sourcing Health & Well-being Key programmes Great Taste Less Waste Lets Grow Farm Programme www.
co. uk annualreport10 Annual report and financial statements 2010 Strategic review 4 17
