Corporate responsibility This year, the Company redened its strategic focus through the resource allocation process andby drivingstrategy execution primarily through its businessunits.
Our Corporate Responsibility programme was also reviewed to ensure that it still provided the right framework to support ourbusinesses improvement plans.
Integrity we expect all our people to act with honesty and Renewed focus on people, integrity in everything they do.
integrity and performance Performance we are never satisfied with our current level Our Group remains decentralised, with accountability given of performance and have aconstant desire to improve.
rmly to our individual business units.
When we established the Corporate Responsibility CR framework in 2008, People we value all our employees: their development itwas designed to be exible to accommodate the different isimportant to us and essential in maintaining our priorities that each business unit would have and the different competitive strength.
speeds at which they would be able todevelop the various These values underpin our new Code of Conduct and ethics elements of their programmes.
In the two years since the programme, relaunched during the year, and the way we do launch of the CR framework, the Group has changed business generally.
signicantly in size and focus.
The continuing effects of the economic downturn kept pressure on our businesses to Risk management persevere with their disciplined working capital management and cost reduction programmes.
Our financial results in An explanation of the Groups risk management programme 2009 10 show that they were effective in doing so.
This cost is set out on pages 30 to 33.
Those risks which might have pressure had an impact on the number and speed of animpact on the key elements of our CR programme, implementation of some of the CR-related programmes that andconsequently on our business, are discussed in were planned a year ago.
Despite these constraints, we have moredetailin the relevant sections of this CR report.
broadly met our targets for the year, principally because, wherever possible, the activities in our CR programme are Governance integrated into our business practices.
We also considered whether the overall CR framework remained appropriate The Board has oversight of the Groups CR programme forour businesses and concluded that it was robust enough andconducts an annual review of the programme and to remain in its current form.
The Executive Committee discusses the programme in detail and decides on the degree of emphasisthat should be placed on each of the themes.
Wolseleys framework for Corporate Each business unit is then tasked with developing and Responsibility implementing CRplans that are integral to its operations so that they are aligned with local objectives, market conditions The five key themes of Wolseleys CR strategy are set out and availableresources.
The Group Company Secretary in the table opposite.
Alongside eachtheme, the table andGeneral Counsel is responsible for the overall delivery summarises the minimum standard to which any member ofthe programme and regularly discusses progress with of the Group must adhere.
It also identies the aspirational business unit representatives.
goals for each theme and explains their principal benets to our business.
In each case, ourbusinesses have or will Wolseleys commitment to responsible and reliable business have detailed programmes, targets and measures which practices includes a broad-ranging internal audit programme arealigned with their own operational priorities and with and the regular review of the effectiveness of internal controls the strategic objectives of the Group asa whole.
and of the suitability of the policies and procedures that applythroughout the Group.
The Board and members of Values theExecutive Committee also conduct an annual review ofthe authorities delegated to senior members of staff During the year, following discussions with management andthe commitments that they may enter into on behalf andemployees around the Group, the Executive Committee ofthe Company.
agreed a common setof values and behaviours appropriate to allWolseley employees that are central to our business and to the way we do business.
During the financial year 2010 11 we intend to engage all employees in these values, which can be broadly categorised into three common themes: 34 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Key themes Group minimum standard Group goal Benets to our business Compliance with legal Proactive safety culture, Protecting the health and safety of our Health and requirements: monitoring Group recognised industry leader.
people and maintaining our physical assets safety and operating company Key helps us to preserve the integrity of our performance indicators KPIs.
operations, improves efficiency and See page 36 strengthens customer service.
Compliance with legal Sharing and informing Measuring our environmental performance Environment requirements: establish industry best practices.
in chosen areas will enable us to become KPIs to support business more efficient, reduce operational costs and See page 37 improvement programmes.
reduce our impact on the environment.
All employees are provided with A culture made up of highHighly satisfied customers, engaged People required training, ahigh standard performing, highly engaged stakeholders and motivated employees.
of management and with employees with a strong development opportunities, and customer service orientation.
See page 39 are rewarded competitively.
Adherence to the Group Group Code of Conduct Conducting business responsibly and with Responsible Code of Conduct.
and ethics compliance integrity minimises risks related to fraud and business programmes evidence corruption and strengthens our reputation.
Compliance programmes should further See page 39 strengthen internal controls.
Participating in, or donating Public recognition of Building closer relationships with the Community to, a number of community Wolseleys contribution communities in which we operate engagement projects.
helps us to promote our business and its objectives, attract new talent and gain a greater understanding of our customers, See page 41 suppliers and employees.
Progress against goals to date Action Progress Status Governance Development of Individual business units have worked on their own specic development plans, which local CR plans.
are monitored regularly bylocal management.
Environment Development of Group Consistent with the strategic realignment of the Groups businesses, it was decided environment and that it would be more effective for targets to be set at a regional or local level in order sustainability objectives.
to ensure they are aligned with local business priorities.
Accordingly, no new Group targets have been set, though existing measures continue to be reported and reviewed.
Responsible business People Refresh and relaunch A new Group-wide Ethics and Fraud Programme comprising a new Code of Conduct Group Code of Ethics and a new whistleblowing line SpeakUp!
was developed and communicated by the and supporting policies.
Online training is being implemented.
Delivery of anti-fraud and antiAnti-fraud and anti-corruption policies were updated, developed and completed.
Company-specic online training was developed and is being implemented in order toembed each element across the Group.
2011 targets and priorities Deadline More detailed and consistent gathering and reporting of environmental data.
Ongoing All employees trained on the Code ofConduct.
End 2011 Relevant employees trained on anti-corruption policies.
End 2011 Risk assessments implemented on areas most vulnerable to fraud and corruption.
End 2011 Targets set in each geographic region for improvement in health and safety management and achievement ofthose targets.
Ongoing Wolseley plc 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility continued Health and safety We will provide a safe and healthy working environment and we will not compromise the healthand safety of any individual.
During the year, the work on improvement of health and safety performance continued and the enhanced quality and accuracy of reported data allowed each business to focus on those areas where there was greatest need for improvement.
The three KPIs that are reported and reviewed consistently across the Group remain the most appropriate shown below, whilst individual businesses use additional KPIs for their specic improvement targets.
We have not provided acomparison with performance last year, as such a comparison would not be meaningful: this has been another year of significant change in the scope and size of our Company, involving branch closures, redundancies and Wolseley Canada developing health and reorganisations.
In addition, the disposal of Stock Building safetyinitiatives Supply resulted in the retention of a minority interest in that Recent local legislation has dened a set of business through a joint venture arrangement.
The gures for occupational health and safety management system that business have been excluded from this report.
However, requirements OHSMS 18001 which provides this years data is more complete and accurate, with over standardisation across eachof the provinces of 98per cent of the Groups businesses by turnover now Canada.
Following this process, Wolseley Canada providing data against which it will be possible to provide hasnow been identied as a leader in the industry acomparison in next years report.
through customer service and safety.
Our Group health and safety policy was re-issued this year, Wolseley Canada is in the process of introducing arisk with a reinforcement of the Companys commitment to management system designed to eliminate hazards in improve our management of health and safety.
During the year, it will continue to each business has its own health and safety programme pursue its aim of eliminating workplace injuries by adapted to its particular needs and risks.
We deeply regret ensuring that the risks associated with its unique the sad loss of three of our colleagues in fatal accidents business lines have the necessary control measures.
Each of these incidents was Inaddition, the development of e-learning training thoroughly investigated both internally and by the relevant modules for Wolseley Canada employees will ensure authorities.
We are now even more determined to ensure that appropriate training is available for everyone.
thatall of our employees remain appropriately trained and aware of occupational health and safety risks and we will Wolseley Canadas initiatives promote harmonisation, takeevery possible measure to prevent similar tragedies giving full consideration to the need for uninterrupted fromhappening in the future.
and efficient operations for all business lines, with the ultimate goal of a risk-free workplace.
In financial year 2010 11, we will continue touseour Groupwide KPIs as a basis for improvement.
Theleadership teams of our businesses have been set improvement targets which, together with their continuing management programmes, willbe regularly monitored and reviewed.
FY 2010 Medical injury rate Number of at-work injuries requiring medical treatment per 100 employees 3.5 Lost workday rate Number of workdays lost per 100 employees 62.8 Fleet collision rate Number of third-party vehicle collisions per 100 vehicles 17.3 36 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information As in previous years, tCO2e emissions have been reported Environment inaccordance with the principles of the World Business We will run efficient operations that minimise waste Council for Sustainable Development and the World and reduce any negative effect on our business Resources Institutes Greenhouse Gas Protocol GHG activities on the environment.
The GHG Protocol categorises emissions sustainable development.
asfollows: Around the Group, our businesses have introduced Scope 1 Direct emissions.
programmes that have helped us to reduce the impact of These are emissions for which businesses are directly ouroperations on the environment whilst improving efficiency responsible.
Those programmes are integral to the way Scope 2 Electricity Indirect emissions.
In some of our markets there is increasing demand These are emissions from the electricity that a company from our customers for products which are more energybuys to use in its equipment or operations.
efficient or otherwise contribute to reducing the impact of Scope 3 Other Indirect emissions.
In many cases, we work These are emissions from activities that are relevant to with our customers to identify the most suitable materials acompany, but not within its direct control.
transport in vehicles not owned by the company.
Overall, the Group has reduced its environmental footprint Wolseley reports on its Scope 1 and 2 emissions, as this year greenhouse gas emissions down by 5 per cent, denedin the GHG Protocol.
However, given the nature of non-hazardous waste by 30 per cent and hazardous waste our operations and the degree of control we exercise over by 14 per cent compared with last year, although to a large certainactivities, we will aim to report on the emissions extent, reductions can be attributed to changes in the fromthird-party provided transportation, as well as from business in the year, including a decrease in the size of ouremployees business travel.
Accordingly, these Scope 3 theportfolio and reduced distribution and sale of products.
emissions, together with our Scope 1 and 2 emissions, are included in the data reported below.
Approximately Greenhouse gas emissions tCO2e emissions 65percent of the emissions data provided is derived, The vast majority of the Groups greenhouse gas emissions orpartly derived, from estimates.
derive from electricity use at our facilities 44 per cent and FY 2010 FY 2009 the transportation of our goods 30 per cent.
Fuel use in emissions emissions operations and the transportation of people account for a 1 1 Source tCO2e tCO2e smaller proportion of the total tonnes of CO2-equivalent Electricity use 360,069 393,930 emissions 13 per cent and 12 per cent respectively.
2 Fuel use: operations 104,623 118,270 To help us to reduce our emissions, as well as reducing fuelconsumption, our businesses have continued to Fuel use: transportation of goods 245,468 246,518 developvarious measures throughout the year, including Business travel: vehicles 96,567 87,647 theintroduction of, or improvements to, environmental management systems, resource efciencyplans, eet Business travel: air and rail 5,215 8,189 management systems and eet backhauling programmes.
Refrigerant leakage 490 1,594 For example, Ferguson in theUShas continued to replace 3 inefficient lighting with moreefcient alternatives, which has Total 812,767 856,148 made a significant contribution to reducing the Groups total Emissions per m of revenue 61.7 59.3 electricity use.
More information on these activities can be found online at:http: www.
com corporate- 1 Greenhouse gas emissions are reported as tonnes of CO2 equivalent responsibility.
aspx abbreviated as tCO2e, based on the Global Warming Potential GWP ofeach of the basket of six greenhouse gases, as dened by the Kyoto Protocol.
The GWP of CO2 is 1 1 tonne CO2 1 tonne CO2e.
For other greenhouse gases in the basket of six, including refrigerants, the GWP is relative to CO2 over a 100-year time horizon eg one tonne of the refrigerant R407C is equivalent to 1,526 tonnes of CO2 in terms of the potential climate change impact.
2 Includes supplied heat district heating.
3 Based on a combination of actual and estimated data.
Wolseley plc 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility continued Waste management The Groups businesses generate non-hazardous waste and, to a lesser extent, hazardous waste.
Although denitions vary from country to country, hazardous waste may include items such as batteries and electronic equipment: non-hazardous waste typically includes materials such as paper, plastic andmetal.
Wolseley aims to minimise the waste generated by its business activities to reduce our environmental impact, atthesame time as lowering waste removal costs.
Wherepossible we re-use or recycle waste.
In FY2009 10, 7per cent of hazardous wasteand 29 per cent of non-hazardous waste was recycled.
Theremaining waste was either sent to landll or incinerated.
Of the total waste generated by the Group in 2010 noted below, approximately 79 per cent is based on actual data.
The remaining 21percent of data was partly or Starkki working towards lowering energy entirely estimated.
We aim to increase the proportion of actual requirements data reported next year inorder to improve data quality.
During the financial year, Starkki in Finland joined a pilot FY 2010 FY 2009 group of companies and organisations taking part in a FY 2010 NonFY 2009 NonFinnish initiative which has been set up by think tank Hazardous hazardous Hazardous hazardous Final waste waste waste waste waste Demos Helsinki and the Finnish Innovation Fund, destinations tonnes tonnes tonnes tonnes Sitra.
This new organisation, Peloton, aims over the next three years to bring together companies and Incinerated 1,098 10,120 1,283 6,599 consumers in all matters relating to climate change.
Landlled 190 45,623 250 85,003 Finland is currently one of the highest energy use consumers in Europe and has significant carbon Recycled 96 23,266 77 22,617 emissions per capita.
1 Total 1,384 79,010 1,610 114,219 Through this project, Peloton is helping this pilot group Waste per m to create products, services and social innovations ofrevenue 0.1 6.0 0.1 7.9 that can systematically lower the energy requirements of the Finnish lifestyle.
The aim of this pilot is for groups 1 Based on a combination of actual and estimated data.
to work together with representatives from different Water use companies, such as Starkki, to develop innovative ideas on how tolower the energy usage of their customers, The Group is not a large consumer of water, compared to to offer sustainable solutions, and to introduce a new manufacturers.
The majority of the Groups water consumption way of thinking into their own business models.
is related to normal operational and sanitary water use.
Wehave, however, continued to measure water consumption throughout the Group in an effort to improve our water efficiency.
This year, our reported water use has increased by2percent overall.
We believe that this increased gure ispredominantly due to improved data quality, rather than other business-related factors.
TheGroups water is almost exclusively supplied by local utility providers.
FY 2010 FY 2009 cubic cubic metres metres 1 Total water consumption 1,001,515 984,102 Average water consumption peremployee 21.2 19.4 1 89 per cent of the gure is based on estimated, orpartly estimated, data.
38 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information People Responsible business We value our employees and their diversity.
We will We are committed to observing both the spirit and the develop our people and reward them fairly.
letter of the laws and regulations of all jurisdictions inwhich we operate and to comply with our Code As a result of poor market conditions, the Group experienced ofConduct.
We expect our suppliers, contractors another challenging year for its businesses.
During the year andagents to adhere to our Code to adopt similar employee numbers remained stable at approximately ethicalstandards.
47,000as most ofthe major redundancy and restructuring programmes werecompleted last year.
We have invested in a During the year, in consultation with representatives from our number of development programmes this year.
Theseinclude main businesses, we developed and introduced a revised leadership development programmes in Europe, the US and Code of Conduct as part of an integrated ethics and anti-fraud Scandinavia: and local training programmes, focusing on the programme to maintain the Groups high ethical standards.
knowledge and skills needed to add increased value to the This has been improved so that it can be adopted by each business.
An example of this is described further on page 19. business for easier communication and wider employee engagement.
Copies will be available at all our locations and Online training modules continue to be developed and used it can also be viewed at www.
In addition, across the Group.
At AG in Austria an e-learning concept we developed adetailed programme to combat fraud and has been introduced, specically to train apprentices.
corruption, whichincludes clear policy statements InCanada, a new e-learning site has been launched to emphasising our zerotolerance of any form of fraud, bribery provideemployees with access to vendor product and or corruption.
These policies are supported by a manual service training which develops employees expertise in containing case studies relevant to our operations, standard theproducts and services sold in order to enhance the forms, guidelines and procedures to ensure that risks can be customer experience.
Allemployees will receive briengs and training on We have also improved our succession planning process, the Codeof Conduct: those exposed to fraud and corruption which allowed for a rigorous and thorough review of our top risks will also take part in a bespoke online training programme talent and future leaders.
The Executive Committee and the and will receive face-to-face briengs as needed in each Board now review the senior leadership team and their business.
Given the number of employees that this training successors twice per year.
will reach, we expect this to continue throughout financial year 2010 11.
The training programme on combating corruption For a number of years we have been steadily improving will recognise the requirements of thenew UK Bribery Act ouremployees awareness of the value of diversity to our 2010, which is expected to come into force in April 2011, business and to our customers.
A particularly successful theprovisions of which will have Group-wide effect.
example is that of Ferguson in the US, which has been operating a diversity and inclusion programme since 2006.
As part of the relaunch of our ethics programme, Relying on the commitment and accountability of the weintroduced a new condential reporting system which Ferguson executive management team, a Diversity Council replaced our existing whistleblowing hotline.
The new system, has recently been established, comprising a cross-section called Speak Up!, was launched with a coordinated ofindividuals from different business units.
This ensures that communication campaign to ensure that we could maximise leadership and management teams are engaged in diversity employees awareness of this secure facility for reporting any initiatives and that there is collaboration across department concerns about the integrity of our business.
All reports that lines and business units.
Raising awareness of diversity and are registered through Speak Up!
either by telephone or inclusion throughout Ferguson has been achieved though online are investigated and appropriate corrective action employee resource groups, mentoring programmes, online istaken.
The concerns raised, and the opportunities for training and the introduction of a quarterly newsletter.
improvement, are discussed by the Audit Committee as Inaddition, Ferguson iscontinuing to develop its supplier partof its regular review of suspected fraud and corruption.
diversity programme tosupport the interests of suppliers Timber sourcing operated by minority groups and to foster inclusive environments to allow their business partners to grow In July 2010, the European Parliament voted in favour of new strategically in a competitive market.
legislation which will make it a criminal offence to place illegal timber or timber products into the market in an EU member In the financial year 2010 11, we will be continuing employee state.
Member states will have up to two years to implement engagement surveys in each business around the Group.
this legislation into their own laws, which will require The results will be individually assessed and will form the companies to exercise due diligence when they purchase basis of improvement programmes based on the most timber from producer countries.
The legislation is similar important concerns and opportunities identied by our tothat already in force in the United States.
procures timber from a number of countries around the worldand already has a well-established and robust procedure in place with the aim of ensuring that the timberislegal and from forests certied as well-managed.
Thesystem isdesigned to identify and track timber from origin to the eventual customer and to ensure that there is integrity at every stage of the chain of custody.
Despite these safeguards, it remains difficult to ensure that all timber that is purchased by the Company is from appropriate sources.
Wolseley plc 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility continued This is because, in some cases, the timber passes through anumber of intermediate stages before it is transferred to us.
Itis the Companys target to eliminate all risk timber from itsoperations as soon as practicable and in any event in advance of the date on which the new EU legislation comes into force.
Other product sourcing As part of the Groups continuing commitment to responsible business, a Group-wide product safety policy has been developed and will be introduced this year.
This confirms Wolseleys commitment tosource and sell safe products, comply with legislation concerning product safety and take quick and decisive action to resolve any product safety issues which may arise.
To that end, a Corrective Action Procedure has been established to provide general guidanceon the standards and systems that each Wolseley France timber certication obtained businessmust have in place.
This year, Silverwood and Sinbpla again received PEFC Wolseley UK introduced an Ethical Sourcing Policy in certication and in February 2010, Forest Stewardship February 2010, which details the minimum standards Council certication was also granted formost of their expected from suppliers and the commitments that have panel products.
In addition, in March 2010, all been made to ensure that suppliers operate in accordance Panofrance branches and those branches of Rseau with those standards.
Offering a range of over 400,000 Prowhich specialise in wood products, also obtained product lines, supplied by over 10,000 suppliers, Wolseley PEFC certication.
UKs first commitment is to understand its supply chains, many of which are complex and involve a number of stages The Wolseley France commitment to purchase, in the manufacture and distribution of the products and their produce and sell products in a sustainableway was component parts.
In addition, these various stages in the further rewarded by a Three Leaf label the highest supply chain may take place in countries that have significant level, given by the Le Commerce du Bois in France social and cultural differences, as well as different local laws inNovember 2009.
As a result, Silverwood was and systems of governance.
recognised this year by the main business magazine inFrance as Best Contributor to Sustainable Wolseley UK has recently embarked on a programme to Development.
engage with a selected number of its suppliers which operate in a number of countries and supply a range of products.
These achievements in sustainable development aim Theinitial phases of this programme have identied the togivethe business a competitive advantage over our current levels of declared compliance and the most successful competitors and ensure that our customers are able methods of collecting and verifying the types of evidence that toidentify those products which are from sustainably is required in order to support these declarations.
phases willsee further development of the verication process andastrategy to roll out the programme across awider supply base.
40 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors report Business review Directors report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Community engagement We will be a responsible member of the communities inwhich we work.
Despite the severe impact of the recession on our operations and our employees, our businesses have continued to support the communities in which they work, usually throughcontinuation of established partnerships with charitable organisations and often through the outstanding enthusiasm of individuals.
Most of these efforts are determined by individual businesses concerns for their local communities.
They are all motivated by the desire to make a positive impact in areas that have a connection to oursector and the products we supply.
For example, we aim to reduce homelessness and improve the quality of housing and the built environment, and we aim to improve the social conditions and the employability of people who may be at Ferguson and Christopher Newport University risk of being marginalised.
In addition, this year, Wolseley plc Fergusons relationship with this University, which is became a member of the group of construction sector based inthe same city as its corporate ofce in companies supporting the Raising the Roof campaign, Newport News, Virginia, began in 2004, with an whose target is to raise 3 million to help fund a new centre investment in the Ferguson Center for the Arts.
The for neurosciences, as part of the major redevelopment partnership was expanded in 2007 when Ferguson programme at Great Ormond Street childrens hospital began supporting the Center for Service and Learning inLondon.
The Center provides lessons to students in leadership, civic responsibility and character development gained through community engagement.
During 2010, two new projects offered by the Center were funded by Ferguson: Youth Services Survey and Ferguson Fellowship Funding.
The Youth Services Survey will resultin a website that will connect citizens to all youth support systems in the community.
The Youth Service initiative will also provide action plans for increased future student involvement in the Newport We also decided to partner with Impetus Trust News community.
The Ferguson Fellowship will fund up www.
uk, an organisation which targets small to 15Ferguson Fellows students who will plan and charities and social enterprises that help the economically implement socially innovative projects during 2010, and socially disadvantaged to build their capacity to achieve resulting in initiatives that will have practical applications their aims of social improvement.
Impetus has pioneered an to produce sustainable benets for partner organisations effective model of charity support: their tri-partite investment locally, nationally or globally.
model provides a distinctive combination of strategic funding, hands-on support to management and specialist expertise often provided by the private sector, which enables these More information about our CR programme, including small charities to grow rapidly and effectively over a period furthercase studies, statistics and examples of ofthree to five years.
In the UK, among the charities ourpractices, awards and community engagement includedin Impetus portfolio, Wolseley has contributed canbefoundon the Wolseley plc website at http: tothe objectives of Blue Sky Development & Regeneration, www.
aspx whoseprincipal activity is the employment of recently released ex-offenders on six-month contracts to full groundsmaintenance contracts for local authorities.
BlueSkys mission is to help break the cycle of reoffending and toachieve long-term benets for society, with the aimofenabling ex-offenders to move successfully into long-term employment.
It is important to our businesses to build and develop strong relationships with their local communities and to encourage charitable initiatives.
As a result, many of our employees and their businesses support a wide range of charities and community projects which are relevant to the countries and locations in which they operate, as well as charities for whichour employees have a particular passion.
2007 Great Ormond Street Hospital Childrens Charity.
Wolseley plc 41 Registered charity no.
