How we behave Corporate responsibility The rise and rise of CR Improving efficiency Our climate change strategy is reducing costs associated As Western economies moved out of recession in 2010, the with business travel and energy use in offices.
Investment in focus of major brand owners has returned to managing their videoconference facilities enables an increasing number of reputation and, in particular, positioning themselves as meetings to be held without the cost and carbon footprint responsible members of society and stewards of flights.
A movement that began in Europe more than a decade ago is now being rapidly adopted by Socially responsible investors US corporations.
Awareness of corporate responsibility is not confined During the 10-year history of our CR program we have to the West.
Governments and corporations in fasterseen a steady increase in the number of investors assessing growing economies are increasingly recognising the need to environmental, social and governance ESG information.
raise standards and to meet the changing requirements of What was once a niche sector providing screened investments customers and investors.
for church groups, trade unions and wealthy philanthropists This global development of corporate conscience is has broadened its remit into the mainstream and is now creating opportunities for our companies, from research to estimated to influence the investment strategy of $5 trillion advice to communications and marketing.
have responded, developing skills and services to meet the We assist investors to understand the issues material to needs of clients aiming to establish credentials for our business and provide information on CR performance environmental, social and ethical excellence.
Consequently, WPP is included in WPPs status as the first mover in CR in our sector is now the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, the FTSE4Good Index helping our companies enter the new green and ethical and is ranked first out of eight in our sector by Triodos Bank.
markets with confidence and credibility.
We have a CR Policy We were also ranked 22nd out of 350 in the FTSE CDP of 10 years standing, a track record of eight years of CR Carbon Strategy 350 Index.
reporting and established programs to manage marketing In 2010 we responded to engagement by the following standards, ethics, human resources, environment and investment organisations: community performance.
BNP Paribas In addition to enhancing WPPs business opportunities, Carbon Disclosure Project our CR program supports the Companys strategic objectives Dow Jones Sustainability Index as follows: Ethical Investment Research Service EIRIS Attracting and retaining the best people EthiFinance There is strong competition for talent in our industry and FTSE4Good questions relating to CR are frequently raised by our people Goldman Sachs and new candidates during job interviews.
The future Trucost generations that will eventually become our talent pool view ROBECO CR issues as central to business.
Creating a diverse company Sustainanalytics culture, adopting leading talent practices and demonstrating Vigeo our commitment to social and environmental issues is key to our companies ability to attract and retain the best people.
CR management A diverse workforce also enhances our understanding of consumers in all markets.
Our CR activity enables us to take advantage of new Reputation risk management opportunities and to manage social and environmental We reduce the risk of adverse publicity by ensuring that risks connected to our business strategy.
Our key corporate our work complies fully with regulations and marketing responsibility risks are explained on page 120, and include standards.
We also carefully evaluate the risk associated the impact of our work for clients, marketing ethics, privacy with new commissions.
Our pro bono work and support and data protection, employment practices and climate for charities and community organisations reinforces our change.
Providing sustainability marketing services to clients reputation for making a positive contribution to society.
is our most significant CR opportunity, see page 126.
Meeting investor expectations Paul Richardson, WPPs Group finance director, is the WPP share owners continue to show interest in our CR Board director responsible for corporate responsibility.
practices and we aim to respond constructively to their He chairs WPPs Corporate Responsibility Committee, requests for information see below.
The committee is made up of senior WPP ANNUALREPORT2010 125 How we behave  representatives from Group functions and our companies and recognise the challenges in distilling complex and met once formally in 2010 when the main topics sustainability issues into simple marketing messages.
discussed were: Consumer concern about environmental and social issues Sustainability marketing services is causing brand owners to assess the sustainability issues Environment and procurement pertinent to their products and to improve their performance Marketing ethics and risk management and competitive standing.
Sustainability is being adopted as a Human resources brand value and is increasingly part of our marketing briefs.
Privacy and security We also create social marketing campaigns, usually for Paul Richardson provides an annual assessment of government or NGO clients, tackling issues related to public corporate responsibility risks and performance to the Audit health, safety or the environment.
They are designed to raise Committee.
From 2011 the annual assessment will be awareness or encourage people to change their behaviour.
provided to the Nomination Committee.
This is in addition Many of our companies have developed bespoke to the business and financial reporting risks process sustainability services for clients.
These include JWT Ethos, described on page 119.
Hill & Knowltons CR & Sustainability Communications At each Board meeting, the Group chief executive offering, Ogilvy Earth, P&Gs S-Team including Added presents a Brand Check review of each of the business Value, Bridge, FITCH, G2, The Futures Company, operations, including an assessment of the risk in each Hill & Knowlton, Landor and Penn Schoen Berland : business.
This includes CR risks such as employment risks and PSB Green.
WPPs Code of Business Conduct and CR Policy set out the standards we expect our companies and our people to Marketing ethics meet in their work.
They provide guidance in dealing with a wide range of ethical, social and environmental subjects.
As a minimum our companies are expected to comply with Both documents are publicly available on our website, all laws, regulations and codes of marketing practice.
The senior management of each of our advertising produced by WPP companies should present businesses complete an annual statement of compliance products fairly and accurately, comply with the relevant laws with the Code of Business Conduct.
and marketing codes, and reflect changing public attitudes We have established a set of key performance indicators to questions of taste and decency or marketing of sensitive KPIs relating to employment, social investment, products.
This includes not producing work for our clients environment and climate change.
We report performance that greenwashes the environmental performance of their against these in our annual Corporate Responsibility Report.
CR data are collected quarterly through our Group Our Code of Business Conduct and CR Policy set out our financial reporting system.
Reviews of CR risks such as those approach and provide guidance to our companies and our relating to employment policies, privacy and data security, people on the standards we expect.
marketing and business ethics may be included in the scope We will not knowingly create work which contains of internal audits and some SOX audits.
Significant findings statements, suggestions or images offensive to general public are related to the Audit Committee.
decency and will give appropriate consideration to the impact of our work on minority segments of the population, Reporting whether that minority be by race, religion, national origin, colour, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or We will publish our ninth Corporate Responsibility Report expression, age or disability.
The report provides a detailed account of our We will not undertake work which is intended or CR performance.
A summary of our progress is provided designed to mislead, including in relation to social, on the following pages.
environmental and human rights issues.
We will consider the potential for clients or work to damage the Groups reputation prior to taking them on.
The impact of our work This includes reputational damage due to participating in business activities that abuse human rights.
WPP companies The social and environmental impact of the work we will not undertake work designed to mislead in any respect, undertake for clients is one of our most important CR issues.
including social, environmental and human rights issues.
Our goal is for WPP to be a centre of excellence for WPP companies will comply with applicable regulations sustainability communication, giving our clients the best and self-regulatory codes of practice in the countries in advice and enhancing consumers understanding of which they operate.
We will not underwrite greenwashing 126 WPP ANNUALREPORT2010 How we behave  Few campaigns that we produce for clients provoke Our privacy approach complaint, but occasionally complaints do occur relating to matters of taste or fact.
In most countries these are arbitrated We expect our companies to comply with all applicable by government or industry organisations.
More information privacy and data protection laws and marketing codes is available in our Corporate Responsibility Report.
Many of our companies have policies and procedures covering how data including protected types Ethical issues in client work personal data should be handled, and some have developed their own technology and tools to improve transparency.
Where we operate, who we work for and the type of work We held a series of privacy roadshows for employees we undertake can give rise to ethical issues.
Examples around the Group during 2010 to improve their include: work undertaken for government clients: operating understanding of privacy issues and changes in regulation.
in countries with a poor human rights record: and marketing We communicate regularly with clients on privacy issues for sensitive or controversial products.
to explain our approach and to help them keep abreast of In cases where work may present a potential risk to current thinking and best practice.
For example, during 2010 WPPs reputation, employees are required to elevate the Kantar delivered a number of joint training sessions with key decision to the most senior person in the relevant office and clients to raise awareness of privacy issues among client and then to the most senior executive of the operating company agency teams.
in the country concerned, who will decide if further referral We are reviewing the privacy and data protection clauses to a WPP director is required.
All employees must take our in our supplier and client contracts to clarify our respective online ethics training which includes a module on risks roles and responsibilities and to make sure these are associated with client work and a wide range of issues appropriate and consistent.
including privacy, diversity, responsibility to stakeholders, We collaborate with others in our industry to and avoiding misleading work.
improve privacy standards and ensure that information When required we hold review meetings for senior is accessible to consumers.
For example, a number of managers at Group level to discuss cases of concern and our agencies are members of the online Behavioural identify new risk areas.
The internal audit program of work Advertising Self Regulation Coalition BASRC.
Our now incorporates a review of the considerations given by digital and research companies meet with regulators and management to possible impacts on the Groups reputation participate in consultation exercises to give their views prior to accepting new clients.
More information is available in our Corporate Responsibility Report.
Privacy Privacy and data protection are key issues for all our WPP as an employer companies and we aim to meet best practice standards.
Some of our companies collect and use consumer data to We draw on the talents and creativity of the Groups study attitudes and purchasing habits and to create targeted employees to meet and exceed our clients expectations.
digital and direct marketing campaigns.
There is strong competition for talent in our industry and Privacy is a complex issue to manage.
Regulation and we anticipate this will increase.
standard practices vary significantly between the many To enable us to recruit the best, WPP companies invest different markets we operate in and depending on the type a significant proportion of revenues in developing and of data collected.
Changes in technology can also have rewarding employees.
They offer competitive remuneration implications for how data are collected, processed, used and innovative, high quality training and development and stored.
In many markets there is growing awareness programs.
The Group and its companies are committed to of privacy issues and some consumers and interest groups creating an inclusive workplace culture where people from are concerned about the collection and use of personal all backgrounds can flourish.
data for marketing purposes, including practices such as We believe that a reputation for environmental and social behavioural targeting.
responsibility enhances the appeal of our companies to Our approach to privacy is guided by three priorities: prospective recruits.
maintaining consumer trust in marketing: reducing legal WPPs chief talent officer, Mark Linaugh, and our talent and financial risks to WPP: and enabling our clients to use team assist our companies to attract, develop and retain our consumer data appropriately to enhance their marketing.
Human resources policies are agreed and implemented WPP ANNUALREPORT2010 127 How we behave  at operating company level.
WPP employs over 146,000 WPPs Board and a female Company Secretary, Group people including employees in our associate companies in communications director and Group chief counsel.
Data on ethnicity and nationality are provided in our Corporate Responsibility Report.
Diversity and inclusion Workplace diversity enables us to better understand the Gender diversity 2006-2010 % interests and expectations of consumers in the many different countries we operate in.
An inclusive workplace culture helps Total employees 100 us to attract talented people from all backgrounds and to Female 75 create an environment where they can do their best work.
Male Our non-discrimination policy, introduced in 1992, 50 commits all WPP companies to select, develop and promote 25 people based on merit and regardless of factors such as race, religion, national origin, colour, sex, sexual orientation, 0 06 07 08 09 10 gender identity or expression, age or disability.
Policies on harassment and non-discrimination are included in our Senior managers 100 Female Code of Conduct.
Where existing employees become 75 Male disabled, our policy is to provide continuing employment and training wherever practicable.
50 Our people can report any concerns or suspected cases 25 of discrimination or misconduct confidentially and anonymously if desired through our Right to Speak helpline.
0 06 07 08 09 10 All of our major companies have internal programs to promote diversity and inclusion in their workforce.
Board members 100 These include: executive leaders 75 Female Partnerships: our companies work with diversity Male organisations and participate in initiatives to encourage 50 diversity.
In the US, these include Diversity Best Practices: 25 The Leadership, Education and Development Program in Business: The National Black Public Relations Society: 0 06 07 08 09 10 National Association of Black Journalists: National Association of Hispanic Journalists: City College of New York: the LAGRANT Foundation and the American Association of Advertising Agencies AAAA Development and training Operation Success.
Internships: In the US, several companies participate in We invest in high-quality training to enable our people to the AAAAs Multicultural Advertising Internship Program gain new skills, keep up with changes in our industry such MAIP NY City Capital Internship Program and other as the development of digital marketing and to advance their initiatives that allow minority students to gain experience careers within the Group.
Our goal is for our people at all in the marketing industry.
In many countries our companies levels to receive regular performance appraisals.
have developed partnerships with local schools to encourage students from a wider range of backgrounds to consider Staff training and welfare m a career in marketing services.
Targeted recruitment: to help diversify their 38.2 38.6 42.6 39.9 48.9 recruitment pools, many of our companies use specialist 50 recruitment agencies and publications and attend minority 40 recruitment fairs.
30 Raising employee awareness: training and awareness 20 campaigns help employees understand the importance 10 and business benefits of diversity and inclusion.
48.9m 0 In 2010, women accounted for 31% of board members 06 07 08 09 10 executive leaders, 48% of senior managers and 54% of total employees.
There are currently three women on 128 WPP ANNUALREPORT2010 How we behave  Several thousand people take part in training and Communication professional development opportunities each year at both the parent and operating company levels.
These cover all aspects of Regular communication helps our people in all markets company business and creative skills.
In 2010, WPP companies to keep up-to-date with Group news and changes in the invested 48.9 million in training and wellbeing, a 22% business.
We encourage employees to provide feedback increase over the previous year.
Communications channels include: Executive education helps our senior talent develop creative, WPPs public website www.
com, Group intranet client and personal leadership skills.
Our flagship program is site, social media channels and professional knowledge Maestro: Orchestrating Client Value a five-day course aimed communities.
at strengthening the ability of our most senior client leaders WPPs multi-award winning global newspaper and to be valued and trusted advisers to their clients, colleagues eBook, The WIRE.
and teams: and how to orchestrate the many talents our WPPs public monthly online news bulletin e. wire.
organisation possesses, so that our clients are best served.
WPPs annual journal of original thinking, the Since the programs inception in 2003, it has been held in Atticus Journal.
19 countries, has reached more than 2,100 participants The WPP Reading Room, an extensive online library and involved 80 different WPP companies.
of thinkpieces both public and original from WPP WPP has its own Mini MBA program, designed to build professionals worldwide.
It combines online tutorials Our multi-award winning Annual Report & Accounts, and simulations with instructor-led classroom training.
financial statements and Corporate Responsibility Report, Business disciplines covered are growing and winning business, which are distributed across the Group and are available strategy, marketing, people and organisational development, on our websites.
commercial acumen and working across cultures.
Regular FactFiles profiling specialist services and Approximately 800 people have participated in the program.
We also provide focused training and mentoring to help Regular communication on Group initiatives such as women and diverse employees progress to senior positions.
the Worldwide Partnership Program, BrandZ, the Atticus For example, The X Factor is a senior mentoring and Awards, the WPPED Cream awards, the WPP Marketing development program, led by the former global CEO of Fellowship Program and professional development workshops.
Ogilvy & Mather and chairman of JWT, Charlotte Beers, Periodic reports from Sir Martin Sorrell on topics which prepares high-potential women in our operating of importance.
companies for the next level of leadership.
So far, 36 women Formal and informal meetings at operating company level.
In 2010, WPPs Executive Development program was Health and wellbeing recognized with an award of excellence from the American Society for Training and Development ASTD, the worlds Our companies invest in initiatives to improve the health largest professional association dedicated to the training and of their workforce and to mitigate any health and safety development field.
This contributes to employee productivity and reduces the costs of people taking time off work due to illness.
Remuneration and share ownership As an office-based business, the main health and safety risks to our workforce are injuries connected to workstation Given the competition for talent in our industry, providing ergonomics and work-related stress.
Ensuring our competitive remuneration is essential.
We regularly workstations follow good practice design reduces problems benchmark our compensation against other companies in our such as repetitive strain injury or back problems.
Our sector to ensure our packages are competitive.
Performancecompanies assess the risk of work-related stress through related remuneration is provided for most employees in regular staff surveys and by monitoring issues raised via addition to basic salaries, and senior employees are eligible our Right to Speak helpline, Employee Assistance Programs for incentives based on their performance against annual or and during exit interviews.
multi-year goals for the operations they lead.
Initiatives to combat workplace stress vary by company Share ownership gives our people a financial stake in the but include: company and a share in its success.
WPPs Worldwide Employee Assistance Programs a source of confidential Ownership Plan, introduced in 1997, typically makes share advice, support and counselling.
awards to approximately 45,000 eligible employees per year in Flexible benefit programs, including subsidised childcare.
over 76 countries and, since inception, has made awards to over Flexible work arrangements enabling people to work 97,714 of our people.
Medical checks and health screening.
Training on stress and time management.
WPP ANNUALREPORT2010 129 How we behave  Employee external appointments Our previous target was based on the Groups absolute carbon footprint.
We challenged ourselves to reduce this by We recognise that our companies executives may be invited 20% by 2010 and 40% by 2020, matching advice from the to become non-executive directors of other companies, IPCC on the required scale of global emissions reductions and that such experience may be beneficial to the Group.
At the end of 2010, we achieved Consequently, executives are allowed to accept non-executive a 7% reduction over our 2006 baseline, adjusted for appointments with non-competing companies, subject to acquisitions, missing our 20% target.
obtaining the approval of the Group chief executive in the This is due to a number of factors including organic case of senior executives, the Group chief executive and growth in our businesses and difficulties in accurately chairman in the case of Board members and the approval adjusting our baseline to reflect the full impact of frequent of the Nomination Committee in the case of the chairman acquisitions around the Group.
Any fees receivable out of such We believe our carbon intensity target is more appointments may be retained by the individuals concerned.
appropriate for WPP, as Group headcount is closely linked to levels of business activity.
Using an intensity measure also allows us to reflect the impact of acquisitions and Environment disposals without needing to adjust our baseline.
Our environmental impact is modest.
However, we view our 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 efforts to reduce it as an opportunity to demonstrate what Carbonintensity TonnesCO perperson 3.28 2.76 2.54 2.55 2.51 can be achieved in a service sector organisation and to show 2 to clients that we have strong environmental principles.
2012 2015 2020 Our priority is to reduce our carbon footprint mainly from  office energy consumption and business flights and we TonnesCO perperson 1.8 1.6 1.2 2 are starting to co-ordinate plans for waste reduction and water management in regions of water scarcity.
opportunities to purchase more sustainable goods and services, and to work with suppliers who meet high standards on CR.
We will continue to measure and report our absolute carbon footprint which in 2010 was 261,004 tonnes of Energy and climate change strategy CO rating renewable energy as zero emissions, an 2 increase of 4% over 2009.
The main contributors to our Our strategy is to reduce our carbon emissions by: carbon footprint are office energy use 54% and business air Improving energy efficiency in our buildings and IT.
The footprint of our offices reduced by 1.4% Reducing non-essential flights by promoting but emissions from air travel increased by 12.8% reflecting videoconferencing.
the upturn in business as the global economy emerged Purchasing renewable energy where available.
To implement our strategy, we have established Energy When calculated with renewable energy rated as normal Action Teams in North America, Europe, Asia Pacific and grid electricity, our total carbon footprint in 2010 was Latin America.
These include members of our IT, real estate 289,767 tonnes of CO. We report our greenhouse gas 2 and procurement functions.
Their job is to identify energyemissions to the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP, a saving measures and provide technical guidance to our collaboration of institutional investors, and participate in agencies.
They are supported by a network of on-thethe CDPs Supply Chain Leadership Collaboration.
In the ground Climate Champions, who help to implement these UK, WPP met its current obligations under the UK CRC measures in our companies.
Energy Efficiency Scheme and achieved the Carbon Having gained five years experience measuring our Trust Standard.
carbon footprint and implementing programs to reduce it, we have decided to make carbon intensity measured per person WPPs carbon footprint  our lead performance indicator.
The Group headcount is CO emissions tonnes 2 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 closely linked to the level of business activity and the intensity Officeenergyuse 144,354 124,335 121,572 143,154 141,113 measure allows for the effects of acquisitions and disposals Airtravel 81,733 92,269 89,500 76,073 85,848 to be seamlessly integrated in our carbon reduction target.
Other includes In 2010, the carbon footprint per head was 2.51 tonnes, unmeasuredimpacts, down 1.7% on 2009 and 23% lower than 2006.
We have set interim targets for 2012 and 2015 to help us track progress.
130 WPP ANNUALREPORT2010 How we behave  WPPs office energy use megawatthours However, it is our intention to increase the percentage of 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 electricity purchased from renewable sources to 20% by 2015.
Energyuse 297,406 272,545 284,930 340,647 350,724 Green electricity sourcing Country % renewable Office energy efficiency UK 70% Italy 57% In 2010 we continued to operate smart meters at 55 of our Switzerland 28% top strategic locations.
These provide detailed monthly Ireland 26% energy use reports and typically help us to achieve energy Austria 20% savings of 5-10% in each building.
Germany 19% Where possible, we aim to ensure that any properties we Norway 17% lease or purchase meet advanced environmental standards, such Peru 15% as Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design LEED US 15% and BRE Environment Assessment Method BREEAM.
Belgium 14% For example, a new location, Central St Giles in London, NewZealand 12% will house Mindshare and Burson-Marsteller.
The building Indonesia 8% has a BREEAM Excellent rating and we are using the Ska Australia 7% rating methodology to make our fit-out as green as possible.
Group Real Estate has also developed a scorecard which Travel and videoconferencing is used to assess the environmental performance of new offices over 25,000 square feet which have not been certified Business flights account for a significant part of our carbon to standards such as LEED or BREEAM.
footprint and are a major cost to the business.
We encourage our people to meet via videoconferencing, saving carbon Sustainable IT emissions and money.
By the end of 2010, we had installed 75 shared highWPPs personal and network IT equipment accounts for a definition videoconferencing VC units around the world large proportion of our energy use.
We aim to cut the energy which can be used by any WPP company.
These are linked to used by our computers and have introduced requirements to an additional 175 VC units exclusive to individual operating improve the energy efficiency of our IT equipment.
Videoconferences can be booked between any of our data centre consolidation program, server virtualisation the rooms and external VC locations via the WPP intranet.
program and the use of new energy-efficient blade-based In 2010, a total of 11,000 hours of conferences were held server technology, we aim to achieve up to 40% reduction using the network, about 50% of which involved external in power consumption for key IT applications.
Group IT is also undertaking printer rationalisation at major locations in key markets that we expect to reduce Carbon offset paper, toner and energy consumption by 20% to 30%.
Currently more than 13,000 employees are covered in In 2010, we offset 70,000 tonnes of CO through support for 2 this program.
This is equivalent to the majority of our emissions from business air travel.
We reduced the amount Renewable energy of carbon offset we purchased this year, to enable us to focus investment on improving energy efficiency in our offices and IT.
We purchase renewable energy where we can, and regularly All carbon offset projects supported by WPP are review energy sourcing across all markets to identify new renewable energy projects arranged by the CarbonNeutral opportunities.
We currently fund seven projects, including wind We estimate that around 16% of the total electricity we farm and hydroelectric projects in China and wind and solar purchase is generated from renewable sources.
The table generation in India.
We do not support forestry offset.
below shows the main countries in which we source green electricity and the percentage purchased.
Our renewable Waste and recycling electricity purchases reduce our total carbon footprint by 28,763 tonnes of CO.
In 2010, we focused our waste and recycling efforts on 2 Green electricity contracts are usually for a fixed period establishing preferred suppliers of recycling services for and may not be available at competitive prices in future.
paper, office consumables and electronic waste across our top 18 markets representing 70% of headcount.
WPP ANNUALREPORT2010 131 How we behave  We are in the process of appointing a global IT vendor In 2010, Group Procurement developed and implemented to manage our obsolete IT equipment, including laptops, a CR Charter of definitions and targets for five key supply desktops, phones and servers.
Our goal is for obsolete areas: paper, recycled paper, office waste recycling, IT waste IT equipment to be refurbished and sold for reuse or: if this reuse and recycling and green electricity.
Our target is is not possible to be broken down for recycling.
Disposal is to have preferred supplier agreements available for these a last resort, and must be done in compliance with local services in all major markets.
To date, we have 35% of environmental regulations and data security best practice.
these markets covered, with a further 32% under way.
WPP mobile phones can be recycled through an Our target is to source 50% of the paper we use for agreement with Regenersis in offices across Europe.
copying and printing from recycled sources by 2015.
We have similar arrangements for mobile phone recycling We have identified preferred paper suppliers in 89% of our in Asia Pacific.
major markets which our companies are encouraged to use.
On average, in 2010, 32% of the paper purchased by WPP Water use companies contained recycled content.
We have also set up procurement contracts with furniture As an office-based company, WPP is not a major water user.
and carpet suppliers to ensure the products we purchase However, we recognise the importance of water conservation, come from sustainable sources and can be disposed of in particularly in water-scarce areas.
In 2009 we launched a water conservation strategy that targets our largest locations in water-scarce regions.
This will ensure that our investment in water management produces Social investment the most environmental benefit.
At these locations we will: Measure and report water consumption.
In 2010, the total value of our social investment was Establish programs for water conservation.
14.3 million compared with 14.9 million in 2009.
This In 2010, we measured our water use at all identified is equivalent to 1.7% of reported profit before tax and locations.
We set a baseline and a target to reduce includes direct cash donations to charities of 5.0 million consumption by 20% per capita by 2015.
We launched a and 9.3 million worth of pro bono work.
These figures water conservation guide and nominated Water Champions are based on fees the organisations would have paid for our at each location.
We will use what we learn at these sites to work.
In addition, WPP media agencies negotiated free media inform how we manage water in other locations.
space worth 20.2 million on behalf of pro bono clients.
Sustainable sourcing Social investment 2006-2010 m WPP spends around 3.7 billion $6 billion with suppliers each year.
We want to do business with suppliers that meet Charitable donations 25 high standards on environment and employment practices.
Pro bono work 20 We are committed to managing CR risks in our supply chain, 15 both for ourselves and for our clients.
10 We focus our CR efforts on preferred suppliers that 5 provide centrally-purchased goods and services such as IT, travel, telecommunications, professional services e. g. 14.3m 0 06 07 08 09 10 consultancy and recruitment and facilities management.
WPPs Global Procurement Policy contains ethical and .
environmental criteria, which our Group procurement teams use in supplier selection and management.
We thoroughly Pro bono work evaluate companies against a set of business requirements before they can become a preferred supplier.
These include Our companies have a long tradition of pro bono work assurance of supply, quality, service, cost, innovation and providing communications services to charities at little or no CR.
We do not have a standard weighting for each criteria cost.
This work can be invaluable helping raise money and and they may vary from project to project.
As part of this awareness for hundreds of good causes every year.
process we ask potential suppliers to complete a simple It also benefits WPP by showcasing our creative skills five-point CR questionnaire to raise awareness and make and ability to create compelling communications on a wide our requirements clear.
range of social and environmental issues.
Our people gain a breadth of experience and the chance to contribute to their communities.
132 WPP ANNUALREPORT2010 How we behave  Examples of recent pro bono work by our companies are included in our Corporate Responsibility Report.
Pro bono work 2010 % Local community 23.2 Education 11.9 Health 21.6 Environment 5.2 Arts 7.8 Alcohol abuse 0.1 Other 30.2 WPP the parent company WPP, the parent company, supports a range of charities and non-profit organisations, with a particular focus on education, the arts and young people.
These include: INSEAD Trust for European Management Education NABS a charity which offers financial, practical and emotional support to those in the advertising industry The London Business School The National Portrait Gallery The Natural History Museum WPP is also a member of: Business in the Community an organisation that promotes responsible business practice Employers Forum on Disability The Media Trust The Institute of Business Ethics Many senior WPP executives also give pro bono advice and support.
Sir Martin Sorrell is an active participant in programs at the following international business schools: London Business School: IESE, Spain: Indian Business School: and Harvard Business School.
He is also chairman of the Executive Committee of the World Economic Forum International Business Council and a member of the Business Council in the US.
He is a Trustee of the British Museum, a member of the corporate Advisory Group of the Tate Gallery, deputy chairman of the Mayor of Shanghais International Business Leaders Advisory Council, and on the International Advisory Board of The Russian Museum in St. Petersburg.
