Business review Babcock International Group PLC 37 Corporate responsibility Whistleblowing We remain as committed as ever to our effort to reduce by 50% our accident frequency rate across the Group.
Having Across the Group, we have made available to all employees an launched our Home Safe Every Day message in 2008 09,  whistleblower hot line to allow them we sought to strengthen it further in 2009 10.
Procedures to report confidentially concerns about any unlawful or unethical and processes having been reviewed and improved, wherever acts of which they may become aware.
These are brought possible, our focus has now turned to the behavioural to the attention of Group executives so they can be dealt and cultural attitudes that underlie unsafe acts that lead with and, where possible, all efforts are made to communicate to accident and injury.
the outcome to the whistleblower once the concern has been investigated.
The results of the safety cultural assessment carried out last year have shown that across our businesses and across levels of management, health and safety is now seen as being not Health and safety just something that the Company has to take care of and is as We are determined that our commitment to health and safety much a matter for which individual employees and contractors remains strong from the Board of Directors through all levels are responsible themselves.
The survey also enabled us of management down to the shop floor.
The Safety Leadership to identify areas for attention in the light of a slowing in the Team at senior executive level comprising the Executive rate of improvement in the reduction of the accident Directors and heads of our principal business units is frequency rate.
responsible for the devising and implementation of our health This has led to a number of initiatives, including: and safety strategy.
The Corporate Safety Steering Group attended by health and safety professionals from across our In South Africa, the STEP programme Safety Through operations and chaired by the Chief Executive is a forum Empowerment of People has been adopted with a view to for the sharing of good practice.
Each business has a dedicated understanding and implementing behavioural change through health and safety team and provides appropriate and relevant the Talk-to-People process technique.
As a result, the business training to employees on health and safety matters.
In addition, has seen a dramatic improvement in its accident and injury good practice events are held to maintain awareness of the rate since 2007. day-to-day health and safety issues that can arise in the course In our Infrastructure business, a similar programme consisting of work.
Targets for these good practice events were set of conversations with employees, SUSA Safe and UnSafe at the outset and the number of events held were recorded Acts, was launched in July 2009.
Since then the all-accident throughout the year.
To ensure that they truly reflect and frequency rate has reduced significantly having plateaued for enhance the effort put into improving health and safety at two years prior to the launch of the campaign.
Babcock, the targets and reporting of these good practice events are being kept under review.
In our Networks business, work has been undertaken with Nottingham University to look more closely into the behavioural causes of unsafe behaviour.
Incident rate per 100,000 hours worked Total reported lost time accidents per 100,000 hours worked Prior years restated for acquisitions Prior to years restated for acquistions Over-three-day injuries Major injuries dangerous occurrences 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 0.46 0.37 0.20 0.
