36 Corporate responsibility We know that the way we do business matters because what Corporate governance we do today will determine our long-term prospects and We seek to ensure that the way the way we make decisions the company we will be tomorrow.
Our objective to be the best supports our reputation that we can be trusted to leading engineering support services company in the UK deliver.
Our decision-making processes are underpinned and in selected overseas markets is informed by our concern by a commitment to the highest standards of honesty to address issues that are important to our main stakeholders: and integrity and a management structure that reflects our our customers, our investors and our people.
philosophy that responsibility clearly defined and delegated Through our various initiatives, we are constantly seeking at the operational level will best serve the interests to embed corporate responsibility into our management of our stakeholders.
With effect from 1 April 2010, an internal restructuring saw our Defence, Rail, Nuclear and Networks operations come under the common umbrella of a new Support Services division.
By creating this new management structure, our aim is to improve and extend our services to our current customers and better develop our capabilities in new markets.
We also appointed the Chief Executives of our Marine and Support Services divisions to the main Board of Directors so that the Board may benefit directly from the first-hand knowledge and experience of those close to the day-to-day operations and to allow the Chief Executive and Finance Director at Group level to focus their attention on our long-term strategic development.
Ethical conduct Being committed to the highest ethical standards, we operate a strict ethical policy, which divisional Managing Directors are responsible for implementing and reporting on annually.
The policy covers and provides guidance on such areas as conflict of interest: unlawful and unethical acts: avoiding bribery and corruption: the use of commercial or marketing agents especially in overseas territories : and giving and receiving gifts and hospitality.
We are engaged in an ongoing process of reviewing and developing our ethical policy in light of the recent Bribery Act to ensure that we follow best practice and can meet any government guidelines that are to be issued before the Act comes into force.
