40 Corporate responsibility continued The Babcock Board and senior executives take ultimate The results of our survey are being used to ensure that we are responsibility for Group-wide customer relations.
Each operating systematic and consistent in the delivery of customer service.
division has a director responsible for liaising directly with the They are also being used as the basis for establishing regular customer and monitoring performance on the agreed KPIs.
For dialogue with our customers to ensure we identify any the past six years, we have participated in an annual performance potential issues that might impair our relationships and resolve review run by the Supplier Relations Team at the Ministry of them in a timely manner.
As necessary, we will commission Defence, which measures our performance on all its contracts independent reviews of our business partnering arrangements by quality, value, timeliness and 11 core criteria including to identify areas that are working well and where further responsiveness, management of risk, quality of relationship, attention may be required.
For example, to ensure a consistent flexibility and innovation.
Our performance in this review has seen approach across the Group, we seconded a Customer Relations a steady and significant improvement over successive reviews.
Project Manager from the MoD to work with us in 2009 10 to replicate or use as a starting point the MoDs performance Since 2007, when we commissioned an independent survey review with our key civilian customers.
The first series of such across all our customer groups, we have been taking concerted civilian customer satisfaction reviews were satisfactorily action to improve the quality of service that supports our completed in the first quarter of 2010 and some very useful trusted to deliver reputation.
In particular, we have benchmarks have been established for future measurement highlighted the following as areas of focus to ensure we and progress, which will be taken forward and developed achieve maximum success: by a dedicated Babcock resource.
Partnership by achieving a real partnership, both parties feel the benefits through added confidence that project goals will Environment be met.
At Babcock, we are committed to continual improvement Cost efficiency we are committed, wherever possible, in our environmental performance.
We recognise that to improve cost efficiency: this is extremely important for environmental considerations are essential to delivering our customers, especially in todays economic climate.
sustainable solutions to grow our business and meet the needs Our ability to manage and reduce costs is evident in many of our stakeholders.
As a company, we aim to reduce our direct environmental Added value we want our customers to find us easy to do impacts, particularly those associated with the use of natural business with open, approachable, flexible to deliver more resources and the generation of waste.
We will seek to ensure than the basic contract requirements.
that the environmental consequences associated with the provision of services to our customers are taken into account through appropriate assessments and audits.
We will also encourage our customers to consider the environmental effect of their activities and advise them about sustainable solutions.
Environment KPI % Althought our ability to implement good environmental stewardship practices is on occasion set for us by customer requirements our target is to grow the percentage of revenuesin each business segment from contracts which are ISO 14001 accredited.
Best practice refers to activities where non-ISO 14001 compliant measures are being applied.
Best practice Accredited Marine Defence Rail Nuclear Networks Engineering and Plant 65 70 100 35 100 30 100100
