38 Corporate responsibility continued In addition to Health and Safety conferences which have been Recruitment and training held since 2008, for the first time in early May 2010 we held Given the highly technical nature of much of the work we do, a Safety Excellence Awards ceremony.
The awards seek to like many other companies in our sector, we continue to be promote and reward health, safety and environmental affected by the national skills shortage in engineering and initiatives across our businesses.
The categories include an technology.
Each of our businesses works with different individual achievement award, a team achievement award, customers and in different markets.
We believe that, in the a customer engagement award, a supply chain engagement main, HR issues, including recruitment, training and award, a best safety programme initiative award, an development and succession planning are best managed environmental award and the Chief Executives award.
Wherever possible, our divisions seek to recruit from the communities in which they operate.
However, to make the best use of our skilled workforce, we are placing increasing Employees emphasis on ensuring opportunities for career development We share a passion with our employees to provide exceptional are managed on a Group-wide basis.
This is why our Group service to our customers.
We never forget that it is our Director of Organisation and Development is responsible for employees who provide the skills, energy and pride essential ensuring that we maintain a strategic view of the optimal to maintaining our position as a leading engineering allocation of talent across our businesses and that our future support services provider.
The highly technical and complex generations of senior managers and leading specialists are environments in which we frequently operate make properly identified and developed.
it imperative that we recruit and retain, through training, We also believe that finding the right talent to deliver solutions development and recognition, the best skilled engineers for our customers starts with promoting engineering as a and project managers.
We seek to do that by maintaining career of choice for young people.
This is why we are working a consistent approach to succession planning and talent with a number of institutions and have a range of initiatives management, and by seeking to offer opportunities for across our businesses to engage with schools, colleges all employees regardless of age, race, colour, ethnic origin, and universities in promoting engineering as a career option.
gender, marital status, religious beliefs, sexual orientation For example, Babcock is represented at the National Skills or disability.
Academy for Nuclear, a body which seeks to develop a We recognise that a diverse workforce is important to the portfolio of solutions to address the shortage of technical success of the business and, during the year, we set up a and vocational skills caused by the changing skills mix required Diversity Committee with representatives from all our by the nuclear sector.
businesses and chaired by the Chief Executive.
Its purpose is further to develop and monitor our policies and procedures to ensure that we operate as fairly and inclusively as possible.
It also serves as a forum for the sharing of best practice across the Group.
Number of incidents Prior years restated for acquisitions 05 06 07 08 09 10 Fatalities 1 2 2 0 1 1 Major injuries and dangerous occurrences 44 40 43 46 51 34 Over-three-day injuries 186 159 154 89 83 83 Other lost time accidents 83 106 128 87 94 79 The fatality in 08 09 relates to a motor accident in South Africa when our employees stationary vehicle was hit by a third party truck.
