Directors Report: Business Review Corporate responsibility Responsible Behaviour means doing business in a way We are continuing to thatreflects our values Trusted, Innovative and Bold.
It is a key element of Total Performance and works in harmony with the other three elements: Customer Focus, Programme embed a culture of Execution and Financial Performance.
Responsible Behaviour is embedded within our business through Total Performance.
deliveryof our corporate responsibility CR strategy.
Our CR strategy covers the issues that have been identified ashaving the most potential to affect the sustainability of the Deborah Allen Group, by directly impacting the Groups reputation or ability to Managing Director, operate.
These priorities are outlined below.
Corporate Responsibility We are committed to progressing our CR strategy by embedding it into all areas of our business.
It supports the delivery of our Group strategy see page 14, and helps build and maintain strong relationships with our stakeholders, including customers, regulators, investors, suppliers, employees and communities.
Itenhances our reputation, contributes to greater operational productivity and efficiency, and reduces risk to our business.
Our priorities Business conduct and safety continued to be our two key CR priorities in 2010.
Executive bonuses see page 107 and management objectives see page 12 linked to performance onthese issues support driving the Group towards our desired leadership position.
We are increasing our focus on diversity and inclusion, and environmental performance.
Both issues have the potential to impact the long-term sustainability of the Group: diversity and inclusion affects our ability to recruit, engage and retain the bestpeople: and environmental management from increased awareness of impacts, growing customer interest, increasing regulation and cost.
During 2010, business conduct, safety, and diversity and inclusion were part of the Executive Committee objective on progressing towards a recognised leadership position inResponsible Behaviour see page 12.
Environment has beenadded to this objective in 2011.
Our 2011 objectives forbusiness conduct, safety, and diversity and inclusion are covered on page 46, and for environment, on page 52.
Governance During 2010, CR key performance indicators, including business conduct, safety, and diversity and inclusion, were reviewed by the Executive Committee alongside financial and operational performance.
The CRCommittee, chaired by non-executive director Paul Anderson, provides independent oversight, advice and strategic direction on CR issues, and reviews progress against our CR objectives quarterly see the Committees report on page 92.
Selected CRperformance information, reported on pages 46 to 53, is also subject to external assurance by Deloitte LLP see their assurance statement on page 54.
BAE Systems CR strategy is driven by the Chief Executive and the Executive Committee.
An element of senior executives i. e. the top 250 employees in the Group remuneration in 2010 was directly linked to CR performance with up to 15% of potential annual incentive payment dependent on meeting objectives in the priority areas of business conduct and safety.
All Group level targets relating to these priority areas have been met.
The performance of the operating groups in respect of the Groups safety KPI is included in pages 66 to 72.
The Managing Director, Corporate Responsibility MD CR reports directly to the Chief Executive and leads our global CRteam, which provides support in embedding aspects of CR throughout the Group.
A cross-functional CR Forum, led by the MD CR, enables us to raise employee awareness, share best practice and drive improvements across the Group.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 45 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview Directors Report: Business Review Corporate responsibility continued Performance in 2010 and objectives for 2011 Business conduct 2010 objectives Progress 2011 objectives All Line Leaders and Functional Directors Line Leaders and Functional Directors Implementation of the Groups are required to submit to the Chief confirmed progress following the programme to address the Woolf Executive the level of implementation revisions made to the core policies recommendations to be complete of core policies in their areas of resulting from the Woolf implementation byMay 2011 and confirmed through responsibility through the twice yearly programme, through their six-monthly external assurance at the end of 2011.
In cases where a policy is judged not to be fully implemented a plan is required setting out the milestones to full compliance.
The objective agreed for 2010 is that by December all of the milestones have been met and any future milestones are on track to be met.
Safety 2010 objectives Progress 2011 objectives Continue the progress towards a world Continue to progress towards a world class level of safety performance: class level of safety performance: All businesses and BAE Systems Sites with more than 150 personnel Demonstrate continued progress controlled sites with more than 150 other than those acquired during towards SMM Level 5.
SMM personnel to attain Level 4 of the 2010 have now progressed to Level 4 clarification: Safety Maturity Matrix SMM, and on the SMM.
Level 5 achievement: All sites at those at Level 4 to show progress Level 4 in 2009 to achieve Level 5 by towards achieving Level 5 by the end the end of 2011: of2011.
Level 5 progress: All sites at Level 4 at the end of 2010 to demonstrate progress to achieve Level 5 by the end of 2012: c. Level 4 achievement: All remaining sites to achieve Level 4 by the end of2012.
Deliver at least a 20% improvement An overall 31% improvement in the Lost Continue to demonstrate year-on-year inthe Lost Work Day Case Rate Work Day Case Rate was achieved, improvement in the Lost Work Day compared with 2009. exceeding our target of 20%.
Diversity and inclusion 2010 objectives Progress 2011 objectives Develop a global working climate which Continue to utilise the global D&IMM embraces diversity and inclusion: to achieve an improved level of performance for 2011.
Create a plan to deploy the Diversity & Each business deployed the matrix by Inclusion Maturity Matrix D&IMM by the end of the first quarter.
Business the end of the first quarter and meet the units have developed plans and 2010 milestones towards desired end milestones against the D&IMM state to be achieved by the end of 2015. reflecting their individual starting points and cultural context.
com Business conduct EMPLOYEE ENQUIRIES 2010 EMPLOYEE ENQUIRIES DISMISSALS FOR REASONS RELATING TO ETHICS HELPLINE TO ETHICS HELPLINE TO UNETHICAL BEHAVIOUR 1,000 300 500 285 485 800 240 400 870 242 600 180 300 734 355 297 400 120 200 260 507 216 410 200 60 100 327 85 34 25 20 12 11 7 0 0 6 0 4 3 0 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 Our Ethics Helpline enables employees to request Employee relations Environment, safety If an employee is found to be in breach of our Code and conduct and health information and advice or raise any concerns about ofConduct or any other relevant policies, appropriate Guidance and advice Group ethical practices business conduct confidentially wherever they work disciplinary action is taken.
In 2010, 355 employees Accounting International 1 and whatever their role.
In 2010, employees made a were dismissed for reasons relating to breaches of charges practices business issues total of 734 enquiries to the Helpline.
All concerns Security and Contract compliance our standards and policies.
misuse of assets Quality or raised with the Ethics Helpline were reviewed and Management practices manufacturing issues reported either to the Ethics Review Committee or, in Con icts of interest Scienti c integrity BAE Systems, Inc. to the Ethics Executive Oversight Procurement, trade Committee.
and marketing Safety LOST WORK DAY CASE RATE MAJOR INJURIES RECORDED 2010 CAUSE OF MAJOR INJURIES KPI PER 100,000 EMPLOYEES RECORDED % OF TOTAL CAUSES 4% 1,000 100 4% 4% 4% 800 80 9% 789 77 600 60 51% 69 11% 557 554 562 400 40 53 44 40 389 13% 200 20 0 0 Slips, trips or falls on the Struck by moving, same level including ying falling, 06 07 08 09 10 06 07 08 09 10 object Fall from height Strike against something Injured while handling, The Lost Work Day Case Rate fell from 562 in 2009 The number of major injuries recorded in 2010 xed or stationary lifting or carrying to 389 in 2010, equivalent to a 31% decrease, has fallen to 53, a decrease of 31% on 2009 data.
Struck by moving vehicle Contact with moving exceeding our target of 20%.
In 2011, we will continue The normalised rate of major injuries per 100,000 machinery Road Traf c Accident to monitor the number of incidents resulting in days employees has also decreased to 53 in 2010.
Slips, trips and falls on the same level were the main lost to injury and take action to minimise the risk to This demonstrates an overall improvement in our causes of major injury in 2010, accounting for over 50% the Groups employees and its operations, and drive safety performance which reflects efforts to embed of the total.
Accidents that result in injury are continual performance improvement.
a safety first attitude across the Group.
investigated and solutions identified to help prevent future occurrence.
Diversity and inclusion 2010 GENDER DIVERSITY % 2010 AGE DIVERSITY % 2010 ethnic diversity In Saudi Arabia, less than 40% of our employees 25 years and younger 100 8% 9% areexpatriates, representing our commitment to 26-35 years 16 18 100 18 19 16 27 20 localising business talent.
We continue to focus 80 36-49 years 18% onskills transfer and increase the number of local 84 84 82 82 81 50-59 years 80 nationals in our workforce.
In South Africa, we are 29% 60 73 60 years and older working towards improving workplace diversity, in line 40 with the businesss transformation objectives and the South African governments Broad Based 20 36% Black Economic Empowerment BBBEE initiative.
Currently, 41% of our workforce in South Africa is 0 Diversity data for both gender and age remained black.
In the US, minority group representation is consistent with 2009 figures.
During 2010, the Group Australia India KSA South Sweden UK US Total 25% and, in the UK, it remains low at 3%.
Africa adopted a diversity and inclusion strategy to support Male Female the recruitment, engagement and retention of We do not collect ethnic diversity data for Australia, talented employees from all backgrounds.
See Assurance statement on pages 54 and 55.
1 In countries where there are no legal restrictions on the implementation of our helpline.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 47 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview Directors Report: Business Review Corporate responsibility continued Business conduct Goal the recommendations have helped the Group review and BAE Systems is committed to becoming a recognised global strengthen policies and processes as part of our governance leader in business conduct by continuing to embed policies and structure and integrate them into day-to-day business processes across the Group, and integrate them into day-to-day practice.
An update on progress will be available at business practice.
com  Strategy The Ethical Leadership Group, an ethics consultancy, has We are placing business conduct at the heart of our business beencommissioned to carry out an independent assessment through implementation of our global Code of Conduct, our of the Groups Business Conduct programme and to review comprehensive response to the Woolf Committee Report, thework undertaken in response to the Woolf Committee and our commitment to Total Performance.
This is based on a document review, interviews with the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Chairman The Groups Code of Conduct sets out the principles and of the CR Committee and senior managers in each home standards we require all our employees to adopt.
Used in market, and over 60 employee focus groups across our conjunction with our Responsible Trading Principles see businesses.
This review covers the Groups global operations page 33, it supports our business activities.
and is expected to be completed by April 2011.
2010 performance Putting policies into practice Training to ensure employees understand and comply with the The Responsible Trading Principles introduced at the beginning Code of Conduct forms a core part of raising awareness and of 2010 are designed to ensure that the Group makes informed developing a culture of Total Performance throughout the decisions about the business opportunities we pursue.
This includes an induction for newly hired staff and Opportunities are assessed according to the level of risk regular refresher courses for employees.
We have also issued associated with the type of product, its intended use, the the latest version of the Groups Integrity in Business Dealing end user and the country of sale.
The Principles are also being training, an online course covering our Gifts and Hospitality, used in the procurement process to assess major suppliers.
Facilitation Payments, Company Giving and Conflicts of Interest Additional guidance is also being introduced on anti-bribery policies that is required to be taken by executives.
We are on schedule to meet our three-year commitment to The appointment of advisers for business development, address the 23 recommendations of the Woolf Committee an security, offset and lobbying activities with the exception of external, independent committee appointed by the BAE Systems certain domestic lobbyists in the US whose appointment is Board which reported its findings in May 2008.
As well as subject to separate legislative controls is reviewed and guiding us towards a culture of responsible business conduct, Embedding Responsible Behaviour in 2010, we have focused on integrating responsible behaviour into our core business policies and procedures, and ensuring that these fully reflect all four elements of total Performance.
Policies relating to responsible behaviour are now integrated into every section of the operational Framework oF, the set of mandated policies, charters and processes that guide our work.
this has included adding a number of new policies and strengthening existing policies, including those relating to gifts and hospitality, Facilitation Payments and conflicts of interest.
Line leaders report compliance against each part of the oF twice a year through the operational Assurance statement.
our Lifecycle Management Framework see page 32, used across all our major projects, has also been revised to reflect the four elements of total Performance.
this means, for example, that reviews carried out at the start of projects now include consideration of responsible trading risks.
com assessed by our Business Development Adviser Compliance Code of Conduct Panel, chaired by independent lawyers.
All such advisers Following the introduction of the Code of Conduct and initial appointed in 2010 were appointed in accordance with our training in 2009, the focus in 2010 has been to further embed global adviser policy.
the Code throughout the Group.
Employees are required to attend refresher training during the 12-month period to May Following the settlement reached with the US Department of 2011 more than 50% had already been trained by the end Justice in February 2010, the Group has appointed Lord Gold, of 2010 see KPI on page 19.
New employees receive a copy former Senior Partner at Herbert Smith LLP, as an independent of the Code and are required to complete training as part of corporate monitor for a period of up to three years.
As part of his their induction.
role, Lord Gold will serve as an ex-officio non-voting member of our Business Development Adviser Compliance Panel, review Business conduct survey results and evaluate certain of the Groups policies and procedures, We conduct a comprehensive Group-wide employee opinion and submit periodic reports to the Groups Board and the US survey every two years.
The survey is designed and Department of Justice.
administered by an external company, Towers Watson.
The survey includes questions on business conduct.
In 2010, The Group is currently reviewing its policies and procedures in the survey results showed an improvement for the comparable preparation for the implementation of the new UK Bribery Act questions on business conduct from 2008.
We believe our business conduct policies, including demonstrated that our employees have a good awareness of those covering advisers, facilitation payments, gifts and the business conduct standards we expect of them.
We are hospitality, conflicts of interest, offset and lobbying, will comply pleased to be making progress but recognise that there is still with the requirements of the Act.
We will continue to improve business Working to improve industry standards conduct training and employee engagement to maintain high As a member of the Aerospace Industries Association of America standards within our working culture, and support our people in and the Aerospace and Defence Industries Association of Europe, speaking up and challenging any inappropriate behaviour they we are working with other companies to continue to embed the observe.
Further analysis of the responses to the business Global Principles of Business Ethics for the Aerospace and conduct employee opinion survey questions can be found on Defence Industry, that were agreed in 2009, and to raise www.
com  standards of business conduct across the sector.
Training on the Code of Conduct training on the code of conduct in 2010 emphasised employee engagement, leadership and embedding a culture of responsible behaviour throughout the group.
this built on training in 2009, designed to raise awareness and understanding of the code.
the training is designed to prompt and promote discussion around ethical dilemmas during face-to-face sessions led by managers.
sessions include a team discussion looking at a series of potential ethical dilemmas employees could face in their work.
An e-learning option is also available for those working remotely to ensure that training reaches everyone in the group.
supporting articles in our internal newsletters have been used to reinforce messages from the training as well as position it as an important global activity for employees to participate in.
For more information about: code of conduct Progress against Woolf committee recommendations how our business works visit: www.
com  BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 49 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview Directors Report: Business Review Corporate responsibility continued Safety Goal During 2010, a benchmarking exercise was carried out which We aim to ensure consistently good safety management compared our safety performance in 2009 with other large acrossthe Group and, over time, to drive performance to a level global engineering and manufacturing companies with a proven comparable with the best performing global companies by track-record of world class safety performance.
This benchmark continuing to progress towards Level 5 on our Safety Maturity has helped us to identify the gap in our performance against Matrix SMM.
these companies to help us drive improvements for 2011.
Strategy Product safety Protecting the health and safety of employees is a fundamental In October 2009, the Haddon-Cave report into the loss of responsibility.
Embedding a commitment to safety across the Nimrod XV230 was published.
After carefully studying the business is a priority for the Group.
Education and awareness report, in December 2009, Ian King announced a review of the campaigns remind employees that they must put safety first in Groups approach to product safety in the UK businesses.
all their activities and speak up on safety issues.
NigelWhitehead, Group Managing Director, Programmes & Support, led that review, which examined current policies, Our safety management systems cover a wide range of risks processes, governance, actions and behaviours associated with associated with our manufacturing operations and diverse product safety.
The review has developed a set of four principles global business.
The Groups Senior Safety Steering Group of product safety which are being tested with the Groups brings together business leaders who are responsible for driving businesses in the UK and across the world.
BAESystems towards a comparable levelof safety performance with the best performing globalcompanies.
Although originally UK-specific, the principles are intended to be recognised by all business units as a sound basis for product Progress at site level is measured using our five-level SMM to safety.
The review has now handed over to the Product Safety help us drive safety performance.
Businesses are required to Implementation Project, which will ensure that the principles are assess safety risks associated with projects as part of the translated into policies and processes.
Lifecycle Management process see page 32.
Fatality 2010 performance We are deeply saddened to report the death of one of our Improvements in safety performance during 2010 reflect employees at our York facility in the US.
We have reviewed continued efforts to embed a safety first attitude and improve thecause of this accident and co-operated fully with the safety management in line with the Groups SMM.
The regulatory authority was more than 150 personnel other than those acquired during unable to determine a cause for the accident or identify any 2010 have now progressed to Level 4 on the matrix, non-compliances during the course of its investigation and, demonstrating a proactive approach to safety across our sites.
as a result, has taken no further action.
Any lessons learnt Businesses have also delivered a 31% improvement in the Lost from this incident will be applied across our global business.
Work Day Case Rate see KPI on page 19 and a 31% reduction in major injuries.
Safety First safety First is helping bAe systems businesses develop a common safety culture by encouraging employees to challenge unsafe practices and promote safe behaviour.
examples include: submarine solutions has established safety and environmental management systems for all its operational sites in line with the occupational health and safety standard ohsAs 18001 and environmental management standard iso 14001. safety, health and environment advisers have been appointed and additional training provided for employees.
safety systems have also been standardised to ensure a consistent approach is taken across submarine solutions different UK sites.
Military Air solutions launched think safety First everyones responsibility to raise safety awareness across its operations.
the programme focuses on all aspects of safety and includes an employee guide providing information and advice on what employees should do if they have a safety concern.
For more information about: our approach to safety safety Maturity Matrix visit: www.
com  See Assurance statement on pages 54 and 55.
com Diversity and inclusion Goal 2010 performance We are working to create an inclusive work environment A communications plan was implemented to help employees whereall individuals are respected, and where diversity is understand the importance of diversity and inclusion, and how managed effectively via our Diversity & Inclusion Maturity itcontributes to Total Performance.
This included a series of Matrix D&IMM, to improve business performance and features in our internal newsletters and intranet sites, and a enhancecompetitive advantage.
workshop at which senior leaders discussed and agreed the business benefits of diversity and inclusion.
BAE Systems Chief Strategy Executive, Ian King, signed the UK Resource Centre for Women A focus on diversity and inclusion encourages innovation and in Science, Engineering and Technologys UKRC CEO Charter enhances productivity by helping us to recruit, engage and on Diversity, making public our commitment.
It is increasingly important to achieving business success in the diverse locations and cultures in which During 2010, in Australia and the UK, we reviewed our approach we operate.
to external recruitment, including briefings to recruitment and advertising companies, to ensure that our recruitment The Group adopted a diversity and inclusion strategy in 2010 processes support our commitment to diversity and inclusion.
tosupport the recruitment, engagement and retention of talented employees from all backgrounds.
It will help us to Gender diversity builda workforce that more closely reflects the diversity of the Achieving greater gender diversity remains a challenge for the local population in each of our markets and will underpin the defence and engineering sector.
In the UK, for example, women future sustainability of our business.
account for just 10% of engineering graduates.
Our education and early careers programmes are aimed at encouraging Our strategy also encompasses our education programmes women to consider science, engineering and technical careers see page 34, which focus on supporting the teaching of see page 34. science-based subjects and encouraging greater numbers ofyoung people to study science, technology, engineering and We participate in and sponsor events organised by external mathematics.
This is designed to ensure the Group has the organisations, including the UK Confederation of British rightskills to remain competitive and operate successfully over Industrys First Women Awards and, in Europe, the International the next decade, into 2020 and beyond.
In the US, the Group is a member of the Society of Women Engineers, which promotes engineering as a A D&IMM is used to measure progress.
It establishes desirable career option, whilst supporting females in advancing aconsistent benchmark to help our businesses chart their careers in the field ofengineering.
progressfrom legal compliance Level 1 to creating a culturethat embraces diversity as a source of competitive The Groups Womens Global Virtual Forums provide advantage Level 5. development and networking opportunities for female employees, complementing efforts by our business units The matrix provides sufficient flexibility within each home to improve female representation at executive level through marketfor our business units to adapt their approach to meet career planning and creating more flexible work cultures.
operational characteristics and respect local cultures.
Integrating diversity and inclusion our businesses are taking steps to improve diversity and inclusion at all stages of employment.
examples include: Land & Armaments has integrated diversity and inclusion goals into succession planning and recruitment processes for its south African, swedish, UK and Us businesses, and developed diversity and inclusion training for line managers.
the businesses will use a metrics dashboard to track progress and performance via quarterly business reviews.
Military Air solutions has published a briefing pack, launched a website and held a series of events to help employees understand the business case for diversity and inclusion.
it introduced a Maternity Leave Workshop, to support mothers returning to work, and launched a Lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender Awareness network.
bAe systems Australias diversity and inclusion strategy, launched in 2010, is focused on increasing representation of women by promoting flexible working, increasing the number of part-time roles, and introducing talent management plans, womens networks and mentoring.
For more information about: our approach to diversity and inclusion our diversity & inclusion Maturity Matrix visit: www.
com  BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 51 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview Directors Report: Business Review Corporate responsibility continued Environment Goal We aim to improve the environmental performance of our products and operations by developing and launching an environmental sustainability programme.
Strategy Reducing our use of resources and the waste we produce will improve operational efficiency, reduce costs and help us to comply with changing regulatory requirements.
The environmental performance of our products is of increasing importance to our customers.
Environmental impacts including greenhouse gas emissions, material and solvent usage, waste products, and emissions to Seal of Sustainability the atmosphere are managed by individual business units.
bAe systems has been awarded the seal of sustainability by the Our commitment to reduce the environmental impacts of our sustainable business institute for progress at its greenlawn site in operations and products is outlined in our Environment Policy, new york.
this recognises the sites achievements including: and other key documents including our Code of Conduct.
ny, a smart grid programme that manages energy demand 2010 performance An Environmental Sustainability Steering Group was established Adoption of a recycling programme in 2010, comprising senior business and functional managers.
Water conservation efforts It is chaired by the Managing Director, Corporate Responsibility, Use of renewable energy systems including a solar water heating and sponsored by Executive Committee member, Nigel system Whitehead, Group Managing Director, Programmes & Support.
the seal is awarded to companies that demonstrate a continuous The Executive Committee has agreed goals and targets for the commitment to sustainable practices and helps the public to identify business in 2011 as part of an overall objective to improve businesses that promote sustainability.
each company is evaluated environmental performance.
against criteria relating to the economy, society and environment.
Applications are reviewed by the Us national Pollution Prevention Our carbon footprint is calculated annually by the Coefficient roundtable, a non-profit membership organisation.
We also monitor and manage other environmental impacts.
The Group has made a number of improvements in the accuracy 2011 objectives and expansion of data collection systems to include energy use Develop and launch an environmental sustainability from coal in the US and estimated data for a further 102 sites programme: representing small offices across the markets in which we work.
These data collection improvements and business acquisitions, Agree and implement an Environmental Sustainability Maturity plus a slight increase in energy use, increased our reported Matrix ESMM.
2010 data was not available Businesses to confirm a 2010 baseline, and set 2011 targets at the time of this report, but will be available on our website for energy, water and waste.
TOTAL CO EMISSIONS TOTAL CO EMISSIONS BY OPERATING TOTAL CO EMISSIONS BY SCOPE 2 2 2 THOUSAND TONNES GROUP THOUSAND TONNES THOUSAND TONNES 1,500 500 1,000 464 1,200 400 800 1,363 830 395 1,192 380 752 356 900 300 600 344 302 923 270 552 600 200 400 249 203 388 300 100 200 315 118 106 232 102 96 25 68 145 139 0 125 0 0 07 08 09 07 08 09 07 08 09 Electronics, Intelligence & Support International Scope 1 emissions include gas and other fuels brought onto site Scope 2 emissions are those generated from using electricity Land & Armaments HQ & Other Scope 3 emissions are those relating to business travel Businesses Programmes & Support Source: Coefficient Company Source: Coefficient Company Source: Coefficient Company Our 2010 global carbon footprint will be externally compiled by the For more information about: Coefficient Company.
our environmental Management system 2011 goals and targets visit: www.
com Community Goal Our goal is to support charities that make a positive contribution to the communities in which we operate.
Strategy The BAE Systems Company Giving programme, which is underpinned by our Company Giving Policy, includes donations and other support for local, national and international charities and not-for-profit organisations.
We focus on four areas that are relevant to our business: the armed forces and their families: science, technology, engineering and maths education: Community involvement local communities: and in the UK, bAe systems is a founding supporter of the uk4u thanks!
2010 christmas box campaign, which supports 22,500 boxes full of festive cheer being sent to servicemen and women across the world on Our approach is implemented locally to reflect the different active duty who areworking away from their families during the holiday needs of the communities in which we operate.
to support this activity closer to home, our UK employees donated items for christmas parcels for veterans, and hospitals and care Charity Challenge is our Group-wide employee fundraising and homes where injured soldiers receive treatment for their injuries while volunteering programme.
Employees in Australia, the UK and also spending christmas with theirfamilies.
the US elect partner charities for a two-year period.
Selected bAe systems, inc. employees were so moved by the destruction and charities must fit within one of our core themes to be eligible for suffering in haiti following the earthquake in january 2010, that they partner status.
As well as fundraising and volunteering support donated $436,000 282,000 to the American red crosss haiti from employees, partner charities receive supplementary relief and development Fund and the international response Fund.
funding from our Company Giving programme.
the group matched employee contributions dollar for dollar, to donate a total of $872,000 564,000. in addition to the cash donations, 2010 performance bAe systems employees at sites across the Us volunteered their time In 2010, our total community investment was more than helping pack over one million dehydrated meals for the Kids Against 3.3m.
This includes donations in cash as part of our hunger programme.
the group also offered material support to the Company Giving and Charity Challenge programmes.
American red cross in the form of technology and systems.
For example, Firstintercom, a first responders radio system, was offered Our partner charities included: Make a Wish Foundation in for use in the relief efforts.
Australia: Operation Homefront in the US: and armed forces the devastating floods in Australia have had a shattering impact on charities, including Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen and Families most people in Queensland and northern new south Wales, including Association SSAFA, The Royal British Legion and The Army some of our employees, their families and many customers.
in january 1 Benevolent Fund, in the UK.
2011, the group donated A$200,000 119,000 to the Queensland Premiers disaster recovery relief Fund.
our employees have also supported fundraising efforts and some have volunteered supporting emergency services.
1 This figure is not included within 2010 community investment totals or the chart below.
COMMUNITY INVESTMENT SUBJECT FOCUS % The Group uses the London Benchmarking Group methodology for calculating community giving.
11% 20% The focus of our community investment activities includes Company donations and employee fundraising through Charity Challenge and payroll 11% giving programmes.
Our total community investment in 2010 is made up of more than 2.6m in 23% Company donations, and more than 715,000 in employee fundraising and 33% payroll giving.
1% 1% Education and future Arts and culture workforce Armed forces and Health and human customer af nity services Emergency relief Heritage Other For more information about: our approach to community relations our employee fundraising and volunteering activities visit: www.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 53 Financial statements Governance Segmental performance Group performance Strategy Overview Directors Report: Business Review Corporate responsibility continued Assurance statement Independent assurance report by Deloitte LLP to BAESystems and performed our work to obtain reasonable assurance that plc on the Corporate Responsibility section in the Directors the business conduct indicators on page 47, indicated with a, Report: Business Review of BAESystems Annual Report for arefairly stated.
the year ended 31December 2010 The qualitative and subjective nature of non-financial information poses a number of inherent limitations for What we looked at: scope of our work assurance engagements.
The basis of reporting for BAE Systems plc BAE Systems has engaged us to provide each indicator marked with a or a is provided at assurance on: www.
com reporting and should be read in Limited assurance: conjunction with statements made in this Annual Report.
The Group level business conduct, safety, diversity and What we did: key assurance procedures inclusion, and community performance indicators on Considering the risk of material error, we planned and pages47 and 53 indicated with a performed the work to obtain all the information and Their statements on progress towards the Group level explanations considered necessary to provide sufficient corporate responsibility CR objectives on page 46 evidence to support our assurance conclusion.
The key procedures we carried out were: Reasonable assurance: Their statements on business conduct made under the Interviewing senior managers at BAESystems in relation heading Business conduct on pages 48 and 49, excluding all toactivities undertaken during 2010 regarding responsible forward-looking sentences indicated with a business conduct and CR performance reporting: Their statement on safety strategy made under the heading Interviewing managers at BAESystems head office, including Strategy on page 50 the CR and Safety, Health and Environment SHE team, and those with responsibility for CR management and reporting The business conduct performance indicators on page47 systems: indicated with a Gaining an understanding of BAESystems own process to What standards we used: basis of our work and level of assurance collect information from issue owners, and the process for Our work was carried out by a multi-disciplinary team of CR and collation and validation of performance data at Group level business ethics assurance specialists in accordance with the bythe Group CR team: International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 ISAE3000.
Analysing and reviewing on a sample basis the key structures, systems, processes, procedures and controls relating to the For the business conduct, safety, diversity and inclusion, and Group level collation, validation and reporting processes of community performance indicators we planned and performed the Annual Report, including: the work to provide limited assurance as to whether the BAESystems data on pages 47 and 53, indicated with a, the selection of issues to be reported on, related key isnot materially misstated.
For the corporate responsibility performance indicators and other matters to be reported on: objectives, we planned and performed the work to provide the collection, collation, validation and reporting of selected limited assurance as to whether the BAESystems statements safety, diversity, community and business conduct on page 46 under the heading Performance in 2010 and performance data at the year end: and objectives for 2011 are not materially misstated.
This provides less assurance and is substantially less in scope than undertaking questionnaires and interviews with a limited reasonable assurance.
purpose non-statistical sample of sites to gain an understanding of key processes and controls for reporting For the statements on business conduct and safety strategy selected performance data to the Group CR team.
Sites weplanned and performed the work to obtain reasonable were selected based on safety performance, materiality not absolute assurance as to whether the statements on tothe Group and inherent risk of the location.
We did not business conduct on pages 48 and 49, excluding all forwardperform any site visits during our work.
looking sentences indicated with a, and on safety strategy on page 50 are a fair description of the activities undertaken.
Interviewing members of BAESystems Legal department to For the business conduct performance indicators we planned understand the process followed to monitor compliance with On our website Find out more about corporate our approach to cr Managing cr responsibility in reporting and assurance safety stories from our businesses BAE Systems... education and early careers training and development support for local communities visit: www.
com the Business Development Adviser Policy during 2010 and excluding all forward-looking sentences indicated with a, are, in our opinion, in all material respects fairly stated as toprepare for compliance with the Bribery Act 2010: at18February 2011.
Performing limited purpose non-statistical sample testing to verify that a selection of advisers added to the BAESystems BAE Systems statement on safety strategy made under the Approved Adviser Register during 2010 were appointed in heading Strategy on page 50 is, in our opinion, in all material compliance with the BAESystems Adviser Policy: respects fairly stated as at 18February 2011.
The business conduct indicators on page 47, indicated with Interviewing members of BAESystems management to understand the scope and coverage of Code of Conduct a, are, in our opinion, in all material respects fairly stated.
refresher and induction training activities during 2010: Responsibilities of directors and independent assurance provider Performing limited purpose non-statistical sample testing to BAE Systems responsibilities verify the nature and extent of the roll out of Code of Conduct The directors are responsible for the preparation of the Annual training for new and existing employees: Report, and for the information and statements contained inconnection with it.
They are responsible for determining Interviewing members of BAESystems management to BAESystems objectives in respect of CR performance, and understand the process followed to capture, investigate for establishing and maintaining appropriate performance andreport employee enquiries to the Ethics Helpline: management and internal control systems from which the Performing limited purpose non-statistical sample testing reported information is derived.
toverify that a selection of employee enquiries to the Deloittes responsibilities Ethics Helpline were appropriately captured, investigated, Our responsibility is to independently express conclusions categorised and reported to the Ethics Committee: onthe reliability of managements assertions on the selected Examining underlying documents to corroborate interview subject matters as defined within the scope of work above.
outcomes and to inform our assessment of the subject matter This report is made solely to BAESystems plc in accordance to be assured: and with our letter of engagement for the purpose of the directors Reviewing the CR section of the Annual Report against the governance and stewardship.
Our work has been undertaken findings of our work whilst assessing that the Annual Report so that we might state to the Company those matters we has been compiled as described on page 55 in the section are required to state to them in this report and for no other Scope and data.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than The scope of our work did not include the provision of assurance BAESystems plc for our work, for this report, or for the over whether BAESystems programme of work is adequately conclusions we have formed.
designed to, or will, meet the requirements of the Woolf Report.
Our multi-disciplinary team of CR and business ethics What we found: our assurance opinion assurance specialists performed the engagement in Limited assurance conclusion: accordance with Deloittes independence policies, which Based on the assurance work performed nothing has come coverall of the requirements of the International Federation toour attention to suggest that the business conduct, ofAccountants IFAC Code of Ethics and in some areas are safety, diversity and inclusion, and community performance more restrictive.
We confirm to BAESystems that we have indicators on pages 47 and 53, indicated with a, are maintained our independence and objectivity throughout the materially misstated.
year, including the fact that there were no events or prohibited services provided which could impair that independence and Based on the assurance work performed nothing has come to our attention to suggest that the progress towards the Group objectivity in the provision of this engagement.
level corporate responsibility objectives on page 46 is materially misstated.
Deloitte LLP Reasonable assurance opinion: London, United Kingdom BAESystems statements on business conduct made under 18February 2011 the heading Business conduct on pages 48 and 49, Scope and data The data and performance measures in this report cover theperiod January to December 2010 with the exception ofenvironment data which covers the period January to December 2009.
Qualitative information and quantitative data for the report are provided by individuals across our business.
Quantitative data is recorded on centralised systems, and content and data are reviewed at head office.
Unless otherwise explained, the data in this report cover theGroups major operations globally, excluding those acquired or divested during the year.
BAE Systems Annual Repor BAE Systems Annual Report 2010 t 2010 55 55 Financial statements Go Gover vernance finance Segmental perfor Segmental performance mance Group perfor Group performance mance Strateg Strategy y Over Overvie view w Financial statements
