sustainability Our cOllective respOnsibility Balfour Beatty is committed to making its success sustainable.
The long-term success ofour business depends on us fulfilling our responsibilities to all our stakeholders: our business strategy and sustainability vision are closely aligned.
Overview Sustainability Our 2020 vision Sustainability makes good business sense.
Thats We believe that sustainability is a collective responsibility whywe have now been reporting on it for 10 years.
and are working together to develop and implement Itswhy we have invested the time to understand the asustainability strategy covering our global operations sustainability issues that matter most to our business until 2020. andto our customers and the significant opportunities We aim to be a leader in sustainability and to play inthe transition to a low-carbon economy.
asignificant role in helping our customers to make Embedding sustainability in everything we do is now sustainable choices.
We also recognise that the expected by our customers, our shareholders, our impactsof climate change, resource depletion employees and the communities in which we operate.
andtheexpectation of our customers, investors, This applies to large and small projects alike.
employeesand society will continue to intensify.
Sustainability is not just about the environment, or a During 2009, we critically evaluated and set out our singleissue like carbon.
That is why our sustainability sustainability vision and roadmap, outlining where vision looks holistically at aligning profitable markets, wewish to be in 2020.
The roadmap addresses healthy communities and environmental limits.
31keyissues grouped into 10 focus areas, and setsthreecritical milestones for each: Our business continues to grow.
As we are joined bymore people from more cultures, our increasing Minimum expectations by 2012 mandatory first steps sizeand scale mean we have a responsibility to embed for all our operating companies sustainability thinking not just among our 50,000 people Excellence for 2012 the goal for those pursuing best and in our own working practices, but across the wider practice standards 500,000-strong Balfour Beatty community made up The aspirational goal for 2020 providing a clear direction ofpartners, contractors and suppliers.
for their thinking and practices As a market leader, we have a real opportunity to have apositive influence and ensure that sustainability is a Further milestones will be developed for 2015 and 2018. collective responsibility, taken seriously across all stages Arenewed focus on sustainability, facilitated by the vision, of the infrastructure lifecycle.
positions us to manage non-financial risk better, to exploit opportunities for increasing efficiency and to enter Building expertise on sustainability issues underpins our newmarkets, and enhance our reputation as a leader growth ambitions and helps us deliver value.
As new ininfrastructure development and management.
markets are driven by the move towards sustainable development, there will be tremendous opportunities for During 2010, a good deal of work has been undertaken continued growth in areas such as renewable energy, rail toembed our sustainability vision, as well as our ethics infrastructure and greener building stock.
The low-carbon and values, across all areas of the business.
Embedding economy is estimated to be worth over 100bn over will continue in 2011 with a range of activities aimed thenext 10 years in the UK alone and we are determined atemployees, including a Company-wide e-learning to take advantage of the exciting opportunities ahead.
net Our 2020 sustainability vision aligns profitable markets, healthy communities and environmental limits.
62 Balfour Beatty Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability | Zero-carbon school: a lesson in sustainability US Buildings consume energy.
In the US, where greenhouse gas emissions continue to rise, buildings account for 40% of energy use and 72% of electricity use.
For school administrations, energy is a major cost that they are eager to reduce.
Thats why Lady Bird Johnson Middle School LBJMS in Texas is attracting a lot of attention, even before it opens in August 2011.
Its the states first net zero public school, and the largest in the US.
Net zero means it will generate all the energy it needs without using fossil fuels on some days it will sell surplus power, eventually offsetting even the energy used to build it.
We are ideally qualified to build it: we are one of the largest educational building contractors in Texas, and haveoutstanding experience of working to Leadership inEnergy & Environmental Design LEED standards.
AsUS population growth and migration patterns mean rising demand for school buildings despite tight public budgets, the sustainability expertise showcased at LBJMS represents a significant growth opportunity for us.
By using the most energy-efficient materials and systems available, LBJMS will use about half the energy consumed by a typical middle school.
Key features include highefficiency insulation and glazing, rainwater harvesting andgrey water systems, geothermal heating and cooling, light shelves to reflect daylight deeper into the building, and automatic dimming and switching of lights.
The school will generate its own energy through rooftop solar panels and a dozen wind turbines alongside the building.
The solar panels are designed to produce about 850,000kWh a year.
Source: US Green Building Council.
This has set a great example for schools across the country.
Were going to see it becoming the norm because it cuts operating costs, its an object lesson in sustainability for the students and its the right thing to do.
M ike Parkos, Senior Project Manager John Miraldi, Superintendent Balfour Beatty Construction, US Self-sufficient Energy will come from Artists impression rooftop solar panels and wind turbines.
Annual report and accounts 2010 63 sustainability Linking our business strategy to the sustainability vision The strategic priorities for the Group are highlighted on pages 12 to 23.
To achieve this strategy, there is a clear connection with our sustainability vision and the risks and opportunities we face.
Business strategy Sustainability context, risks and opportunities 1 Develop our business further Demand for sustainable infrastructure is creating newgrowth opportunities for us.
Our 2020 vision and roadmap set out how we will meet our customers expectations and how we will ensure our businesses operate sustainably themselves.
As we grow and enter more diverse markets, we needto ensure that all our employees make decisions that prevent us from conducting business unethically orbeing exposed to potential damage.
Our Group values, Code of Conduct and ethics helpline will help usmanage these risks.
2 Focus on markets with the greatest opportunities We work on infrastructure assets across their entire lifecycle and increasingly our customers are asking ustodeliver more sustainable solutions.
The multi-billion pound low-carbon economy also presents us with significant opportunities in fields ranging from new nuclear generation to energy-efficient buildings.
Renewable energy, rail and waste infrastructure and the increasing demand for integrated services in the water market are all areas of business that will increase in size and value to us.
3 Improve operational performance Adequate margins are a prerequisite for investment andcosteffectiveness inlong-term sustainability.
We aim to operate more efficiently to remain a competitive and sustainable business.
4 Continue to strengthen core skills Our customers in both developed and emerging economies are investing in increasingly complex projects requiring an ever broader range of skills.
Our people management strategy needs to ensure thatwe have these skills, and that our future leaders canmanage increasing complexity and change across abroader range of countries.
Our ability to integrate a range of stakeholders relies oneffective engagement with suppliers and provides uswith an opportunity to innovate for more sustainable outcomes.
We anticipate particular opportunities in the low-carbon economy.
5 Continue to show leadership in values As a market-leading business, we are intent on setting andbehaviour the industry standard for ethical conduct, safety and sustainability.
Our Code of Conduct, ethics training and Zero Harm vision are essential markers of the standards we set forourselves and, ultimately, our supply chain.
We will differentiate ourselves by embedding sustainability into everything we do as a business by 2020.
Over time, our leadership will result in sustainable infrastructure consistently being the best option from an economic, community and environmental perspective.
64 Balfour Beatty Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability | Leadership and governance Safety leadership course UK US We aim to be a leader in areas such as ethics, safety andthe environment and believe that the long-term future In 2010, over 350 senior managers took part in a course of the organisation depends on it.
called Leading Change: Driving the Safety Agenda, honing their leadership skills to deliver Zero Harm in their We have put in place a series of measures to ensure that businesses.
We are extending the programme to the we are managing the business to achieve those goals: next tier of management, targeting 600 managers in all The Board sets policy and takes responsibility for the by the end of June 2011.
Groups non-financial performance, including issues relating to sustainability.
The Business Practices Committee, comprising nonexecutive Directors chaired by Mike Donovan, reviews these activities and provides guidance on future activity.
More information is available on page 83.
The main topicsit considered during the year related to aspects ofcorporate responsibility including safety, sustainability, legal duties, people, community and ethical issues.
The Sustainability Working Group SWG is chaired by Mike Peasland, Chief Executive Officer, Construction Services UK and consists of senior managers with responsibility for Group policy and strategy on key issues.
It meets at least four times a year.
The membership of theSWG will be strengthened in 2011, when Peter Halsall Responsibility for risk identification, analysis, evaluation, joins the team from Halsall Associates, a specialist sustainability firm acquired by Parsons Brinckerhoff in mitigation, reporting and monitoring rests with divisional operating company management.
While risk management is a key driver for our sustainability Policies vision, non-financial risk is also reflected in our Group-level Balfour Beatty has clearly stated policies and principles risk management process see pages 55 to 61. available in full at www.
com for key issues such as: Ethics and values As an international infrastructure group, we operate in Risk management diverse markets.
Safety and health We need to be certain that all who work for us are Environment confident in their ability to make decisions that will Human rights consistently prevent the organisation from conducting Equal opportunities business unethically or being exposed to serious risks.
Ethics and competitive behaviour We recognise that further growth could potentially stretch the boundaries of our businesses and their management Within this framework, operating companies are required teams and expose us to more risk.
This has led to a lot of to develop specific policies and practices, relevant to their effort being focused on our Group-wide ethics and values particular business.
programme, including our Code of Conduct, which aims Risk management to support our employees in making the right decisions In addition to setting out the roadmap to achieve our and encourages all our employees to make our values sustainability vision, maintaining and building on our second nature in their thinking.
leadership position also involves the effective We believe that having a common set of values that management of risks within the Group.
represent what we are as a Group and what we want to The Board is responsible for ensuring that risks are be recognised for will offer clear business benefits to us identified and appropriately managed across the Group.
and support us through the challenges of future growth.
Our Code of Conduct has been issued to all levels ofoffice-based staff across the Group.
During 2010, Having a common set of Group values offers clear business theyundertook online training, supported by targeted, benefits and will support the challenges of future growth.
in-person training where necessary, to ensure they fully comprehend the Code and the importance of ethical behaviour.
This training course was produced in eight languages and completed by nearly 28,000 people.
A significant focus of our work during 2010 was preparation for the new UK Bribery Act, which is due to come into force in 2011.
We believe our Code of Conduct already sets a standard appropriate for the Bribery Act, but the Act has created a new, strict liability criminal offence of failure by a commercial organisation to prevent bribery occurring.
It is a defence for us to demonstrate Annual report and accounts 2010 65 sustainability that we have adequate procedures to prevent bribery Smart streets dim the lights UK and we have been working to ensure that the Group hassuch procedures in place.
We are updating Coventrys 38,000 street lights and illuminated signs under a 230m PPP contract.
With As reported last year, and as a result of the settlement new lamp technology and a centrally-managed system with the Serious Fraud Office, at the end of 2008 we that dims the lights when streets are quiet, we aim to appointed the Global Infrastructure Anti-Corruption Centre cut Coventrys energy use for street lighting by 38% GIACC to report on our anti-corruption compliance with more savings to come over the 25-year life of our programme.
During 2010, GIACC continued its detailed maintenance contract.
review of our operating companies.
This included reviewing Parsons Brinckerhoff PB for the first time, inthe same way that all our other operating companies had been reviewed in 2009.
GIACCs main conclusions are set out in our 2010 Sustainability Report.
Our sustainability vision in action Profitable markets We believe that sustainability will have a growing influence on our business, our customers and other stakeholders over the coming decade.
It will therefore bea competitive issue in the marketplace.
Through ourleadership, we can influence the market so that sustainable infrastructure is consistently the best option.
We want our customers and investors to choose BalfourBeatty because we contribute to their long-term Parsons Brinckerhoff is currently advising the UK profitability through more sustainable infrastructure.
Government on its carbon capture and storage Overtime, we have seen growing numbers of customers demonstration projects.
wanting sustainability to be a key part of our service.
Influencing the market to adopt more sustainable An example of this is a project to provide street outcomes will also help the long-term growth of our lightingforCoventry City Council, which has delivered business.
Balfour Beatty, for instance, is a strategic anumber of technical innovations that will result in a partner and sponsor of the development of the 38%energy reduction across the citys street lighting UKGreenBuilding Councils sustainability leadership stock.
Our innovative use of remote dimming technology coursein conjunction with Cambridge University.
was one of the key, winning aspects of the bid.
More details on how we are meeting our customers We are seeking to meet the sustainability aspirations of sustainability needs, how we have been influencing the our existing customers and entering new growth markets wider sustainability agenda and communicating externally such as clean energy.
We have also started to capture can be found in our separate 2010 Sustainability Report.
data on the profitable markets component of our roadmap.
Healthy communities In 2010, we estimated that our baseline revenues People and communities are at the heart of our business.
ofrecognised sustainable goods and services, such asLEED, CEEQUAL and clean energy, amounted Our pre-eminent concern is safety protecting the to22%ofour total revenues.
We also established for well-being not only of our own people, but of everyone thefirsttime in 2010 that 4% of our projects had agreed we come into contact with.
sustainability deliverables with the customer.
We will Our sustainability as a business depends on how continue to track both these indicators as measures successfully we recruit, develop and motivate our people, ofoureffectiveness in growing our revenues through so this must be a priority too.
sustainability and in influencing our customers.
We, and our customers, also recognise that we have a As we look to offer our customers more sustainable wider responsibility to the local communities wherever solutions, we have engaged our business development we work.
So we seek to make a long-term contribution teams in a series of work-winning workshops to tosociety through our community investment, as well understand how we articulate and promote this.
We have established an energy forum to research and Health and safety develop our approach to maximising new commercial Our employees have a fundamental right to enjoy safe opportunities across the Group from the transition to work and go home every day free from injury.
These include offshore wind, no member of the public should be put at any risk from carbon capture and storage, waste from energy facilities, our activities.
These two guiding principles underline our new nuclear and developing the transmission network.
approach to health and safety, which is core to our own In2010, we were selected as preferred bidder on the reputation and that of the industry.
worlds largest offshore wind farm project at Thanet in theUK.
On financial close, this will see us own, operate By looking after our employees, we will encourage and maintain the offshore high-voltage transmission themto look after themselves and others affected by assets of the 300MW capacity scheme.
theiractivities, so that we strengthen our reputation asatrusted employer and supplier of high-quality, safe 66 Balfour Beatty Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability | services to our customers.
Only by setting the highest We have developed and published a leadership framework, standards for ourselves will we be able to retain the trust which identifies the key areas we expect our leaders of our customers and the people using our infrastructure.
tofocus on and sets out the values and behaviours we expect.
All our businesses will consider how they use Indeed, our industry-leading safety performance helps theleadership framework in their people management differentiate our offering and maintains our licence to activities, demonstrating to our employees that there is, operate, particularly for customers with a similar focus for the first time, a clearly-defined set of behaviours and onsafety excellence.
expectations for our current and future leaders.
We have always set ourselves high standards in safety, We have made significant steps towards our aim of but in October 2008 we went further still, committing enabling employees to see vacancies across the Group toreach Zero Harm across all of our operating companies.
bylaunching our first online internal vacancy portal.
The programme is now two years into its journey and Zero Harm thinking has been adopted and embedded We have also developed a facility to allow employees across all our businesses whose current roles are coming to an end to upload theirCVs through their HR teams so that our internal In 2010, the Accident Frequency Rate was reduced from recruiters can view potential transferring employees 0.17 to 0.16. tofilltheir vacancies.
Regrettably, the Group experienced five fatalities during Community engagement 2010 four in the UK and one in Indonesia, compared to We regard good corporate citizenship as an integral part three in 2009.
Safety has never had a higher profile than of our business.
We care about how our actions affect itdoes now, and these tragic incidents serve to remind others and wish to contribute positively to communities usthat despite our real commitment to Zero Harm, and wherever we work not simply through the lasting the progress we have made, our goals are challenging.
infrastructure we leave for the public, but in our wider A suite of assessment tools called Zero In has been contribution to those communities.
developed to measure vital indicators for organisational We seek to engage fully with the communities and readiness for Zero Harm.
Pioneer businesses trialled individuals directly impacted by our project work and thefull suite of tools towards the end of 2010, ready for appreciate the legitimate interests that many local Group-wide rollout in 2011. communities have in the way we do business.
By engaging with them, early and consistently, we can AFR hours worked employees and subcontractors identify and deliver additional value through our projects.
Our customers increasingly wish to see our involvement 400 1.0 0.9 with local communities shown in bid documentation.
350 0.8 Providing local training and employment opportunities 300 0.7 isnow a key element in winning public sector work, and 250 0.6 through the scale of our activities we can make a very 0.5 200 positive contribution to communities.
0.4 150 0.3 Consultation with local people often involves leaflet 100 0.2 drops, project websites, communication via social media 50 0.1 and community discussions or exhibitions.
Our larger 0 0.0 projects have permanent community relations staff, ensuring that we liaise with key stakeholders regularly.
Hours worked AFR Governance of health and safety Heath and safety issues are reviewed by the Board Giving a city street the kiss of life US andthe executive team.
Balfour Beatty requires all its operating companies to have formal safety management Our US$14m makeover will turn Denvers dowdy 14th systems.
These are subject to external audit.
Street into a vibrant cultural centre.
But before work could start we had to broker a unique city community Our people partnership.
Our film visualisation, showing how a We believe we have been successful at developing revitalised street could add value, galvanised the strongleaders for the business and establishing great community.
Developers brought US$4m to the table, and careers for our people.
However, as we become larger, property owners agreed to fund the annual maintenance.
more complex and more geographically spread we needto evolve some of these strategies.
Our new divisional structure creates the need for more focused senior leadership roles to manage increasing complexity, working in new markets and geographies andwith new cultures and changing political and economic landscapes.
Annual report and accounts 2010 67 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Hours worked millions AFR sustainability Community investment 2010 was the first year we have been able to set a global We believe that employees who are more closely baseline for our environmental impacts.
As our data connected to their communities are more passionate collection systems have improved, and our understanding about the work they do, so we have programmes to of these impacts has grown, we have reported increases offerthem the opportunity to make a significant and in our CO, water and waste.
Our challenge, and 2 sustainable contribution.
opportunity, is to reduce these impacts and achieve the 2012 targets in our sustainability roadmap.
In 2010, the Group donated over 2.8m to charitable causes around the world, including through The Balfour Environmental factors are also creating new markets for Beatty Charitable Trust which was set up in 2009 to us, from alternative energy generation and transmission markour centenary year.
to protecting assets from climate change.
The aim of the Trust is to assist in providing appropriate Energy, carbon and climate change financial assistance to a wide range of projects, designed As well as reducing our own energy use, we see huge by expert organisations, to help disadvantaged young opportunities in helping customers to reduce their carbon people advance in life.
In 2010, the Group donated a footprints, build new low-carbon assets and protect totalof 358,000 to the Charitable Trust, with a further existing assets from the impacts of climate change.
We continue striving to reduce our CO emissions from 2 In the UK, through the Building Better Futures initiative, our own buildings, project sites and transport fleets.
we continued working with The Princes Trust to support Weare also reducing the carbon embodied in the their Community Cash Award and Development Award materials we use for example, by replacing aggregates programmes and with Action for Children, providing with recycled materials.
disability learning equipment and supporting a young In 2010, we established a global baseline for our CO 2 carers fund.
In 2010, the Charitable Trust also appointed emissions.
CO emissions relative to revenue from our 2 Coram as a new charity partner.
Coram works with vehicles, plant and buildings were 42.8 tonnes m, vulnerable children, young people and their families and 2009:36.3 tonnes m. Our target is a 10% reduction provides adoption, parenting advice, supported housing against the 2010 baseline by 2012 and 50% by 2020. and family support and education.
During the year, the Trust helped to fund Corams adoption programme for Global tonnes equivalent CO per m revenue 2 hard-to-place children.
excluding air travel 50 Outside the UK, the Trust has provided financial assistance to support Project H. O. M. E. in Philadelphia, 40 US, a charity working to end homelessness.
Through ourprofessional services business, Heery International, 30 the Trust has also provided support to CHRIS Kids, 20 anAtlanta-based charity dedicated to healing children, strengthening families and building communities.
10 Additionally, our US operating companies donated over 0 1m to a variety of causes, including the United Way, 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Foundation Fighting Blindness, Save the Childrens 2012 target 2020 target HaitiEmergency Relief, Make a Wish and the Childrens Medical Center.
Elsewhere, we contributed to Save the Some climate change impacts are unavoidable due to Children and Reach Italia Onlus, providing aid for children greenhouse gases already in the atmosphere.
temperatures will affect material durability: higher rainfall and more intense storm events will bring more flooding.
We continue to sponsor the Balfour Beatty London YouthGames, Europes largest youth sports programme.
We need to consider these risks when designing and constructing to protect the value of our customers assets In 2010, we donated 282,000 for the 2010 Games andsupported the development of the volunteering and the assets we invest in.
As title Parsons Brinckerhoff, a recognised leader in climate sponsor, we have committed a further 930,000 to change adaptation, is working on major studies for the theGames up to 2013, as well as running a volunteer USand Australian Governments.
Our adaptation strategy programme for employees.
for the UK Highways Agency is now being used as an Environmental limits example around the world and will be used to develop We see clear business advantage in taking a leadership best practice in Balfour Beatty too.
position on environmental issues, recognising the We will continue to work on delivering our goal of a 10% opportunities in helping customers reduce their own carbon reduction by the end of 2012 and a 50% reduction impacts and respond to environmental pressures.
Improving our own performance in areas such as carbon Waste and waste reduction will reduce our costs.
As customers Having established a global baseline for our waste in increasingly consider environmental performance, from 2010, we are now working on halving the total sent to carbon footprints to ecology, in their purchasing decisions, landfill by 2012 and ultimately diverting all our worldwide a leadership position will give us competitive advantage.
project waste from landfill by 2020.
68 Balfour Beatty Equivalent CO tonnes 2 m revenue Our business | Performance | Strategy | Markets | Operations | Financial review | PPP | Risk | Sustainability | Waste disposal is a significant and rising cost.
Reducing Hitting the road to zero waste UK waste can help us to reduce project costs and meet customers desire for lower environmental impacts.
We have committed to send zero waste to landfill by 2020.
On our A46 road improvement project Increasing waste regulation is creating a significant we are already there.
The last of our waste streams newcommercial opportunity for us.
In the UK, 3040 isnow being converted to fuel appropriately, to fire municipal waste energy from waste plants are needed cement kilns used to supply cement to the scheme.
within the next five years.
This represents a market worth8bn or more by 2015 in the UK alone.
We continue to seek opportunities to reduce, re-use, recycle and recover waste and to use recycled materials where possible.
Total relative weight global waste disposed to landfill tonnes per m revenue 175 150 125 100 75 50 25 encompass a wider range of construction materials 0 intheUK and possibly elsewhere.
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Water 2012 target Almost half the worlds population will be living in areas ofwater stress or scarcity by 2030.
Delivering sustainable To drive re-use of waste we have also set a target of at water solutions is a growth market and we will take a lead least 25% of our major materials coming from recycled by developing a water footprinting tool in 2011.
We see sources by 2012, where we specify the material.
Major growth opportunities from integrated service offerings materials include concrete, aggregates, steel, aluminium indesalination, treatment and distribution: urban water and copper.
During 2010, we achieved a 3.4% recycled run-off collection: and detection and repair of leaks.
content in the major materials we procured globally.
Thisfigure increased to 10% in the UK.
Our focus has also been to reduce water usage in our premises for example, through self-closing taps, Developing good quality data for tracking the recycled waterless urinals and staff awareness campaigns and content of our major materials will be important in 2011. onconstruction sites for example, capturing rainwater We will continue to focus on our 2012 goals of halving forvehicle plant cleaning, concrete batching and dust waste to landfill per m revenue against a 2010 baseline of 101 tonnes of waste to landfill per m revenue and suppression.
Our site accommodation cabins can also besupplied with rainwater harvesting systems.
achieving a minimum of 25% recycled content of major materials by value.
We seek to provide new buildings with water-saving technologies such as grey water recycling and use of Materials Sustainable materials management reduces costs as rainwater harvesting techniques.
Already, 75% by value We will continue working to reduce direct use of water ofthe timber we procure directly comes from recognised, per m revenue by 10% by 2012 against a 2010 baseline responsible sources.
We continue to procure timber from recognised The water embodied in the materials we use or consume sustainable sources, including those certified by the is likely to be much greater than our direct consumption.
Forest Stewardship Council FSC and the Programme In 2011, we will develop a unique footprinting tool to help forEndorsement of Forestry Certification PEFC.
us determine where reductions can best be made.
Ourtarget is 100% from responsible sources by 2012.
Environmental governance For the first time in 2010, we extended our data collection Strategic environmental issues are reviewed by the to track the sourcing of other major construction materials sustainability working group.
An environmental managers such as aggregates, concrete and steel.
Where these forum reviews key topics and shares best practice schemes exist UK and Europe some 19% of our major acrossthe Group.
Environmental performance is audited materials excluding timber were from recognised, regularly and Group-wide statistics are collated to responsible sources.
Our 2012 target is 25% by value from measure the Groups major environmental impacts.
responsible sources worldwide, where such schemes exist.
Five minor environmental incidents resulted in Engaging our supply chain on responsible sourcing will be enforcement action and fines in 2010 2009: 7 totalling a key element in becoming a more sustainable business.
All these minor incidents took placeinSingapore for potential mosquito breeding As we work towards our 2012 targets we will continue sites, exceeding noise limits and site drainage.
todevelop responsible-sourcing schemes and to Correctiveactions have been completed for each violation.
Annual report and accounts 2010 69 Tonnes m revenue The InfrasTrucTure busIness our governance Manchester, UK 70 Balfour Beatty Our governance | Chairmans introduction | Board of Directors | Directors Report | Remuneration Report | Our governance Chairmans introduction 72 Board of Directors 74 Directors Report 76 Remuneration Report 89 Annual report and accounts 2010 71
