28 Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Reporting approach Chief executives statement We see sustainability as an integral part of Graingers executive team and I are proud of our companys continually the way we run our business.
We report evolving and strengthening approach to sustainability.
In 2009, we here key data on Graingers impacts and developed ETHOS, a sustainability strategy closely aligned with our activities over the last year.
For the third business priorities designed to ensure business resilience.
Using ETHOS year, we are also producing a separate to guide us, we completed 70% of the applicable sustainability targets online sustainability report, which includes that we committed to meeting by 30 September 2010. more detail on our activities in each main One highlight of our 2010 targets is achieving a listing on the FTSE4 impact area.
Our online sustainability Good index for the first time.
We hope that this external recognition report contains new features to enable that Graingers CR program meets globally recognised standards will stakeholders to drill down from high-level give investors even greater confidence: attracting and facilitating strategy to detailed performance statistics.
further investment in our company in the future.
In addition, we are producing a short We recognise that issues such as climate change continue to be important printed document summarising Graingers to you, our stakeholders.
For these reasons we have set ourselves new approach to sustainability and 2010 demanding targets for the coming year, which can be found in our online performance highlights.
A digital copy can sustainability report.
be downloaded from January 2011 on our For example in 2010 11, we will undertake a programme of work to dedicated website: www.
com assess how our portfolio would be affected by a variety of sustainability risks including mandatory energy efficiency standards for private rented housing, changing flood patterns based on climate change modelling and economic deprivation trends.
We intend to integrate the findings from this exercise into our long-term corporate risk management and sustainability strategy and use this experience to influence future Government policy.
I hope you will explore more of Graingers sustainability performance this year and the demanding targets we will pursue over the next 12 months, in our annual report, on our website and in our downloadable summary presentation.
As always I welcome your comments and feedback.
Andrew R Cunningham Chief executive 10 December 2010 GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final 1 2 7 Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 29 Opportunities and risks Reputation: community engagement and investment is always central to the planning process.
There is a At Grainger, our approach to sustainability is based on significant opportunity to improve the communities where a rigorous assessment of potential political, economical, we own and are developing property for Grainger and in social, technological and environmental PESTE risks and doing so to enhance Graingers reputation and long-term opportunities to our business.
A year ago we identified income stream.
a long list of such risks and opportunities through a thorough sustainability strategy review.
We identified Financial success: initiatives that contribute to employee material issues by assigning scores for risks, opportunities health and wellbeing will enhance productivity and reduce and likelihood of impact occurring within the next five and turnover costs.
Monitoring and managing these risks enables us Governance to future proof our assets and to secure a long-term income The operations board maintains overall responsibility for stream in line with our long-term investment strategy.
sustainability at Grainger and reviews target progress Building on from last years PESTE analysis we have assessments semi-annually, and as required.
Specific target identified risks and opportunities for the coming year.
delivery is assigned to individuals and teams throughout We seek to proactively manage these by setting annual the organisation.
Integrating responsible practice into all targets and on-going key performance indicators in each of our operations and functions is a shared responsibility.
Various policies and procedures inform our CR strategy, 2010 11 risks: these are available in full on our website: Legislation: we expect there may be increased environmental http: www.
com legislation in the coming years, particularly focused on 2010 performance energy efficiency within the existing housing stock.
Target achievement Reputation: stakeholder expectations of our ability to manage our environmental and socio-economic impacts continue to grow, particularly investors and customers.
Physical: the impacts of climate change have not yet affected our portfolio value or maintenance costs, but in 2009 10 NUMBER the long term there is potential across the UK for flooding, OF TARGETS water stress, overheating and other physical impacts.
2010 11 opportunities: Legislation: as the UKs largest listed residential landlord, we are in a unique position to actively engage with the Not applicable government, directly or indirectly through industry bodies Not achieved to influence and shape future sustainability policy, ensuring Partially achieved it is both practical and cost effective.
Fully achieved 100% Physical future proofing: if developed in partnership with industry, current government proposals relating to In 2009 10, we set targets across all components of our minimum energy efficiency standards and the green deal, sustainability strategy, using the five pillars of our ETHOS for example, could offer Grainger a significant opportunity strategy to align impact areas and business priorities.
to upgrade our properties using third party funding, enhancing our reputation as a market and thought leader.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final 2 30 Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility continued 2010 Grainger target performance summary by ETHOS pillars 2009 10 Targets Investing in Responsibility Driving Protecting Influencing communities to stakeholders efficiency assets and the future and place income Develop a community Ensure Graingers Further the Select a minimum Produce a thought investment tracking inclusion in the development of our of three tenant piece on reducing system to record all FTSE4Good Index.
carbon management satisfaction carbon in existing donations to charitable strategy 2010 deadline performance indicators homes, including Carry out a mapping causes and other for establishment by and maintain or a road map for the exercise to review all forms of community expanding carbon improve scores against practical achievement of our key stakeholder investment by the reporting to cover each of these for the of the Governments 1 relationships and end of reporting year common parts of our coming year.
set aims for each 2009 10. property portfolio key stakeholder and the monitoring Ensure that at least with whom we have of emissions from 30% of Grainger valuable relationships.
staff participate in volunteering activities, The health and safety Develop and particularly focusing on management of implement quality, communities in areas 85% of contractors health and safety local to our assets and operating on behalf and environmental using skills relevant to of Grainger excluding management systems our sector.
projects under CDM Produce a case study regulations will be Reduce office based on Newlands assessed and will electricity per person Common illustrating attain CHAS approval.
the principles and 2010 11 target lessons learned completed in for best practice 2009 10.
Conduct in community health and safety engagement.
audits for 100% of Graingers managing All major development agents.
sites to be registered with the Considerate Constructors Scheme, targeting a score of at 2 least 32.
Fully achieved 100% Partially achieved Not achieved Not applicable 1 Due to the change in government and resulting uncertainty of government objectives, this was deemed not applicable 2 Due to the development cycle, there were no construction stage developments this year.
In addition to our 2010 targets, we completed a target due in 2011 one year in advance.
We will continue to work towards the achievement of all targets that were not completed this year.
Or, as in the case of producing a thought-piece for government on decreasing carbon in existing stock, adjust our methods to accomplish the same aims in a changed political reality.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 31 Notable achievements and activities carbon emissions We are proud to report that we have significantly expanded our reporting on carbon emissions from operations, adding car travel and a sample of common area electricity usage at managed properties.
Carbon emissions thousand tonnes CO e 2 Source 2009 10 2008 09 2007 08 3 4 Office electricity consumption small power 463 401 372 5 Energy use in common parts of residential portfolio 49 Not available Not available Air travel 23 31 62 Rail travel 37 26 13 6 Car travel 228 Not available Not available Energy use at development sites No developments electricity and diesel consumption this year 3.5 346 3 Given that all of our offices are in multi-tenanted buildings, we are unlikely consumption.
However, since bills are received at varying intervals and for to ever be able to access data on central plant emissions from our offices.
different beginning and end of year dates the consumption is not all for the same period.
This is a rough first step in measuring common area carbon 4 The 2008 9 office carbon emissions are restated and reduced by 75 tonnes emissions, expressive of Graingers commitment to expanding and due to a corrected meter reading and subtraction of a central plant building improving its carbon reporting.
meter that covers other tenants energy consumption as well as that of 6 Grainger.
Carbon emissions are reported for all business related company car trips.
Emissions are estimated based on the cost of fuel for each car each month, 5 In 2009 10 the common area electricity data reported is for a sample of the average price per litre of fuel each month, and the average miles per litre Graingers highest use flat blocks which we believe will account for the of the relevant car.
We are unable to report on taxi travel as service is usually majority of the carbon emissions of the portfolio that Grainger is responsible hailed rather than ordered through an account.
We have utilised beginning and end of year bills to calculate the Our car emissions are nearly 10 times air travel emissions or put in place significant measures to reduce consumption in 2009 10.
Car travel is essential to our business, as staff within tenant demise.
We focus our monitoring on those must travel to diverse property and development sites.
We areas where we do have control.
are already encouraging staff to change company cars for Notable achievements and activities more efficient models and hope to make further reductions other areas of performance in carbon.
Improving the energy efficiency of new and existing In 2008 09 we halved our emissions from air transport, buildings continues to drive company operations.
and this year we reduced emissions from air travel by On the sample of properties surveyed in the last financial another 27% compared to 2008 09.
We continue to work year, we achieved A or B boiler efficiency ratings on over half to reduce emissions through the increased use of rail of our fully owned or controlled properties, and on 42% of transport and videoconferencing.
Unfortunately, our office all properties in the sample, including those that we manage electricity consumption continued to rise in 2009 10.
will utilise the live energy meters we installed in our UK offices this year to increase our understanding of electricity Our eco-champions are helping us drive efficiency within the consumption patterns and continue to look for ways to organisation.
All seven offices offer paper, cardboard and reduce consumption.
Five out of seven offices use recycled paper and all offices use videoconferencing for meetings.
Energy used within tenanted properties under our ownership and management forms the greatest part of As in previous years, Grainger continues to donate surplus our carbon footprint.
However, since tenant power supply furniture to Emaaus, raising money for charity and diverting is outside of our control, we are unable to access this data useable goods from landfill.
GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final 32 Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility continued Our employees have shown remarkable enthusiasm for Target achievement improved over last year: this is partly community volunteering.
attributable to aligning sustainability targets more closely with core business drivers, as a result of the sustainability A total of 75.5 days were dedicated to good causes.
Grainger employees gave generously of money as well as Grainger has achieved all of the targets relating to time, raising 24,775 for charities through payroll giving its Responsibility to Stakeholders and Investing in and fund raising outside of work.
We are committed to equal opportunity and advancement The only target related to Influencing the Future was of women in the workplace.
More than half of Graingers deemed not applicable due to changes in the government staff is female, and 46% of technical and professional agenda after the election.
It is challenging to set meaningful positions are held by women.
performance targets for this pillar as by its nature it is We scored well in tenant feedback surveys, which is measurable more by programmes of activity than by particularly positive given our focus on maintaining outcomes.
Grainger should therefore seek to demonstrate revenue streams.
progress in this area through more qualitative reporting.
Nearly 70% of exiting market rented tenants rating Grainger achieved a listing in the FTSE4Good this year.
This is Graingers management service as good or excellent.
a welcome external recognition of a two-year programme of 80% of tenants rated our contractors response to calls work to improve systems and processes.
for repairs as either excellent or very good.
Graingers Driving Efficiency targets are most directly linked to measurable performance.
Of the three 2009 10 targets, Advisers statement one was fully achieved and one was partially achieved and Upstream Sustainability Services, part of Jones Lang LaSalle, due to be completed next year.
Given the effort that went has been advising Grainger plc on sustainability for several into reducing office electricity this year, it is disappointing years.
This programme of work includes helping Grainger that Grainger did not achieve its goal.
We encourage them set its 2009 10 CR targets, and assessing the extent to to consider an audit of energy consumption in offices to which it achieved these targets.
identify high impact areas for change in 2010 11.
Due to Upstreams long-standing relationship with Grainger has a number of longer-term targets that are Grainger, the review of performance against targets and this due to be completed by the end of the next financial year statement itself cannot be considered as fully independent, September 2011.
Achievement of these targets will be an nor should any data be viewed as formally verified.
However, interesting indicator of the continued success and relevance Upstream has carried out a full and documented review of of the revised sustainability strategy that was implemented Graingers performance and management of sustainability in 2009. over the year 1 October 2009 30 September 2010 and all information presented is accurate to the best of Having undertaken significant work to review its our knowledge.
sustainability strategy in 2009, it is encouraging to note an improvement in Graingers target achievement levels for the The method for assessing Graingers level of performance past financial year.
A renewed focus on sustainability risks against CR targets and commitments was based on: and opportunities and better understanding of sustainability Meetings and telephone interviews with Grainger issues throughout the business had a positive impact on representatives responsible for target delivery: and progress.
Upstream also welcomes Graingers renewed Detailed review of documentation and information engagement with policy makers and its commitment to submitted by Grainger and collected by Upstream over become a leader in sustainability.
Abigail Dean, associate director, An achievement rating has been awarded against each Upstream Sustainability Services, Jones Lang LaSalle, target, depending on the evidence received to validate October 2010 completion.
Upstream has made the following specific findings: GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final GRA03 001 | GraingerAR2010 | 17 12 2010 | Final Grainger plc Annual report and accounts 2010 33 Left to right: John Robertson, Eleni Papadopoulos, Stephen Miller Looking forward to 2012 remembering our heritage We never forget 2012 is important for many reasons: it is the year that the Olympics and where we are from: Paralympics come to the UK and it is also Graingers centenary.
Over 100 years our roots in the we have grown from a small family business into the UKs leading specialist North East provide residential landlord and a major company here and in Germany.
the foundation upon But we never forget where we are from: our roots in the North East provide the foundation upon which the business is built.
Combining that heritage with which the business is our commitment to invest in the communities in which we live and operate, built.
We have chosen Grainger has chosen to start to celebrate its centenary by supporting three to start to celebrate north-eastern athletes in their preparations for the 2012 Paralympics.
our centenary by Stephen Miller has won Gold medal in Clubs in three Paralympic games and is supporting three looking to regain his title after winning silver in Beijing.
He is a role model for many athletes around the world in disability sport, particularly in throwing events.
north-eastern athletes John Robertson took up sailing after an accident ended his career in the RAF in their preparations for and is a double world champion in sonar class sailing, having competed at the the 2012 Paralympics.
highest level for more than 10 years.
Eleni Papadopoulos is an up and coming young swimmer who has won silver Andrew R Cunningham at European level and is currently balancing training and competition with life Chief executive as a full-time student.
These athletes will be working with us over the next two years and will provide Grainger staff with regular updates on their progress over that time through training, competition and hopefully Paralympic glory.
