Helical Bar 10 V24 AW 17 6 10 12:57 Page 34 corporate responsibility Helical Bar plc Report & accounts 2010 corporate responsibility Introduction The management system we have developed has been designed 34 specifically to reflect the flexibility of Helicals business model.
Helical recognises that its business activities impact on the It also reflects the key role that our partners play in delivering environment and the wider communities in which we operate.
enhanced sustainability outcomes in all our business ventures, As our business involves working with joint venture partners be they large-scale developments such as the King Street and outsourcing partners, our direct impacts as a business redevelopment project in Hammersmith, or in the management are relatively small.
However, we are aware of the influence of individual multi-let assets such as at 61 Southwark Street, we can exert through the implementation of responsible London SE1 or Battersea Studios, London SW8.
environmental and social practices via our partners, contractors and suppliers.
Review of progress in the year to An endorsement of Helicals commitment to managing 31st March 2010 environment and social impacts is our continued listing in We manage our environmental and social impacts because the FTSE4Good Index.
The FTSE4Good Index measures the there are business benefits in doing so.
These benefits include performance of companies that meet globally recognised increased ability to secure planning consent, improved corporate responsibility standards and facilitates investment marketability of assets to prospective tenants, reduced in those companies.
Maintaining listed status on this Index operating costs of assets, mitigating the risk of future remains a key priority for Helical, and informs our evolving legislation and regulation, and enhanced corporate reputation.
Below we outline our progress in relation to the each of our Managing Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility impact areas.
In our 2009 Annual Report, we provided an update on Environment how we had analysed the way that our business manages Our high-level corporate commitments to environmental environmental and social issues.
Based on feedback from issues are outlined in the companys Environmental Policy investors and evolving corporate and investor-led disclosure which can be found on the company website.
The Policy requirements, we revised and updated our environmental details our commitments across a range of impact areas and management system, which has been in place since 2003. our development and property management activities.
The The updated environmental management system is available following examples provide a snapshot of some of the on the Group website and includes the following: environmental initiatives undertaken over the past 12 months.
Revised Environment and Corporate Responsibility At our managed multi-let properties, we continue to improve policies which set out Helicals high-level commitment energy and water efficiency through the implementation of across a number of impact areas.
The addition of a low and no cost measures.
For example, at Shepherds Corporate Responsibility Policy in particular was in direct Building, we recently replaced water pumps to increase response to investor feedback suggesting that our focus efficiency.
We have also installed motion sensors in needed to encompass social issues.
common parts staircases to reduce the need for lighting Annual and rolling performance targets to enable us to when the stairways are not in use.
Engagement with focus our efforts throughout the year on measurable, yet tenants has also led to an improved arrangement whereby achievable performance goals.
Improved environmental security guards switch off lights after office hours to performance disclosure was also a key piece of investor conserve electricity.
This year we have reported on energy and water We continue to offer recycling facilities at all our managed consumption across our managed multi-let assets.
At the Hub, for instance, we recently introduced Key Performance Indicators KPIs to help us monitor recycling facilities to all tenants, enabling them to recycle progress towards these targets and to ensure that we are common waste streams such as paper, cardboard and able to report in line with investor disclosure requirements, aluminium cans.
To reduce waste, we have also replaced notably FTSE4Good.
paper towels with hand dryers in common parts toilets, at both the Hub, Glasgow and Shepherds Building, London W14.
A checklist to assist us in applying minimum sustainability requirements across our development activities.
In At our Stockport Gateway Development, as part of the collaboration with our consultants, we developed a infrastructure works, we have been particularly mindful of sustainability project management checklist to ensure that ecology impacts, moving badgers to a local country park.
sustainability issues are incorporated into all decisions We also committed to various cycle way improvements throughout the development lifecycle.
and country park contributions, and will be remediating the land on which we are developing to remove harmful contaminants.
Helical Bar 10 V24 AW 17 6 10 12:58 Page 35 corporate responsibility Helical Bar plc Report & accounts 2010 In response to investor feedback, below we present our utility consumption performance for 3 of our multi-let buildings under 35 management as well as our head office.
These our Clyde Shopping Centre in Clydebank alongside our joint targets address a range of impacts arising from our development venture partner, Prime Commercial Properties.
An empty and property management activities, including resource use and retail unit was loaned to St Margarets hospice to host an waste production, pollution, biodiversity, tenant engagement, art exhibition and auction, which subsequently raised flood risk and sustainable design and construction.
A full list of 1,500 for the hospice.
Space was also donated to the these targets can be found on the Helical Bar website.
Lennox Partnership to distribute information on schemes to get unemployed local people back into work, by providing Employees information on education and skills course available in the As at 31st March 2010, we employed a team of 24 people, local area.
We continue to enforce our equal Our Stockport Gateway development contributed around opportunities, harassment and sexual discrimination policies.
6,000 to local allotments in the Stockport area.
We also continue to monitor compliance with our whistle blowing policy which was implemented last year.
There have We continue to make corporate donations to charity.
We been no incidents to report against this policy to date.
contributed 12,923 to charitable causes last year, including donations to The Healing Foundation, Land Aid and the High levels of staff retention remains a key feature of our Coldstream Guards.
Consequently, we retain a highly skilled and experienced team.
The table below shows a breakdown Health & Safety of our staff by length of service.
Helicals Health & Safety policy aims to develop a corporate Total number Average length of culture that is committed to the prevention of injuries and ill of staff of service years health to its employees or others that may be affected by its activities.
The Board of Directors and senior staff are Directors and management 9 14 responsible for implementing this policy and ensure that Finance 7 8 health and safety considerations are always given priority in Administration 8 6 planning and in day-to-day activities.
Helical recognises its legal responsibility for health and safety.
The Chief Executive Our staff retention levels not only reflect competitive has overall responsibility for policy formulation, development remuneration and benefits packages but also our and implementation.
The Company shall liaise and co-operate commitment to enhancing the professional and personal skills with the appropriate authorities and will obtain expert advice of our team.
During 2009 we provided an average of 5.8 where necessary to determine the risks to health and safety in hours of training per employee, including funding for one staff its activities.
Facilities are provided for employer employee member to complete a Masters degree in Real Estate.
As in consultation on health and safety matters.
All employees are previous years, we continue to evaluate training needs in line expected to co-operate with the Company to achieve the with business objectives.
objectives of this Policy and must ensure that their own work, so far as is reasonably practicable, is carried out without risk Communities to themselves or others.
The Company is committed to providing Helical Bar takes a strong interest in community issues.
relevant information and necessary ongoing training to employees Community engagement is an on-going concern throughout in respect of risks to health and safety, which may arise out of the development process, from planning until development their activities or at their workplace.
In 2009, we updated our completion.
The following examples demonstrate how Health & Safety Policy to reflect the latest legislative and community engagement has benefited the communities that regulatory developments.
Our Health & Safety policy can we worked with over the past year.
be found on the company website at www.
We have successfully consulted at our Hammersmith and Suppliers Fulham Wharf projects on a number of occasions during the Fair treatment of suppliers remains a key priority for Helical course of the past 12 months.
Both developments are major Bar, particularly in challenging market conditions where planning applications, and feedback from the consultations smaller suppliers in particular may rely on our payments for has been incorporated into the eventual design for the balanced cash flow.
The companys policy is to settle all schemes.
In particular in Hammersmith, we will be creating agreed liabilities within the terms established with suppliers.
a new public square, the design for which was chosen During the past year, our average payment period to suppliers through public consultation.
