Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information Environmental Policy Bellway is one of the largest housebuilding p recognise and respond to the challenges groups in the UK.
The housebuilding process and opportunities that are presented affects the environment by the use of land byclimate change.
and consumption of resources throughout In addition to our key commitments, the the development process.
It is our objective Group has identified a number of specific to ensure that at the conclusion of a priority areas which we will endeavour development an attractive and desirable toachieve: new environment has been created that willbe sustainable over time.
p consideration of environmental aspects inthe selection and procurement of land Recognising that we have responsibilities for development, including implications for toboth limit damage to, and enhance, the biodiversity and sustainable development.
environment, this statement sets out our policies for managing the environmental p meeting and, where possible, exceeding aspects across our business.
government targets for the redevelopment of brownfield land.
Key objectives are to: p influencing the design of sites, housing, p minimise any deleterious effects on the andfittings to minimise effects on both environment and where possible to seek the natural and built environment.
environmental enhancements, concentrating on areas where there p providing environmental benefits and ismost room for improvement.
minimising nuisance arising from construction activities, and preventing p aim to meet and, where practicable, pollution on development sites and exceed all relevant environmental surrounding areas.
p consideration of environmental issues p improve our environmental performance.
within our corporate functions and p set specific environmental objectives and everyday business decision-making periodically review progress against these.
p ensure that Bellways environmental aims The above statement will be balanced and their importance are communicated against economic considerations.
throughout the Group, including to appropriate sub-contractors and suppliers, and that a copy of this policy statement isdisplayed in each Bellway site and office.
p consider the role that Bellway can play in helping to contribute to the principles of sustainable development within the UK.
Example of tree-planting at The Retreat, Mildenhall, Suffolk.
1 Bellway p. l. c. 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
