Corporate Responsibility Policy Through sustainable building we aim to create new communities and lasting environments for people now and in the future.
Children from Barlows 1 Lane Junior School, Fazakerley, Liverpool.
Bellway believes that its reputation is critical p invest in the communities we develop in to the creation of long-term value for its away that contributes to local community shareholders.
We recognise that financial needs.
success is reinforced by our behaviour p manage our environmental footprint and beyond the Balance Sheet.
Protecting and aim to enhance our performance in areas enhancing our reputation and social licence where we operate, particularly in relation to operate are significant elements of to energy and waste.
p consider and respond to the social and At Bellway, the term Corporate Responsibility environmental effects of the homes we describes how we manage the environmental, develop and communities that we create.
social and economic effects of our business p improve internal and external awareness and how these affect our employees, of our corporate responsibility customers, shareholders, suppliers, the programmes and initiatives.
communities where we work and the environment that we operate in, and goes p report regularly to the Board and external beyond our legal or regulatory obligations.
stakeholders on performance using This policy sets out how we will operate sustainability indicators.
anddrives the Groups corporate The following structure has been put in responsibility activity.
place to achieve these commitments: Through Bellways commitment to p the Chief Executive is responsible for corporate responsibility we will: thispolicy and advises the Board on all p engage and respond to stakeholders, corporate responsibility matters.
including shareholders, employees, p the Chief Executive is supported by customers, government and communities theSustainability Management Working that we affect.
Group which includes senior employees p comply with all relevant legislation as from within the Group who are aminimum standard.
responsible for the development andreview of this policy.
p work towards recognised good practice in sustainability and corporate responsibility.
p the financial directors or managers of eachregional division are responsible p treat all employees fairly and invest in forimplementation and reporting training for the long-term to bring out onperformance.
Bellway is committed to reporting annually p provide a healthy and safe environment on its approach to corporate responsibility inwhich to work through an effective and has established key performance health and safety management system.
indicators to enable others to judge our p demonstrate continual improvement in performance.
This policy does not replace For more information on our business, our approach to sustainable developments existing policies on environment, health and please go to www.
co. uk in both design and practice.
safety and wood procurement, but has been p recognise and respond to the challenges developed to work in conjunction with them.
Two of our apprentices, Nathaniel 3 and opportunities that are presented by All policies are available on the Bellway Welsh and David Reynolds, climate change.
employed as part of the East and website www.
co. uk and are South East Leeds regeneration reviewed annually.
12 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information Nurturing... we continue to invest in our people and help them develop their skills and expertise.
Bellway p. l. c. 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Statement With developments stretching from the We appreciate that the construction of new Our commitment to central belt of Scotland down to the south homes and new communities can be an sustainable development coast of England, Bellway is operational on emotive issue and we are sensitive to these 185 sites across the country.
The size, scale points of view.
As a consequence, when is evidenced by the fact and complexity of these development planning new developments we seek at the thatthis is the eighth year activities require strong partnerships with a earliest stages to gather community support.
range of key stakeholders including planners, We do this by explaining our intentions and that we have reported local authorities as well as the community entering into dialogue with local residents on our sustainability atlarge.
In bringing these developments and planners to ensure complete forward we must balance the responsibility transparency.
This owed to these stakeholders and others At North Solihull, in the West Midlands, statement provides a including our shareholders, customers and we are engaged in one of the largest supply chain partners, employees and the summary of whatwe have redevelopment schemes in the country natural environment.
Our CSR strategy where we are working alongside Whitefriars been doing during the year.
aims to develop good relationships, Housing Association and Solihull Council improve our reputation and create safe The Corporate Social to improve the living conditions of and rewarding environments in which 15 neighbourhoods within the regeneration Responsibility CSR people can live andwork.
Local consultation has been at the section of our website Despite this years harsh economic climate, centre of the decision making process we have maintained our focus on CSR and where over 2,000 people have attended www.
co. uk have increased the number of homes built, consultation events.
Resident implementation provides much more achieving higher environmental credentials.
groups were established and development Improving the energy efficiency of the proposals were subjected to area and detail on our CSR strategy homes we build will form part of the overall neighbourhood consultation meetings.
and policies, together with solution in moving towards a low carbon Ourapproach has led to the development economy and helping to achieve the of a new urban neighbourhood at Burtons case studies of the progress governments challenging objective to Farm Park, North Solihull, where we were we are making.
reduce UK CO emissions by 80% by 2050. particularly pleased to receive a silver 2 Building for Life Award, recognising well At Barking Riverside in the Thames designed homes and neighbourhoods.
Gateway, we are working in partnership with the London Borough of Barking and During this financial year, 80% of the homes Dagenham Council, the University of East we built were on brownfield sites 2009 London and the Environment Agency on 84%.
These sites often require extensive aresearch programme to investigate best remediation, which can have a positive effect practice for maximising the benefits of green on the local environment.
Our development roof systems: 50% of the homes in the at New Cardington in Bedfordshire will firststage of development will exhibit green create a new community from a former roofs, so called living roofs.
These roof RAF base, where we are developing 970 systems reduce heat loss and act as an new homes, a new school, shops, GPs important refuge for wildlife: their wider surgery, a new cadet centre and a nursery.
usewill be one of the solutions in mitigating The development will provide a range the effects of climate change in the future.
ofhomes: the first phase will include 72 affordable homes for Bedford Pilgrims Renewable energy technology and Housing Association.
measures to save water are increasingly common features in our developments and The planning process often leads to benefit customers through lower utility bills.
At Cleadon In order to increase energy efficiency and Park in South Tyneside, we are transforming reduce the carbon footprint of a new home a former 1920s council estate into a new we have installed alternative heating residential neighbourhood of 750 new technology such as solar and photovoltaic homes.
In addition to housing, the scheme panels in 1,653 homes this year 2009 has delivered a new Primary Care Centre, 636.
Water saving devices such as flow library and community centre which opened restrictors, mixer taps and dual flush toilets in July 2010 and which are already being have reduced water consumption to wellpatronised by local residents.
Arising 105litres per person per day.
Other water from the grant of planning permissions, saving initiatives include the provision of Bellway this year has contributed 13.0 water butts on selected developments and million towards community benefits such as the use, where appropriate, of Sustainable improved educational and transport facilities.
Urban Drainage Systems SUDS which replicate the natural flow of water back tothe aquifer.
Living roof at Barking Riverside, 1 Barking, London Borough of Barking and Dagenham.
14 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business Review Governance Accounts Other Information In managing our business we work with a Through the development of new homes variety of different agencies, and this year we are able to provide significant benefits were pleased to support the World Wildlife to the economy by creating long-term Funds Earth Hour campaign by carrying employment opportunities.
Through the theEarth Hour message on our website construction process jobs are created andin all our press advertising.
The campaign on-site, drawing from the local labour highlighted the need to conserve energy market where appropriate, and we estimate and helped direct the publics attention that for every home built 40 people are tothe critically important issue of climate employed.
At Hucknall in the East Midlands change.
In reporting the progress we are a sub-contractors apprenticeship scheme making, itisimportant to ensure that our created ten new employment opportunities own management reporting systems are for young people.
During the year we robust, which is why we are trialling the employed 33 apprentices across the Bellway compound showing recycling 1 and waste segregation.
ISO 14001 Environmental Management Group 2009 30, and we hope to be able Standard in our Thames Gateway division, to increase this number in the future subject, and we will assess the benefits of this of course, to economic considerations.
before deciding whether to extend this Our employees make a very real difference to our other divisions.
We have also to their communities through charity fund completed an audit of the procurement raising, dress-down days and sponsored systems of our sub-contractors, events, which provide valuable income to benchmarking them against the ISO 9001 local charitable initiatives, and we estimate Quality Management Standard.
that Bellway employees have donated in In addition to addressing the environmental the region of 9,500. credentials of the homes we build we have In Gravesend, Kent, the Helen Allison also looked at other areas of our business School for autistic children has received where we can improve our carbon footprint.
support from Bellway to create a safe play As a consequence, in January 2010, we area.
AtHovington Park in Leeds, the changed our company car policy so that Company has supported a local community anynew cars purchased for the fleetmust project to create new green space and a have CO emissions of less than 160g km.
At Canterbury Gardens The welfare of our employees is of in Merseyside, we hosted a local school paramount importance and we have group who were keen to understand the continued to invest in health and safety differences between building in the 21st training in order to develop the skills of and18th centuries.
Initiatives such as regular tool More recently we have registered our box talks and campaigns focusing on manual interest in participating in the Visit our handling and falls from height create added Schools and Colleges initiative that is awareness ofthe dangers faced by sitebeing organised by the Education and based personnel.
Inaddition to these Employers Taskforce.
initiatives the NHBC undertake health and safety audits every 21working days across Bellway has remained committed to its the majority of our developments.
We are CSR programme despite the downturn in pleased to report that, despite the increased the housing market.
Good CSR practice is levels of activity on our sites, the rate of directly aligned to good business practice incidents has fallen to its lowest level since and will continue to benefit the Group 2006.
Our focus on health and safety has inthe future.
again been recognised by theRoyal Society for the Prevention of Accidents who presented us with a silveraward.
The health, safety and security of those living in a Bellway home is of the utmost importance.
In order to ensure the security and safety of our residents many of our developments exhibit Home Zone methodologies and are designed so that they adopt Secured by Design principles.
A All ll customers receiive th he 1 1 Go green leaflet giving advice on energy saving.
Bellway p. l. c. 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
