22 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report 2010 Corporate Governance Corporate Social responsibility INTRODUCTION Waste management Regeneration goes beyond bricks and mortar: it is about breathing new Our principal aim when dealing with waste is to reduce our reliance on life into areas that need it the most and bringing about positive and landfill sites and ensure that we introduce effective waste management genuine changes to communities, the environment and the economy systems across all sites built directly by us.
For those projects delivered by contractors and subcontractors on our behalf, we only employ alike.
Therefore, we take Corporate Social Responsibility CSR very companies who comply with our strict criteria for dealing with waste seriously and ensure it forms an integral part of what we do.
Our CSR activities are grouped into three specific areas: Sustainability and the Environment WarWiCKSHire CoLLeGe Community and Economy Charities and Awards SUSTAINABILITY AND THE ENVIRONMENT Environmental initiatives We are always looking at ways in which we can support or instigate local initiatives that bring benefit to our sites and the surrounding environment.
Where possible, we seek to involve the local community in these initiatives which not only helps to build understanding and trust in our work but makes development more accessible.
CryMLyN BUrroWS, SoUTH WaLeS The development of the new Warwickshire College and the access road to this 82 acre site is a typical example of our approach to waste management.
Here, we instigated a rigorous process that led to only 4% of the waste produced being sent to landfill.
To facilitate the process, we appointed one company who would control the waste management for the entire site.
All contractors and subcontractors were instructed to use this company only.
Waste was segregated into six channels: inert matter, wood waste, cardboard paper, scrap metal, plastic and general waste and a total 3 of 10,000 m was produced, of which 96% was retained on-site and re-used within the site for structural fill.
At Crymlyn Burrows in South Wales, a Site of Special Scientific Interest, and part of the 2,500 acre former BP Portfolio we acquired Sustainable buildings in 2009, we joined marine biologists, Oakley International, local We look for the most environmentally effective solutions for our occupiers in terms of the whole life cost of a building and take several factors school children and other community volunteers in a search for into consideration.
These range from the use of renewable materials, shark, skate and ray egg cases along this important strip of Welsh employment of specific design standards and employing a highly skilled coastline.
This work is crucial to the Shark Trust, facilitating vital team of sustainability advisors who ensure that we are always using the research into these elusive breeds of fish.
most technically advanced and efficient sustainability techniques.
As part of the same initiative, a special beach clean-up to remove We welcome the introduction of the code for sustainable homes and litter from the beach and surrounding areas was carried out.
This understand that beyond reducing carbon dioxide emissions, we need followed publication of a Marine Conservation Society Beachwatch to deliver buildings in a way that minimises their other environmental Report claiming that rubbish found on 73 Welsh shorelines was up impacts such as the water they use, the waste they generate and the by 21% on the previous year.
materials they are built from.
We also encourage innovative energy saving measures across all of our sites which have broader positive implications for the surrounding communities and regions as a whole.
co. uk 23 Remediation and reclamation So far, the remediation efforts have restricted landfill consumption Remediation, or the preparation of land for development, is perhaps the significantly and almost 100% of all material generated during the premost important part of the regeneration cycle: allowing for disused sites development and remediation works has been retained on site for reuse.
to be brought back to life and minimising development on greenfield With another 50 acres of site to prepare for development, this land.
sustainable remediation approach is being continued with the support of both Wolverhampton City Council and the Environment Agency.
Almost 100% of our building activity takes place on brownfield sites and we adopt a thorough and ruthless approach to remediation which ensures that the land is cleaned up extensively before any development occurs.
Similarly, across our entire portfolio, over 95% of all waste and materials either reclaimed on-site or created due to demolition works are retained and re-used as part of the development.
This approach ensures we avoid any unnecessary off-site disposal, reduce our reliance on landfill and minimise the need for mining for new materials.
GooDyear SiTe, WoLverHaMPToN Our regeneration of the 90 acre former Goodyear site in Wolverhampton into an 80m mixed-use community is a classic example of how we deal with remediation and reclamation on-site: Prior to commencing any redevelopment works, we carried out extensive environmental and geotechnical assessments of the site which revealed the historic tyre manufacturing processes had resulted in localised contamination to the ground and to the groundwater beneath the site.
A three acre on-site tip was also uncovered which had been used to dispose of industrial waste.
Upon discovery of these elements, we immediately developed a detailed remediation strategy and validation plan that was subsequently agreed with Wolverhampton City Council and the Environment Agency.
Phase 1 of the remediation works covered an initial 16 acres and comprised slab foundation removal, re-profiling earthworks, treatment of hydrocarbon impacted soils and groundwater, processing and treatment of asbestos contaminated soils and processing of buried industrial waste materials for re-use within the site.
65,500 sqm of former factory slabs, yard areas and foundations were Approximately 30,000 tonnes of concrete was generated by grubbed up and removed to enable the redevelopment of the these works, this material was crushed to 6f1 and 6f2 Phase 1 area to be initiated.
specifications for roadway construction and reuse within the build platform.
Relic sub-surface infrastructure comprising structures extending Approximately 35,000 tonnes of concrete was generated by to depths in excess of 6m below ground level were excavated these works: this material was crushed to a 6f2 specification and removed.
for reuse within the redevelopment.
Oil contaminated soils resulting from historical site operations were Approximately 4,000 tonnes of soils treated by bio-remediation delineated, excavated and treated on-site under license.
methods, this material was validated and integrated beneath the build platform.
Re-profiling works across Phase 1 of the site comprised Approximately 16,000 tonnes of soils was excavated, the excavation, validation, laying and compaction of site won soils.
environmentally and geotechnically classified and reused to form the redevelopment profile.
1,259 tonnes of asbestos impacted soils were identified, excavated 760 tonnes of soils were recovered following processing and and processed under strict environmental licensed control conditions.
integrated beneath the redevelopment footprint.
Former site tip contents were segregated, processed and validated Approximately 25,000 tonnes of material was recovered for for reuse within the redevelopment.
reuse to achieve required formation levels within the development.
Oil impacted perched water was removed from excavations and 1.2m litres of water was recovered during the works relic sub-surface infrastructure.
and pre-treated prior to discharge to foul sewer.
Environmental monitoring and control measures were implemented In excess of 500 environmental samples were obtained during throughout the works comprising the sampling of air, soils, recycled the successful completion of the works.
18573 16 02 2011 PROOF 7 24 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report 2010 Corporate Governance Corporate Social responsibility continued Sustainability targets We remain committed to reducing our carbon footprint.
Until the Government has produced clear guidance on the future of the Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Scheme, we will continue to monitor and measure our Co emissions and investigate appropriate mitigation measures right 2 across our portfolio.
To ensure our commitment to sustainability is both real and evidenced, we have in place a series of sustainability targets and continue to demonstrate improvement across the board every year.
Sustainability 2010 target 2010 achieved 2009 Remediated materials re-used or recycled 91 96 99 Demolition products retained for retention on-site or recycling 91 95 94 Construction project waste re-used or recycled 60 75 75 Energy consumption better than required by building regulations n a n a 100 Building projects with at least 10% of power from a renewable energy source 8% 17% 33% Schemes with water usage reduction technologies 100 100 100 Schemes with water recycling technology 30 33 36 on speculative projects in excess of 50,000 sq.
ft. for industrial buildings and 25,000 sq.
ft. for offices no speculative projects have been constructed during 2010 Re-using and preserving buildings In particular, it is our duty to retain any buildings with historical Recycling buildings reduces the environmental impact of development and significance or that play an important part in a site or areas heritage.
therefore we only demolish those that no longer add any value to a specific Similarly, with our larger sites, we try to use land that is not currently site.
under development for other uses such as car parking, car storage and hosting any community events.
BeNTLey Priory St. Modwen, as part of its VSM Estates joint venture, has supported the preservation of Bentley Priory, famous for its pivotal role as Fighter Command Headquarters during the Battle of Britain in World War Two.
VSM Estates was granted detailed planning and listed building consent by Harrow Council in 2008 for its sensitive redevelopment.
The site has now been sold to Barratt Homes, who will build the majority of new homes at the site, together with City & Country who will develop the new homes and museum within the Priory building.
As part of this development, St. Modwen agreed that circa 9.5m would be made available to create, maintain and run the Battle of Britain Museum in the Grade II listed mansion house.
The museum will educate future generations about the unique heritage and significance of Bentley Priory to the nation and allow its historic rooms to be open to the public for the first time in 80 years.
The museum will also pay respect to the bravery and sacrifice of RAF pilots and ground staff who helped turn the tide against Nazi Germany during World War Two.
co. uk 25 COMMUNITY AND ECONOMY Public realm Initiatives We know from experience that a little extra attention to detail can make Whether it is supporting a crime awareness day at a London shopping all the difference to a new development.
Placing special focus on public centre or donating money to a local nature reserve in Yorkshire, we make realm goes a long way in making the communities we build a more sure that all of the initiatives in which we get involved create real value pleasant place to live, work and relax.
Whether supporting a specially for the community and make development more accessible.
commissioned work of art in Manchester, sponsoring a tree planting exercise in South Wales or sponsoring a photography competition in Edmonton Green, through public realm we seek to instill a special sense WarWiCKSHire CoLLeGe, rUGBy of pride in the area.
CoNNaHS QUay, FLiNTSHire We recently completed the development of a 52,000 sq.
ft. Morrisons supermarket at our 15m Quay Shopping Centre scheme in Connahs Quay, Flintshire.
To celebrate the new face of Connahs Quay, we donated 20,000 towards the creation of a piece of public art.
To make way for the new 30m Warwickshire College at our site Local councillors and school children sat on an art panel that in Rugby, we were required to move an existing War Memorial to eventually commissioned a sculpture made of old shopping trolleys.
Acutely aware of the sensitive nature of this Known as Spirit of the Quay, the sculpture acknowledges the work, we ensured the Ex-Servicemens Association was involved in towns long association with its steel works whilst also pointing this process from the very start.
towards the development of the new shopping centre.
To symbolise the relocation of the memorial, it was agreed that on Remembrance Day a ceremony would be held and a time capsule, created by local school children, would be buried beneath the memorial alongside an existing time capsule dating back to just after World War One.
In doing so, young and old were united in celebrating the lives of ex-servicemen on this very important day.
18573 16 02 2011 PROOF 7 26 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report 2010 Corporate Governance Corporate Social responsibility continued Social Inclusion and job creation CHARITY AND AWARDS Our regeneration projects and development activities breathe new life Across the UK, our network of regional offices support a broad range into neglected communities and transform disused brownfield sites into of local and national charities and this year we have raised tens of green and pleasant places to live and work.
This makes us a key driver thousands of pounds towards many worthy causes.
of regional economic growth and means that we play a major role in creating thousands of job opportunities for people across the UK.
Lands end to John oGroats sponsored cycle ride HrH The Prince of Wales at Coed Darcy in 2010 Perhaps the most high profile charity event was a sponsored cycle ride from Lands End to John OGroats.
The team, comprising Regional Director Mike Herbert, Senior Development Surveyor Mike We seek to employ local contractors to carry out works across Murray and development surveyors Jonathan Green and Andrew Cox, our projects and use sustainable building techniques wherever completed the task in just ten days and raised, with the help of St. possible to ensure that our sites are at the forefront of sustainable Modwen, over 25,000 for the challenges four nominated charities development.
For example, at Coed Darcy in South Wales, we The Donna Louise Childrens Hospice Trust: Breast Cancer are working closely with The Princes Foundation for the Built Campaign: The British Heart Foundation and the James Whale Fund Environment to ensure that local skills and local materials are being for Kidney Cancer.
used when developing the site.
In June 2010 HRH The Prince of Wales visited Coed Darcy and met with many local tradesmen who St. Modwen Environmental Trust were showcasing their skills at a specially organised event.
The Our other charity work includes the St. Modwen Environmental Trust.
Prince was then taken on a tour of the developed areas of the site to Now in its fourth year, the Trust continues to provide valuable support to see sustainable development in practice.
community and environmental projects across the UK.
Affiliated to the Governments Landfill Tax Credit Scheme and regulated by ENTRUST, the Environmental Trust seeks to support projects where We also seek to promote the growth of new businesses through the alternative funding is unlikely to be available, targeting not-for-profit development of our innovation centres which are designed to encourage organisations such as community groups and charities.
SMEs, growing businesses and specific sectors, in various areas across the UK.
Each centre provides an environment where these businesses In 2010 we have committed 200,000 to 15 projects across the UK and can evolve and develop.
They provide flexible leases and a full range of an example of these projects is situated in close proximity to our 100m ready made business services.
Town Centre regeneration project in Wythenshawe, Manchester where we donated 10,000 to the clean up of Park Wood.
This is a cause which We are rolling out a series of these centres as part of our national was also sponsored by Greening Greater Manchester and Manchester regeneration programme and work closely with Local Authorities in each City Councils Working Neighbourhood Fund.
Our grant helped to pay for area to ensure that they are in line with local demand.
We have already the restoration of the pathways which criss-crossed the wood, signage, built three in Cranfield, Longbridge and Blackburn where over 200 clearing of litter and safety improvements around the woods panels.
businesses are now working and flourishing.
Further centres are planned in Exeter and Weston-super-Mare.
The proceeds also included regular litter picking events which attracted around 70 local residents each time and the creation of two carved Community consultation wooden sculptures.
With the Localism Bill featuring high on the Governments agenda, it is our responsibility to ensure that we seek to engage with local Councillor Richard Cowell, Executive Member of the Environment at communities on as many levels as possible so that they have a real Manchester City Council said: This project is part of the Councils stake in our developments.
Community consultation will therefore grow regeneration work at Wythenshawe and means that an area of natural in importance as a means for us to hear the views of local residents, beauty is litter-free and has been preserved so that it can be enjoyed businesses and politicians.
long-term by residents and visitors.
co. uk 27 Awards ISO14001 Our track record as the UKs leading regeneration specialist, continues to This international standard was awarded to The Meads Shopping be recognised by the number of awards we have secured in 2010: Centre in Farnborough and demonstrates St. Modwens commitment to environmental best practice in recycling, energy, waste and water use.
The 2010 Chartered Institute of Architectural Technologists National The accreditation requires a monthly check on all environmental aspects Awards Highly Commended of shopping centre operations and states that all suppliers must source The 30m Vodafone Contact Centre in Stoke-on-Trent which St. goods ethically.
Modwens North Staffordshire team completed in early 2010 was recognised for technical excellence in these national awards.
RHS Tatton Park Show 2010 Silver Award The Sound Garden from The Trentham Estate and Gardens was Midlands Insider Awards 2010 Developer of the Year awarded a silver medal at this years Tatton Show, organised by the Having completed another very active year, the judges felt that this Royal Horticultural Society.
This interactive, sensory garden, designed by prestigious title should be awarded to St. Modwens Midlands team.
Clive Mollart, was one of the few show gardens to receive one of the top Specifically, progress at the 1 billion Longbridge regeneration scheme awards.
and the completion of the 30m Warwickshire College in Rugby were acknowledged.
The European Garden Heritage Network 2010 European Award for Garden Restoration South West Insider Awards 2010 Commercial Developer of the Year In recognition of its transformation into one of the finest gardens in the St. Modwens South West team was shortlisted for this important award British Isles, The Trentham Estate achieved this prestigious award in the in recognition of its development activities across the region, amongst category of exceptional achievements in garden culture.
The European which includes the 150m Access 18 scheme in Avonmouth, the Garden Heritage Network is led by The Centre for Garden Art and 120m regeneration of Skypark in Exeter and the 210m regeneration of Landscape Design in Germany, and is supported by a number of local, Firepool in Taunton.
North West Property awards 2010 inaugural Strategic alliance award The Strategic Alliance Award was established in 2010 to recognise over 95% pre-let.
the importance of partnership working at a time when finance is hard In the last ten years, Widnes Regeneration Ltd has completely to come by.
transformed and revitalised the Town Centre, leading to substantial The judges presented St. Modwen and its partner Halton Borough new investment in adjoining areas: Council with this award in recognition of over a decades worth of 40,000 sq.
ft. of local shopping: regeneration to Widnes Town Centre.
ft. foodstore: Organisers of the event referred to the project as a shining example of the value of partnership working, delivering employment, leisure 50,000 sq.
ft. retail and leisure development: and laying foundations for further growth.
76 social housing units: The award coincided with our announcement that in 2011, we 150 private homes: would be commencing the development of Venture Fields: the 10m leisure scheme on the edge of Widnes and the final piece of the 150,000 sq.
ft. of employment space: jigsaw for the Town Centres regeneration.
The scheme is already The creation of over 900 jobs.
