Berendsen plc Formerly The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2010 36 Corporate responsibility From Peter Ventress Delivering on our principles.
Corporate Responsibility CR lies at the heart of our group.
It is integral to the sustainability of our business and informs all our actions, at all times.
It is a requirement that participant How we manage CR organisations publish a first The importance of CR continues Communication on Progress within two to be recognised by the board, which years of joining.
Our first update, which regularly reviews the management focused on our progress in the areas of CR-related issues.
The board of human rights and the environment, acknowledges its responsibility in was submitted on 20th January 2011. establishing and updating our CR The next Communication on Progress policies which cover ethics, the will be published by 20th January 2012. environment, our employees, health and safety and the communities Customers and marketplace in which we operate.
We are a focused European Responsibility for CR policy textile maintenance business providing implementation and compliance We cannot operate a viable, sustainable workwear, linen and facilities lies overall with the Chief Executive.
business, deliver our strategy or meet rental services.
Through our decentralised our long-term aims without the support Our customers demand the highest management structure, our local teams of our people and other stakeholders.
standard products, cleanliness, reliability support the Chief Executive by taking Our approach to CR ensures that and flexibility.
We recognise responsibility for the implementation we deliver value to the business, meet the importance of establishing and of group CR policies, taking into account legislative requirements as an maintaining strong partnerships local cultures and legislation.
absolute minimum, and in most cases with customers and therefore commit surpass them.
to contracts of at least three years.
Playing our part, globally We are committed to being a positive We understand our customers and their We became a signatory to the United influence in our communities and strive needs through regular day-to-day Nations Global Compact on 27th to maintain the highest standards contact, for example through our January 2009.
Participation is providing of governance, safety, environmental transport staff who work on dedicated us with a recognised and respected performance and engagement with our routes, and through our key customer framework for our work on sustainability stakeholders employees, customers, account management teams.
Many of partners, investors and communities.
the markets that we operate in are also We recognise that customers are We provide employment opportunities increasingly demanding that suppliers continually seeking to reduce the impact that sustain many people, and we embrace the ideals outlined in the of their operations on the environment.
have clear responsibilities towards those Global Compacts ten principles.
They depend upon us to adhere to employees as well as to the broader We have also become a member of certain standards and to manage our communities where they live.
the UK Global Compact Network and, services in an environmentally friendly as a relatively new participant, have We measure our success in the way.
In most instances the efficient found this to be particularly useful.
CR arena through a number of KPIs.
industrialised process that we provide Those for Major Injury Rate and is more environmentally friendly than Senior Management Retention Rate if our customers had maintained their are shown on page 9. laundry requirements in-house.
Business review Governance Financial statements Investors 37 Our employees are regularly provided If an employee were unfortunately Focusing on key issues with training appropriate to their roles to become disabled during the course The board has identified that the most and responsibilities, with procedures of their employment, every effort significant CR-related issues are: and systems documented in handbooks would be made to ensure that their or manuals.
employment with the group continues, Maintaining a safe and that where considered necessary, and healthy workplace We carry out periodic risk assessments appropriate retraining is arranged.
There at business units and invest in, Reducing environmental impact were no instances during 2010 of an improvements to our safety systems employee becoming disabled during, Valuing diversity when and where required.
We regularly the course of their employment.
review our health and safety procedures, Attracting and retaining to ensure they reflect legislative or the best people Reducing environmental impact business sector changes and, Maintaining supply-chain integrity developments.
We continue to invest We understand the risks and in improvements to fire management opportunities associated with the, Reducing noise and pollution and security, in order to enhance the environmental impact of our operations.
working environment for our employees Maintaining a safe As reported in the 2009 Annual Report, and provide greater assurance of and healthy workplace our environmental working group has continued supply for our customers.
agreed the optimal machine layout for We recognise health and safety We have a robust reporting system each of the different types of laundry as an operational priority and for use in the unfortunate occurrence that we operate.
The objectives are as an important element of our risk of health and safety related incidents.
to achieve increased efficiency and management programmes.
Any such incidents are promptly lower water and energy consumption.
Some of our employees work in reported and investigated, and actions Business units invest in new technologies a production environment that will agreed to minimise the risk of such and plant and equipment such as water typically incorporate inherent risks.
Group incident recovery and recycling systems, It is therefore important that we statistics are regularly collected and technologies to recover heat and maintain a high standard of systems reviewed by the board.
The table below energy from driers and boiler exhaust for health and safety not only for shows the 2008, 2009 and 2010 Major gas, technology that monitors drier our employees, but also for customers Injury Rate for each of the UK and temperatures to optimise drying time, and others affected by our activities.
Ireland, Nordic and Continent regions.
and recovery of high pressure steam.
In 2010 we have continued to make these 1 The Managing Director of each Major injury rate types of investments in our core laundry business unit is responsible to the 2008 2009 2010 operations, spending over 2.8 million.
Chief Executive for maintaining UK and Ireland 0.42 1.07 0.89 health and safety procedures We use local plant performance Nordic 0.19 0.58 0.39 appropriate for the environment indicators that measure our usage of Continent 0.40 0.58 0.45 of that unit.
These responsibilities water, electricity, chemicals and oil gas Group 0.37 0.87 0.70 include providing safe systems compared to kilogrammes of textiles 1 Major injury rate Number of major injuries number of work.
These performance indicators of hours worked x 1.000.000 are designed for business unit 2 Major injuries as defined under UK rules in The managements benefit as we think Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 1995 RIDDOR that the factors that influence usage rates are better managed locally.
As a consequence these indicators are not consolidated into regional or group measurements.
Each individual plant Case study: Case study: and each business unit as a whole will M eeting the standards Ensuring fair working continue to agree usage targets for of the Carbon Trust practices worldwide each month and year, against which they report on an ongoing basis.
During 2010 our UK-based Sunlight business For the second consecutive year, we have achieved impressive reductions in energy and carried out a detailed review of the extent water usage, as well as CO2 emissions.
The to which our major overseas textile suppliers reductions have been measured and validated would confirm that they were adopting by the Carbon Trust.
In September 2010, appropriate working practices.
For 2010, we Sunlight was one of only 350 organisations in used a web-based process which has helped the UK to have achieved the Carbon Trust us to analyse the responses received in greater Standard Certificate.
detail and in a much more efficient way.
This exercise will be repeated again in 2011 and annually thereafter.
Berendsen plc Formerly The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2010 38 Corporate responsibility continued Water recovery Group-wide CO2 reporting Valuing diversity We use water recovery systems Several of our business units have a Attracting, retaining and motivating in the majority of our operations, history of measuring and monitoring appropriately skilled people is essential as they reduce water consumption their CO2 emissions.
However, during to our success.
Reduced the second quarter of 2010, we water consumption also results in implemented a group-wide policy to We currently operate in 15 countries, lower energy used to heat up water ensure that all business units will in encompassing a wide range of for washing, and subsequently less future follow their good example and languages and cultures.
will measure, monitor and report CO2 diversity in our workforce and have a emissions data after having applied policy prohibiting discrimination against Reducing heat and energy loss consistent criteria and formulae.
Our strategy to reduce heat and energy It is also our policy not to discriminate loss is to install new and more efficient We are not yet in a position to provide against disabled persons, particularly technology in those parts of our consolidated group CO2 emissions data, regarding recruitment and selection, operations where most energy is used, or comment on the performance of training, career development and where there will be a significant any individual business unit.
We will use and promotion.
the data collected in 2011 to report in our next Annual Report.
We continue to operate in a challenging New technology has helped us control marketplace.
We employ a significant the use of energy by recycling hot water, Working with skilled partners number of migrant workers, although recovering energy from boiler exhaust We work closely with various major recent self-repatriation has caused gas, recovering heat from drier exhaust, chemical suppliers and experienced us to look at alternative labour sources.
monitoring tumbler temperatures to energy saving consultancy services.
Dedicated staff are difficult to recruit optimise drying time and recovering Together, we are recognising and retain, so it is important that we high pressure steam for use elsewhere opportunities to reduce water and continue to meet our employees needs in the laundry process.
New technologies energy consumption by identifying and expectations, since they are key have typically reduced energy likely areas for potential capital in meeting those of our customers.
consumption by between 10% and 30%, expenditure and or process change.
depending on the operation concerned.
The nature of our operations requires Shortening delivery distances flexible working arrangements and shift We are mindful of any future national patterns, through which we can often or local legislation in this area and accommodate different individuals are continually working towards lifestyle needs.
Given our many years meeting and exceeding requirements.
of experience in this industry we are We regularly review our vehicle able to predict demand fluctuations routes to ensure the most efficient and so are well positioned to provide use of our fleet resources and opportunities for flexible working fuel while recognising customers arrangements that may better suit individual requirements.
individual circumstances, for example, for parents with young children and for those studying.
We are geared towards the diverse nature of our workforce.
For example, the group has a whistleblowing system which operates in a number of languages.
In the UK for instance, this system is at present available in Case study: Case study: 14 different languages.
During 2010, Reducing noise pollution in our I ncreasing the skills of our employees 9issues were raised by employees, laundries and in our communities and their access to opportunity all of which related to personnel or employee welfare concerns.
All of these We developed the CL2000 production With the support of certified regional concept in Sweden and it is now implemented educational centres, our Netherlands business concerns were promptly reviewed by in a large number of garment laundries in the has developed training programmes to increase management and appropriate action Nordic and Continent regions.
In these laundries the diversity of skills that our employees have was taken where required.
we have a requirement that noise levels in across production, purchasing and customer each line do not exceed 70db.
This provides them with the ability to by demanding low noise machinery from move from one role to another within Berendsen, suppliers, and using noise dampening materials but also to help if they were looking for other in floors, walls and the roof.
Business review Governance Financial statements Investors 39 Attracting and retaining That is why we monitor as a key Reducing noise and pollution performance indicator the Senior the best people Many of our plants are in suburban Management Retention Rate for each areas, operating from early in the Providing the right training country and region, and for the group morning until late at night, and in some Responsibility for staff training and as a whole.
Statistics for 2008 to 2010 cases for 24 hours a day.
We therefore recruitment lies with our business unit are shown in the table below: carefully monitor the impact our management.
We focus on induction Senior management retention rate operations might have on local training at all levels, individual residents, particularly with regard to development plans and, where 2008 2009 2010 outdoor lighting, yard and vehicle noise, appropriate, cross-border transfers.
UK and Ireland 100% 96% 100% and pollution.
We maintain an ongoing Nordic 96% 85% 94% We provide a mixture of on-the-job dialogue with our neighbours, local training for our operational, sales Continent 77% 96% 92% authorities and councils.
and service employees and leadership Group 91% 92% 95% training for our more senior staff.
Engaging with General training and development Maintaining supply our stakeholders plans are designed to meet the chain integrity expectations of all employees.
Just as customers, employees, We believe it is paramount that our communities and suppliers depend on Recruiting from our communities partners and suppliers are treated our group for services and employment, Our operations recruit where they with respect and that we promote so we depend on them to support us can from their local communities.
as we endeavour to operate as a good As a consequence we recognise the We are continually reviewing our employer and neighbour.
We never importance of maintaining a strong local procedures and the potential risks take their goodwill or commitment reputation and have a group-wide associated with using overseas for granted and carry out structured policy that requires our businesses to suppliers.
It is important to us that research to ensure that we are meeting respect all local cultures and religions.
suppliers and sub-contractors adhere expectations and taking every Employee dialogue toour requirement for the provision of opportunity to maintain and enhance We maintain ongoing dialogue with appropriate labour standards regarding our reputation.
our employees in local operations, employee age, working conditions For example, in most of the countries and listen to their concerns and needs.
and the general treatment of workers.
where we operate, we carry out regular Our local management teams actively As participants in the United Nations customer satisfaction surveys.
Similarly, address any day-to-day issues with Global Compact we are continuing to we frequently undertake employee our employees, although dialogue work with suppliers to ensure that they satisfaction surveys.
In a business that is also maintained at country level via comply with local legislation related relies on the quality of its people and staff associations and trade unions to the minimum working age.
strives to retain the best, we work hard where recognised.
to understand what we are doing well, In addition updated instructions on Maintaining a motivated workforce and where we can improve.
anti-bribery and corruption were One of our key strategic objectives is to distributed in January 2011, outlining More than just employers or corporate improve financial returns by leveraging how business units should be adopting partners, we are very much part of our operational efficiency.
Our senior a risk-based approach to managing local communities.
Our business units management teams are continually this risk.
work at a local level to put something striving to advance operational back into their communities and excellence, motivating and encouraging During 2010 we carried out over strengthen the bonds between local our staff who, through their continued 50 reviews at overseas textile suppliers, people and the group.
We therefore including 22 revisits, in order to confirm recognise that maintaining the strength the extent to which appropriate standards Our plans for 2011 of our management teams is very were being adopted.
In addition the important in delivering the standards Business Social Compliance Initiative In the final quarter of 2010 we completed that our customers require and expect.
BSCI carried out revisits on our behalf a comprehensive strategic review of to two of our garment suppliers in order our business.
Following this, during the to verify standards.
All observations first half of 2011, we will be looking again made to suppliers have been addressed.
at our group CR Vision and Strategy.
Where necessary, our policies will Adoption of appropriate labour be modified to take account of newly standards by our suppliers identified areas of focus.
We fully support Convention No.
138 of the International Labour Organisation, which seeks to ensure the effective abolition of child labour and to raise progressively the minimum age for admission to employment or work to a level consistent with the fullest physical and mental development of young persons.
Berendsen plc Formerly The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2010 40 Chairmans foreword From Christopher Kemball Contents Governance 41 Board of directors 42 Corporate governance statement 54 Report on directors remuneration 62 Directors report 67 Directors responsibilities for the financial statements Governance.
Delivering sustainable value depends on the trust and confidence of all our stakeholders which can only be earned by conducting our business responsibly.
Although, with the assistance of the Company Secretary, I lead the governance process, it is a matter which is reserved to the whole board for consideration.
Theboard comprises a team of experienced individuals with the complementary skills and knowledge necessary to carry out these duties effectively and to thereby earn the respect of all stakeholders.
At Berendsen plc, we do not view governance as a separate compliance exercise butthe method by which we manage the long-term success of the group.
Bydoing so, I believe that the board and the company are well-placed to face thechallenges arising from the economic environment during 2011.
Good governance practices need to be developed over time.
We aim to be at the forefront of best practice in order to deliver the companys strategy and, by doingso, promote the success of the business for the benefit of shareholders.
During 2010, we were once again pleased to be recognised at the ICSA Hermes 2010 Transparency in Governance Awards.
Not only was the company named thewinner of the FTSE 250 Best risk management disclosure category, but we were alsoshort-listed in the FTSE 250 category for Best board disclosure.
The board has reviewed the main changes following the publication of the UK Corporate Governance Code in June 2010 and has made any appropriate changes toour governance structures and procedures to ensure that the group will be in compliance with the new code from 1st January 2011.
In particular the board has agreed that an external board evaluation will be performed within the next two years and all directors will be subject to annual election from the 2012 AGM.
In September 2010 John Burns decided to retire from the board, following the successful recruitment of our new Chief Executive, Peter Ventress, in 2009 and three non-executive directors, Iain Ferguson, David Lowden and Andrew Wood, inMarch 2010.
On behalf of the board, I would like to thank John for his outstanding contribution to the group.
