BUSINESS REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW | MANAGING DIRECTORS REVIEW | 9 SUSTAINABILITY Berkeley has always adopted a holistic approach to sustainability.
It is embedded within the Groups development process and regarded as a fundamental part of creating the quality homes and places that our customers seek and for which Berkeley is renowned.
As a result, Berkeley has, for the third year running, been ranked first in the NextGeneration benchmark, the leading sustainability benchmark for the Top 25 UK homebuilders.
It is also the reason that Berkeley holds a Queens Award for Enterprise in the Sustainable Development Category.
It is from these credentials that Berkeley has formulated an ambitious, long-term strategy for its business to ensure that, by 2020, it continues to be viewed by its stakeholders as the leader in delivering sustainable homes and communities, as well as being one of the UKs most sustainable businesses.
Called Vision 2020, the strategy focuses on four key impact areas which encapsulate all aspects of Berkeleys business.
These are: The Customer Experience: Building Greener Homes: Delivering Sustainable Communities: and Running a Sustainable Business.
In each area Berkeley is making forward thinking, sector leading commitments that will continue to drive the sustainability agenda forward for the benefit of Berkeleys customers and other stakeholders.
As part of Vision 2020 Berkeley has become the countrys first developer to adopt the Building for Life Silver Standard of design as a minimum commitment.
All new developments for which Berkeley submits a planning application after 1 May 2010 will have a formal Building for Life assessment carried out with the objective of achieving a minimum score of 14 out of 20.
Building for Life is a national standard for well-designed homes and neighbourhoods.
Its 20 assessment criteria embody functional, attractive, sustainable housing and cover issues that are integral to the creation of sustainable communities.
Berkeley has previously received a total of 11 Building for Life Standards, most recently a Silver Standard at Imperial Wharf.
Computer generated image of Saffron Square, Croydon ANNUAL REPORT 2010 | BERKELEY
