28 | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | BUSINESS REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW SUSTAINABILITY REMAINS AT THE HEART OF BERKELEY LEADING THE SECTOR The Berkeley Group is passionate in its Berkeleys strong sustainability commitment commitment to sustainability.
We have and performance continues to be recognised integrated principles of sustainability into our externally.
We have consistently used two external core business strategy, both in terms of the benchmarks NextGeneration and FTSE4Good day-to-day management of our business, and the to help us guide our strategy and assess our developments we build.
It is embedded within performance relative to our peers.
NextGeneration the Groups development process and regarded is the leading sustainability benchmark for the Top 25 UK homebuilders.
In November 2009, we as a fundamental part of creating the quality homes and places that our customers seek and were delighted to be ranked first in the benchmark for which Berkeley is renowned.
We believe for the third year running.
FTSE4Good measures that this strategy has given Berkeley a definitive the performance of companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards, and competitive advantage over our peers.
aims to promote investment in those companies.
Complete information on our sustainability We have been listed since 2002, retaining our listing impacts, actions and achievements can be found in the review in March 2010. on our website and in our Sustainability Report.
We have also won numerous industry awards this 2010 will be the first year we have been able to certify our sustainability reporting to Level B of year including Housebuilder of the Year at both the Global Reporting Initiative GRI Sustainability Reporting Framework having reported to Level C for two years previous to this, including an even wider range of indicators than previously.
The GRI Framework sets out principles and indicators for measuring and reporting on economic environmental and social performance in a balanced and transparent manner.
BERKELEY | ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW | 29 The central park at Park West, West Drayton Berkeley has always adopted a holistic approach to sustainability.
Wildlife at home in the central water feature within the Armouries, Royal Arsenal Riverside, Woolwich GOVERNANCE the What House?
Awards and the Building Awards.
We manage sustainability in a way that allows us to External recognition for our strong Health and Safety measure and understand our performance, learn performance included 13 ROSPA Gold Awards, our lessons and share good practice across the business.
strongest ever performance in these awards.
In Our strategy is led by the Main Board, and the recently announced NHBC National Health & supported by the newly formed Sustainability Safety Awards, Berkeley was the most successful Health & Safety Committee.
This Committee housebuilder winning two of the six National awards: comprises a number of our Main Board members the National Award for Leadership and National Best and is chaired by one of our Non-executive Large Site category for Slade Park in Oxford.
The role of this Committee We also hold the prestigious Queens Award for is to ensure that the sustainability strategy remains Enterprise: Sustainable Development, which we were closely aligned with our business objectives and awarded in April 2008, and retain for five years.
that we are delivering upon the commitments in our This award recognises companies which have made vision for 2020. outstanding advances in performance or have a To facilitate dialogue between this committee high level of continuous achievement in sustainable and each of the working divisions, there is also a development.
We were praised for our strong Group-level Sustainability Working Group, made leadership, promoting best practice in the sector and up of representatives from across the business.
embedding sustainability throughout the business.
This, in combination with Sustainability Working Groups held at a divisional level, and project team meetings, helps to ensure the application of the sustainability strategy at an operational level.
ANNUAL REPORT 2010 | BERKELEY 30 | SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW | BUSINESS REVIEW BERKELEY | ANNUAL REPORT 2010
