34 | SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW | BUSINESS REVIEW DELIVERING SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITIES Berkeley celebrates urban living and Berkeley with a better local understanding of champions striking design and high quality the scheme, enabling us to be able to identify construction that commits to sustainability.
the key issues for the community.
We were Attention to detail and bespoke solutions thus able to revise the application to address remain at the heart of our values and we pride these issues and turn long-term objectors into ourselves on the high standard of design and supporters.
The overwhelming community construction at each of our developments.
support for the improved scheme was key in obtaining planning consent.
We believe our approach to sustainability, and our commitment to stakeholder engagement We also seek to minimise disruption to enables faster planning permissions and better local communities during construction, designed schemes that meet the aspirations of and we sign all sites up to the voluntary the local community.
We have many examples Considerate Constructors Scheme CCS of where pro-active dialogue has helped to which independently audits site performance.
deliver schemes which have supported local Our CCS site audit scores have consistently communities.
For example, at our planned exceeded the benchmark for all projects development at West Kent Cold Store, we registered with the scheme.
Our average have attended monthly West Kent Cold Store score in the Considerate Constructors Community Forum meetings involving all key Scheme is 35.3 compared to our target local stakeholders, as well as numerous oneof 32.2, the industry average.
In 2010, we to-one meetings with neighbours, residents were proud to achieve a Gold Considerate associations, ward and parish councillors, and Constructors Scheme Award for Imperial we have held two public exhibitions.
A yearWharf, London, and Silver Considerate long exercise resulted in the establishment Constructors Scheme across five other of trust betwen the local community and schemes.
RUNNING A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS We believe that our success and acheivements REDUCING OUR CARBON EMISSIONS We are delighted that over the past year we have should be measured by the contribution we make to both society and the environment, as reduced the carbon emissions of our operations by 22%.
This reduction was achieved for a well as our financial performance.
number of reasons: ACHIEVING THE HIGHEST STANDARDS Significant reduction in CO emissions OF HEALTH & SAFETY 2 In the past year, we recorded the lowest number associated with our car fleet Reduction in energy intensive activities of RIDDOR injury incidents that has ever been recorded across the Group.
At 14, one less on sites More effective management of performance than 2008 09, our accident incident rate AIR of 3.83 is equal to the best on record and at a site and office level, assisted by improved data collection our accident frequency rate AFR of 0.18 is deemed to be world class.
Continued implementation of awarenessraising with staff We have implemented two campaigns to help Increased efficency through a range drive high health & safety standards on our sites of initiatives in our offices Good Order and Good Work to tackle the two key causes of accidents the working environment and the behaviour of workers.
Good Order was introduced in 2008, and Good Work has been introduced over the past year.
This year we have held eight Good Work workshops with 120 of the Groups key people being in attendance.
BERKELEY | ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY REVIEW | 35 2010 COMMITMENTS 2012 AMBITIONS OUR VISION FOR 2020 Our commitments from May 2010 Our ambitions from May 2012 are: We will continue to have a strong track include: record in creating developments which Apply minimum design standards people choose as a place to live, work Achieve at least the Building for on all Berkeley Group homes which and spend their leisure time.
Our Life Silver Standard on all new will include standards for sound ability to transform sites into thriving developments insulation, space storage and sustainable communities will remain ventilation sector-leading.
Through our ability All sites register with the Considerable Constructors Scheme Ensure all homes meet the Lifetime both to engage and to deliver, we will continue to be the developer of and continue to achieve a minimum Homes Standards of 32.2 points choice for local authorities and existing Develop community engagement communities.
Apply our best practice community strategies on all projects that will be consultation guidelines on all planning under construction for over five years applications over 500 units 2010 COMMITMENTS 2012 AMBITIONS OUR VISION FOR 2020 Our commitments from May 2010 Our ambitions from May 2012 are: Sustainability will remain fully include: integrated into our business strategy Achieve a RIDDOR reportable and operations.
Our stakeholders Continue to achieve a RIDDOR Accident Incident Rate AIR of will continue to view us as the leader reportable Accident Incident Rate less than 3.5 incidents per 1,000 within the new homes sector, as AIR of less than 4 incidents per employees and sub-contractors well as being one of the UKs most 1,000 employees and sub-contractors A Health and Wellbeing programme sustainable businesses.
We will be able to clearly demonstrate the value of our Reduce annual carbon dioxide available to all employees emissions by 5% until 2012 sustainability strategy and will have Undertake employee engagement continued to generate strong returns Capture and quantify our work with surveys and develop action plans to our shareholders.
charities and local communities and to address any issues raised benchmark performance ANNUAL REPORT 2010 | BERKELEY
