Risk 56 56 Each of the committees has met on a quarterly Risk governance framework basis, with two exceptions.
A sub-committee of the 3is risk governance framework provides a structured Group Risk Management Committee met monthly process to oversee the identification, assessment and during the financial year to monitor key risks and related approach to mitigation in respect of those risks which management actions.
This was considered necessary could materially impact the Groups strategic objectives in the context of continued market and economic or execution.
The Portfolio Risk Committee has met Risk management operates at all levels throughout twice.
This Committee is closely linked to the Groups the Group, across business lines, geographies and Investment Committee, which itself has undergone professional functions.
The Board is ultimately refinements following the creation of the new role of responsible for risk management, which includes the Chief Investment Officer in 2009.
The respective roles Groups risk governance or oversight structure and of these Committees have been reviewed and clarified maintaining an appropriate internal control framework.
as part of the wider review of 3is investment processes.
Managements responsibility is to manage risk on behalf of the Board.
Related committees By reporting regularly to Audit and Compliance The Corporate Responsibility Committee considers Committee, the Groups Risk Management Committee and reviews corporate responsibility issues relevant to provides support to the Board in maintaining oversight 3is business, reporting to the Board.
This includes of the effectiveness of risk management across the identifying and assessing the significant risks and Group.
The risk governance framework and the opportunities for 3i arising from corporate responsibility responsibilities of the main committees involved issues.
Any reported risks are also considered by the are shown below.
Further details can also be found Operational Risk Committee or Group Risk Management in the Governance section Pillar 3 disclosures at Committee as appropriate.
Operation during the year The framework outlined above has been in operation since the start of the financial year, following a review aimed at simplifying and enhancing its effectiveness.
This review, concluded in March 2009, was driven by the practical experience of operating through a prolonged period of heightened risks, in the context of deteriorating and uncertain market and economic conditions, and the desire to improve risk oversight in relation to balance sheet management and the investment portfolio.
A similar review was conducted in February 2010, with the overall conclusion that the current framework remains fit for purpose.
Group Risk Management Committee Chairman: Chief Executive Oversight of the Groups overall risk management processes Monitors changes in the Groups external and strategic risk profile Reviews reports from each of the Treasury Management, Portfolio Risk and Operational Risk Committees Assesses the adequacy of risk mitigation steps put in place in respect of higher level risks Reports to the Audit and Compliance Committee Treasury Management Operational Risk Portfolio Risk Committee Committee Committee Chairman: Chief Executive Chairman: Group Communications Chairman: Managing Partner Director Chief Investment Officer Oversees management of funding, gearing, liquidity, interest rate and Oversees the key operational risks Oversees risks arising from foreign exchange exposures in facing the Group, including changes investment portfolio concentration relation to policies agreed by to the operational risk profile and by vintage, geography, sector the Board new and emerging risks and size 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2010 Overview Business Case Risk Corporate Governance Financial Portfolio and review studies responsibility statements other information 57 57 57-62 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility at 3i 58 as an investor 60 as a company 61 Information about 3is approach to corporate responsibility and our performance in the year.
3i Group plc Report and accounts 2010
