3i Infrastructure plc 34 Annual report and accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility report Core values and approach to corporate responsibility The Companys approach to corporate responsibility is commercially based and driven by 3i Infrastructures aim to be a partner of choice for current and potential portfolio companies.
The Board, which as a whole is responsible for the definition and implementation of the Companys corporate responsibility policy, views an active approach to corporate responsibility as a genuine competitive advantage, that will help maximise long-term returns.
Core values Our core values are to: be commercial and fair: respect the needs of our shareholders, our suppliers, the local community and the businesses in which we invest: maintain our integrity and professionalism: and strive for continual improvement and innovation.
The Board, in partnership with the Investment Adviser, reviews our approach to corporate responsibility every year, and will keep innovating in this important area.
The Companys corporate responsibility investment policy is summarised below.
Summary of 3i Infrastructures corporate responsibility investment policy As a public company, 3i Infrastructure is committed to putting its core values into effect by investing responsibly and encouraging responsible business conduct among its portfolio companies.
3i Infrastructure aims to be a top performer in corporate responsibility among infrastructure investment companies and a positive influence for sustainable social and environmental practices across its international investment portfolio.
Specifically, 3i Infrastructure is committed to: 1.
Human rights Respect the protection of international human rights and avoid complicity in human rights violations.
Labour workplace rights Uphold the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining: abolish child labour: eliminate forced and compulsory labour: and end employment discrimination.
The environment Take a cautious and responsible approach to the environment: promote compliance with environmental law, improvement in management standards and the sustainable management of natural resources: and help combat climate change by supporting the development of products and services that are environmentally beneficial.
Anti-corruption Avoid corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery, upholding compliance standards and integrity and complying with relevant anti-fraud and money-laundering regulations.
The Company sees these aspirations as going beyond corporate good governance and compliance with local and other law.
The policy is not just concerned with doing no harm or ethical business practices, but impinges on issues of wider trust and corporate reputation, which are critically important in the new global climate of public mistrust of the financial sector.
These policies and procedures were designed to provide the Board and the Investment Adviser with a clear framework, as well as the tools, to think about and manage issues relating to corporate responsibility throughout the investment process.
Procedures at the Investment Adviser have been adopted based on a simple corporate responsibility materiality test for all investments, and a requirement for the Board and Investment Adviser to demonstrate, throughout the life of the investment through to exit, that they have taken account of the issues and understand the value opportunities and risks involved.
By encouraging corporate learning and the sharing of good practice, the Board believes this process will be self-reinforcing.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2010 35 The Companys investment process involves Dealing with any corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility in our four key stages: issues which emerge investment activity Identifying a corporate responsibility The Company views corporate responsibility Fundraising issue in due diligence may result in as both an opportunity and a risk.
Investments are made using the Companys 3i Infrastructure withdrawing, but not own financial resources.
Interest in the degree Opportunity necessarily so.
Confidence in the capacity to which public companies and investment The Board and the Investment Adviser of the management team of the potential companies consider environmental, ethical, believe that an active approach to corporate investee company and their willingness governance and social issues has been responsibility has the potential to bring a wide to address issues satisfactorily will be growing among a number of investors in variety of business benefits to our portfolio a key determinant of whether the public markets.
companies including: Company proceeds with an investment The Company communicates its approach on or not.
The relationship of the Company improved efficiency, reduced costs and corporate responsibility issues to investors in and Investment Adviser with the potential lower waste: a variety of ways, including its website, annual investee company may mean that issues increased employee, customer and supplier report and through direct contact.
can be resolved and that there is full engagement: compliance before the investment is Investment assessment completed.
Helping to resolve an issue may greater access to international markets: While each investment is considered on its be an important element of the Companys own merits, the Investment Adviser has a new market opportunities: and the Investment Advisers ability to add standard review process for all types of value as well as enhance the investment enhanced brand and reputation: investments which aims to identify all of opportunity.
the issues that may affect the Companys greater awareness and management decision to invest.
Consideration of corporate Investment Committee and final approval of risks: and responsibility issues is embedded as a Investments are then presented by the a potentially wider pool of buyers for the mandatory part of this process.
Investment Adviser to the Board.
If asset in the event of a sale.
approval is given, it is usually subject to a The key steps in the process are: For 3i Infrastructure, the opportunity is number of conditions precedent which Preliminary appraisal from the straightforward: supporting the sustainable may include some relating to corporate Investment Adviser growth of portfolio companies has the responsibility issues, for example, a key During which a decision is taken on potential to increase their value.
appointment being made, or confirmation whether to commit further resource to that a certain process meets a certain Risks progress the investment opportunity standard.
Once all conditions precedent The most significant corporate responsibility and place it in formal work in progress.
have been met, final approval is given and risks arising from the Companys investment the investment is made.
Board and Investment Advisers Partner activity are likely to relate to environmental, review ethical, governance and social issues.
Failure 3i Infrastructure operates internationally Where the decision is taken to progress to identify or manage these risks effectively and across a broad range of sectors the opportunity after a detailed review not only has the potential to undermine so it is also important that it considers by the Board and a group of senior and the success of the portfolio companies but issues in the context of local and sector experienced investment executives in the also might compromise 3i Infrastructures expectations.
The full international investment advisory team.
A decision is reputation and that of its Investment Adviser.
resources of the Investment Adviser will be also taken at this point as to what further Identifying and managing these risks is leveraged to ensure that local and sector in-depth analysis and due diligence should therefore an important part of managing risk considerations are taken into account in be undertaken.
Due diligence and negotiation The time taken to go through the whole Where alongside other commercial due investment process varies significantly and diligence and negotiation an explicit review depends upon many factors, including of environmental, ethical, governance the nature of the investment and the and social issues is undertaken by the complexity of the issues, as well as the Investment Adviser for each investment number and nature of the parties involved.
3i Infrastructure plc 36 Annual report and accounts 2010 Governance continued Experience suggests that one of the 3i Infrastructure brings a collaborative approach Sources of expertise fundamental factors for investment success to the companies in which it invests.
While The Company is able to draw upon a wide is the quality of the portfolio company the Board and Investment Adviser have range of sources of internal and external management team.
The approach the extensive sector expertise, and despite the expertise on corporate responsibility issues.
Company takes to assessing potential Investment Adviser taking a role on the board These include the Investment Adviser itself, investments places considerable emphasis of the investee company, the portfolio its professional services teams, which have on understanding and being comfortable companys managements knowledge of their specialised knowledge on specific issues, with the management team.
Their approach company and their ability to deliver on a plan sectors and markets as well as its advisers.
to dealing with due diligence on corporate cannot be matched.
It is the management The Investment Advisers scale, international responsibility issues can be a useful indicator who, being closest to the situation, must reach and network also provides access of quality.
to leading international consultancies on Creating value An early priority, therefore, is to help ensure environmental, ethical and social issues Before an investment is made, the Board and that the governance of the portfolio company for a wide variety of purposes, from the Investment Adviser agree a clear value is as robust as possible and to help support compliance to creating value in portfolio creation plan with the board and with the the portfolio companys management team companies.
Portfolio companies themselves management team of the potential investee and board.
are a rich source of knowledge and through company who will be responsible for delivering the Investment Advisers Active Partnership The Investment Adviser has dedicated the plan.
This will also involve an expectation programme and other means, experience programmes and activities to help build the that 3i Infrastructure and the Investment sharing is encouraged.
board capacity and capability of the investee Adviser will deliver on the actions they are company.
These include 3i Groups Active Environment responsible for in the plan.
These may relate Partnership programmes and events such as As an investment company with no to strategic input, providing specific expertise CEO forums and sector events, which are employees, governed by a non-executive or providing access to relevant relationships opportunities for the CEOs of our portfolio Board of Directors, 3i Infrastructure has no around the world.
The initial post-investment companies and 3i Group investments to direct material impact on the environment.
phase will involve validation and refinement come together.
Such a plan would also include Procurement These provide an opportunity to learn from, any environmental, ethical, governance or 3i Infrastructure has developed policies and share experiences with peers in other social risks or opportunities that were and procedures in relation to services from companies either in or outside the same identified either in due diligence or in the third-party providers.
As far as possible, sector and country.
the Company will work only with suppliers Realisation who support its aim to source products Portfolio reviews take place every six months.
While the Company is predominantly a very responsibly.
3i Infrastructure aims to have In these reviews the Investment Adviser long-term investor in its assets, in situations a collaborative relationship with its service presents the progress and future plans to the where there are strong strategic reasons for providers and, wherever possible, will work Board.
Any material corporate responsibility selling an asset or where an attractive offer with its service providers when problems issues that were part of the initial plan would is received it will make pragmatic disposals.
or issues arise to help them meet be included in this review until they are its requirements.
In addition, at least once a year, Corporate responsibility plays an important other corporate responsibility issues will be role in every sale process, as the due diligence Transparency considered on the agenda.
and valuation processes of potential buyers, 3i Infrastructure wishes to comply with be they trade or financial buyers, or any other best market practice in terms of disclosure institution, will evaluate each investments and transparency.
corporate responsibility strategy, systems and performance.
