26 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 Following the review of Alliance Trusts performance with regard to corporate responsibility issues which was Corporate undertaken in 2008, various initiatives were undertaken during the current year to strengthen the Companys links with its stakeholders.
These are discussed under the Responsibility following headings: Marketplace the businesses in which we operate, both as an investment company and through our subsidiary companies.
As an investment company we are committed to a longterm investment strategy, maintaining effective relationships with those companies to which we commit our shareholders capital.
We do this through regular engagement with the management of these companies and considered use of our voting rights.
In most cases we vote in line with the recommendations of management: however we do abstain or vote against recommendations when we consider that they are not in the interests of shareholders.
For the year ending 31 January 2010 we voted as follows: In favour of management recommendations 161 Against management recommendations 16 Abstentions 0 Votes against management were predominantly in the US where we voted for shareholder resolutions to split the role of Chairman and Chief Executive, to have an advisory vote on executive remuneration and for majority voting of directors.
Additionally, we voted against a proposed Board appointment, buying back employee options above fair value and a resolution allowing the board to adjourn the AGM if they lacked sufficient votes on other resolutions.
In Europe, we voted against proposals to issue new capital without pre-emption rights, a proposal to issue shares in lieu of cash for a dividend payment and a nomination committee that would be dominated by a minority shareholder class.
We have enhanced our investment process by initiating a review of the profile of investee companies with regard to Environmental, Social and Governance ESG issues, using available information to assess the level of ESG risk.
We believe that doing so will enable us to identify and take account of companies attitude to corporate responsibility issues in our investment decisions.
Companies which pay little or no regard to these issues are more susceptible to reputational risks with resulting damage to shareholder value.
With regard to our own shareholders, we continue to meet with both individual and institutional shareholders regularly throughout the year.
There is a close link between our shareholders and our subsidiary business Alliance Trust Savings.
For this reason we adopt a pricing model based on the level of activity, rather than the amount invested, to ensure that the costs of the business are shared fairly among its customers.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 | 27 We have adopted policies on gifts and hospitality and other potential conflicts of interest to ensure that decisions are made on their merits rather than for personal interests.
Workplace providing an environment in which each of our employees has an equal chance to develop their full potential.
We maintain a comprehensive suite of policies intended to protect employees from unlawful discrimination, offer a working environment where they have a right to be treated with consideration and respect, and support high standards of conduct and performance.
We also offer employees the opportunity to enter into flexible working arrangements.
These policies ensure that we meet our health and safety requirements and treat disabled employees in accordance with our statutory obligations.
We also operate a grievance procedure and a whistleblowing policy allowing employees to raise sensitive issues independently of line management.
Employees are made aware of these arrangements when they join the Company and periodically thereafter.
They are kept informed of the progress of the Company through regular team meetings and company-wide briefings.
Last year we undertook an employee opinion survey for the first time.
Two-thirds of our employees participated in the survey, which was undertaken by an independent research organisation to maintain confidentiality.
In response to the results of the survey a range of initiatives have been undertaken, including: A welcome programme for new employees which is intended not only to give formal induction relevant to their role but also to introduce them to key members of the management team Increased focus on training and development Greater focus on recognition, including Employee Excellence awards to acknowledge outstanding individual contributions.
Marketgait, Dundee 28 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 Community ensuring that our reputation Environment acting responsibly in our is maintained and enhanced within the consumption of natural resources and energy.
communities from which our investors, While our own environmental impact is limited, any customers and employees are drawn.
reduction in the costs of energy and consumables is beneficial to the Company.
This year we have benefited We operate a charitable foundation which is intended from the move into our new offices at West Marketgait, to encourage employees to raise funds to support local Dundee.
This building was designed with environmental voluntary organisations.
The Company matches payments considerations in mind to maximise energy efficiency made by the foundation, using unclaimed dividends returned and recycling opportunities.
The building management to the Company as a result of the shareholder concerned system allows us to monitor and control temperatures and becoming untraceable.
The choice of which charities to motion-sensitive lighting has been installed throughout support is made by the employees themselves, through the the building to ensure efficient use of electricity.
However the foundation is supported by the is collected and stored to reduce water usage.
Cardboard Scottish Community Foundation, which offers guidance and and paper is recycled.
When computer equipment reaches support both in identification and screening of requests for the end of its useful life it is either refurbished or recycled assistance and in the administration of the foundation.
taking into account the European Waste Electrical and During the year employees raised 2,308.
This, together Electronic Equipment WEEE guidelines.
Office furniture with amounts raised by employees in previous periods, which became surplus following the move to Marketgait was matched by a contribution to the foundation by the was donated to Transform Community Development for Company of 6,636. re-use in the local area.
The Company also uses paper from sustainable sources wherever practicable and cost effective.
The foundation approved one donation, of 3,432, to Boomerang, a Dundee-based project to encourage In relation to our investment property portfolio, we have development of Information Technology skills by members appointed an external company as managing agent and of the local community.
have reviewed that companys own environmental policy to satisfy ourselves that it is consistent with our own values.
During 2009 we introduced a volunteering policy, allowing employees to take up to two days additional leave to act We encourage shareholders and clients to use electronic as unpaid volunteers for local organisations.
To date, 3% of shareholders have opted promote this policy we have entered into a partnership with to receive our annual report electronically.
54% of clients the Brae Dundee Riding Ability Centre, part of the National of Alliance Trust Savings have signed up to use our online Riding for the Disabled Association.
Teams of employees share dealing service and 32% of its clients receive their have visited the Brae to help with a range of activities and statements and valuations electronically.
to find out more about the work of the Centre.
We look forward to continuing to work with the Brae during the coming year.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 | 29 Carbon footprint reporting Last year for the first time we reported on carbon dioxide CO emissions based on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol 2 Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard and we do so again this year, using the same inventory of: Scope 1: gas, fuel oil, refrigerant loss Scope 2: non-renewable electricity purchased Scope 3: business travel by personal car, air and rail This year there was a reduction of 41% in our CO emissions 2 which amounted to 339 tonnes, representing 1.17 tonnes per full time employee 674 tonnes, representing 2.11 tonnes per full time employee for the year ended 31 January 2009.
This significant reduction is mainly attributable to a reduction in air travel following the closure of our Hong Kong office and greater use of our video-conferencing facility, and reduced energy consumption following the move to new more energy-efficient premises during the year.
Alliance Trust Corporate Carbon Footprint 2009 10 Tonnes CO 2 Electricity use 53% Air travel 26% Rail travel 4% Corporate Personal car Carbon business travel 5% Footprint Fossil fuel use 5% Company vehicle use 4% Air conditioning refrigerant loss 3% 30 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 Directors 1 2 3 Chairman 1.
Lesley Knox MA u Joined the Board 2001: appointed Chairman 2004 Chairman of the Nomination Committee Lesley Knox 56 graduated with an MA in Law from Cambridge, qualified as a lawyer and worked in the UK and US.
Subsequently, she worked as a corporate finance adviser, first with Kleinwort Benson, where in 1996 she became a group director.
She was also 4 5 Head of Institutional Asset Management at Kleinwort Benson Investment Management which provided investment services to clients actuarial, finance and management positions 3.
Hugh Bolland BA Hons nlu worldwide.
including serving as Finance Director from Joined the Board 2007 2001 to 2005.
She is the Senior Non-Executive Director of Hugh Bolland 63 graduated with a BA Hons in Hays PLC.
He is a member of the Aviva UK Life With Economics and Statistics from Exeter University.
Profits Committee and is a Non-Executive In 1968, he became an economist with the Director of the Board of Ecclesiastical Insurance Bank of New South Wales in Australia.
He also chairs the trustees of the he joined Schroder Investment Management in Standard Life and BOC pension schemes.
In 1982, he was appointed Investment Director and then Managing Director of 5.
Christopher Masters CBE FRSE BSc PhD Schroders in Hong Kong and later Chief Executive AKC nlu of Schroders Australia.
After returning to the UK Joined the Board 2005 Senior Independent Director he became Chairman of Schroder Unit Trusts, Clare Sheikh 46 graduated with an MA in Chief Executive and latterly Vice Chairman of Joined the Board 2002 English from Cambridge.
In 1987, she joined Schroder Investment Management.
He retired Boston Consulting Group as a management Chairman of the Remuneration Committee from Schroders in 2000. consultant, working in London and Madrid.
Christopher Masters 62 took his doctorate He is a Non-Executive Director of JP Morgan She gained considerable experience in financial in Chemistry at Leeds University and worked Indian Investment Trust PLC, Fidelity Asian services and was Consumer Marketing Director Values PLC and Dutch listed Eurocommercial for Shell in both the UK and the Netherlands.
for the Prudential before joining Avis Europe Properties N. V. He joined Christian Salvesen as business as Group Marketing Director.
After a brief spell development manager in 1979, becoming at Transacsys PLC she joined Centrica PLC, Director of Planning for its US operation and 4.
John Hylands BSc nlu becoming Managing Director of AA Financial Chief Executive from 1989 to 1997.
He was Services before joining the commercial television Joined the Board 2008 then appointed Executive Chairman of Aggreko network ITV as Marketing Director in 2005.
PLC, a post he held until January 2002.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee She left ITV in January 2007 and is now Group Chairman of the Festival City Theatres Trust.
Strategy, Marketing and Customer Director of John Hylands 58 graduated with a BSc in Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Group.
Other directorships include The Crown Agents, Mathematics from Glasgow University.
He John Wood Group PLC and Creative Scotland joined Standard Life in 1979 and qualified as She is a Non-Executive director of Codan 2009 Ltd. an actuary in 1982.
His career at Standard Forsikring, a major Danish insurance company.
Life spanned 28 years and included various Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2010 | 31 7.
Robert Burgess BSc Hons ACIB Executive Directors Director and Chief Executive, Alliance Trust Savings 6.
Katherine Garrett-Cox BA Hons ASIP u Joined the Board 2009 Chief Executive Robert Burgess 44 is a graduate of Manchester Joined the Company as Chief Investment Officer Business School and is an Associate of the in 2007: Appointed Chief Executive 2008.
Katherine Garrett-Cox 42 graduated with a He has extensive retail financial services BA Hons in History from Durham University experience.
Previously he managed the retail and is an Associate of the Society of Investment and business banking sectors of Lloyds TSB Professionals.
Her early career was spent in Scotland as an Executive Director and was US fund management, starting with Fidelity subsequently Regional Director for its retail Investments and later with Hill Samuel Asset banking business in London and the South East.
Management as Investment Director, Head of American Equities.
Between these roles, he was Strategic Future Business Programme Director for Lloyds TSBs In 2000 she joined Aberdeen Asset Management subsidiary, Scottish Widows.
More recently, he becoming an Executive Director in 2001 and was Executive Director, Sales and Distribution, Chief Executive of their operating subsidiary for Thomas Cook UK and also spent time at the Aberdeen Asset Management Limited, whilst Bank of England.
serving as Chief Investment Officer.
In 2004 she became Chief Investment Officer for 8.
Alan Trotter BAcc Hons LLB CA CTA Morley Fund Management now Aviva Investors Finance Director and a Board Director of a number of their subsidiary companies with specific responsibility Joined the Board 2010 for fund management teams in London, Dublin, Alan Trotter 41 graduated with a BAcc Hons Boston and Warsaw.
in Accountancy from Glasgow University and Katherine Garrett-Cox is a trustee of The with a LLB from the University of London.
In Baring Foundation and was nominated a Young 1990 he joined Ernst & Young, qualifying as a Global Leader of the World Economic Forum in chartered accountant in 1993 and a chartered October 2005. tax adviser in 1995.
He gained considerable experience in financial services with them in both the UK and Hong Kong.
In 1996 he joined Standard Life as Finance Manager responsible for Group statutory and regulatory reporting before moving to the newly established Standard Life Bank as Senior Finance Manager.
He joined the Finance department of The Royal Bank of Scotland in 2001 specialising in group corporate finance.
He left to join Legal and General in 2007 as Group Corporate Development Director with responsibility for the UK Central Finance function and delivery of the Groups cost challenge.
n Member of the Audit Committee l Member of the Remuneration Committee 6 u Member of the Nomination Committee 7 8
