Respecting our environment and communities J Michael Yeager Group Executive and Chief Executive Petroleum BHP Billiton is a significant contributor to the resources industry, Our Charter acknowledges that we must across the spectrum, and as such we have a large global earn the trust of our communities, employees, footprint.
Our operations are diversified by commodity and customers and our many other stakeholders, geography, which means we are part of many local communities, as well as being a member of the international community by consistently delivering on our commitments.
We take the responsibility of managing Ensuring the transparency of those commitments our environmental and community impact very seriously.
is also recognised as a key to our prosperity.
Our Charter acknowledges that we must earn the trust of our communities, employees, customers and our many other stakeholders, by consistently delivering on our commitments.
Ensuring the transparency of those commitments is also recognised as a key to our prosperity.
Climate change policy Community Investment We are a major producer of energy-related products, such Expenditure by Geographic as energy coal, oil, gas, liquefied natural gas and uranium.
Region FY2010 Energy is also a significant input in a number of the Groups Australia 44% South America 36% mining and processing operations.
As such, greenhouse Africa 16% gas GHG emissions and climate change are important North America 3% considerations for our operations and markets.
Asia 1% We believe that effective strategies addressing climate change must be underpinned by policies that start the world on a path Community Investment Expenditure by Program to reduce emissions, while also recognising that addressing Category FY2010 GHG emissions competes with economic development, poverty Community Development 47% eradication and public health as other world priorities.
Education 19% Health 12% The long-term focus of policy development is now on achieving Other 9% stabilisation of GHG emissions at appropriate levels.
Our preferred Environment 5% outcome would be a single global carbon emissions reduction Arts Culture 4% Sport Recreation 4% solution.
However, we recognise that such a global solution is likely to be many years away and in the absence of a global carbon solution, the principal objective of any individual country Both charts exclude the US$80 million contribution should be to reduce global carbon emissions by changes to our UK-based charitable company, BHP Billiton to consumption patterns in that specific country and making Sustainable Communities.
investment choices that result in a low-carbon economy.
The design features that we advocate for climate change policy are detailed in our Sustainability Report.
Indonesia IndoMet Coal Project Our Metallurgical Coal operation has a demonstrated history of research and innovation.
In FY2010, BHP Billiton sold a 25 per cent interest in the IndoMet Coal Project to Adaro, a partner who shares our values and our commitment to the protection of the regions outstanding biodiversity.
26 | BHP BILLITON SUMMARY REVIEW 2010 Of course, setting out these design features does not resolve Charitable contributions all of the vast range of issues that climate change presents Our voluntary community investment during FY2010 totalled to society.
It does, however, provide a broad and constructive US$200.5 million, comprising cash contributions, in-kind framework for discussion and finding a solution.
This equates to one per cent of pre-tax profits based on the average of the previous three A number of governments or governmental bodies have years pre-tax profit publicly reported in those three years introduced or are contemplating regulatory change in response and compares with contributions of US$197.8 million in our to the impacts of climate change.
These regulatory mechanisms previous reporting period.
may be either voluntary or legislated and may impact our operations directly, or indirectly via our customers.
Inconsistency In FY2009, we established a UK-based charitable company of regulations, particularly between developed and developing BHP Billiton Sustainable Communities to help us manage countries, may also change the attractiveness of the locations our one per cent spend.
We contributed US$80 million of some of our assets.
A discussion of regulatory, physical and to the charitable company in FY2010 and this is included other risks and opportunities of climate change is included in in the Companys total community investment.
BHP Billitons 2010 response to the Carbon Disclosure Project Our global Matched Giving Program enables and encourages at www.
our employees to become involved with communities by supporting employees fund-raising and donation efforts.
Community development Employee contributions benefited more than 1,200 not-for-profit Across our businesses, our goal is to minimise negative social organisations, which received US$5.4 million from the Group impacts and maximise the opportunities that the Companys as part of our Matched Giving Program.
presence brings to each community in which we operate.
Our approach with any new project is to start by identifying Community programs the landowners, occupiers and users who may be affected Our businesses administer their local community programs by the project activities.
Throughout the life of all projects, in different ways: some manage the programs directly through we aim to continue listening to peoples aspirations and the assets community relations department, and others have concerns, respecting their rights and enhancing their established corporate community foundations.
The major foundations our businesses support are Fundacin We measure the effectiveness of our investment in community Minera Escondida Chile, the Antamina Mining Fund Peru, programs using a formal planning process, with community San Isidro Foundation Colombia and Mozal Community development plans being a requirement of all BHP Billiton Development Trust Mozambique.
These plans will assess education, health and environment qualify-of-life indicators and require reporting every three years against a baseline study.
Our community investment is driven by our desire to ensure we make a positive contribution and improve the quality of life of the people in these communities.
Port Hedland, Western Australia We believe we are successful in creating value when the communities in which we operate value our citizenship.
In Port Hedland, BHP Billiton seeks to enhance Indigenous educational opportunities through a partnership with the Graham Polly Farmer Foundation.
