Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Governance Corporate responsibility 73 Corporate responsibility Valuing our relationships Amlin aims to build a sustainable business through the consistent application of our values in relationships with shareholders, employees, clients and other stakeholders.
We seek to make a positive contribution to the communities in which we operate, placing integrity and professional excellence at the heart of our business practice.
Charles Philipps Chief Executive Our Vision to be the reference point for quality in HM Treasury and charged with shaping the future Attracting new talent each of our markets is underpinned by a set of of our industry.
We participated in the City of London Business core values which both determine and reflect the Traineeship programme for the first time in 2010.
Raising industry standards way in which all employees of the Amlin Group The programme aims to foster links between Amlin recognises the importance of raising engage with our stakeholders, both internal and the financial and business services sector and professional standards in our industry if it is external to the business.
talented individuals from local boroughs who may to attract and retain high calibre new talent.
We were impressed with Chief Executive, Charles Philipps served on Marketplace the quality of the candidates put forward and the Chartered Institute of Insurance Task will participate again in 2011.
Our engagement Amlin remains one of the largest participants Force, charged with improving standards of was recognised as Amlin Plus General Manager, in the Lloyds market, although the volume of professionalism across the industry.
The resulting Simon Hepworth was awarded Project Champion our premium written through Lloyds dropped Aldermanbury Declaration was signed by a large of the Year.
Our focus number of market participants.
in 2010 was predominantly on the integration Employees In 2010, Amlin became the first London market and development of our non-Lloyds European insurer to achieve Corporate Chartered Insurer platform pp.
Amlins Vision includes being recognised as the status.
All 420 frontline underwriting and claims place to work, with staff who understand our Nonetheless, we value the opportunities presented staff from Amlin London and Amlin UK were strategy and their role in delivering and exceeding through the Lloyds markets worldwide and included in this submission pp.
An important element in achieving this participated in feasibility studies of potential is being a responsible employer, operating first Amlin is also supporting a new risk management new markets in Asia and South America.
Amlin class employment practices and actively engaging course for the financial services industry which professionals continue to work with the Lloyds with our employees pp.
44-45. was launched in January 2011 by the Institute of market associations, boards and committees Risk Management, chaired by Amlins Head of to improve market operations, governance Group Risk, Alex Hindson.
Summary results of the ethnographic study of the London and Bermuda reinsurance markets, Our core values commissioned by the Insurance Intellectual Capital Initiative, were presented at the 2010 Professional excellence Monte Carlo Rendezvous in September.
Amlin We are professional in all we do, continually developing our skills and expertise.
specific feedback has provided us with a useful Integrity operational benchmark against our peers in two We are fair and honest and we deliver on our commitments.
of our most important markets.
This study is due to be extended into the European market Leadership in 2011.
We take clear and considered views of the future.
We communicate our Amlin Corporate Insurance is a member of the objectives and empower our team to achieve them.
Dutch Insurance Association Exchange VNAB Superior performance which accounted for 1,146 billion of industrial We seek to excel in both the levels of service and the results we achieve.
and commercial gross written premium in 2009.
The insurers and brokers within VNAB operate in Teamwork accordance with the so-called Beursprinciples We work together to deliver excellent performance, taking responsibility, holding and the majority of ACIs business is written ourselves accountable and respecting the contribution of others.
Executive Vice President, We communicate effectively and give each other the space to do the job.
Michiel Verlivet is Chairman of the insurer Focus on sustainability membership and ACI underwriters play an active role in various technical subgroups.
We take a measured approach in our business strategy and in our acceptance and management of risk to secure the long-term viability of the business.
Richard Hextall, Amlins Group Finance Director, has joined the UK Insurance Forum run by 74 Amlin plc Annual Report 2010 Corporate responsibility continued The 2009 acquisition of Amlin Corporate successful event.
The three-day sale in the climate-linked research have been to identify and Insurance increased employee numbers by over Royal College of Art yielded a profit in excess analyse issues of specific relevance to the insurance 50% and presented us with new challenges in of 83,000 for the charity, UK Youth, in their industry, such as the likely range of future claims relation to European working practices, languages centenary year.
costs, and the political, educational and social and aligning ACIs employee offering with that challenges to be addressed.
In Bermuda of the remainder of the Amlin Group.
Philanthropy is an important part of corporate Amlin continues to engage with the Risk We encourage employee engagement through life in Bermuda and, despite its relatively small Predication Initiative organised by the Bermuda the intranet, a regular e-zine and via a quarterly size, Amlin Bermuda plays an active role in the Institute of Ocean Sciences, notably in research in Consultation Forum for UK employees and a local community.
With a continued focus on forecasting extreme weather events.
We propose to Works Council representing the ACI employees.
organisations involved in youth, education and organise a symposium in 2011 to raise awareness Since the Groups combined workforce now sport, the charity committee developed multiof this research among our London market peers exceeds 1,000 in more than four European year strategic partnerships with three charitable and align it with Lloyds emerging market risk countries, we will be examining options for a organisations - WindReach, YouthNet and the research.
We have also requested that RPI broaden Group-wide employee representative group.
Youth Athletic Organisation - each of whom were their research to include European windstorm allocated $20,000 in 2010. which will complement other work in this area by Amlin seeks to align employee interests further by the modelling agencies and large reinsurers.
awarding shares to all eligible employees under Amlin Bermudas $75,000 budget for its the Share Incentive Plan.
The 2010 award means scholarship programme for Bermudian students Our carbon footprint that those employed since the middle of 2007 funded new two-year scholarships in 2010, We measure our annual carbon footprint including could now have a stake in the Company equity offered through the Association of Bermuda data from all Group companies over which financial valued in excess of 10,000 at International Companies Education Awards control was exercised and for whom financial 31 December 2010.
ABICEA and The Bermuda Foundation for results were published in that year.
Three scholarship recipients The good conduct of employees in their We include employee commuting determined by worked with the Company during college breaks.
management of business relationships and with an online survey which yielded an 81% response Senior Amlin executives support the ABICEA colleagues is critical to creating pride in the in 2010, waste recycling and water usage to give through board, committee, interview panel and Company and to our aspiration to be a socially a full picture of our corporate impact.
Amlins core corporate footprint was 5.64 tonnes per employee inclusive values are an important part of the Code of of these factors or 4.57 tonnes if compared with Other locations Conduct available on our website to which Amlin Singapore has supported the General the scope of most FTSE calculations.
The average all employees are expected to adhere.
CO range for a UK financial services company is Insurance Associations Global Internship 2 Programme from the outset and is now in its between 5.0 and 5.5 tonnes per employee.
Community fourth year of sponsorship.
The division also Business air travel is a major contributor to our provided speakers for the Associations Talent In the UK carbon emissions impact and, following extensive Outreach Project.
Amlins UK charity and community activities testing, we are installing video conferencing are guided and facilitated by a panel which Amlins three European divisions do not yet systems in our major office locations during meets at least quarterly and comprises senior 2011.
We therefore anticipate reduced have formal charity and community policies, representatives from each UK business area.
but are considering corporate social responsibility requirement for business travel between these locations in 2012. initiatives in their local markets.
In 2010, we delivered a second successful Community Action Learning project at Newlands Our recycling achievement was again recognised Environment Bishop Farm, near Solihull.
The farm is run with a tenth successive Gold Award from the as a commercial enterprise and offers people 2010 saw an unprecedented volume of weather City of London Authority under their Clean City with learning difficulties the opportunity to gain related events which, despite not being market Awards Scheme 2010. practical skills with which to work in the local changing catastrophes, cumulatively generated Reporting community centre.
This unique programme a large volume of insured losses.
Amlin evaluates Deloitte LLP carried out limited assurance in within the Lloyds market again met our the risks and opportunities presented by accordance with the International Standard on objectives, both in terms of community benefit climate change through the Climate Change Assurance Engagements 3000 on both the 2008 and as a management development opportunity.
& Environmental Panel, which is composed of and 2009 Carbon Footprint.
The independent senior underwriters, chaired by the Chief Risk We retained Macmillan Cancer Support as the assurance statement, together with the basis of Officer and which meets on a quarterly basis.
Following our reporting and results summary, is published on 2009 support of their special patient grant fund, The role of insurance our website.
we reverted in 2010 to funding a Clinical Nurse Amlin is a member of ClimateWise, an insurance We were placed in the top three of all FTSE Specialist at Imperial College Healthcare industry collaboration which aims to improve companies for the assurance of carbon emissions NHS Trust.
understanding of climate change risk and in a 2010 report undertaken by Carbon Smart in contribute to the reduction of these risks over In 2010 Amlin UK staff raised over 20,000 conjunction with an independent advisory panel, the longer term.
Our comprehensive report on for Farleigh Hospice, a local adult hospice institutional investors and accountancy firms.
environmental activities for the year to 31 May with centres in Chelmsford, Maldon and 2010 under the six ClimateWise principles is Amlin also ranked as the leading UK organisation Braintree, Essex.
The Lloyds market for the transparent reporting of carbon emissions Our major fundraising event in 2010 was an consolidated report was the highest scoring and carbon intensity by the Environmental Amlin Go-Karting day for teams of brokers.
This ClimateWise participant in 2010 according to Investment Organisation.
This is the first of a generated a profit of 34,000, which was split  Independent Review.
series of global and regional rankings that are equally between Macmillan and Farleigh Hospice.
intended to be the basis for a new Environmental Amlins CEO and Chief Risk Officer are members Tracking Carbon Index Series designed to impact Amlin sponsored Art for Youth London for a of the Geneva Association and participate in their share price.
second year and it once again proved a highly discussions.
The objectives of the Associations
