Corporate social responsibility The Group recognises the importance Ashmores public equities business is overall philosophy that it can make a of corporate social responsibility CSR a small part of its overall business and difference and seeks to provide financial incorporating transparency, fairness, its shareholdings are unlikely ever to be grants to worthwhile causes within the accountability and integrity, and believes large enough to have an influence over emerging markets in which Ashmore that these principles are fundamental the policies of management in these operates with a view to putting something to the Groups operations.
back into the countries and communities continues to monitor developments Ashmores special situations business in which it invests and which contribute in all relevant areas of CSR, including involves its funds taking significant to Ashmores income and profitability.
environmental management, employees, controlling stakes in investee companies The Foundations grant-making policy is health and safety, suppliers and the and in such circumstances Ashmore is wide-ranging but has a particular focus community to ensure that it meets best in a position to positively engage with on education and healthcare, the former practice and sees CSR as a continually the management of these companies.
in particular being seen as the best way evolving process.
In many cases Ashmore believes it to be to help the long-term self-development of beneficial to its investors to be proactive in emerging market countries.
Investment promoting the Ashmore brand locally by Employees The Group believes that its reputation improving the livelihoods of the employees as an ethical, trustworthy provider of At year end Ashmore employed in the companies where the Group has a investment services is essential to its 165people in ten countries worldwide.
core purpose of helping its clients to Ashmores people have always been its Ashmore aims to avoid investing in build their financial security.
Ashmore most important asset, at the heart of companies that do not: seeks to establish and maintain longeverything it does.
Ashmore has many term relationships with its clients and talented people and it remains a priority respect human rights: and intermediaries.
The Group believes this to develop, manage and retain this talent comply with local environmental, ethical to be a fundamental pre-requisite for the in order to deliver the potential of the or social legislation.
Ashmore wants to be an Ashmores Board of Directors seeks employer which the most talented people Ashmore does not invest in companies to maintain a strong corporate culture aspire to join wherever it operates.
that manufacture or trade arms.
employing high standards of integrity Ashmore seeks to ensure that its Ashmore also aims to ensure that and fair dealing in the conduct of the workforce reflects, as far as practicable, any investments which it makes comply firms activities, compliance with both the the diversity of the many communities with the relevant industry standards and letter and the spirit of relevant laws and in which it is located.
Ashmore also best practice, treat their employees fairly, regulations, and standards of good market recognises the diverse needs of its have active community programmes and practice in all jurisdictions where the firms employees in managing the responsibilities operate with sensitivity to the environment.
The Boards aim is of their work and personal lives, and Ashmore has made investments to enable Ashmore to demonstrate that believes that achieving an effective balance in a number of renewable energy the firm is fit and proper to undertake in these areas is beneficial to both the projects in different countries including its business, to safeguard the legitimate Company and the individual.
hydro-electricity, geothermal energy and interests of Ashmore clients and protect Ashmore encourages employees to sugar-based ethanol production, which Ashmores reputation.
act ethically and to clearly uphold the reflects its overall approach to combining Social, ethical and environmental SEE standards of practice which its clients have ethical investing with sound business criteria tend to be focused primarily on come to expect.
It also means ensuring practice on behalf of clients.
equity investing because of the influence that its employees understand the strategic Additionally, Ashmore funds and which shareholder interests are able to aims and objectives of the Group and are segregated accounts each have a specific exert on the management of a particular clear about their role in achieving them.
investment mandate which sets out company.
Ashmores exposure to equity The Group recognises that the the parameters for investment which investments amounts to less than 15per involvement of its employees is key to the may include requirements to screen for cent of total assets under management, future success of the business and adopts geographic, sector and stock-specific whereas the majority of assets are invested a practice of keeping employees informed restrictions.
Stock-specific restrictions may in either external debt the majority of on significant matters affecting them, include securities which meet clients own which is sovereign or local currency and via email and in meetings arranged for CSR criteria.
In the case of external the purpose.
The Group has consistently The Ashmore Foundation debt investments, the Groups ability to operated a remuneration strategy that have an influence is generally limited to a recognises both corporate and individual Consistent with the Groups commitment decision whether or not to invest: however, performance.
to responsible corporate citizenship, the at a country level.
Ashmore believes that it Ashmore Foundation was created in may be able to exert an influence through 2008 and is funded by personal financial dialogue with governments and central contributions from employees of the banks.
The Foundation reflects Ashmores Ashmore Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 40 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements 01 11 12 27 28 48 49 88 The Group is also committed to Ashmore recycling figures for paper and photocopier toners following good practice in employment matters, recognising the part this plays 2010 2009 in attracting and retaining staff.
The Cubic yards of landfill saved 56.1 60.2 Group promotes the importance of high Trees saved 305.2 315.8 ethical standards to all employees and Tonnes of CO saved 8.23 8.73 staff have the opportunity to voice any 2 concerns they may have, either direct with Average recycling 100% 100% management or on a confidential basis via Source: Viridor the whistle-blowing process.
Water and gas Ashmore has published a separate The Group is committed to ensuring that supplied into the building are metered Corporate responsibility report all employees are treated fairly and with centrally by the building management and which can be found on its website at dignity and respect.
This commitment is costs apportioned to each tenant pro rata www.
com reflected in the Staff Handbook that all according to floor occupancy.
As part of its ongoing commitment By order of the Board The policies and practices in place to the environment, Ashmore throughout within the Group to deter acts of its operations has adopted policies Michael Perman harassment and discrimination are regularly and programmes to promote energy Company Secretary monitored.
conservation and the avoidance of waste It is the Groups policy that through a number of initiatives, such as the 13 September 2010 no employee shall be treated less recycling of paper, glass and other waste favourably on the grounds of their age, and the use of green energy.
Electricity sex, sexual orientation, race, religion, usage is separately monitored by floor nationality or marital status or on the with renewable energy accounting for a grounds of disability.
This policy applies, minimum of 10 per cent of supply.
Energywithout limitation, to promotion, efficient lighting is installed in the building training, placement, transfer, dismissal, with sensors which turn lights off when no remuneration, grievance and disciplinary movement is detected.
The building has procedures and decisions.
This policy received an Energy Performance Certificate also applies to persons from outside the with an Asset Rating of 98.
Utilities are not workplace and the treatment of contract monitored by the building management in workers.
terms of carbon emissions as no accurate data is available on the consumptive Health and safety quality of each item.
The registration and The Group has in place a global health and reporting obligations under the Carbon safety policy which can be accessed by Reduction Commitment CRC Energy all staff via an internal database.
The aim Efficient Scheme do not apply to the of this policy is to provide both staff and Company.
visitors with a safe and healthy working Ashmore endeavours to make environment.
The Group is committed to maximum use of available technology adhering to the high standards of health such as video conferencing: however, and safety set out in its policies and its business model as an investor in procedures and to providing training as emerging markets inevitably requires that necessary.
its investment professionals and other members of staff travel frequently to Environment these countries to assess and monitor As an investment manager, Ashmore has a opportunities.
During 2009 10, our limited direct impact upon the environment monitored staff air travel usage amounted and there are few environmental risks to a total of 7.1 million kilometres associated with the Groups activities.
Ashmore moved into its premises at Usingthe DEFRA guidelines for company 61 Aldwych, London in May 2008 and reporting on greenhouse gas emissions occupies a single floor of approximately we have calculated that this amounted 19,000 square feet in a nine-storey to 1,739.74tonnes of CO2 FY2008 09: 1,722.77tonnes of CO2.
Ashmore Group plc Annual report and accounts 2010 41
