Shareholder information 147 Performance review Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Key directives of particular relevance to the financial services Audit Committee financial expert industry, and so to Avivas businesses in the European Union The Board has determined that Russell Walls, Richard Goeltz and include: Euleen Goh all qualify as Audit Committee financial experts within the meaning of Item 16A of Form 20-F, and that Russell Walls, Third Life and Non-Life Directives Richard Goeltz and Euleen Goh are all independent as defined by These directives implemented the home country control principle the Securities and Exchange Commission rules and the New York for life and non-life insurance business, in the mid-1990s, and Stock Exchange Corporate Governance Standards.
placed the responsibility for such issues as solvency, actuarial reserves, investment of assets, and certain governance issues on Code of ethics the home country regulator.
Most companies licensed to conduct The Company has adopted a code of ethics for its group chief insurance business in one member state may rely on its home executive, chief financial officer, general auditor and group chief country regulation to passport into all other member states to accounting officer as required by the provisions of Section 406 of conduct business without having to be separately licensed in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules issued by the SEC.
The general exception is selling activity which continues to There have been no amendments to, or waivers from, the code be regulated by the state in which the sale takes place.
of ethics relating to any of those officers.
The code of ethics was filed on 7 October 2009 as an exhibit to our Form 20-F Insurance Groups Directive IGD registration document.
The IGD requires member states to introduce the following measures to strengthen supervision of insurance companies Regulation which are part of a group: Compliance an adjustment to the solvency calculation in relation to In both our insurance and fund management businesses matters participating interest in other insurance undertakings in may arise as a result of industry-wide issues, inspection visits or order to eliminate double-gearing the use of the same other regulatory activity, requiring discussion and resolution with regulatory capital in more than one entity of a group.
The Aviva Group needs to ensure an additional parent undertaking solvency margin that procedures are in place to address any regulatory concerns, calculation analogous to the adjusted margin test referred to and that such procedures are properly planned, managed and above, to be applied at the level of the parent undertaking.
Corrective action is undertaken, when necessary, the introduction of new solo supervision requirements, with progress reported to relevant regulatory bodies in a including rules as to internal control within the insurance timely manner.
undertaking regarding the production of information relevant to supplementary supervision, the exchange of Overview of regulation as it affects our business information within the group and the supervision of intraOur principal insurance and fund management operations are in group transactions.
the United Kingdom UK, Europe, North America and the Asia further provisions aimed at ensuring co-operation between Pacific region.
We are therefore subject to financial services competent regulatory authorities of member states.
regulation in these areas, as individually covered below.
However, as the Groups parent company is based in the Since 31 December 2006 the group capital resources requirement UK, both European Union EU legislation and the rules of the the parent undertaking solvency calculation mentioned above Financial Services Authority FSA, the UKs financial services has been a hard test i. e. it constitutes a requirement to maintain regulator, can impact on Avivas business practices worldwide.
the group capital resources, rather than simply to make the calculation for UK-based companies operating under FSA rules.
The European Union In addition to its UK businesses Aviva is also active in other EU Reinsurance Directive member states through wholly owned subsidiary and joint Adopted on 16 November 2005, this directive requires that all venture companies.
These companies are subject to the laws and reinsurance undertakings be authorised in their home member regulations of the EU member state in which they are based, but state.
To obtain that authorisation, they need to meet strict are also affected by higher level EU legislation, which will requirements, but are then free to operate anywhere in the EU continue to have a significant influence on the legislative through the single market passport process.
environment, both in the UK and other EU markets.
e Distance Marketing Directive The EU operates by promulgating directives that must b implemented into local national legislation within each EU Under the Distance Marketing Directive, EU member states are required to implement a framework of rules and guidance in member country.
These directives set the minimum standards for national legislatures to meet, with each legislature able to decide order to protect consumers by: setting minimum standards for information that must be how they should be implemented.
National governments may not pass laws which fail to meet the minimum standards set out in a provided to consumers before entering into a financial services contract by distance means.
directive, but are generally free to impose legal requirements which go beyond those required.
Directives are written at a fairly for certain products and services, giving a cooling-off period in which a consumer may cancel a contract without penalty.
high level, with more detail being provided at national level through legislation developed in accordance with the local legal Insurance Mediation Directive system.
Even greater detail may be imposed through the rules and This requires EU member states to establish a framework to: regulations of national regulators, and for financial services ensure that insurance and reinsurance intermediaries have businesses these rules can be extensive.
been registered on the basis of a minimum set of EU financial services regulation is based on the principle of professional and financial requirements.
home country control, which makes the home country regulator ensure that registered intermediaries will be able to operate responsible for monitoring compliance with all applicable in other member states by availing themselves of the regulation.
freedom to provide services or by establishing a branch.
