02 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 We believe in people not policies Our approac h Our commitments We help protect almost every aspect Our customers For us, insurance is about people, not policies.
That means of peoples lives: their homes, cars, responding to our customers with thought, care and families, health and their understanding.
We want people to choose us and stay with Aviva throughout their lives because they know well be there financial futures.
for them and they like dealing with us.
For over 300 years, weve helped Listen to customer Jack Dobson people protect what they have today discuss his experience and to plan, invest and save for their Watch video here youarethebigpicture.
Its our ability to understand and meet our customers needs that has led more than 53 million people, Our people and one in three UK households to Were determined to stand apart from other financial services put their trust in us.
Well only achieve this if our people are proud to work for Aviva, so we listen to them, respect them and Were there for our customers, were recognise the personal contribution they make to our business.
flexible and were committed to acting Listen to Gael Roux discuss in their best interests.
We know that his experience when they do business with Aviva, Watch video here youarethebigpicture.
com they want it to be simple and that, if something does go wrong, well fix it.
Our business Everyone in our business understands Our business helps our customers to manage the risks of the difference they can make to everyday life and protects them long into the future.
We must be there for them throughout their lives and beyond, so its peoples lives, particularly in crucial we are a sustainable and profitable business, for the times of need.
mutual benefit of our customers and our shareholders.
Society We want to encourage more people to secure their financial futures.
Were committed to working with our customers, Governments, regulators, charity partners and business partners to find solutions that increase the financial wellbeing of both individuals and society.
Listen to Kalis story from the Street to School project Watch video here youarethebigpicture.
com Aviva at a glance 03 Aviva plc We believe in people not policies continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 You did a super job for us.
Well never forget you, ever.
On a Saturday afternoon, Sylvia Cooper was rushed into hospital for a life-saving operation.
First thing on Monday morning her husband Allen phoned Aviva.
He was a little apprehensive because he had not been able to clear the operation costs beforehand.
Aviva advisor Hayley Gerrard told him not to worry.
She took it upon herself to make sure that all the expenses were cleared and called Allen daily to check on Sylvias progress.
I said to my son before I called, I just hope I dont get a jobsworth, Allen recalls.
At Aviva, we know insurance is not about policies.
Its about recognising the people behind them.
Thats why our You are the Big Picture campaign, through giant portraits and online stories, celebrated the people who are most important to us our customers and our employees.
