104 Aviva plc Corporate governance report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Independent and objective assurance on the robustness of the risk Conflicts of interest management framework and the appropriateness and In line with the Companies Act 2006, the Companys articles of effectiveness of internal control is provided by the Internal Audit association allow the Board to authorise potential conflicts of the third line of defence to the Audit and Risk committees, interest that may arise and to impose such limits or conditions as regional and business unit audit committees, Board members and it thinks fit.
The decision to authorise a conflict of interest can the Group Executive Committee.
only be made by non-conflicted directors those who have no interest in the matter being considered and in making such a Governance and oversight committee structure decision the directors must act in a way they consider in good The Board delegates oversight in relation to risk management and faith will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The internal control to the following committees: Board has established a procedure whereby actual and potential Risk Committee: and conflicts of interest are regularly reviewed and for the appropriate Audit Committee authorisation to be sought prior to the appointment of any new director or if a new conflict arises.
During 2010 this procedure The Risk Committee assists the Board in providing leadership, operated effectively.
direction and oversight of risk and risk management across the Group.
Oversight of the design, completeness and effectiveness Internal control statement of the risk management framework relative to the Groups The Board has overall responsibility for maintaining the Groups activities is performed on behalf of the Board by the Risk system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
This includes the oversight of the quality of the risk To discharge this responsibility, the Board has established function and the effectiveness of risk reporting.
The committees frameworks for internal governance and risk management.
oversight covers all aspects of risk including market, credit, The Groups system of internal control plays a key role in the liquidity, general insurance, life insurance, operational, management of risks that may impact the fulfilment of its reputational and regulatory risks.
Internal control facilitates effective and efficient The Audit Committee, working closely with the Risk operations, the development of robust and reliable internal Committee, is responsible for assisting the Board in discharging reporting and compliance with laws and regulations.
This system its responsibilities for the integrity of the Companys financial is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to statements and the effectiveness of the system of internal control achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and and for monitoring the effectiveness, performance and objectivity not absolute assurance against material misstatement or losses.
of the internal and external auditors.
The system is regularly reviewed and complies with the revised These committees receive reporting on risk management guidance for directors on the Combined Code, October 2005 the and internal control procedures and consider where relevant Turnbull Guidance published by the Financial Reporting Council.
whether appropriate actions have been undertaken as well as The Audit Committee, working closely with the Risk Committee, monitoring the completion of any Group level actions to a on behalf of the Board, last reviewed the effectiveness of the satisfactory conclusion.
system of internal control in February 2011, covering all material These committees have clearly defined terms of reference and controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls full reports for these committees are set out on pages 110 to 113. and risk management systems.
The necessary actions have been The parts of the governance framework relating to the or are being taken to remedy any significant failings and operational management of the Groups businesses include limits weaknesses identified from these reviews.
The Board confirms on the authority delegated by the Board in respect of matters that there is an ongoing process for identifying, measuring, which are necessary for the effective day-to-day running and managing, monitoring and reporting the significant risks faced by management of the business.
The group chief executive has been the Group, which has been in place for the year under review and delegated operational responsibilities and powers by the Board, up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
and in turn delegates authority to members of the Group The principal features of the system of internal control and Executive Committee including the chief executive officer of each methods by which the Board satisfies itself that this system region who report to him for the management of that region.
operates effectively are set out below.
In addition each of those regional chief executives has established delegations and a regional executive committee comprising the Control environment regions most senior executives.
The Group operates a three lines of defence model.
Primary responsibility for the application of the risk management Control activities framework risk identification, measurement, management, The Group has a set of formal risk management policies that monitoring and reporting lies with business management the facilitate a consistent approach to the management of all the first line of defence.
Management is therefore responsible for risks across all the businesses and locations in which the Group implementing and monitoring the operation of the system of operates.
These risk policies define our appetite for different, internal control and for providing assurance to the Group granular risk types and set out risk management and control Executive Committee, the Audit Committee and the Risk standards for the Groups worldwide operations.
The risk policies Committee, as relevant, that it has done so.
also set out the roles and responsibilities of businesses, regions, Support for and challenge of the completeness and accuracy risk policy owners and the risk oversight committees.
of risk assessment, risk reporting and adequacy of mitigation As our business responds to changing market conditions and plans are performed by the specialist risk function the second line customer needs, we regularly monitor the appropriateness of our of defence acting as the critical friend to the first line of risk policies to ensure they remain up to date.
The design of the risk management framework is also provide assurance to the various risk oversight committees that primarily the responsibility of the second line of defence.
The risk there are appropriate controls in place for all our core business function operates globally with teams in all major regions and activities, and that the processes for managing risk are understood business units.
and followed consistently across our global businesses.
