114 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility committee report This report provides details of the role of the Corporate The Company put its CR Report included in the 2009 annual report Responsibility Committee and the work it has undertaken during and accounts to an advisory vote of shareholders at the 2010 the year.
Annual General Meeting and intends to do this annually as a means The purpose of the committee is to set guidance and direction of obtaining feedback on the report and the Companys for the Groups corporate responsibility CR programme, review performance in this area.
This years CR Report is set out on pages the Groups key CR risks and opportunities and to monitor 75 to 92 and further details of the relevant resolution are set out in progress against the Groups key performance indicators.
committee also reviews the Groups strategy for CR together with the Groups overall CR targets.
The full terms of reference for the Corporate Responsibility Committee committee can be found on the Companys website, Allocation of agenda time % www.
com investor-relations corporate-governance termsof-reference, and are also available from the group company Balanced leadership debate 5 secretary.
Region review 26 The following directors served on the committee during the year: Stakeholder recognition and business ethics 16 Street to School programme 16 Period Function review 21 Member From To Climate change response and carbon offsetting 5 Carole Piwnica Chairman 14 January 2006 To date CR reporting and assurance 11Euleen Goh 1 January 2009 To date Andrew Moss 12 July 2007 To date Lord Sharman 14 January 2006 To date Scott Wheway 5 December 2007 To date Members of the committee are interviewed as part of the external assurance process for the CR programme and the subsequent Attendance management report, including Avivas action plan, is reviewed by Number of meetings held 5 Carole Piwnica Chairman 5 the committee to assist in the strengthening and future direction Euleen Goh 4 of the programme.
Andrew Moss 4 In line with the Combined Code requirement, the Board Lord Sharman 5 undertook a review of the effectiveness of all its committees during Scott Wheway 4 There were four scheduled committee meetings during 2010 and one additional meeting called at short notice.
the year, including the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on The committee met on five occasions in 2010 and the members 2 March 2011. attendance record is set out above.
The group company secretary Carole Piwnica acts as the secretary to the committee.
Chairman, Corporate Responsibility Committee During the year, the committee reviewed and approved the content and scope of the Companys 2010 CR Report included in this annual report and accounts.
It also continued to monitor the management of the CR risks affecting the Group and again reviewed each regions performance and progress during the year against the Groups key performance indicators together with the performance of Group functions such as Procurement and IT, which contribute to the Groups CR programme activities.
Internal Audit reported to the committee on the results of their reviews which were relevant to the CR activities of the Group and will continue to do so.
In addition, going forward, external assurance to the committee will be provided by Ernst & Young LLP.
The regional CR plans have been incorporated into the overall regional and functional strategies to facilitate the embedding of the CR strategy through formal accountabilities.
There was continued focus on strengthening CR performance through employee engagement, by influencing key stakeholders and on embedding balanced leadership throughout the organisation.
The committee received updates on the Groups key CR programme activities such as the Street to School programme, on which there was an increased focus during the year: business ethics, particularly in preparation for the implementation of the UK Bribery Act: stakeholder recognition and the progress of the Groups carbon offset projects as part of managements commitment to be carbon neutral on a global basis.
More recently, in line with the Boards commitment to energy efficiency and reduction of waste in natural resources, the committee has supported the move towards paperless meetings.
The chart opposite shows how the committee allocated its time during 2010.
