Governance 99 Performance review Aviva plc Directors report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information As the authority granted at the 2010 Annual General Meeting will Creditor payment policy and practice expire on 4 May 2011, renewal of this authority will be sought at It is the Groups policy to pay creditors when they fall due for this years Annual General Meeting.
Further details are available in payment.
Terms of payment are agreed with suppliers when the Notice of AGM.
negotiating each transaction and the policy is to abide by those terms, provided that the suppliers also comply with all relevant Group employees terms and conditions.
In respect of Group activities in the UK, The Groups statement on its employees is set out in the Corporate the amounts due to trade creditors at 31 December 2010 Responsibility Report.
represented 20.8 days of average daily purchases through the In summary, the Groups commitment to communication and year 2009: 23 days.
The existence of a Groupwide intranet enables engagement and communication with Corporate Governance Statement employees throughout the Group on a single platform.
It also In compliance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules the helps management to share information, ideas and opportunities DTRs, the disclosures required by DTR 7.2.
7 can be much faster across the entire business and to achieve a common found in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 100 to 108 awareness on the part of all employees of the financial and which is incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
economic factors affecting the performance of the Company.
A strong emphasis is placed on the provision of news and Reappointment of the auditor and disclosure information through a range of media.
Employees have of information to the auditor opportunities to voice their opinions and ask questions through In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a intranet sites, question and answer sessions with the group chief resolution is to be proposed at the 2011 Annual General Meeting executive, via telephone conferencing, opinion surveys and the to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditor of the Company.
Groups Employee Promise Survey which is open to all employees.
A resolution will also be proposed authorising the directors to Face-to-face briefings and team meetings are actively encouraged determine the auditors remuneration.
The Audit Committee and are held in all business units across the Group.
The Groups reviews the appointment of the auditor, the auditors businesses in the UK have established employee consultative effectiveness, independence and relationship with the Group, forums and a European Consultative Forum convenes annually including the level of audit and non-audit fees paid.
Further to discuss matters impacting the business across Europe.
details on the work of the auditor and the Audit Committee The Group ensures that involvement of employees in its are set out in the Audit Committee Report.
performance is encouraged by allowing eligible employees to The directors in office at the date of this Directors Report participate in the Groups all employee share ownership plans.
s they are each aware, there is no relevant confirm that, so far a On 2 June 2010, in commemoration of the first year of the audit information of which Ernst & Young LLP are unaware and Company becoming One Aviva, employees participated in and each director has taken all steps that ought to have been taken as contributed to various activities to raise funds for charity.
a director to be aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that Ernst & Young LLP are aware of that information.
Employee practice The Group respects all fundamental human rights and is guided in Annual General Meeting the conduct of its business by the provisions of the United Nations The 2011 Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International on Wednesday 4 May 2011 at the Barbican Centre, Silk Street, Labour Organization core labour standards.
Aviva also supports London EC2Y 8DS at 11am.
The Notice of AGM convening the the United Nations Global Compact Principles.
Aviva Group meeting describes the business to be conducted thereat.
companies are committed to providing equal opportunities to all employees, irrespective of their gender, sexual orientation, marital By order of the Board status, race, nationality, ethnic origin, disability, age, religion or union membership status.
Aviva is an inclusive employer and Andrew Moss values diversity in its employees.
These commitments extend to Group chief executive recruitment and selection, training, career development, flexible 2 March 2011 Registered Office: St. Helens, 1 Undershaft, London EC3P 3DQ Registered in England working arrangements, promotion and performance appraisal.
2468686 In the event of employees becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and to provide specialised training where this is appropriate.
Corporate responsibility The Group has a well-established corporate responsibility programme and continues to use its position to influence other companies to engage in sustainable business practices and to be open and transparent in the information they publicly report.
At the 2010 Annual General Meeting, the Company, for the first time, put its Corporate Responsibility Report included in the annual report and accounts, to an advisory vote of shareholders as a means of obtaining feedback on the report and the Companys performance in this area.
This resolution is now put to the Annual General Meeting annually.
The report is set out on pages 75 to 92 and details of the resolution are set out in the Notice of AGM.
