80 Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Marketing and the Corporate Social Responsibility Award Developing communities at the Asia Insurance Industry Awards 2010 for To be a sustainable business, we believe we have a role to play in demonstrating how CR can be closely and successfully the development of our communities.
Moving beyond passive tied with business strategy.
giving we strive to listen carefully, collaborate and together create In the UK, over 7,000 children have been positively impacted.
Using our strengths and working 2.4 million customers have been reached by our Street to around our strategic focus on education, life trauma and financial School messages and the full media reach is estimated at literacy we have collaborated right across private, public and third 14 million.
Over 500,000 has been raised for our UK sectors to help develop the wellbeing of our communities - to partner Railway Children and weve contacted 650 MPs.
which our current and future investors, customers, talent and In China our Twinkling Stars project works with the issues supply chain belong.
of children left behind due to economic migration.
This year We are actively contributing to the Millennium Development we have built ten Care Houses, worked in 20 poor rural Goals and our history of engagement with the UN Global elementary schools and reached 24,000 children.
In addition Compact UNGC led to an invitation to become one of the 54 to significant publicity this helped Aviva Cofco win the award UNGC LEAD companies.
LEAD companies are committed to being for Chinas Best Corporate Citizen.
at the leading edge of addressing environmental, social, and We used our global brand campaign You are the Big governance issues, and broadening and deepening partnerships Picture to raise awareness of street children, to engage the with the entire United Nations system.
public including attracting 57,000 fans on Facebook and to Globally, we contributed over 11.4 million in 2010, a 43% raise 170,000 for Street to School.
increase on 2009 2009: 8 million and we have improved our measurement approach to record our inputs and outputs more In total over 61 million people had the chance to hear about accurately in order to demonstrate the benefit of this investment Street to School in 2010. for our employees, our communities and our brand.
Engaging our employees is vital.
We delivered over 57,250 Community projects hours of volunteering in 2010.
We measure the development We commit at least 50% of our community development budget gained by volunteers and the impact on their perception of Aviva to Street to School.
Our approach to benefiting our people, 2 and 80% of volunteers reported positive benefits.
This is reflected community and brand is also found in the following examples: in a 4% uplift in employees who think we do a good job of Our ongoing partnership with Oxfam 365 helps to equip contributing to our communities and an 8% increase in Oxfam with the resources and materials to respond to employees who believe Avivas commitment to CR is genuine.
emergencies as soon as they happen, such as those in Haiti Aviva has a clear track record of working with field experts in and Pakistan community development across the third and public sector.
uk launched by Aviva in recognise the importance of our partnerships with organisations 2007, continued to take economic citizenship teaching into such as UK Athletics, Save the Children, Consortium for Street schools up and down the UK using trained Aviva volunteers Children and Oxfam to enable us to develop and share best and now with 3,300 teachers using our resources practice programmes and to work effectively in areas of Our Grassroots Athletics and Rugby programmes reach out community advocacy.
to tens of thousands of children every year to help them We also recognise the mutual benefit of our community develop a healthy and active lifestyle development activity: our employees feel engaged and proud, our In Canada, the Aviva Community Fund gives members of the communities benefit and our brand reputation is enhanced.
public the opportunity to turn great ideas into action to benefit their local communities.
This innovative use of social Street to School media encouraged two million members of the community Our flagship global community development programme Street to vote on their preferred project.
to School, a five-year commitment to help 500,000 children fulfil their potential, shows our approach in action.
We have streamlined our portfolio of projects to ensure 2010 saw a significant increase in the volume and profile of alignment with our strategy but being conscious of the need to our partnership work to help children off the streets and into recognise that all our people have issues close to their hearts we education.
In collaboration with leading charities and experts, and continue to offer all staff three days paid volunteering leave and supported by our employees, partners and customers we have fundraising matching programmes.
positively impacted 128,000 children through preventative education, outreach, healthcare, safe housing and education Climate change and environment projects.
Street to School partnerships and programmes are up Tackling climate change and protecting the environment are and running in 17 of our markets and we have begun to use key priorities for Aviva that we believe require action today, not Street to School for cause-related marketing.
Here are just a few tomorrow.
Our strategy to deliver action focuses firstly on control examples of what we have achieved: of our own environmental impacts to reduce greenhouse gas In India our Great Wall of Education, supported by emissions from energy, waste and travel.
We continue to politicians and sports stars, collected a staggering 950,000 compensate for our operational emissions worldwide by educational books for underprivileged children this year.
purchasing carbon credits from the voluntary carbon market.
We With an average campaign reach of 48% of the population apply our understanding to work within our sphere of influence in Kolkata, Chennai, Delhi and Mumbai and a combined externally to encourage sustainable practices with our customers, media value of over 875,000, we achieved significant suppliers, governments and the companies in which we invest.
This also attracted several awards including the CMO Asia Award for Excellence in Social 2 Volunteering: the business case, Corporate Citizenship 2010, http: www.
