80 Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Marketing and the Corporate Social Responsibility Award Developing communities at the Asia Insurance Industry Awards 2010 for To be a sustainable business, we believe we have a role to play in demonstrating how CR can be closely and successfully the development of our communities.
Moving beyond passive tied with business strategy.
giving we strive to listen carefully, collaborate and together create In the UK, over 7,000 children have been positively impacted.
Using our strengths and working 2.4 million customers have been reached by our Street to around our strategic focus on education, life trauma and financial School messages and the full media reach is estimated at literacy we have collaborated right across private, public and third 14 million.
Over 500,000 has been raised for our UK sectors to help develop the wellbeing of our communities - to partner Railway Children and weve contacted 650 MPs.
which our current and future investors, customers, talent and In China our Twinkling Stars project works with the issues supply chain belong.
of children left behind due to economic migration.
This year We are actively contributing to the Millennium Development we have built ten Care Houses, worked in 20 poor rural Goals and our history of engagement with the UN Global elementary schools and reached 24,000 children.
In addition Compact UNGC led to an invitation to become one of the 54 to significant publicity this helped Aviva Cofco win the award UNGC LEAD companies.
LEAD companies are committed to being for Chinas Best Corporate Citizen.
at the leading edge of addressing environmental, social, and We used our global brand campaign You are the Big governance issues, and broadening and deepening partnerships Picture to raise awareness of street children, to engage the with the entire United Nations system.
public including attracting 57,000 fans on Facebook and to Globally, we contributed over 11.4 million in 2010, a 43% raise 170,000 for Street to School.
increase on 2009 2009: 8 million and we have improved our measurement approach to record our inputs and outputs more In total over 61 million people had the chance to hear about accurately in order to demonstrate the benefit of this investment Street to School in 2010. for our employees, our communities and our brand.
Engaging our employees is vital.
We delivered over 57,250 Community projects hours of volunteering in 2010.
We measure the development We commit at least 50% of our community development budget gained by volunteers and the impact on their perception of Aviva to Street to School.
Our approach to benefiting our people, 2 and 80% of volunteers reported positive benefits.
This is reflected community and brand is also found in the following examples: in a 4% uplift in employees who think we do a good job of Our ongoing partnership with Oxfam 365 helps to equip contributing to our communities and an 8% increase in Oxfam with the resources and materials to respond to employees who believe Avivas commitment to CR is genuine.
emergencies as soon as they happen, such as those in Haiti Aviva has a clear track record of working with field experts in and Pakistan community development across the third and public sector.
uk launched by Aviva in recognise the importance of our partnerships with organisations 2007, continued to take economic citizenship teaching into such as UK Athletics, Save the Children, Consortium for Street schools up and down the UK using trained Aviva volunteers Children and Oxfam to enable us to develop and share best and now with 3,300 teachers using our resources practice programmes and to work effectively in areas of Our Grassroots Athletics and Rugby programmes reach out community advocacy.
to tens of thousands of children every year to help them We also recognise the mutual benefit of our community develop a healthy and active lifestyle development activity: our employees feel engaged and proud, our In Canada, the Aviva Community Fund gives members of the communities benefit and our brand reputation is enhanced.
public the opportunity to turn great ideas into action to benefit their local communities.
This innovative use of social Street to School media encouraged two million members of the community Our flagship global community development programme Street to vote on their preferred project.
to School, a five-year commitment to help 500,000 children fulfil their potential, shows our approach in action.
We have streamlined our portfolio of projects to ensure 2010 saw a significant increase in the volume and profile of alignment with our strategy but being conscious of the need to our partnership work to help children off the streets and into recognise that all our people have issues close to their hearts we education.
In collaboration with leading charities and experts, and continue to offer all staff three days paid volunteering leave and supported by our employees, partners and customers we have fundraising matching programmes.
positively impacted 128,000 children through preventative education, outreach, healthcare, safe housing and education Climate change and environment projects.
Street to School partnerships and programmes are up Tackling climate change and protecting the environment are and running in 17 of our markets and we have begun to use key priorities for Aviva that we believe require action today, not Street to School for cause-related marketing.
Here are just a few tomorrow.
Our strategy to deliver action focuses firstly on control examples of what we have achieved: of our own environmental impacts to reduce greenhouse gas In India our Great Wall of Education, supported by emissions from energy, waste and travel.
We continue to politicians and sports stars, collected a staggering 950,000 compensate for our operational emissions worldwide by educational books for underprivileged children this year.
purchasing carbon credits from the voluntary carbon market.
We With an average campaign reach of 48% of the population apply our understanding to work within our sphere of influence in Kolkata, Chennai, Delhi and Mumbai and a combined externally to encourage sustainable practices with our customers, media value of over 875,000, we achieved significant suppliers, governments and the companies in which we invest.
This also attracted several awards including the CMO Asia Award for Excellence in Social 2 Volunteering: the business case, Corporate Citizenship 2010, http: www.
com archive  Corporate responsibility 81 Performance review Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Our focused attention on driving down energy use has been interest that insurance remains affordable and available so that rewarded this year with a reduction in gross emissions by 4% people affected by severe weather events can recover quickly 2009: 13%.
Last year we announced our long-term target of a from unavoidable impacts.
reduction of 30% CO emissions by 2020.
Taking the 2010 2 Leadership and participation figures into account we have achieved an 10% reduction since We work in collaboration with leading organisations to provide our baseline of 2006.
Our annual target reduction is set at 5% to a collective business and sector-specific response to the climate help us achieve the longer-term target.
This year we have participated in: We also set global annual targets in other key areas, The Cancun Communiqu: summarised below: Open letters from the Aldersgate Group on mandatory reporting of climate related data: and Performance accounting 2010 Global Investor Statement on Climate Change.
for 2010 Targets divestments Reduce CO emissions by 5% 4% 2 Since 2006, when we were a founder member of the Reduce water use by 4% 8% ClimateWise Principles, we have been a part of the management Reduce waste by 4% 2 % committee and continue to report each year against these Increase percentage of recycled waste by 2% until 80% recycled rate is achieved 75% industry-wide principles.
This year we hosted the ClimateWise We also offset 105% of our remaining emissions by investing in sustainable projects such as renewable energy review, where Aviva Investors UK CEO Paul Abberley spoke along generation and small-scale run-of-river hydro electricity systems.
with UK government ministers Chris Huhne and William Hague.
All performance data is calculated on a like-for-like basis taking into account new acquisitions and divestments in 2010.
Our senior managers have continued to support high-level initiatives to tackle climate change.
Our chairman, Lord Sharman, Part of our approach to achieve these targets is to share best a long-time advocate for addressing climate change issues, wrote practice across the regions of value creating initiatives.
Some an article in Environmental Finance calling for mandatory examples of this over the past year have been the sharing of reporting of carbon emissions.
Andrew Moss, Group CEO, information on advances in low-energy IT solutions such as 1E highlighted the importance of translating sustainable Nightwatchman between the UK, Europe and Asia Pacific.
We development principles into business operations in the media have also shared progress and implementation notes on the use leading up to the Davos summit in January 2011.
Andrew of low-water and no-water urinals and centralised recycling.
attended the UN Global Compact LEAD launch in Davos, The impact that we have on the environment is not restricted membership of which recognises Aviva as a leader in addressing to our own operations but extends to areas of our supply chain environmental, social, and governance issues.
John Ainley, Group and properties that we hold within our investment funds.
HR director spoke on the subject of employee engagement to Sustainable supply chain work during 2010 has focused on the drive climate behavioural change to the UK CBI in April 2010. environmental benefits we can deliver throughout the claims While in Singapore our director of HR change, Anuradha Purbey, fulfilment process.
We have made savings in waste production spoke at the 1st Climate Change Conference, supported by through the repair over replace schemes in both motor and ClimateWise.
Our Corporate Responsibility Committee has taken home repairs.
We have worked with our IT suppliers to minimise the steps to become paperless, saving an estimated 8.8kg of the polystyrene placed in packaging and have an agreement in paper per annum and energy associated with printing.
place with Dell for them to take back and recycle polystyrene We firmly believe that engaging our employees to raise packaging.
awareness and address environmental impacts is an essential part In February 2011 we are launching the first commercial of delivering our environmental strategy.
71% of our employees insurance products to support the drive to a low-carbon agree that we make business choices that support the economy.
These products will cover wind turbines and solar environment which include measures such as our recycling power manufacturers, biomass and waste to energy production.
initiatives, providing alternatives to business travel and energy The role of insurers in climate change reduction techniques.
We are looking to further strengthen our The insurance industry has a fundamental part to play in societys communications to our employees and customers through our responses to climate change.
As a major insurer Aviva has firstsponsorship of ClimateWeek during March 2011. hand understanding of the impact of extreme weather events on At the London launch of the Carbon Disclosure Project in our customers.
On their behalf, we are committed to help 2009 Lord Sharman called for more focus on carbon mitigation.
mitigate the threat of climate change and support everyone in We are working with the Carbon Disclosure Project to develop a society to adapt to changes caused by man-made emissions project to collate carbon mitigation responses.
Our industry can also draw on its We consider our supply chain to be part of our sphere of knowledge of historical weather data to identify patterns of influence not only to address the carbon intensity of our supply change, applying our understanding of risk to map future chain but to encourage our suppliers to be more responsible and temperature scenarios and determine likely impacts.
Aviva is a large procurer, with a 5.3 billion spend we can offer the financial tools to help manage the burden and 27,000 suppliers.
During 2010 we have started to investigate of climate change, for example the pooling and transfer of risk.
the nature of embedded carbon within our supply chain, both Our Accounting for Sustainability statement on page 86 explains through conversations with suppliers and through examining the our progress against these areas.
appropriate methodology for this task.
We have also begun to We believe that climate change must be tackled now.
introduce legally binding clauses within procurement contracts.
As extreme weather events become more frequent and more During 2011 we will be continuing this work and developing a severe, they become more challenging to insure.
It is in everyones code of behaviour for suppliers outlining a mutual moral commitment on which to conduct the supplier relationship.
