Corporate responsibility 77 Performance review Aviva plc Corporate responsibility continued Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information providing a narrative CR report we prepare an Accounting for All employees are required to sign our business ethics code Sustainability statement using the Connected Reporting annually.
Each instance of financial crime is recorded and Framework to demonstrate the costs associated with our energy, investigated independently and the highest controls are put in natural resource use and waste management.
We also use this place to protect our customers data.
statement to demonstrate the financial impacts of our community By regularly researching the opinions and behaviours of our investment and customer advocacy commitments.
The customers, through our Consumer Attitudes to Savings research Accounting for Sustainability statement is provided on page 86. for example, we are able to deliver products and services that are We are also committed to providing full disclosure to investors designed to provide prosperity and peace of mind to our on our CR programme and as such respond to EIRIS, SAM, customers.
Sustainalytics and Vigeo for inclusion in the FTSE4Good, Dow Business ethics Jones Sustainability Indices, Ethibel and ECPI indices.
We aspire to the highest standards of conduct and set out our Some of our senior managers are involved in the promotion of principles in our business ethics code.
This stipulates fairness, transparent reporting: Tim Harris, deputy chief financial officer, is honesty and transparency in all we do.
Employees in all countries working with the International Accounting Standards Board to in which we operate are required to uphold the laws of the host drive forward a globally consistent high-quality standard of country.
Everyone at Aviva has a part to play in upholding our reporting International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and standards and we raise awareness of these responsibilities Steve Waygood, head of sustainability research at Aviva Investors, through our induction programmes and sign-off of acceptance is part of the team progressing the International Integrated of the code by all staff.
Our code has been revised for 2011 to Reporting Committee which aims to present a more rounded incorporate the increasing legislative requirements of the UK view of responsible reporting.
Bribery Act 2010 and US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
We will The work Aviva Investors has been developing over the past also be increasing the level of awareness of the new legislation two years on the Sustainable Stock Exchange initiative continued throughout the organisation to improve understanding and to gather prominence during 2010.
Building on this, looking compliance.
towards 2011 and the 2012 Rio Earth Summit, Aviva has taken a In addition to our business ethics code, Aviva has adopted a position to highlight the need for long-termism in investment code of ethics for senior management as required by section 406 decision making.
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 and the rules issued by the Open dialogue with our stakeholders also helps us to define Securities and Exchange Commission.
This code can be found on priorities and shape our approach.
We have increased our Avivas website, www.
com investor-relations corporateengagement with governmental stakeholders this year in order to governance code-of-ethics respond to consultations relating specifically to changes proposed to corporate governance and reporting.
Financial crime We are keen to actively engage in dialogue with government, Our financial crime policy reinforces our zero-tolerance approach sharing our insight as both the owner and investor of capital, and ensures that risks relating to fraud, money laundering, giving a useful double perspective to aid their public policy market abuse and bribery and corruption are adequately development.
We provide mandatory computer-based training as Specifically we have responded to: part of our procedures for combating market abuse and insider UK Department for Business BIS Future of Narrative trading, money laundering and fraud.
In 2010 we enhanced Reporting understanding of bribery and corruption throughout the business, BIS call for evidence A long-term focus for corporate including at Board and senior manager level.
Throughout 2011 Britain we will be running training events with our 450 senior managers EU Commission Green paper on Corporate governance in to raise awareness of bribery and corruption and reinforcing the financial institutions importance of making ethical decisions.
EU Commission Questionnaire on Disclosure of NonWe encourage our employees to raise any concerns they might Financial Information by Companies have through Right Call an Aviva-wide malpractice reporting service.
This enables all employees to report any suspicions or In addition to these consultations we have engaged with MPs concerns in a confidential manner for independent investigation.
on the Street to School programme with our UK partner Railway During 2010, 48 incidents were recorded across the Group.
All Children to raise awareness of children at risk on our streets cases were referred for independent investigation with 39 reaching in the UK.
conclusion and nine cases currently remaining under investigation.
The Opinion Leader Research carried out independently each year suggests that our strategy for engagement is well received.
Understanding our customers The research shows that Aviva is seen as the most trusted insurer We continued to work to understand perceptions and needs in amongst UK MPs, this has been the case for three years.
our markets and once again conducted our wide-ranging survey on Consumer Attitudes to Saving, using the results to inform Trust and integrity ongoing product and service developments across the Group.
1 Building and maintaining trust in Aviva by our customers, our The Net Promoter Score NPS is our leading, Group-wide suppliers, shareholders and employees, is of prime importance measure of customer advocacy, comprising a globally consistent within a sector that has been impacted by the economic crisis.
relationship and benchmarking survey which is conducted We are doing this through a commitment to transparent annually.
The focus for the business is to ensure we are acting on disclosure of information via the aforementioned initiatives, particularly the Carbon Disclosure Project and Accounting for Sustainability.
We build long-term partnerships with charities and communities to provide both a sustainable source of finance and to deliver on outcomes over a significant period of time.
1 Net Promoter, NPS, and Net Promoter Score are trademarks of Satmetrix Systems, Inc. Bain & Company, and Fred Reichheld.
