R&A Text 10 01 2011 16:39 Page 30 30 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Financial Statements 2010 Report of the Directors continued of Lloyds Banking Group.
In accordance with the General presentations to both shareholders and analysts arrangements made between HSDL and Henderson, the follow the announcement of the annual results.
All participants in the Halifax Share Dealing products are given meetings between the Manager and shareholders are the opportunity to instruct the nominee company of HSDL reported to the Board.
to exercise the voting rights appertaining to their shares in k Corporate Responsibility respect of all general meetings of the Company.
HSDL has Responsible investment undertaken to instruct its nominee company to exercise the Responsible Investment is the term Henderson uses to cover voting rights of any shares held through the Halifax Share its work on corporate governance and corporate Dealing products that have not been exercised by the responsibility or social, environmental and ethical issues in individual participants in them.
It will do so by voting for or the companies in which it invests on its clients behalf, across against all resolutions to be put at all general meetings of all funds.
In May 2005 Henderson became a founding the Company or by withholding votes on such resolutions signatory to the United Nations Principles for Responsible pro rata to the aggregate voting instructions for each Investment.
The Principles, developed under the auspices of resolution received from those participants who have the UN Secretary-General, are a voluntary and aspirational chosen to exercise their voting rights.
framework for incorporating environmental, social and Relations with Shareholders Voting policy corporate governance issues into mainstream investment Shareholder relations are given high priority by both the decision-making and ownership practices.
The prime medium by which the The way companies respond to sustainability and corporate Company communicates with shareholders is through the responsibility can affect their business performance, both Half-Year and Annual Report and Financial Statements which directly and indirectly.
An investee companys policy on aim to provide shareholders with a clear understanding of social responsibility and the environment is therefore the Companys activities and their results.
This information is considered as part of the investment risk decision.
supplemented by the daily calculation and by the publication Voting policy at the Stock Exchange of the net asset value NAV of the Hendersons Responsible Investment Policy sets out the Companys ordinary shares and a monthly fact sheet.
Managers approach to corporate governance and corporate Information about the Company can be found at responsibility for all the companies in which it invests on www.
com behalf of its clients, and its policy on proxy voting.
The Policy At each AGM a presentation is made by the Manager also sets out how Henderson implements the Stewardship following the business of the meeting.
The Company has delegated responsibility for voting the opportunity to address questions to the Chairman and to the Manager.
The Board will receive a report, at least the Chairmen of the Committees of the Board at the AGM.
annually, on the voting undertaken by the Manager on All shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM.
It is the intention of the Board that the Annual Report and The Board and Henderson believe that voting at general Financial Statements and Notice of the AGM be issued to meetings is an important aspect of corporate stewardship shareholders so as to provide at least twenty working days and a means of signalling shareholder views on board notice of the AGM.
Shareholders wishing to lodge policy, practices and performance.
Voting recommendations questions in advance of the AGM are invited to do so by are guided by the best interests of the investee companies writing to the Company Secretary at the address given on shareholders.
Depending on the nature of the resolution, page 64.
At other times the Company responds to letters the Portfolio Manager and or members of the Board will from shareholders on a range of issues.
