About Barclays Strategy Performance Risk management and governance Financial statements Shareholder information Barclays PLC Annual Report 2010 www.
com annualreport10 145 Community Involvement Employee Involvement Barclays has an extensive community investment programme covering Barclays is committed to ensuring that employees share in the success many countries around the world.
The Group provides funding and of the Group.
Staff are encouraged to participate in share option and share support to over 8,000 charities and voluntary organisations, ranging from purchase schemes and have a substantial sum invested in Barclays shares.
small, local charities like The Passage, supporting homeless people in Employees are kept informed of matters of concern to them in a variety London, to international organisations like Unicef.
We also have a very of ways, including business unit news magazines, intranets, briengs and successful employee programme which in 2010 saw more than 62,000 mobile phone SMS messaging.
These communications help achieve a employees and pensioners worldwide taking part in Barclays-supported common awareness among employees of the financial and economic volunteering, giving and fundraising activities.
Further information on our factors affecting the performance of Barclays.
Barclays is also committed community involvement is given on pages 24 to 26.
The total commitment to providing employees with opportunities to share their views and provide feedback on issues that are important to them.
Employee Opinion Surveys for 2010 was 55.3m 2009: 54.9m.
The Group committed 28.6m in support of the community in the UK 2009: 27.4m and 26.7m was are undertaken periodically across the Group with results being reported to the Board, all employees and to our European Works Council, Africa committed in international support 2009: 27.5m.
The UK commitment includes 22.9m of charitable donations 2009: 19.3m.
Forum, Unite Amicus section, our recognised union in the UK and other recognised unions worldwide.
Roadshows and employee forums also take Political Donations place.
In addition, Barclays undertakes regular and formal consultations with our recognised trade unions and work councils internationally.
The Group did not give any money for political purposes in the UK or the rest of the EU nor did it make any political donations to political parties or Diversity and Inclusion other political organisations, or to any independent election candidates, or incur any political expenditure during the year.
Absa Group Limited, The diversity agenda at Barclays seeks to include customers, colleagues and suppliers.
Our objective is to recruit and retain the best people, in which the Group acquired a majority stake in 2005, made donations totalling 123,295 in 2010 2009: 213,982 in accordance with its policy regardless of but not limited to race, religion, age, gender, sexual orientation or disability.
We strive to ensure our workforce reects the of making political donations to the major South African political parties as part of their Democracy Support Programme.
Donations are made to communities in which we operate and the international nature of the organisation.
We recognise that diversity is a key part of responsible parties with more than three seats in the National Parliament as confirmed by the Independent Electoral Commission.
Support for the deepening business strategy in support of our increasingly global business.
In the UK, Barclays is committed to providing additional support to employees of democracy in South Africa remains paramount for the government.
The Group made no other political donations in 2010. with disabilities and making it easier for them to inform us of their specic requirements, including the introduction of a dedicated intranet site and At the AGM in 2010, shareholders gave a limited authority for Barclays PLC disability helpline.
Through our UK Reasonable Adjustments Scheme, appropriate assistance can be given, including physical workplace and its subsidiaries to make political donations and incur political expenditure, within an agreed limit, as a precautionary measure in light adjustments, and relevant training and access to trained mentors is also provided for disabled employees.
A wide range of recruitment initiatives of the wide denitions in the Companies Act 2006.
This was similar to an authority given by shareholders in 2009.
This authority, which has not have been taken to increase the number of people with disabilities working in Barclays.
been used, expires at the conclusion of the AGM held this year, or, if earlier, 30th June 2011.
The risk of inadvertently breaching the Companies Act 2006 remains and the Directors consider it prudent to seek a similar authority from shareholders.
A resolution to authorise Barclays PLC and its subsidiaries to make EU political donations and incur EU political expenditure up to a maximum aggregate sum of 125,000 is therefore being proposed at the Barclays PLC 2011 AGM.
