Business Review Nick Williams Chief Financial Officer However, markets fell heavily in May The new regulations, such as the DoddRegulatory environment on rising European sovereign debt fears, Frank reforms in the US, are targeted Existing regulatory relationships weakening macro data and financial primarily at banks and are designed to BlueBay Asset Management plc is regulatory concerns.
The sovereign debt avoid a repetition of the recent crisis and authorised and regulated by the Financial fears were triggered by the revelation ensuing bailout of the banking sector Services Authority FSA in the UK.
of the full extent of Greeces fiscal at the expense of current and future It also has an EU investment services deficit.
An initial EU rescue package was taxpayers.
Some of the proposals under passport to provide cross-border services insufficient to alleviate market fears which discussion, such as those affecting short into other EEA States.
It is registered by then had spread as the economic health selling and derivatives trading, could with the US Securities and Exchange of other European countries came into impact BlueBays trade execution activities, Commission SEC in the United States question.
This was rapidly followed by a although we believe the practical impact as an investment adviser.
It is the promoter, much larger EU IMF rescue package, which on our day-to-day activities to be small.
investment manager and principal sales has provided some reassurance to markets.
In addition, the recently issued amendments agent of BlueBay Funds, a SICAV which is to the Capital Requirements Directive subject to supervision by the Commission CRD3 includes a new section which is In corporate debt markets, the banking fide Surveillance du Secteur Financier designed to govern the remuneration sector came under renewed pressure as CSSF in Luxembourg.
practices of most financial services firms investors feared the potential impact on starting in early 2011.
Final rules applicable those banks with the most exposure to On 28 September 2009, BlueBay Asset to firms regulated in the UK are due to be high risk European sovereigns.
The expiry Management Japan Limited was renamed announced by the FSA in November 2010 of a 12-month ECB loan to banks also BlueBay Asset Management International and will undoubtedly impact BlueBays shifted the lack of confidence in Eurozone Limited BBAMIL.
BBAMIL applied for forthcoming compensation round for the sovereigns into tension in the interbank and obtained a Discretionary Investment calendar year 2010. market.
Disappointing economic data from Management license from the Financial the US and China exacerbated fears of Services Agency in Japan.
This new license Other new regulations will apply specifically a double-dip recession at a time when enables BBAMILs Japanese branch to offer to the asset management sector such as governments and central banks were no discretionary investment management the new UCITS IV directive which comes longer in a position to stimulate growth.
services directly to appropriate Japanese into force in 2011 and is applicable to Emerging markets were not immune to institutional investors.
BlueBay Funds, our Luxembourg based the contagion effects of the European long-only fund platform SICAV.
The debt crisis, however, in many cases, Regulatory developments various drafts of the Alternative Investment they outperformed their developed Increased regulation is an inevitable Fund Managers Directive AIFMD have market counterparts.
consequence of the financial crisis of been extensively debated over the last year.
The shape of the new regulatory It is likely that a single version will emerge The appetite for new issues in corporate environment is beginning to emerge from shortly from the various competing debt markets was sustained throughout the coordinated efforts of the G20, as well drafts which are still under discussion.
most of the period, although it stalled in as more localised and national initiatives Once ratified and translated into national May.
Encouragingly the new issue market emanating from the US, the EU and some legislation in the member states of the EU, re-opened in June as markets began to of its member states.
it will have a direct impact on BlueBays stabilise again.
Events since the end of June 2010 point to a continuing normalisation in credit market conditions.
For further details, please refer to the outlook section of the Chief Executives Review on pages 12 and 13.
