Business Review Corporate responsibility report We recognise four key impacts Employees Marketplace Community Environment The Board recognises that through its In addition we have introduced an Compliance culture and processes actions, BlueBay has an impact on its employee wellbeing policy and introduced We believe that the compliance culture people, its marketplace, the community new benefits aimed at promoting should be embedded within the and the environment.
In pursuing our employee wellbeing.
organisation from how we communicate business activities, we have a responsibility and promote our products through to minimise the impact of these activities It is important for all of us to participate to managing clients investments.
on the environment and to treat our in the success of BlueBay and therefore a employees, clients, business associates majority of employees have direct stakes in Our dedicated compliance team is involved and the communities in which we work BlueBay equity.
For the compensation year at all stages of marketing, including as long-term partners.
that ended in December 2009, all bonuses reviewing our promotional and sales awarded over a certain threshold had a literature, providing training to promote significant proportion deferred either better understanding of the regulatory Employees into BlueBay equity or into units of funds framework, ensuring that anti-money In order to be successful in our business, managed by BlueBay.
These awards help us laundering regulations are adhered to we must recruit and retain talented and to align our employees interests with those and investment mandates are managed diverse professionals.
As at 30 June 2010, of our shareholders or of our fund investors.
in accordance with applicable restrictions we employed 215 permanent employees In addition, retention awards were also and mandate guidelines.
from 22 different nationalities in a ratio of made in order to ensure that successful 2 1 approximately 3 male: 3 female.
We aim employees are awarded appropriate total Client and Distributor relationships to ensure that all employees benefit from compensation packages which encourage and communication a working environment that positively them to remain at the firm and to perform We have established a dedicated team of contributes to their wellbeing and our well over the longer term.
client relations managers whose principal policies are aimed at promoting equal objective is to be the first point of contact opportunities and preventing harassment, We recognise our health & safety for all existing investors.
The team is bullying and discrimination.
obligations to everyone who either works responsible for the provision of clear and in or visits our premises.
Hugh Willis, concise investment reporting, conducting Our clients place a high level of trust in us Chief Executive, is responsible for health regular client review meetings and and we recognise both the responsibility & safety, assisted by the Head of Human ensuring investors are kept up to date this brings and the resulting demands on Resources and a fully qualified professional on developments at BlueBay.
We acknowledge that to external adviser.
we invite both existing and prospective continue to be effective we must provide clients to conduct due diligence visits with the necessary support and development us to review our investment process and Marketplace for our employees.
As a complement to operational infrastructure.
our formal twice annual performance BlueBays funds and products are reviews, appropriate internal and external predominantly distributed to institutional Product Development training is made available to employees investors globally, either directly, or via a Our strategy to maintain our position to ensure they maintain and develop their number of third party distributors.
These as one of the leading fixed income professional abilities.
We have introduced relationships are important to us and we credit specialists in Europe is supported a coaching programme and established consider that establishing a reputation by innovative product development.
for reliability, integrity and transparency are key ingredients to our success.
34 BlueBay Asset Management plc New products are launched following extensive internal due diligence and Corporate Social consultation with our clients to ensure Responsibility that they are appropriately designed.
Our launch project was Community volunteering at St Mary As an organisation we are committed Magdalene Primary School to supporting charitable causes and the community in which we operate.
in Royal Oak as part of the We introduced a new charities policy Y oung Enterprise project.
in this financial year covering charitable donations, sponsorship activities and staff volunteering.
We now encourage This is a project that involves teaching After a brief introduction where we all members of staff to take a day out children about the basics of enterprise: explained where we had come from of the business each year to volunteer the objective is intended to raise the and what jobs we had, we began to participate in a corporate volunteering childrens aspirations and to help them teaching.
The children engaged well programme in partnership with develop key skills for the future.
Prior to with the topics, they got involved with Westminster Time & Talents, a registered the day, all volunteers received training the activities and asked lots of questions.
charity which operates in the London area.
at BlueBay where we were divided into By the end of the day they had gained pairs and given the topics that we would a better understanding into the working be teaching, including Our World & Our environment and how individuals work During the course of the financial year Community.
We were also given advice together to achieve goals.
BlueBay made charitable contributions on how to plan the lessons and how totalling 83,000.
We continued with to keep the children engaged.
our theme of making contributions which The day itself, was interactive, enjoyable focus on children, making a combined and each employee faced various contribution of 77,000 to the Great On the day of the volunteering, ten challenges throughout the day which Ormond Street Hospital, Action for BlueBay employees, including Alex were approached with good humour Children, Barnardos and CLIC Sargeant.
Khein, COO went along to the school.
In addition, the company and its employees We were greeted by the deputy head responded to the Haiti earthquake appeal.
who gave us a tour of the school and the classrooms that we would be teaching in.
Upon entering our Environment classrooms, it was evident that the We are committed to limiting and children were very excited about the ultimately reducing the impact of our prospect of being taught by volunteers.
Considerable care was taken in evaluating the design of the building we occupy in London in order to limit wasteful use of water and electricity.
We try to minimise the volume of waste we produce by operating a procurement strategy aimed at reducing the generation of waste and recycling where it is practicable to do so.
