Business Review Chief Financial Officer Nick Williams Introduction Industry environment BlueBay is one of the largest independent Structural credit market opportunities managers of fixed income credit in Europe, BlueBay was founded in response to two with a total of $34.3 billion of assets under structural developments in the debt capital management as at 30 June 2010. markets.
The first was the advent of a mainstream European corporate debt BlueBay offers two different product market, sparked by the introduction of the lines to its clients: long-only funds and Euro in 1999.
The second was the rapid alternative funds.
Its long-only funds are growth from 1998 onwards of global designed as actively managed products emerging market debt as a major asset with the objective of producing targeted class.
Despite the significant upheaval in excess returns over their benchmarks over all financial markets starting in the second the course of the credit cycle.
Its alternative half of 2007, we continue to believe that funds are intended to produce attractive these two structural drivers of our business risk-adjusted absolute returns to investors model remain intact.
BlueBays products are currently grouped into six credit strategies, The global corporate debt market which cover the spectrum of credit quality, comprises all publicly traded debt ranging from investment grade to high instruments other than those issued by yield and distressed debt, as well as governments and supra-national agencies.
emerging market debt, convertible bonds Within this market, the US corporate and multi-strategy funds.
The Company debt market is estimated to be the largest also manages a number of segregated single component in terms of value of long-only accounts on behalf of large instruments outstanding, currently institutional clients.
estimated at $3.8 trillion Source: Merrill Lynch.
The European corporate debt BlueBay distributes its products either market is estimated to be over half this directly to institutional clients or indirectly size with approximately $1.9 trillion of via intermediaries such as third party instruments outstanding Source: Merrill distributors.
It has its headquarters in Lynch but in the recent past has London with additional offices in Tokyo experienced faster growth, driven by the and Connecticut.
introduction of the Euro which facilitated 16 BlueBay Asset Management plc European corporate and emerging market debt markets performed strongly during the financial year.
the development of a homogenous debt sustained by robust domestic economic officially emerged from recession in the capital market in Europe and the trend of growth, the general adoption of floating third quarter of 2009.
However, it soon growing disintermediation of the banking foreign exchange rates and increased became apparent that the additional system from the credit process.
In addition, foreign exchange reserves, all of which liquidity was not finding its way into strong demand for fixed income have driven the upward momentum in lending and investment in the real instruments from liability-driven investors ratings.
The resulting growth of the economy.
Worrying signs also began seeking yield in a low interest rate asset class has been further enhanced to emerge surrounding certain sovereign environment has been an important by the increasing issuance of securities issuers.
For example, towards the end growth driver.
Given the comparable size denominated in local currencies and of 2009, Dubai World unexpectedly of Gross Domestic Product of the EU and by issuance of securities by corporate announced the restructuring of the the US, we believe that in the medium to borrowers located in emerging markets.
debt of its real estate subsidiary, Nakheel long term, the European corporate debt which some investors had mistakenly market will continue to experience strong Market performance assumed enjoyed the implicit guarantee growth, similar to that witnessed in the US.
European corporate and emerging market of the Government of Dubai.
Further debt markets performed strongly during uncertainty continued into early 2010, the financial year to 30 June 2010, although investors remained broadly Emerging markets have historically recording index returns ranging from positive in their outlook.
accounted for only a small part of the 11.9% for European investment grade global securities markets, with investor iBoxx Euro Corporate Index to 37.7% Emerging markets also performed strongly demand being dampened by limited issuance and liquidity, insufficient data for European high yield Merrill Lynch during this period benefiting both from quality and the significant volatility in the European Currencies High Yield Constrained the return of confidence to financial asset class.
Global convertibles also generated markets in general as well as the of major financial crises during the 1990s double-digit index returns of 11.2% continuing improvement in the credit the most significant of which was the UBS Global Convertible Focus Index.
quality of many of their sovereign and Russian default crisis of 1998, volatility in corporate issuers.
In April 2010, Russia was the asset class has steadily reduced, credit able to return to the Eurobond markets for Markets initially benefited from continued quality has improved and diversification has the first time since the crisis triggered by its optimism resulting from the global increased across the asset class in terms of default in 1998. economic recovery that was largely the total number of issuing countries and supported by fiscal and quantitative easing corporations.
These trends have been measures.
The US and Eurozone economies 17
