Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2010 Governance Corporate Responsibility 36 Introduction The group supports flexible working practices and this year, Close Brothers aims to integrate Corporate Responsibility the group has promoted childcare vouchers and highlighted CR across the groups businesses.
the benefits of these to staff.
Employee benefits for staff vary across the group, however all divisions offer pension and life The board continues to focus on: assurance to UK based staff.
Ensuring recognition of CR initiatives throughout the group: The group is committed to training and development of its staff including training for further qualifications.
All of the groups The groups employees: businesses have a performance management process to Acting responsibly to its customers: assist in identifying training needs of staff and these needs are included in local training plans.
The environmental impact of its activities generally: and The groups contribution to local communities.
The total investment in staff training increased year-on-year with over two thirds of employees attending internal or external The board encourages the adoption of key CR principles the year.
training courses during across all group companies.
Given the diversified nature of the group, it is the responsibility of each of the businesses to The group offers a Save As You Earn Sharesave scheme to implement the groups CR principles.
all eligible UK based employees allowing them to participate directly in the success of the group.
In the 2009 financial year, During the year, a CR committee was established and is the board reduced the eligibility criteria for employees from two chaired by a member of the Executive Committee to promote years service to six months in order to encourage increased recognition of CR within the group.
The committee has participation in the scheme.
As a result, in the 2010 financial representatives from across the group and provides a forum year, approximately one third of all staff across the group for sharing ideas and to raise the profile and importance of CR participated in the scheme, up from one quarter of all staff efforts and objectives within the group.
The committee has last year.
decided initially to focus on employee engagement and As part of the focus on employee engagement the group has contribution to the community.
Initiatives in support of these looked at ways of improving communication.
A group wide objectives are already under way and will continue over the coming year.
intranet, with an employee directory, has been developed to support the sharing of information and networking.
Leadership Employees briefings and townhall meetings have been introduced and The group is committed to recruiting, training, developing and used as a forum to share understanding of group and retaining high calibre people in order to maximise their divisional strategy.
Plans are under way for an employee potential and derive business benefits.
opinion survey to be carried out in the 2011 financial year.
This will give all staff the opportunity to provide feedback on an The group values diversity in its employees and is committed anonymous basis enhancing communication between to providing equality of opportunity regardless of race, gender, employees and the leadership team and enabling the group to age, disability, sexual orientation or religion.
This applies both identify opportunities to increase employee engagement.
to recruitment and the promotion and development of people who are already employed.
In the event of employees Responsible Finance becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure their The groups success and strong reputation depends on employment with the group continues and specialised training ensuring that all customers are treated fairly.
The group has a is provided where appropriate.
successful track record of building long-term relationships with its customers.
The groups businesses are responsible for implementing their own health and safety policy to establish procedures Treating Customers Fairly TCF has been embedded across appropriate to their particular activities.
All businesses have a all group companies, both onshore and offshore, and is central health and safety policy which is communicated to employees to the groups business ethos.
Group control functions as part of a joining induction pack, staff handbook or via the continue to be responsible for the monitoring of the application intranet.
In addition, each business has a health and safety of TCF across the businesses, and ensuring all staff are briefed representative accountable for reviewing the policy and on TCF policies and initiatives.
TCF remains an ongoing ensuring that stress or injury at the workplace is minimised.
process and the group will continually look to develop its policies and procedures taking into account current regulatory During the year, the group introduced an Employee Assistance views and industry best practice.
Programme EAP called UNUM LifeWorks which is available to all UK based permanent and fixed term employees.
It is a The group recognises its responsibility to minimise the free, confidential service that gives access to employees and opportunity for fraud across its businesses.
All group their immediate family to discuss work, health or family matters companies have anti-money laundering, whistle blowing and, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
As well as providing where appropriate, fraud prevention policies.
a support and counselling service, it also provides free advice and practical help on a variety of matters, for example Each of our regulated businesses has a dedicated anti-money finding childcare, selling a house or finding local tradesmen.
laundering and compliance officer who reports to the head of At the year end, over 90% of staff were covered by an EAP group compliance.
Regular training is given to all staff to or similar programme.
ensure continuing awareness of anti-money laundering and U09509 pp27 pp49.
indd 36 29 9 10 20:50:39 Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2010 37 fraud prevention issues.
In addition, there are whistle blowing participating in fundraising activities, an increase from last year, arrangements to enable staff to report incidents confidentially.
with the remainder from direct group donations.
All of the The group is also well positioned to ensure that it complies businesses made donations to local, national and global with the implementation of the Bribery Act in April 2011.
The groups largest contributions were to the Trust and NSPCC.
In addition, the businesses held various Environment events to support the fundraising for Haiti, as well as making The group recognises the importance of managing and direct contributions to the British Red Cross and Disasters minimising the environmental impact of its activities.
The group is complying with the requirements of the new In addition to the local charities that are supported, the group Carbon Reduction Committee Energy Efficiency Scheme plans to work in partnership with a nominated charity for which is the UKs mandatory climate change and energy fundraising and support over the next twelve months.
charity will be chosen by a staff vote organised by the CR committee.
The groups head office, 10 Crown Place, was refurbished in the year with consideration given to energy saving measures, better waste management and recycling facilities and a range of carbon reduction measures for lighting such as a Passive Infra Red system.
The group has recently carried out an energy audit at its head office and one of its other London based offices and continues to engage closely with an energy consultancy firm in developing its energy and environmental policy.
The group continues its commitment to limit greenhouse gas emissions and water usage and to recycle waste materials at its head office.
This includes the use of green tariff energy and a recycling programme for toners, paper and general waste.
Community The group continues to encourage employee participation in local community projects.
In an effort to enhance its work with the community this year, the group launched a work experience programme offering young students aged 17 to 19 years, one weeks work experience in different departments within the group.
These candidates were offered placements across the group and benefited from exposure to a work environment and a breadth of activities.
The group is also planning another one week work experience programme in November 2010, partnering with a Tower Hamlets school close to the groups London head office in order to give children aged 14 to 15 years the chance to experience life within a City financial services organisation.
The group also encourages charitable donations by offering a Give As You Earn GAYE scheme to onshore staff.
During the year, a promotion programme was launched to encourage participation in this scheme, with organised site visits to all locations and a donation by the group to a charity of the employees choice for all employees signing up to the scheme over the summer.
In addition, information has been made available on the group intranet and local intranet sites within the businesses and has been given to new starters as part of induction packs.
As a result, participation in the scheme has grown to over 10% of the UK based employees, nearly double that in the 2009 financial year, making the group eligible for a gold quality mark in March 2011.
As a result of the increase in the participation in the GAYE scheme, and an increase in awareness of charitable giving more broadly, during the year the group increased the amount donated to 281,000 2009: 154,000.
Of this, over 20% was raised through a matched funding scheme for employees U09509 pp27 pp49.
