Corporate responsibility and sustainability our approaCh bodycotes objective is to create superior shareholder returns through the provision of selected thermal processing services that are highly valued by our customers and to achieve this in a safe working environment, with minimal environmental impact.
bodycote is dedicated to improving management of corporate responsibility issues and is implementing policies and initiatives to achieve this goal.
the future success and growth of the Group is intrinsically linked to our ability to ensure the Groups operations are sustainable and that we can nurture and develop our talent.
our people the strength of the Group primarily rests in its people and one of the key challenges for management is to ensure availability of appropriately qualified people to support its continued growth.
bodycote is fortunate to have a competent and committed international team that is well respected in technical and business circles.
Most acquisitions have been based on historical relationships with bodycote personnel which is a testament to the integrity of the Groups people.
the board has established a remuneration policy that rewards performance while offering competitive base packages.
in line with the policy of continuous improvement, the Group has added further resources in this area to assess management performance and to improve the succession pipeline for future business leadership.
bodycotes employment policies are non-discriminatory, complying bodycote is dedicated to with all current legislation to engender equal opportunity irrespective of race, gender, religion, disability, sexual orientation or nationality.
improving management Harassment is not tolerated.
of corporate responsibility issues and is implementing policies and initiatives to achieve this goal.
28 bodyCote annual report 2010 business review : Corporate GovernanCe : aCCounts responsiBle Business ethiCs improving safety Culture all bodycote personnel are expected to apply a high ethical standard, the nature of the Groups operations is that employees are regularly consistent with an international uK-listed company.
directors and exposed to potentially dangerous situations.
it is standard bodycote employees are expected to ensure that their personal interests practice to ensure that appropriate safety and health policies and do not at any time conflict with those of bodycote.
shareholder procedures are in force around the Group and that employees are employees are advised of and comply with share trading codes.
given suitable training appropriate to their working environment.
bodycote has systems in place designed to ensure compliance in 2004 the Group commenced reporting in a uniform manner its with all applicable laws and regulations and conformity with all performance internally in terms of both the frequency and severity relevant codes of business practice.
Further, bodycote does not of lost-time accidents.
as a result, each facility is now able to benchmark make political donations.
its safety and health performance and formulate strategies for improvements.
bodycote is committed to the highest practicable with regard to competition, bodycote aims to win business in a standards of safety and health management and takes a zero tolerance differentiated high-value manner.
the Group does not employ unfair approach to safety violations.
trading methods and it competes vigorously but fairly within the requirements of the applicable laws.
employees are prohibited from underpinning the vital importance of workplace safety, bonus either giving or receiving any inducements.
payments to directors and senior executives are, in part, dependent on achievement of safety targets, which are key performance indicators.
Communities whilst bodycote has no centralised community initiatives in place, kpi accident frequency number our global teams frequently take part in charity events and groups bodycote works tirelessly to reduce workplace accidents and is that help to foster good community relationships.
committed to providing a safe environment for anyone who works at or visits our locations.
the major restructuring programme has not made this an easy task in 2010. nevertheless, the accident Frequency rate was reduced to 1.8 2009: 1.9.
06 07 08 09 10 3.1 2.4 2.0 1.9 1.8 accident Frequency is defined as the number of lost time accidents x 200,000 hours approximately 100 man years, divided by the total hours worked.
business review : Corporate GovernanCe : aCCounts bodyCote annual report 2010 29 Corporate responsibility and sustainability Continued proteCting the environment Carbon footprint and water consumption bodycote operates modern, efficient equipment around the clock.
the reduction of Co e carbon dioxide equivalent and water 2 the Group aggregates demand from a wide range of customers consumption is a high priority for the Group.
to maximise efficiency and minimise energy costs.
by replacing total Co e emissions per m sales decreased by 5% in 2010 and 2 under-utilised in-house thermal processing operations with bodycotes water usage per m sales decreased by 8%.
the Groups total Co 2 state-of-the-art equipment, the overall amount of energy used by emission data is based on scope 1 and scope 2 emissions, as defined industry can be dramatically reduced, as is explained further in by the uK Governments department for environment, Food and the following pages.
the success of bodycotes processes in rural affairs, and data relating to this has been calculated to include addressing these issues is key to its environmental credentials.
the Group does not simply aim to minimise its own energy Carbon footprint water consumption consumption, but also to effect substantial reductions in its 3 tonne Co e m sales thousand m m sales customers energy use.
2 the replacement, where possible, of harmful materials has reduced the need for disposal of waste products.
by acting responsibly the Group has been able to substantially reduce its chlorinated solvent usage and is investing in closed solvent washing systems to recuperate solvent effluent and reduce evaporation emissions.
kpi iso 14001 accredited facilities % reducing the environmental impact of the Groups activities is taken very seriously.
Compliance with the requirements of iso 14001 helps to minimise the risk of adverse environmental effects at bodycotes locations.
at the end of 2010, 81% of our plants had achieved iso 14001 accreditation 140 plants out of a total of 173 09 10 09 10 2009: 137 out of 178.
698.5 665.5 1.85 1.70 bodycote is making a commitment to reducing energy and water consumption and specific methods for achieving this will be explored further in 2011.
06 07 08 09 10 47 68 71 77 81 30 bodyCote annual report 2010 business review : Corporate GovernanCe : aCCounts a greener, Cleaner environment bodycote has been involved in a number of initiatives to replace chrome reducing any detrimental impact on the environment has become plate and results have shown that, in addition to the environmental a growing focus of industry worldwide and bodycote can assist benefits, thermally sprayed tungsten carbide outperforms hard chrome in the drive towards carbon reduction and environmentally friendly plate for both wear and corrosion protection.
approaches in a number of ways.
Modern thermal processing techniques have allowed design For example, certain heat treatment and thermally sprayed surface engineers and manufacturers to use much lighter materials, such as treatments are leading the way in the replacement of older, less aluminium for example, and have significantly prolonged component lifetimes.
through the effective use of thermal processing, parts can environmentally friendly processes such as hard chrome plating.
now be lighter and overall component weight reduced, leading to Future restrictions that will be placed on chrome plating due to health improved efficiency and reduced fuel consumption.
and environmental issues have led many businesses including the major aerospace companies to embark on initiatives to replace it.
these companies have highlighted thermal spray coatings as the preferred replacement for chrome plating.
business review : Corporate GovernanCe : aCCounts bodyCote annual report 2010 31
