15841 F&C Annual Report FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06 04 2011 15:36 Page 19 F&C Asset Management Business Review 19 Our strategic approach and commitment to corporate responsibility CR CR commitment Marketplace The Board is committed to maintaining the highest standards of F&C will use the influence of its clients assets to engage with governance and corporate citizenship.
We recognise that in addition companies on all relevant CR matters where this will improve to our responsibilities to clients and shareholders we also have business performance.
F&C intends to increase the number of responsibilities to employees, suppliers, the environment, the milestones achieved being an instance in which a company companies in which we invest and the wider community in which improves its policies, procedures or practices following engagement we operate.
and where F&Cs participation has been a major factor to 435 by 2011.
CR strategy F&C will issue voting instructions in line with its Corporate The Company has two overarching strategic ambitions: Governance Operational Guidelines on 100 per cent.
of global To enable our clients to respond effectively to changing dynamics resolutions that it is mandated to on behalf of clients and will publish in the world economy through our products and through its voting history.
of companies influencing companies to improve business performance.
following an abstention or vote against management.
To ensure that we meet the highest practicable standards of Environment corporate responsibility in our own operations.
F&C is targeting carbon neutrality internally and is committed to We have defined four key categories supporting our strategic helping our clients and suppliers cut carbon emissions.
Over the ambitions: Marketplace, Environment, Workplace and Community.
next three years F&C will obtain 100 per cent.
of its energy usage from renewable sources, where such markets exist.
We are committed to monitoring and reporting on progress against the targets set within each category, both internally on a quarterly F&C will source 100 per cent.
of its paper from chlorine free recycled basis and externally at least annually.
F&Cs CR policies are guided supplies, reduce waste to landfill by 20 per cent.
and increase its by a number of broadly accepted international standards and own recycling by 20 per cent.
Wherever practicable, we seek external validation of F&C will actively embark on an internal education programme on the our progress and publish these results.
effect that water and waste management has on the environment.
F&C considers the following key external measures to validate our F&C, through its marketplace engagement activity, will widen its relative CR performance.
influence to the companies in which it invests.
External validation Some of our 2010 community or charity events 2009 Existing 2011 75 members of staff participated in the JPMorgan Chase Corporate position position target Challenge, held in Battersea Park, London, raising funds for Save BITC Corporate Gold Gold Platinum the Children.
Responsibility Index status status status EIRIS FTSE4Good Inclusion Inclusion Inclusion Throughout 2010, over 100 members of staff based in London and UN Global Inclusion Inclusion Inclusion Edinburgh participated in a variety of volunteering events which Compact CCP included renovation of gardens for a housing trust, painting Carbon Disclosure Member Member Member classrooms in local primary schools and regeneration of a childrens Project adventure playground.
Principles for Founding Founding Founding Every member of staff within the Companys Irish office participated Responsible signatory signatory signatory in a volunteering day clearing and transforming an overgrown garden Investment at the Lantern Facility, run by the Peter McVerry Trust.
The Lantern Facility houses vulnerable men wanting to get off the streets.
F&C identifies its key stakeholders as shareholders, clients, employees, suppliers, government and non-government In October, every member of staff within the Companys Netherlands organisations, the wider community, other asset management office participated in their first volunteering day at Klaase Zevenster, companies and companies in which we invest.
We engage widely a home for elderly people some of whom suffer from dementia.
A with stakeholder groups through regular dialogue tailored to meet variety of activities took place which included teaching computer the requirements of each stakeholder group.
CR categories supporting the strategic ambitions F&C has established key performance indicators KPIs for each of the CR categories detailed below, details of which can be found on the Corporate Responsibility section of the Companys website.
A summary of our objectives in each area is set out below.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 15841 F&C Annual Report FRONT AND BACK:Layout 1 06 04 2011 15:36 Page 20 20 Business Review Our strategic approach and commitment to corporate responsibility F&C Asset Management Corporate responsibility key performance indicators Category KPI statistic 2010 performance 2011 targets Marketplace Number of resolutions voted on during the year 100% 100% Proportion of companies contacted following an abstention or vote against management 100% 100% reo engagement successes in year 432 435 Community Staff participation in Give as You Earn 12% 15% Employees participating in charitable events and charitable fundraising 487 475 Staff volunteering for community projects 29% 365 staff days Environment Carbon neutrality Full Full Reduction in paper consumption 5% 5% Workplace Employee survey participation Top decile Top decile Staff satisfaction 70% 75% Diversity training staff coverage 100% 100% Workplace How is Corporate Responsibility implemented by F&C F&C is committed to ensuring good practices in managing its own workplace issues.
The Board is ultimately responsible for CR within the Group.
Development of F&Cs policies on CR and their implementation F&C will undertake an employee survey and will, by 2011, target top throughout the Group are co-ordinated by the CR Committee, decile employee participation levels.
F&C always seeks to employ the best person for each job and does not discriminate on grounds of gender, race, ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, age or physical disability.
of employees on the importance of recognising and embracing diversity in the workplace and the community as a whole.
Alain Grisay David Logan F&C encourages share ownership and will continue to operate all- 6 April 2011 6 April 2011 employee share schemes.
Community F&C offers financial support and, wherever practicable, offers employees time off work to support charitable activities.
In 2011 F&C is targeting 365 staff days of community work in 2011.
of employees participating in the Give As You Earn scheme and will match employee contributions up to a set monthly level.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010
