Business review Subsequent actions to date to strengthen BPs safety management Corporate responsibility Following the accident, BP immediately undertook a variety of activities to further strengthen its oil spill prevention, containment and response The Deepwater Horizon explosion and subsequent spill had major human capability.
These include: and environmental consequences, demonstrating the importance of safe BOPs used on BP-operated projects, along with other well-control and responsible operations.
We deeply regret the loss of lives and injuries equipment, were checked to confirm that they had been properly suffered, and the impact to the environment and livelihoods of local people.
maintained and are capable of shutting in the well in an emergency.
We are committed to understanding and applying the lessons from Remotely operated vehicles were confirmed to be capable of activating the accident.
Already, we are making some fundamental changes in the BOPs in emergency situations.
New decision matrix, designed to aid key decisions on well design and These measures include: operations, was developed and distributed to our operations globally.
The creation of an enhanced safety and operational risk function that is Two containment hats were delivered to the UK to aid North Sea independent of the business line and is represented in every BP containment capability.
We updated our oil spill response plan, and submitted it to the The reorganization of our upstream business to create three functional US Department of the Interior.
divisions, each reporting directly to the group chief executive.
See Meanwhile, our upstream teams are working to implement the 26 Exploration and Production on pages 40-41 for further details.
recommendations made by BPs internal investigation team.
These will be A review of employee reward frameworks to increase the focus on tracked in the quarterly HSE and operations integrity report supplied to the performance in safety, compliance, and operational risk management.
See Employees on page 74 for further details.
An examination of how we can strengthen the oversight of contractors.
Safety and operational risk Strengthening these core areas will require some profound changes in how Safety and operational risk management requirements, encapsulated by we operate and will take several years to fully embed.
our operating management system OMS, are set by a central, dedicated In 2010, the company reported 14 workforce fatalities, including the function, with periodic reviews by the board and executive committees.
11 workers on the Deepwater Horizon in the US and three other workThe operational delivery of these requirements is the responsibility of related fatalities in the Netherlands, Germany and Canada.
We deeply regret the loss of these lives and recognize As a result of the Gulf of Mexico incident, BP has redefined and the tremendous loss felt by their families, friends and co-workers.
strengthened the scope and accountabilities of the group function for safety and operations, creating a new independent function, Safety and Safety Operational Risk S&OR.
We are deploying S&OR professionals, many of Gulf of Mexico oil spill investigations and recommendations whom were previously reporting to local business leaders, in all of BPs In the immediate aftermath of the Deepwater Horizon explosion, BP operations throughout 2011. launched an internal investigation, drawing on the expertise of more than The core responsibilities of S&OR are to: 50 technical and other specialists within BP and the industry.
The Provide checks and balances independent of the business line.
investigation team was led by BPs head of safety and operations, and Strengthen mandatory safety-related standards and processes, worked independently from BPs other spill response activities and including operational risk management.
Provide an independent view on operational risk.
The BP investigation concluded that no single cause was Assess and enhance the competency and capability of our workforce in responsible for the accident.
The investigation instead found that a matters related to safety.
complex, inter-linked series of mechanical failures, human judgements, The head of S&OR is a member of BPs most senior executive team along engineering design, operational implementation and team interfaces, with the heads of Refining and Marketing, and Exploration and Production.
involving several companies including BP, contributed to the accident.
S&OR oversees and audits the companys operations around the world, See Gulf of Mexico oil spill on pages 34-39. assuring that all operations are carried out in line with the groups OMS.
As a result, the investigation team made 26 recommendations While the business line continues to be accountable for operational specific to drilling, which we accepted and are implementing across our delivery, S&OR holds the authority to intervene in safety and operational worldwide drilling operations.
The recommendations include measures risk aspects of BPs technical and operational activities.
to improve contractor management, as well as to strengthen design and assurance on blowout preventers BOPs, well control, pressure-testing Governance processes for well integrity, emergency systems, cement testing, rig audit and The boards safety, ethics and environment assurance committee SEEAC verification, and personnel competence.
receives updates from the executive teams group operations risk Several external investigations into the Deepwater Horizon accident committee GORC, which is chaired by the group chief executive.
These and response are under way in the US, including those by the Marine updates include quarterly reports monitoring major incidents, near-misses Board, the National Academy of Engineering, the Chemical Safety Board, and performance in both process and personal safety across the group.
the US Congress, the Department of Justice and the Securities and The group chief executive and the head of S&OR attend SEEAC meetings Exchange Commission SEC.
In addition, the Presidential Commission and report on the groups safety performance: this is measured through issued its report on 11 January 2011.
See page 38 in Gulf of Mexico oil spill developing leading and lagging safety indicators.
SEEAC also receives for a summary of the findings.
As the findings of these investigations are information directly from S&OR, other parts of the business and external made public, we will make them available on www.
sources, including the independent expert appointed to monitor the implementation of recommendations made by the BP US Refineries Independent Safety Review Panel following the 2005 incident at our Texas City refinery.
See Board performance report on pages 90-105 for further information on the activities of the boards committees, including the Gulf of Mexico committee established to oversee the work of the Gulf Coast Restoration Organization GCRO.
68 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Business review Business review Operating management system information about our immediate activities to further strengthen our oil spill In 2008, we launched OMS, our group-wide framework to drive a rigourous prevention, containment and response capability.
and systematic approach to safety, risk management, and operational integrity across the company.
OMS integrates all requirements regarding Process safety management health, safety, security, environment and operational reliability, as well as Process safety involves applying good design principles, along with robust related issues such as maintenance, contractor relations and organizational engineering, operating and maintenance practices, to managing operations learning, into a common system.
For BP, this means ensuring the plant is designed, maintained and The principles and standards of OMS are supported by detailed operated properly to avoid failures such as spills or explosions that can company practices, as well as other technical guidance materials.
OMS result in injuries and impacts to the environment.
mandates that certain standards, group-defined practices and group In September 2010, BP published Deepwater Horizon Containment engineering technical practices be implemented company-wide: these and Response: Harnessing Capabilities and Lessons Learned, a report include, among others, the assessment, prioritization and management of shared with the US Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and risk: incident investigation: integrity management: and environmental and Enforcement.
These learnings are intended to benefit our own operations social requirements for major new projects.
and potentially those of our peers, in case of a future incident.
The OMS includes these essential requirements, specifically The report identifies four broad lessons from the Deepwater addressing crisis and continuity management and emergency response: Horizon incident: Identify crisis and continuity management scenarios utilising the entity Collaboration: a broad range of stakeholders came together in the wake risk register, the output of the entitys major accident risk assessment of the Deepwater Horizon incident to provide effective solutions and and other information.
It would have been extremely difficult for any Implement and maintain crisis and continuity management plans to one company alone to address challenges on the scale of the manage the scenarios identified.
These will include procedures from Deepwater Horizon incident.
The response benefited from close initiation to response and recovery.
At site level these plans shall collaboration with and the capabilities of the US Coast Guard, Bureau of include arrangements for evacuation and, where needed, for initial Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement and dozens shelter-in-place.
of other partners and stakeholders from government, industry, Validate the plans through exercising them at defined intervals.
academia and the affected communities, as well as around the globe.
Review the plans at least annually to reflect changes in hazards, risks, Systemization: the response to the incident required the development organization or contact details, and implement identified improvements.
of extensive systems, procedures and organizational capabilities to Provide access to trained personnel, resources, medical emergency adapt to changing and unique conditions.
As the Deepwater Horizon and other facilities needed to implement and execute the crisis and spill continued despite efforts at the wellhead, the response effort continuity management plans.
progressed, expanded, and took on not just new tasks and directions Implement, maintain and exercise a documented process for but new personnel and resources.
As a result, from source to shore, accounting for personnel during and after an emergency evacuation.
existing systems were evolved and expanded and new ones developed to advance work flow, improve co-ordination, focus efforts and manage OMS defines the process for BP business units to implement the system risks.
The adoption of these systems will ensure the ability to respond and continuously improve their operational performance in all areas, to future spills more rapidly at scale with a clear direction as to including safety.
The embedding of a comprehensive management system personnel, resource and organizational needs.
such as OMS across a global company is a multi-year process.
Information: timely and reliable information was essential across both The transition to OMS requires each operation to develop a local the containment and response operations to achieve better decisionOMS LOMS that describes how the operation addresses site-specific making, ensure safe operations and inform stakeholders and the public.
local operating risks to meet group standards and practices and comply Innovation: the urgency in containing the spill and dealing with its with applicable HSSE legal requirements, while focusing on their specific effects drove innovations in tools, equipment, processes and activities.
As an essential step in developing its LOMS, the business unit know-how, ranging from incremental enhancements to step changes in conducts an assessment of the gaps between the standards and practices technologies and techniques, that have advanced the state of the art contained in OMS and the business units local processes and procedures, and laid the foundation for future refinements as part of an enhanced and then develops a gap-closure plan.
Every year, after the initial gap regime for any type of source-to-shore response.
assessment, each business unit conducts another assessment to identify the additional steps to be taken to improve performance.
BP joined the Marine Well Containment Company MWCC, a non-profit To formally transition to OMS, an operation issues a handbook for initiative with ExxonMobil, Shell, ConocoPhillips and Chevron designed to the workforce to follow, completes a management-of-change document quickly deploy effective equipment in case of another underwater blowout that details the changes involved, and obtains formal sign-off by the in the US Gulf of Mexico.
The well containment equipment used in the segment operating authority and business unit leader.
All of BPs major Deepwater Horizon response will preserve existing capability for use by the operations had transitioned to OMS by the end of 2010, with the remaining oil and gas industry in the US Gulf of Mexico while the MWCC member one regional logistics operation completing the process by the end of companies build a system that exceeds current response capabilities.
BP February 2011. has also offered to make available to the MWCC BP technical personnel BP will continue to evolve OMS, incorporating implementation with experience from the Deepwater Horizon response.
experience as well as learnings from incident investigations, audits and risk assessments, and by strengthening mandatory practices.
Oil spills and loss of containment We strive to prevent future oil spills by weaving process safety into every Gulf of Mexico incident and the OMS stage of the design, operation and management of our operations.
We The Gulf of Mexico operations completed their transition to OMS in monitor the integrity of all our operations, vessels and pipelines used to December 2009 and now continue to work towards full conformance to produce, process and transport oil and other hydrocarbons with the aim the OMS.
Recommendations from BPs internal investigation into the of preventing any loss of hydrocarbons from their primary containment.
Deepwater Horizon incident will be implemented within our group-wide Accordingly, we record all losses of containment, losses of hydrocarbons OMS framework where appropriate: this includes updates around from our assets which we monitor as an enduring indicator of process contractor management and oil spill preparedness and response.
Once the safety, and losses or spills that reach land or water.
external investigations have produced their findings, we will carry out a The loss of primary containment metric below includes any review on the OMS framework: this is expected to be completed in the unplanned or uncontrolled release of material, excluding non-hazardous third quarter of 2011.
See Subsequent actions to date on page 68 for releases such as water, from a tank, vessel, pipe, rail car or equipment used for containment or transfer.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 69 Business review Although there are several third-party estimates of the flow rate or total volume of oil spilled from the Deepwater Horizon incident, we believe that the total volume of oil spilled cannot be finalized until further information is collected and the analysis, such as the condition of the blowout preventer, is completed.
Once such determination has been made, we will report on the spill volume as appropriate.
See Financial statements Note 37 on page 199 for information about the volume used to determine the estimated liabilities.
Loss of primary containment and oil spills excluding Gulf of Mexico oil spill in respect of volume 2010 2009 2008 a Loss of primary containment number of all incidents 418 537 658 b Loss of primary containment number of oil spills 261 234 335 Number of oil spills to land and water 142 122 170 Volume of oil spilled thousand litres 1,719 1,191 3,440 Volume of oil unrecovered thousand litres 758 222 911 a Does not include either small or non-hazardous releases.
b Number of spills greater than or equal to one barrel 159 litres, 42 US gallons.
Reports of the US refineries Independent Expert good progress in a number of key areas, and they successfully accelerated Duane Wilson was appointed in 2007 by the board as an Independent the pace of implementation in several other key areas.
However, some Expert to provide an objective assessment of BPs progress in areas require special emphasis going forward, and the US refineries are implementing the recommendations of the BP US Refineries Independent addressing these needs through interventions or renewed commitments to Safety Review Panel the Panel aimed at improving process safety accelerated implementation plans.
performance at BPs five US refineries.
The Fourth Report assessed the companys progress against the During 2010, Mr Wilson kept the committee updated on his work areas identified in the Third Report as requiring more focused attention and activities and BPs progress in implementing the recommendations, found that: including the outcome of his visits to each of BPs five US refining sites.
In in relation to reduction of overtime rates, the US refineries had reduced March 2010 he published his third annual report the Third Report that their average overtime rates to levels that are perceived to be at or near assessed BPs progress against the 10 Panel recommendations and industry norms for both operations and maintenance personnel in 2010, associated commentary.
In that report, which was published in full on BPs and significant reductions in overtime rates for individuals had also been website, he found that, in the three years since the Panel issued its report achieved, with only a few people exceeding BPs individual overtime in January 2007, BP had made significant improvements in response to all target at the end of 2010: 10 Panel recommendations.
He found measureable improvement across in relation to SIS management systems, the US refineries had made nearly all the common indicators used by BP to track process safety accelerated progress in 2010 in addressing SIS life-cycle requirements: performance: although results varied from refinery to refinery for individual the Fourth Report noted that rigourous implementation of these new indicators, he found that the composite of these indicators, both at SIS life-cycle policies and procedures for all existing and newly installed individual refineries and across all BPs US refineries, reflected SISs will be a challenging task: improvement over time.
in relation to process safety culture, the US refineries had developed a Mr Wilson also found, however, that, while significant gaps had common safety culture vision in 2010 and progress was being made in been closed and most of the new systems, processes, standards, and communicating the new vision: the Fourth Report also noted that practices required for continued process safety improvements had been progress is being made toward improved communication, co-operation developed, much work remained to be done to fully implement them.
The and sharing between the refineries and commented on some Third Report stated that BP must demonstrate improved capability for improvements with respect to individuals adopting a more proactive systematic management of these systems, processes, standards, and and self-critical approach towards identifying and addressing risks.
The practices so it can accelerate the overall pace of implementing the 10 Panel Fourth Report noted that input from Mr Wilson was still sometimes recommendations.
It also identified the following areas at BPs US required to catalyze the identification of and timely response to process refineries in which more focused attention was required: safety issues: and addressing overtime issues, and in particular high individual in relation to implementing internal and external standards and overtime rates: practices, BP had clearly identified those standards and practices that the development and implementation of management systems for apply to the US refineries and is implementing them through risksafety instrumented systems SIS, required by BPs internal standards, prioritized plans.
The Fourth Report noted that, although progress is to address areas such as documentation, training for personnel being made in the implementation of standards and practices, special competency, and auditing collectively, SIS life cycle issues : emphasis will be required to address certain remaining issues in a taking advantage of certain additional opportunities to further timely manner, including: the time required to implement some new strengthen the process safety culture at BPs US refineries and standards: the need to identify requirements in standards that apply increasing the pace to achieve this desired culture change: and retroactively to existing equipment: and the need for a process to addressing issues of non-conformance with standards and practices ensure that existing equipment remains in conformance with and ensuring that installed equipment continues to meet applicable applicable standards.
The Fourth Report also identified three additional areas that warrant special On 23 February 2011, Mr Wilson presented his fourth annual report the emphasis in order to implement selected Panel recommendations Fourth Report to the committee.
He found that, throughout 2010, BPs effectively: executive management continued to emphasize the importance of safe, additional sustained efforts, building on sincere messages from reliable, and compliant operations.
Even though the year was particularly executive management to date, may be required to ensure that challenging for BP following the Gulf of Mexico incident, he noted that, executive management effectively stimulates and supports a process during and after the incident response, process safety and personal safety safety culture within BPs US refineries that promotes industry-leading performance continued to be a major focus for executive management.
The process safety performance: Fourth Report stated that, during the year, group-level activities continued with the exception of action items resulting from audits and incident to focus on the development and enhancement of competency and investigations, overdue process safety action items were not being capability programs, effective audits, and ongoing maintenance and reported to executive management and to the board, as recommended support for the OMS.
The five US refineries continued to demonstrate by the Panel: in addition, Mr Wilson recommended that BP consider 70 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Business review Business review ways to systematically gather information sufficient to ensure organization and, following the Gulf of Mexico incident, our group chief completion of identified process safety action items within reasonable executive challenged our operations to ensure that all risk reviews correctly time periods: and identify and mitigate lower-probability but higher-impact events.
in the second half of 2010, the quality of some aspects of incident BP takes major incidents and high-potential incidents very seriously: investigations and reports did not maintain the levels achieved in 2009. the more significant incidents are scrutinized by GORC, who has the option In response, a Continuous Improvement Team was chartered that to require operations leaders to provide assurance that corrective measures developed a number of process improvements to be implemented in are being taken.
BP has learned important lessons from major incidents at our Texas City refinery in 2005 and the Prudhoe Bay field in Alaska in 2006.
We The Fourth Report is expected to be published in full in March 2011 and will implemented our six-point plan, designed to address the immediate risks be made available on our website.
and priorities, and then began the roll-out of our OMS underpinned by our capability programmes, and strengthened our global audit team.
Capability development In the Gulf of Mexico, our internal investigation and resultant report BP strives to equip its staff with the skills needed to apply the systems form only a starting point for what is expected to be an extended process and processes to strengthen our management of risk and process safety.
to fully analyse the Gulf of Mexico accident and implement the appropriate We have provided extensive and focused training programmes for our measures designed to prevent recurrence.
operations personnel at all levels.
This training provision includes our Operations Academy Contractor management programmes for senior management, delivered in partnership with the BPs OMS formalizes standards and recommended practices for selecting Massachusetts Institute of Technology, US: specialized operational and and working with contractors.
This includes assessing the contractors technical management programmes, for example courses in engineering safety performance as part of the selection process, and defining safety and project management at the University of Manchester, UK: and process requirements in contracts.
safety and management training for our front-line leaders, delivered under As a result of the Gulf of Mexico accident, which involved multiple our Operations Essentials programme, which seeks to embed the BP way contracting partners, we are reviewing how best to provide consistent and of operating as defined by our OMS.
To date, approximately 11,800 effective contractor oversight.
This process began in late 2010 and will be managers, supervisors and technicians have attended at least one focusing on the way we work with contractors for all onshore and offshore workshop within the Operations Essentials programme: additionally, more rig activities, particularly in regard to safety and operational risk.
than 35,000 eLearning modules have been completed.
We communicate our expectations for qualified, competent and Environment experienced contractor personnel through our procurement process.
The worlds demand for energy is increasing and our business of finding These become obligations within the formal contract.
We further manage and producing some of that energy means we operate in increasingly capability development of our strategic suppliers through a formalized diverse locations globally.
Many of these locations present challenges performance review process at operational and strategic levels that is around their environmental sensitivity and managing our impact on the informed with performance data around agreed key metrics.
The result of areas where we operate is at the core of our activities.
these performance review meetings is agreed joint plans to deliver the We strive to minimize our impacts, whether to land, air, water performance outcomes required.
or wildlife, through a systematic approach, supported by rigorous risk The challenges of the Gulf of Mexico incident accelerated learning assessment and management, preventive measures and training.
and capability development for both BP and those who worked with us on the response and for the oil industry.
It is hoped that by sharing these Environmental management lessons, the wider industry will be able to respond more effectively and We work to understand the sensitivities of the environments in which we efficiently to any similar incidents.
operate and our responsibilities from beginning to end of our projects.
By BP and third-party responders learned valuable lessons in adopting a full project cycle approach to environmental management, we collaboration, systemization, information-sharing, command and protocol.
strive to identify the potential environmental impacts of our new projects, Some of the most valuable capability advancements were technical, with in the planning stage and during operations.
We continue this approach particularly valuable experiences in the areas of subsea containment after operations have ended, through our remediation strategy.
systems, remotely operated vehicles, reservoir visualization, hydrate Our environmental and social group defined practices E&S GDP, inhibition, rapid retrofitting, and application of dispersants.
The shoreline launched in April 2010, detail the requirements to help us identify and response effort has built an expanded resource of trained responders, and manage the environmental and social risks of major new projects, projects the vessels of opportunity programme has built a base of trained, vetted in new access locations and those that could affect an international and locally knowledgeable responders.
Our E&S GDP is aligned with environmental and social standards and practices generally accepted in the oil and gas industry.
Safety performance These group defined practices include environmental and social BP reports publicly on its personal safety performance according to requirements for nine key issues: international protected areas: water standard industry metrics.
In 2010, our overall reported recordable injury management: drilling wastes and discharges: greenhouse gas GHG frequency RIF was 0.61, compared with 0.34 in 2009 and 0.43 in 2008. emissions including energy efficiency and flaring : ozone depleting The nature of the Gulf Coast response effort has resulted in personal safety substances: indigenous people: physical resettlement: security and human incident rates significantly higher than other BP operations.
Injuries rights: and impact assessment.
occurred primarily during boom deployment and the beach clean-up All our major operating sites are certified under the international activities, and relate to a working population rapidly recruited to work in environmental management system standard ISO 14001, with the new roles, in unfamiliar environments.
Texas City plant and Tangguh LNG facility successfully receiving certification Our reported day away from work case frequency DAFWCF in in 2010.
This No new projects entered an international protected area in 2010. increase is due in large part to the response effort, but also reflects a Our international protected areas classification includes the International substantial increase in the rest of BP.
There were nine day away from work Union for the Conservation of Nature IUCN I-IV, Ramsar and World cases resulting from the Deepwater Horizon accident and nine as a result Heritage designations.
of the air crash in Canada.
We apply a formal process designed to ensure that adequate controls to mitigate our internal risks are in place, while constantly looking for ways to strengthen these systems.
BP reviews risks at all levels of the BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 71 Business review Oil spill response plans BP has also joined the Marine Well Containment Company MWCC and We continue to develop and assimilate lessons from the response to the will make our underwater well containment equipment available to all oil Gulf of Mexico oil spill, which we plan to incorporate into our OMS and gas companies operating in the Gulf of Mexico.
The well containment specifically on oil spill preparedness and response.
equipment used in the Gulf of Mexico oil spill response will preserve All of BPs operations are required to comply with all applicable existing capability for use by the oil and gas industry in the US Gulf of laws, including those requirements relating to dealing with the Mexico, while the MWCC member companies build a system that exceeds environmental impact of oil spills or leaks, in all regions where we operate.
BP has also offered to make available to the Within OMS, BP has a control document on crisis and continuity MWCC BP technical personnel with experience from the Gulf of Mexico oil management that covers recommendations and approved good practice.
BP considers that the deepwater intervention experience OMS also requires environmental risks and hazards to be identified and and specialized equipment will be important to the industry as a whole as managed, including those related to unplanned events e. g. oil spills.
In addition to the MWCC, we work with all of the other Country-specific regulators require such plans to be in place and approved seven major international spill response organizations in the world.
as part of our licence to operate.
See Gulf of Mexico oil spill on pages 34-39 for further information We complete environmental impact assessments EIAs for many on BPs response to the incident.
of our projects, which include information on the potential environmental impact that might occur in the event of a spill, and use modelling and Gulf of Mexico environmental impact and long-term predictive assessments of where and how oil might impact identified commitments environmentally sensitive sites, species or commercially vulnerable sites.
The Gulf of Mexico oil spill affected water, shores, marshlands and wildlife.
We then formulate crisis management and oil spill plans, building Immediately following the accident, BP and personnel from the US National off the information in the EIA.
Environmentally sensitive areas are mapped, Oceanic and Atmospheric Association, the US Environmental Protection preventative response plans agreed, and clean-up and remediation Agency EPA, and many other governmental agencies began patrolling the procedures established to determine clean-up end points.
These plans waters of the Gulf, sampling the waters looking for residual oil, or injured address potential scenarios and response strategies, including how we birds and marine life.
BP has worked to support testing and sampling would work with designated regulatory bodies in the event of a spill and throughout the region.
what personnel and equipment would be needed.
BP is committed to understanding the long-term environmental The response techniques with the least environmental impact are impacts of the oil spill.
In June 2010, we established the GCRO to manage usually agreed based on the sensitivity of the relevant environment.
In all aspects of the immediate response to the incident and our long-term many countries where BP operates, the regulator will determine and agree efforts to restore the regional environment.
on the procedures to deal with the environmental impact.
In partnership with the Gulf of Mexico Alliance, we have set up the Acute response plans are often focused on the physical Gulf of Mexico Research Initiative GRI, pledging to provide $500 million to containment and recovery of the spilled oil, though they will also recognize study and monitor the spills potential impacts on the environment and local that components in dispersed oil will be subject to processes of public health.
biodegradation, which may be facilitated and accelerated by the application See Gulf of Mexico oil spill on pages 34-39 for further information of chemical dispersants.
on BPs response to the incident.
The potential actions during the acute stages of an offshore spill response include: Canadian oil sands Booms can be placed around the spill to gather the oil.
A curtain is Canadas oil sands are believed to hold one of the worlds largest untapped attached to its underside to prevent the oil from sliding out underneath supplies of oil, second in size only to the resources in Saudi Arabia.
BP is it and spreading further.
involved in three oil sands projects, all of which are located in the province Sorbents can absorb the oil.
Development of the Sunrise project, our joint venture operated In situ burning can be used to reduce the amount of oil on the water.
by Husky Energy, is under way, with production expected to start in 2014.
Skimming equipment can be placed around the area to scoop it from The other two proposed projects, Pike and Terre fide Grace, are still in the the waters surface.
Chemical dispersants can help the oil break up more quickly and mix We reviewed and approved the decision to invest in Canadian oil more easily with the water column.
Specific dispersants have been sands projects, taking into consideration GHG emissions, impacts on land, developed for different oils.
The net environmental benefit of using water use and local communities, and commercial viability.
As with all joint chemical dispersants should always be considered and assessed ventures in which we are not the operator, we will monitor the progress of before use.
these projects and the mitigation of risk.
The extraction process we plan to use, in-situ steam-assisted For onshore operations, BPs refineries each have detailed spill response gravity drainage technology, involves the injection of steam underground.
plans that include passive and active containment measures that are The steam liquefies the bitumen, allowing it to flow to the surface through appropriate for their specific location and type of operation.
Unlike mining, in-situ development creates a smaller In conjunction with the US authorities, BP has gained significant physical footprint and does not involve tailing ponds.
experience in combating and mitigating a major oil release.
The learnings from our spill response experience will be incorporated into the current Climate change remediation plans and procedures and also shared with governments, Climate change is a major global issue one that justifies precautionary regulators and the industry world-wide.
action and represents a significant challenge for society, the energy In the unlikely event of multiple concurrent spills, each affected industry, and BP.
facility would activate its independent oil spill response plan and respond Our GHG emissions were 64.9Mte in 2010, compared with a accordingly.
Although responding to multiple spills of the same magnitude 65.0Mte in 2009.
We have not included any emissions from the Gulf of and complexity as occurred in the Gulf of Mexico would be a challenge for Mexico incident and the response effort due to our reluctance to report the group, our response plans are not interdependent.
Further, the plans do data that has such a high degree of uncertainty.
not contain physical or financial constraints BP is committed to devoting a such resources as are necessary to mitigate the consequences of any spill We report GHG emissions, on a CO-equivalent basis, including CO and methane.
This represents 2 2 all consolidated entities and BPs share of equity-accounted entities except TNK-BP.
to people and the environment.
72 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Business review Business review We aim to manage our GHG emissions through a focus on operational projects.
Introduced in 2010, the E&S GDP now requires screening for energy efficiency and reductions in flaring and venting.
Also, we expect potential climate change impacts in major new projects, projects in new that additional regulation of GHG emissions in the future and international access locations and those that could affect an internationally protected accords aimed at addressing climate change will have an increasing impact area.
on our businesses, operating costs and strategic planning, but may also For larger projects where climate impacts are identified as a risk, offer opportunities in the development of low-carbon technologies and we put a mitigation programme in place.
Our current engineering practices businesses.
See Regulation of the groups business Greenhouse gas address climate impacts in the same way as any other physical and regulation on page 78. ecological impacts.
These practices are periodically reviewed and updated.
To help address this expectation, we factor a carbon cost into our For many climate-related impacts, the appropriate engineering investment appraisals and the engineering design of new projects.
We do solutions are already known, because somewhere in our operations we this by requiring larger projects, and those for which emissions costs would already have experience and design facilities to withstand weather be a material part of the project, to make realistic assumptions about the extremes, such as hurricanes, monsoons and Arctic conditions.
likely carbon price during the lifetime of the project.
In industrialized countries, this assumption is currently $40 per tonne of CO.
This is used Water 2 as a basis for assessing the economic value of the investment and for To improve our understanding and act upon the growing global issue of optimizing the way the project is engineered and the consequences for water scarcity, BP is taking a more strategic approach to water emissions.
This helps to ensure our investments are competitive under management.
We are currently developing our plans in regards to water scenarios in which the price of carbon is higher than it is today.
management, which include increasing our capability to manage emerging water risks and engaging with external organizations to develop sustainable Adaptation to climate change impacts water management practices.
For several years BP has sponsored research, including climate modelling, into the impacts of climate change on both existing operations and new Environmental expenditure $ million 2010 2009 2008 Environmental expenditure relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill Spill response 13,628 Additions to environmental remediation provision 929 Other environmental expenditure Operating expenditure 716 701 755 Capital expenditure 911 955 1,104 Clean-ups 55 70 64 Additions to environmental remediation provision 361 588 270 Additions to decommissioning provision 1,800 169 327 BP incurred significant costs in 2010 in response to the Gulf of Mexico oil Expenditure against such provisions normally occurs in subsequent periods spill.
The spill response cost of $13,628 million includes amounts provided and is not included in environmental operating expenditure reported for during 2010 of $10,883 million, of which $9,840 million has been expended such periods.
The charge for environmental remediation provisions in 2010 during 2010, and $1,043 million remains as a provision at 31 December included $307 million resulting from a reassessment of existing site 2010.
The majority of this remaining amount is expected to be expended obligations and $54 million in respect of provisions for new sites.
In addition, a further $2,745 million of clean-up costs were charge for environmental remediation provisions in 2009 included incurred in the year that were not provided for.
$582 million resulting from a reassessment of existing site obligations and Additions to environmental provisions in 2010 in respect of the Gulf $6 million in respect of provisions for new sites.
of Mexico oil spill relate to BPs commitment to fund the $500-million Gulf Provisions for environmental remediation are made when a clean-up of Mexico Research Initiative, a research programme to study the impact is probable and the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated.
of the incident on the marine and shoreline environment of the Gulf coast, Generally, this coincides with the commitment to a formal plan of action or, and the estimated costs of assessing injury to natural resources.
BP faces if earlier, on divestment or on closure of inactive sites.
claims under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 for natural resource damages, The extent and cost of future environmental restoration, but the amount of such claims cannot be estimated reliably until the size, remediation and abatement programmes are inherently difficult to location and duration of the impact is assessed.
They often depend on the extent of contamination, and the For further information relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill see associated impact and timing of the corrective actions required, Financial statements Note 2 on page 158, Note 37 on page 199 and technological feasibility and BPs share of liability.
Though the costs of Note 44 on page 218. future programmes could be significant and may be material to the results Operating and capital expenditure on the prevention, control, of operations in the period in which they are recognized, it is not expected abatement or elimination of air, water and solid waste pollution is often not that such costs will be material to the groups overall results of operations incurred as a separately identifiable transaction.
Instead, it forms part of a or financial position.
larger transaction that includes, for example, normal maintenance In addition, we make provisions on installation of our oiland expenditure.
The figures for environmental operating and capital gas-producing assets and related pipelines to meet the cost of eventual expenditure in the table are therefore estimates, based on the definitions decommissioning.
On installation of an oil or natural gas production facility and guidelines of the American Petroleum Institute.
a provision is established that represents the discounted value of the Environmental operating expenditure of $716 million in 2010 was at expected future cost of decommissioning the asset.
a similar level to 2009, while in 2008, it was lower due to a reduction in The level of increase in the decommissioning provision varies with new projects undertaken.
In addition, there was a significant reduction in the number of new fields coming onstream in a particular year and the the sulphur oil premium paid due to a greater use of low-sulphur fuel.
outcome of the periodic reviews.
There was a significant increase in 2010, Similar levels of operating and capital expenditures are expected in driven by activity in the Gulf of Mexico.
On 15 October 2010, the Bureau of the foreseeable future.
In addition to operating and capital expenditures, Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement BOEMRE we also create provisions for future environmental remediation.
issued Notice to Lessees NTL 2010-G05, which requires that idle BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 73 Business review infrastructure on active leases is decommissioned earlier than previously Provisions for environmental remediation and decommissioning are usually was required and establishes guidelines to determine the future utility of set up on a discounted basis, as required by IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent idle infrastructure on active leases.
As a consequence, the timing and Liabilities and Contingent Assets.
methodology of well abandonment have changed, reflected in an increase Further details of decommissioning and environmental provisions to the decommissioning provision during the year.
appear in Financial statements Note 37 on page 199.
Additionally, we undertake periodic reviews of existing provisions.
These reviews take account of revised cost assumptions, changes in decommissioning requirements and any technological developments.
To be sustainable as a business, BP needs employees who have the right Sustainable talent pipeline skills for their roles and who understand the values and expected In managing our people, we seek to attract, develop and retain highly behaviours that guide everything we do as a group.
talented individuals who can contribute to BPs delivery of its strategy and We are reviewing the way we express BPs values and the content plans.
We place significant emphasis on developing our leaders internally, of our leadership framework with a goal of ensuring they support our although we recruit outside the group when we do not have specialist aspirations for the future, align explicitly with our code of conduct and skills in-house or when exceptional people are available.
In 2010, we translate into responsible behaviours in the work we do every day.
In 2011, appointed 47 people to group leadership positions, 33 of which were we expect to carry out a programme to renew employee and contractor internal candidates.
awareness of our values and the behaviours everyone in BP needs to We conduct external assessments for all new hires into BP at exhibit as we work to reset our priorities as a company.
senior levels and for internal promotions to senior level and group leader We had approximately 79,700 employees at 31 December 2010, level roles.
These assessments ensure rigour and objectivity in our hiring compared with approximately 80,300 a year ago.
Since 2007, when we and talent processes.
They give an in-depth analysis of leadership began a process of making BP a simpler, more efficient organization, our behaviours, intellectual capacity and the required experience and skills for total number of employees has reduced by approximately 18,000, including the role in question.
In 2010, we extended these assessments to cover around 9,200 in our non-retail businesses.
new hires into middle and junior management roles, carrying out over BP announced significant changes to our organization in 2010 900 external assessments for new hires and promotions during the year.
designed to strengthen safety and risk management across the group, In 2011, we will be launching a new technical assessment process to including the creation of an enhanced S&OR function and the recomplement these existing processes with more focus on detailed organization of the upstream segment into three divisions: Exploration, technical capability.
Developments and Production, integrated through a Strategy and Our ongoing three-year graduate development programme Integration function.
It currently has about 1,400 participants from all over The group people committee, chaired by the group chief executive the world.
continues to take overall responsibility for policy decisions relating to We provide development opportunities for all our employees, employees.
In 2010, this included senior-level talent reviews and including external and on-the-job training, international assignments, succession planning, new hire and promotion assessments, leadership mentoring, team development days, workshops, seminars and online training and reward strategy, including the structure and operation of learning.
We encourage all employees to take at least five training days incentive programmes.
In 2011, our focus will be on rebuilding trust with all our We aim to treat employees affected by mergers, acquisitions and stakeholders, including our employees.
Our people priorities continue to joint ventures fairly and with respect, through open and regular be to ensure the right employees are in the right roles, while building a communication.
As part of the divestment programme following the Gulf of sustainable talent pipeline: to build capability and embed our required Mexico incident, BP has been seeking the same or comparable pay and leadership behaviours: and to manage and reward performance while benefits for employees transferring to other companies.
ensuring a focus on diversity and inclusion D&I in everything we do.
74 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 Business review Business review Building capability and developing leaders Our 2010 employee survey was delayed to allow for organizational changes The group chief executive and each member of the executive team held to be reflected in the survey construction, with the survey expected to be review meetings to ensure a rigorous and consistent talent and succession carried out in the third quarter of 2011. process is followed for all group leadership roles.
We continue to work to embed appropriate leadership behaviours The code of conduct throughout our organization.
In 2010, we piloted a new group leader We have a code of conduct designed to ensure that all employees comply development programme with leaders in the US.
All group leaders will be with legal requirements and our own standards.
The code defines what BP expected to participate in the programme from 2011 onwards.
expects of its people in key areas such as safety, workplace behaviour, Our group-wide suite of management development programmes, bribery and corruption and financial integrity.
Our employee concerns Managing Essentials, has now run in 42 countries, with more than 21,000 programme, OpenTalk, enables employees to raise questions, receive participants.
This includes new modules introduced in 2010, such as a guidance on the code of conduct and report suspected breaches of mandatory D&I training programme for leaders that has had over 3,000 compliance or other concerns.
The number of cases raised through participants so far.
OpenTalk in 2010 was 742, compared with 874 in 2009.
In the US, former US district court judge Stanley Sporkin acts as an Managing and rewarding performance ombudsperson.
Employees and contractors can contact him confidentially We are conducting a fundamental review of how the group incentivizes to report any suspected breach of compliance, ethics or the code of business performance, including reward strategy, with the aim of conduct, including safety concerns.
We take steps to identify and correct encouraging excellence in safety, compliance and operational risk areas of non-compliance and take disciplinary action where appropriate.
This review is closely linked to the refresh of our values and 2010, 552 dismissals were reported by BPs businesses for non-adherence behaviours and to our work in embedding leadership behaviours throughout to the code of conduct or unethical behaviour compared to 524 in 2009. the group.
We expect to deliver a revised individual performance This number excludes dismissals of staff employed at our retail service management framework in 2011. station sites for more minor incidents.
In the final quarter of 2010, individual performance bonuses were BP continues to apply a policy that the group will not participate based solely on the achievement of safety targets.
directly in party political activity or make any political contributions, whether We encourage employee share ownership.
For example, through in cash or in kind.
We review employees rights to political activity in each the ShareMatch plan run in around 60 countries, we match BP shares country where we operate.
For example, in the US, BP facilitates staff purchased by our employees.
participation in the political process by providing staff support to ensure BP employee political action committee contributions are publicly disclosed Diversity and inclusion and comply with the law.
Diversity and inclusion D&I involves acknowledging, valuing and leveraging our similarities and differences for business success, and is central to our Social and community issues employee processes in BP.
The group chief executive chairs the global We strive to make our impact on society and communities a positive one D&I council, which is supported by a North American regional council and by running our operations responsibly and by investing in communities in segment councils.
Each of our businesses has a D&I plan against which ways that benefit both local populations and BP.
We are also incorporating detailed D&I analysis into talent reviews, with processes to identify actions where any issues Managing our impact are found.
We believe each BP project has the potential to benefit local communities We continue to increase the number of local leaders and employees by creating jobs, tax revenues and opportunities for local suppliers.
A in our operations so that they reflect the communities in which we operate.
positive impact also means making sure that human rights are respected, For example, in Azerbaijan, national employees now make up around 88% that we engage openly with people who could be affected by our projects of BPs team.
By 2020, more than half our operations are expected to be in and that local cultural heritage is preserved.
non-OECD countries and we see this as an opportunity to develop a new Our OMS lays out the steps and safeguards we believe are generation of experts and skilled employees.
necessary to maintain socially responsible operations at our projects At the end of 2010, 14% of our top 482 group leaders were female and operations.
and 19% came from countries other than the UK and the US.
When we For major new projects, projects in new locations and those that started tracking the composition of our group leadership in 2000, these could affect an internationally protected area, detailed group practices percentages were 9% and 14% respectively.
These include guidance on how the project should go about We aim to ensure equal opportunity in recruitment, career identifying groups that could be affected by the project, consulting with development, promotion, training and reward for all employees, including them to understand their needs and concerns and carrying out an impact those with disabilities.
Where existing employees become disabled, our assessment to evaluate the potential negative and positive community policy is to provide continuing employment and training wherever practicable.
These are often carried out along with assessments of health, safety, environmental and other impacts.
Employee engagement Following the impact assessment, we review the project plans with At our annual leadership forum in late 2010, our group chief executive and a view to avoiding, mitigating or minimizing any negative impacts, such as other senior leaders reinforced BPs commitment to achieving excellence in noise, odour or other forms of community disturbance, and making the safety, compliance and risk management.
Executive team members hold most of positive impacts.
regular town halls and webcasts to communicate with our employees around the world.
Socio-economic investments Team meetings and one-to-one meetings are the core of our We invest in development programmes that we believe will create a employee engagement, complemented by formal processes through meaningful and sustainable impact one that is relevant to local needs, works councils in parts of Europe.
These communications, along with aligned with BPs business and undertaken in partnership with local training programmes, are designed to contribute to employee development organizations.
The programmes we support fall into three broad categories: and motivation by raising awareness of financial, economic, ethical, social building business skills, supporting education and other community needs and environmental factors affecting our performance.
and sharing technical expertise with local governments.
The group seeks to maintain constructive relationships with labour unions.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010 75
