Corporate governance Code of ethics Controls and procedures The company has adopted a code of ethics for its group chief executive, Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures chief financial officer, deputy chief financial officer, group controller, The company maintains disclosure controls and procedures, as such term general auditors and chief accounting officer as required by the provisions is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15 e, that are designed to ensure that of Section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules issued by information required to be disclosed in reports the company files or the SEC.
There have been no waivers from the code of ethics relating to submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and any officers.
reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange In June 2005, BP published a code of conduct, which is applicable Commission rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and to all employees.
communicated to management, including the companys group chief executive and chief financial officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
In designing and evaluating our disclosure controls and procedures, our management, including the group chief executive and chief financial officer, recognize that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the disclosure controls and procedures are met.
Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within the company have been detected.
Further, in the design and evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures our management necessarily was required to apply its judgement in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures.
Also, we have investments in certain unconsolidated entities.
As we do not control these entities, our disclosure controls and procedures with respect to such entities are necessarily substantially more limited than those we maintain with respect to our consolidated subsidiaries.
Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected.
The companys disclosure controls and procedures have been designed to meet, and management believes that they meet, reasonable assurance standards.
The companys management, with the participation of the companys group chief executive and chief financial officer, has evaluated the effectiveness of the companys disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-15 b as of the end of the period covered by this annual report.
Based on that evaluation, the group chief executive and chief financial officer have concluded that the companys disclosure controls and procedures were effective at a reasonable assurance level.
Managements report on internal control over financial reporting Management of BP is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting.
BPs internal control over financial reporting is a process designed under the supervision of the principal executive and financial officers to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of BPs financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with IFRS.
As of the end of the 2010 fiscal year, management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the Internal Control Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code Turnbull.
Based on this assessment, management has determined that BPs internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2010 was effective.
106 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2010
