BACK TO CONTENTS Operating and Financial Review the year to 11.88 pence per ordinary share requirement across the four regulated volumes of business being transacted online.
Further information on the subsidiary companies was approximately A new feature to the on line Vantage interim dividend is given overleaf.
7.5 million compared to capital resources of platform is the introduction of cash approximately 49.3 million, which resulted withdrawals from specific accounts.
An arrangement exists under which the in a surplus of approximately 41.8 million.
Hargreaves Lansdown EBT has agreed to The Group has no borrowings and deposits Regulation waive all dividends.
its liquid funds with selected financial In their reports, the Chairman and Chief institutions with high credit ratings.
In Executive highlighted changes to the Cash ow and capital expenditure 2010, the Groups funds were held with no regulatory landscape, in particular the FSAs fewer than three of these institutions and up Retail Distribution Review.
We are confident Capital expenditure increased significantly to as many as five.
The Board reviews its that our current business model is well from 1.6 million to 8.1 million, the usage of banks on a regular basis with the positioned for these changes.
majority of which related to the new office primary objective of ensuring the security of and therefore does not represent a normal its assets and the secondary objective of Staff ongoing level of capital expenditure.
maximising its return on them.
The Group Our employees are vital to the Groups actively maintains cash balances on short continuing success and we continue to focus The Group is highly cash generative with the term deposit to ensure that it has sufficient on motivating and retaining our talented only significant outgoing from underlying available funds for operations.
profits during the current year being the designed to ensure that the Group takes no payment of a dividend.
During March 2010 we granted new options under a SAYE scheme.
Our Employee Benefit The total cash balance of 71.2 million The Group is not exposed to significant Trust EBT is well funded and holds reported in the balance sheet includes 9.7 foreign exchange translation or transaction sufficient shares to satisfy all outstanding million of client settlement account balances.
Further shares were purchased by The Groups own cash balances decreased the EBT during the year to be used for the from 77.2 million to 61.5 million during Operations future incentivisation of staff.
This includes cash held within the believes that the use of share schemes in the EBT which has decreased from 6.8 million future will continue to incentivise staff and as at 30 June 2009 to 3.3 million at 30 June IT help align their interests with those of other 2010 following the purchase of additional We continue to run the vast majority of our shareholders.
Many employees also receive Hargreaves Lansdown plc shares during the administration and systems development inan annual bonus related to the overall year.
The decrease in cash was also caused by house rather than outsourcing to third profitability of the Group.
the high dividend payments made in the year parties.
In particular, we maintain full which included last years declared final control of the Vantage platform which is In addition to remunerating staff well, we aim dividend of 32.7m 2009: 22.0 million fundamental in the administration of both to retain and attract staff through the plus this years higher than usual level of Vantage and the Portfolio Management provision of training, career progression, interim dividend of 44.6 million 2009: Service.
The notable exception is the good communication and a vibrant culture.
Given that a large proportion administration of our multi-manager funds The continued growth and success of the of shares in the Company are held by private which is currently outsourced.
We believe organisation continues to create individuals, the Board resolved that it was that having control of our own platform opportunities for staff.
We believe that appropriate to pay as much of an interim gives us the ability to control service levels moving all our staff into a single building has dividend as possible prior to the end of the and react quickly to changing markets and improved communication even further and tax year ended 5 April 2010, in advance of the the needs of our clients.
Those areas of our will help ensure that we maintain the 10% increase to the top rate of tax for business which are outsourced are kept dynamic culture that has been crucial to the individual taxpayers.
under close review to ensure they continue Groups success.
Net assets, capital requirement and Corporate social responsibility treasury policy We have a continuing programme of work to further improve the performance and Group net assets decreased from 84.6 resilience of our systems and infrastructure.
The Board considers that the environmental million to 66.1 million.
The decrease Recently this has dovetailed with a large risk from direct actions taken by the Group is includes the effect of the high dividend piece of work to consolidate the firms offices minimal, and that the main social responsibility payments made in the year.
All of which have focus should be on the Groups staff and been managed to increase efficiency, customers.
Information on the Groups The Group has four subsidiary companies improve security and reduce risk.
Indeed a employment policies and client service is which are authorised and regulated by the key focus has been placed on business detailed in the Directors Report.
we appreciate that alongside providing our maintain capital resources at a level which clients with the best service and producing satisfies both their regulatory capital The continued development of the profits for our shareholders, we can also take requirements as well as their working capital Hargreaves Lansdown website www.
Hsensible steps to reduce the impact of our requirements.
As at 30 June 2010, the L. co. uk is a key part of our strategy and we business on the environment.
We continue to aggregated Pillar 1 regulatory capital continue to see the benefits of higher shred and recycle confidential waste and have 13 Annual report and financial statements | Year ended 30 June 2010
