2 Vested shares, subject to a 6-month retention period.
The aggregate remuneration of Directors and duties in those countries where we operate, and and Senior Management being members of the invest in communities for future growth.
Group Management Board for the year ended Our continuing financial success depends, in 31 December 2010 was US$67,760,722.
part, on our ability to identify and address certain The aggregate amount set aside or accrued to factors which present risks or opportunities for the provide pension, retirement or similar benefits for business.
These can affect our reputation, drive Directors and Senior Management for the year ended employee engagement, help manage the risks of 31 December 2010 was US$3,348,298.
lending, leverage savings through eco-efficiency and secure new revenue streams.
They generally fall into Executive Directors and members of Senior one or more of the four broad areas discussed below.
Management are generally subject to notice periods of up to 12 months and a normal retirement age Business finance of 65.
We aim to build long-term customer relationships Bank payroll tax around the world through the provision of a consistent and high-quality service and customer In December 2009, the governments of the UK and experience.
We use the benefits of our scale, France introduced one-off taxes in respect of certain financial strength, geographical reach and strong bonuses payable by banks and banking groups.
In brand value to achieve this.
both countries the tax was levied at 50% on bonuses awarded during a certain period and over a threshold We aim to take advantage of the opportunities amount.
The taxes are liabilities of the employer and and manage the risks presented by emerging global are payable on awards of both cash and shares.
The trends by leading the development of sustainable amount payable and paid in respect of the relevant business models to address them.
We understand that tax was US$282m in the UK and US$42m in France.
the world is changing, with significant examples being increased longevity, a widening gap in the Corporate sustainability relative growth rates of emerging and mature economies and the need to move to a lower-carbon At HSBC, we recognise that environmental, social economy in order to mitigate some of the effects of and economic issues can affect the Groups longclimate change.
Over the long term, we anticipate term success as a business.
For us, corporate playing a leading role in shaping the market response sustainability means achieving sustainable profit to these challenges and we are among those financial growth so that we can continue to reward institutions identifying how business can adapt in shareholders and employees, build long-lasting ways that bring both social and environmental relationships with customers and suppliers, pay taxes benefits, while providing viable economic returns.
212 Operational environmental management commitment to sustainable business practices and view us as being a leader in this regard.
In 2010, We focus our environmental initiatives primarily on 81% of colleagues said they were satisfied with the addressing and responding to issues associated with actions HSBC is taking to embed sustainability e. g. climate change, including energy use, water and environmental and social issues into the way we run waste management.
Climate change has the potential our business.
to materially affect our customers and, by extension, our long-term success, introducing new risks to Sustainability governance business activity.
However, it also has the potential to stimulate a new era of low carbon growth, The Corporate Sustainability Committee, a innovation and development.
In 2010, we continued committee of the Board, is responsible for advising to deepen our understanding of the likely effects the Board, committees of the Board and executive that climate change and the responses to it will management on corporate sustainability policies, have upon our business and those of our customers.
including environmental, social and ethical issues.
For example, the HSBC Climate Vulnerability The terms of reference of the Corporate Assessment, which maps risks for the G20 in 2020, Sustainability Committee, which are reviewed maps the impact of climate change on food annually, are available at production, water availability and health.
understanding of the scale of the issues helps the Group and our customers to focus on how best The members of the Committee during 2010 to respond.
were N R N Murthy, a non-executive Director appointed Chairman on 28 May 2010, Community investment V H C Cheng, an executive Director appointed 28 May 2010, W K L Fung retired 28 May 2010, We have a long-standing commitment to the Sir Mark Moody-Stuart retired 28 May 2010 and communities in which we operate.
Many of our key G V I Davis, Lord May and Dame Mary Marsh, markets are emerging economies.
Our operations who are non-director members of the Committee.
bring benefits to our host countries through tax The Corporate Sustainability Committee held five contributions, and to local people and businesses meetings in 2010.
The table on page 190 gives through employment, training, purchasing and details of Directors attendance at these meetings.
Beyond our core business, we aim to Following each meeting, the Committee reports to encourage social and economic opportunity through the Board on its activities.
We report on progress in developing and Our focus is on education and the environment implementing our sustainability strategy annually because we believe they are essential building blocks in the HSBC Sustainability Report, which is for the development of communities and are independently verified and prepared using the Global prerequisites for economic growth.
 programmes such as Future First, JA More Than verified the Groups commitment to carbon TM Money and Eco-Schools focus on helping neutrality and adherence to the Equator Principles.
disadvantaged children, promoting financial literacy The HSBC Sustainability Report 2010 will be issued and environmental education and understanding.
Our on 27 May 2011 and will be available at flagship environmental programme is the HSBC www.
Climate Partnership, a US$100m commitment to working with The Climate Group, Earthwatch, We have a Corporate Sustainability department Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute and WWF within the Group Management Office and in each on tackling climate change.
of our major regions and countries of operation.
At an operational level, implementation of our In 2010, we donated a total of US$108m to sustainability policies is managed primarily by community investment projects 2009: US$100m.
Group Corporate Sustainability, Group Human Resources, Group Risk and Group Compliance.
Employee issues Employee engagement describes employees Sustainability risk emotional and intellectual commitment to their Our approach to managing sustainability risk is organisation and its success and is critical to the detailed on page 173. long-term ability of the Group to deliver the highest quality of financial services.
Our annual Global People Survey shows that employees value our 213 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview
