Corporate Social Responsibility The business of the Company is to make investments in The Board wishes to be at the forefront of disclosure and reporting infrastructure assets, to hold these investments and to manage of the Companys performance and strategic intentions.
In the last the portfolio of investments to achieve an acceptable return for 4 years, this has been achieved by information provided as follows: shareholders.
In managing the Company and the Group, the Directors have ensured that procedures and policies have been Annual reports put in place by the Group and its service providers to manage the Interim statement and accounts Group effectively and minimise risk.
Detailed presentations to accompany the results Two Interim Management Statements a year As part of good practice and to mitigate risk, the Board has been working with the Investment Adviser over the last year to Announcements of all material acquisitions develop and document a set of Environmental, Social and Site visits for shareholders and analysts Governance policies appropriate for a company investing in Lunches and dinners with shareholders, the Directors and the infrastructure assets, which conform to current good practice in Investment Adviser relation to corporate responsibility.
com has further background detail The Board has adopted a series of Environmental, Social and on each investment, copies of all publications, together with the Governance ESG policies covering: three issued prospectuses since launch.
how the Company interacts with stakeholders, including Disclosure of key sensitivities and risks has been developed by shareholders: the Board working with the Investment Adviser and further what ESG considerations need to be made before a new suitable disclosure is a key aspiration for the Board.
investment is acquired: and how the current portfolio is managed by the Investment Managing the Portfolio Adviser to promote and achieve good ESG practices.
Day-to-day management of the Groups portfolio is undertaken by the Investment Adviser in its capacity as Operator of the These policies are set out in further detail below and the Board Partnership.
has worked with the Investment Adviser and the Company Secretary and Administrator to produce the necessary Environmental operational procedures to enable the way these policies are All the Groups investments are in project companies who provide being adhered to can be demonstrated.
These procedures are services to their clients and who subcontract the provision of now in place and being used by the Investment Adviser and these services to specialist facilities management companies.
On a routine basis, the Investment Adviser reviews that each key Annual Review contractor or their group has appropriate environmental policies The Board will review at least annually the performance of the in place and that these are being adhered to in delivery of the Company against its stated ESG policies and use the Annual services to the project and that further, there have been no Report to update shareholders on the Groups performance in material breaches of their policies.
Should issues be found, the this regard.
The Directors plan an annual review of good industry Investment Advisers team aims to work with the necessary practice as applicable to an infrastructure Investment Company stakeholders to remedy and improve the situation.
and following this review, the Companys policies will be updated where appropriate.
In the case of persistent breaches, the Investment Adviser will consider the options for replacing the contractor concerned or for Governance selling the investment if no remedy can be found.
The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate The Investment Advisers asset managers are taking a pro-active governance and keeps the Companys practices under review with approach to work with both clients and key stakeholders to respect to current best practice.
Further details of how the introduce new environmental initiatives in each project company Company complies are set out in the Corporate Governance report.
HICL ANNUAL REPOR T & ACCOUNTS 2010 43 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Social and ethical Environmental The approach to social and ethical practices is similar to that for As part of the detailed due diligence carried out by the environmental in that each key contractors policies will be Investment Adviser and the advisers, the history of the reviewed and their ongoing compliance to their stated policies investment in relation to the Companys environmental policies reviewed on a regular basis.
In addition, the Investment Advisers will be assessed.
Key contractors and service providers will also team will ensure that the project companies in which the Group be analysed to check they have appropriate policies in place and has investments are run appropriately in relation to the Groups there have been no breaches social and ethical policies.
Where it is not possible to get comfortable with either a key Health and Safety performance of each investment is monitored contractors environmental record or the projects environmental and during the year a number of Health and Safety audits where performance to date, the investment will not be made.
carried out by a Health and Safety consultant to ensure procedures and policies were in place and being adhered to.
Social and ethical The approach to social and ethical practices is similar to that for Governance environmental in that each key contractors policies will be Apart from the single investment in a debt instrument of a water reviewed as part of the due diligence process.
The trading history company, on all the other investments in the portfolio, the Group of the investment will also be reviewed to ensure compliance is entitled to appoint at least one director and members of the with the Groups social and ethical policies.
Investment Advisers team have been appointed.
Board meetings are not quorate without the Groups nominated director Where it is not possible to sign off the proposed investments being present and this is part of the Investment Advisers active compliance with the Groups policies, the investment will not management of the underlying investments.
companies have detailed governance structures including those matters which are reserved to shareholders to determine, those Governance items which directors determine and the routine day-to-day In seeking new investments, the Investment Adviser normally matters that are delegated to the projects general manager and seeks a minimum board representation on the underlying his or her team.
investment company, with appropriate voting rights and reserved matters to ensure it will be possible to manage the investment Making New Investments and achieve the projected returns.
It is unlikely that a new investment will be made where this level of control and influence The Investment Adviser has a detailed set of procedures and is not achievable.
approval processes in relation to the making of new investments.
Following discussions with the Board, these have been updated to include appropriate ESG checks as part of the due diligence processes.
