22 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Business review Our business model for sustainable growth Our business model is designed to deliver sustainable growth in earnings per share of 7-9 per cent on average.
Through the consistent application of our Group strategy we can deliver the revenue growth that will enable us to achieve our ambition of leading our industry and, as a result, build shareholder value.
We can only sustain this growth if it is funded by improved productivity across the business and delivered by a winning organisation that acts responsibly at all times.
Consumers Sourcing Production Our success depends on really We work with tobacco farmers Manufacturing tobacco understanding the different and other suppliers to promote products is a large-scale profiles and preferences of high ethical, environmental operation and we have our consumers.
factories all over the world.
We recognise that our business starts We are the only tobacco business with We work to ensure that our costs are with our consumers and our brands.
asignificant interest in tobacco growing globally competitive and that we use Weinvest in gathering comprehensive and we work directly with around 70 per ourresources as effectively as possible.
insights into smokers preferences and cent of the farmers we purchase our leaf To improve productivity and to buying behaviour.
We alsopurchase significant continue building a sustainable helps us offer product innovations that quantities of other raw materials, such as business, our companies have closed are relevant to adult consumers tastes, packaging, cigarette paper, filter materials, or downsized some factories and attitudes, pockets andpurchasing glues andinks.
We manage our supply consolidated production elsewhere in patterns.
Our aim is to create value for chain responsibly and engage with our recent years.
Wefully recognise the our business and our consumers by suppliers to help address their social, impacts of these actions and work hard meeting their needs and offering environmental and economic impacts.
to mitigate the outcomes for employees appropriate quality.
Our brand portfolio This engagement creates a shared and the wider community.
These remains evenly balanced across all price understanding of our supply chain, changes also enable us to rationalise points Low-Price, Value-For-Money and enabling us and our suppliers to make our machinery and technology to Premium to ensure we can continue to better decisions, generate efficiencies establish a more cost-effective develop consumer loyalty.
operational base for the future.
To find out more about To find out more about To find out more about our consumers go to: our sourcing go to: our production go to: www.
com production M Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information a r k e t i n g g n i c r u o S I n n o v British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 23 Business review Consumers Innovation Marketing Distribution We make significant investment We have a successful We work with our retail into the development of our marketing strategy based on partners to ensure that they innovations and into research innovation, responsibility and can profitably meet the and development.
Our routes to market are a critical enabler We invest in our brands and the Our balanced brand portfolio, including of our growth strategy.
They allow us to development of product innovations to our four Global Drive Brands Dunhill, quickly roll-out innovations on a global drive growth.
These innovations vary Kent, Lucky Strike and Pall Mall is scale and to fully meet consumer across our brands, brand variants and designed to meet key consumer needs, demand.
We continuously review our markets and our approach enables our especially in our strategic consumer routes to market to ensure we remain companies to adapt their offers flexibly segments Premium, Adult Smokers competitive and this includes our tolocal preferences.
Our guiding focus Under 30 ASU30 and Fresh Taste.
relationships with wholesalers, distributors when designing innovations is on Our marketing is driven by an excellent and logistics providers.
Our direct to relevance to the consumer, speed to understanding of the consumer and by store sales DSS are often the most market and the ability to continuously sticking to the marketing fundamentals effective way of serving retailers and improve our products.
We also invest that are appropriate to our products.
significantly in our efforts to develop Wemarket in ways that allow us to satisfy DSSallows us tocreate shared value potentially reduced-harm products consumer preferences, while responding throughout thesales and distribution thatwill be accepted by consumers to reasonable stakeholder expectations process and provides a direct commercial andwill be recognised by scientific abouthow we should market tobacco link to ourmost strategic retail accounts.
To find out more about To find out more about To find out more about our marketing go to: our distribution go to: our innovation go to: www.
