24 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 Business review Creating sustainable value Underpinning our business model, sustainability for us is all about shared value creating economic value in a way that also creates value for our stakeholders.
Shared value We are making good progress in many Our balanced strategy adds value at every areas.
Our successes include advances in stage of our business operations, including thescience of harm reduction, completing working directly with tobacco farmers, biodiversity risk and opportunity assessments manufacturing our own products and in all our leaf-growing operations and investing in research and development.
We developing a more integrated supply In 2010, we were, for the ninth year running, think this sets us apart from our competitors chainstrategy.
included in the Dow Jones Sustainability and ensures our long-term business World Index.
This Index tracks the economic, We know we have more to do before sustainability, helping us to manage risks environmental and social performance of sustainability becomes ingrained in every better and presenting us with efficiencies leading companies based on how well they part of our organisation.
We aim to ensure and growth opportunities.
integrate sustainability into their businesses.
that our sustainability agenda supports the In 2010, our overall score decreased from 81 However, sustainability for us is all about growth of the business by taking advantage per cent to 78 per cent.
We are working to shared value creating economic value in a of the opportunity it presents and by identify opportunities for improvement and way that also creates value for our stakeholders.
developing solutions to future challenges.
hope to soon see our performance improve.
This means seeking opportunities to increase Value opportunities our competitiveness through addressing our For example, we are trying to develop sustainability impacts and by better meeting reduced-harm products that will appeal to societys needs and expectations.
This can consumers and will hopefully create growth be through developing new reduced-harm in our business when launched.
We also products, by creating a great place to work provide broad-based agronomy advice to or by minimising our environmental impacts.
farmers, which includes support to grow Over the years we have built a strong other crops as well as tobacco.
This reputation for sustainability and have been comprehensive approach to sustainable seen by some as leaders in our industry.
agriculture helps farmers gain better yields You can find out more about our strategy From being the first tobacco company to and a higher income as well as securing our and our approach to sustainability beincluded in the Dow Jones Sustainability supply of high-quality leaf.
elsewhere in this Annual Report.
World Index, continuing our inclusion to We also look to create value for consumers, For more details on our progress date: to receiving a number of reporting governments and the industry in our against our sustainability agenda, awards: to achieving platinum status in the approach to tackling the illicit trade in seeour online Sustainability Report UK Business in the Community Corporate tobacco products.
We believe governments 2010, published at the same time as Responsibility Index.
and the tobacco industry need to work this report, at: Our sustainability agenda together to manage the market and remove www.
com sustainability However, we cannot overcome our some of the causes of illicit trade, while sustainability challenges alone.
We need to cooperating on prevention.
This requires engage with our stakeholders to develop sensible excise programmes, robust customs solutions together.
We can use our insights enforcement, retailer and consumer from this dialogue to make the right education and sensible regulation.
decisions, not only for our business but also Sustainability focus in 2010 for our stakeholders, to create shared value.
Our focus in 2010 has been on embedding Wedeveloped our sustainability agenda our approach to sustainability across the in2007 and it focuses on our five goals Group and implementing activities in each harmreduction, marketplace, environment, of the five areas of our sustainability agenda.
supply chain, and people and culture.
A brief summary of our progress in 2010 is shown on the facing page.
Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information British American Tobacco Annual Report 2010 25 Business review 2010 progress in brief Harm reduction We believe we are making a significant contribution to the science needed to assess potentially reduced-exposure products.
The We will strive to bring results of our first clinical studies have been analysed and we commercially viable, consumer havemade good progress in developing laboratory models of acceptable reduced-risk how diseases progress and reinvigorated our biotechnology products to market.
We continue to both publish and present our scientific results whenever we can and engage with regulators.
Marketplace We have continued to coordinate a consistent approach to key regulatoryissues by our companies.
Our global approach to We will take a lead in upholding youth smoking prevention was rolled out acrossthe Group.
We high standards of corporate are also piloting asystem to strengthen supply chain security and conduct within our marketplace.
have entered into a cooperation agreement with the European Commission totackle illicittrade in tobacco.
Environment We made good progress in reducing ourenvironmental impacts.
We also held stakeholder dialogue, an independently facilitated We will actively address the session where we met with relevant stakeholders and our external impacts of our business on the assurance team, to develop our approachto water management.
All ourleaf-growing operations completed biodiversity risk and opportunity assessments and have corrective action plans in place where appropriate.
Supply chain We held a stakeholder dialogue session for suppliers and are developing an environmental scorecard together.
Our Social We will work for positive social, Responsibility in Tobacco Production assessment now contains environmental and economic minimum thresholds.
We are aiming for zero use of natural forest impacts in our supply chain.
by our contracted farmers by 2015.
We also developed a plan for reducing the use of natural resources at our factories and have piloted efficiency initiatives in our logistics network.
People and culture We held a stakeholder dialogue session toexamine how the needs of business and the expectations of employees can be We will work to ensure we have aligned to create a sustainable organisation.
Ninety per cent of the right people and culture to our employees responded to our biennial opinion survey.
health and safety strategy was updated and we extended the human rights criteria we apply in our own operations to our business partners.
