ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 30 Business review continued Risk framework Risk and control environment: managing risk The Group-wide risk management framework of ICAP is built on and enforcing compliance four complementary pillars: risk governance, risk management, risk measurement and risk infrastructure.
The Group aims to apply The directors believe that a sound control environment industry best practices across all aspects of its risk framework.
and robust risk management are fundamental to ICAPs The Group is committed to building on its already strong control business.
The significant risks of the Group are environment, both geographically and across product lines.
continually monitored, assessed and managed at the To better align its risk capabilities with its strategic objectives, relevant level.
the Group has made substantial progress in the past year by: Risk environment R expanding the reach and influence of the risk management The principal risks that the Group faces have not changed during function and increasingly embedding its risk management the year.
approach in all business decision-making processes: The Group continues to classify its exposures into eight risk R reinforcing the discipline applied to new business approvals: categories: operational, regulatory and compliance, credit, liquidity, R tightening the relationships and improving the communication reputational, market, financial and strategic.
Of these, it considers flow between the Groups infrastructure functions: operational and regulatory and compliance to be the principal risks.
The Group constantly seeks to improve the maturity, robustness R improving risk monitoring systems and reporting infrastructure and sustainability of its risk management framework and to in particular those relating to liquidity risk: and promote enhanced risk management discipline across all its R articulating its risk appetite in direct relation to the significant businesses and supporting functions.
risks of the Group at a more granular level.
The Group does not aim to take proprietary risk positions in any of its businesses and is not, by the nature of its activities, exposed Risk governance and the board to significant market or credit risk.
The board is responsible for setting the overall risk strategy and risk appetite of the Group.
During the year the scope of the audit It is exposed to the credit of its customers for the payment of committee was broadened to include a more systematic and invoiced commissions and other fees, and to the performance regular review of the risks facing the Group and it was in of its customers where the Group acts as matched broker between consequence renamed the audit and risk committee.
buyers and sellers or as exchange broker.
The audit and risk committee is also responsible for approving The Group is involved in the execution, processing and, in limited the appointment, dismissal and compensation of the global head cases, clearing of large numbers of transactions and is therefore of risk, thereby reinforcing the independence of the risk function.
The Group is also dependent on its credibility and reputation with its customers as a provider of The audit and risk committee has delegated the day-to-day risk financial services and is therefore exposed to regulatory and management of the Group to an executive group risk committee reputational risks.
which meets at least six times a year.
Details of the committees responsibilities are shown on page 53.
The Group anticipates a tougher prudential, supervisory and regulatory framework and increased activity by regulators globally The co-ordination of the Groups risk activities is undertaken by the in the future and is adjusting its compliance and risk efforts group risk committee.
All of the divisional chief executive officers accordingly.
Although much of the recent scrutiny has been aimed are members as are the Group Chief Operating Officer, the Group purely at banks, a more active approach by regulators to other Finance Director and the global head of risk.
This committee parts of the wholesale financial services industry is likely in future.
reviews the environment and risk indicators to monitor their status and assess the appropriateness and effectiveness of the Groups Longer term, the remaining uncertainties in the proposed risk management.
As required, new or revised group policies are legislative and regulatory changes, and their impact on the developed and approved by this committee.
industrys macro-structure could present a threat to the Groups business, making it more difficult to expand into new markets and services, and could limit its flexibility regarding capital structure.
ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 The risk function reports to the Group Chief Operating Officer Operational risk and is accountable for managing the risk framework of the Group Operational risk comprises a diverse range of risk events including 31 across all ICAPs entities and geographies.
both direct and indirect losses from inadequate or failed internal processes, actions or omissions by people, systems failure and During the year regional risk committees have been established losses caused by external events.
It represents a significant source in EMEA, the Americas and Asia Pacific.
These committees are of potential unexpected losses for the Group.
Examples of such responsible for supervising overall risk levels in their respective losses include: regions and act as the interface between front office management and the group risk function.
R significant and extended failure of IT systems and applications: R breakdown of information security, including network intrusion, Risk appetite breach of network gateways or security systems failure: Risk appetite is the overall broad-based amount of risk that the Group is willing to accept in pursuit of its strategic and financial R project risk in relation to critical IT development: objectives.
R the loss of key members of staff: The over-arching risk appetite of the Group is set in terms of four R broker errors: objectives: to maintain at all times an investment grade debt credit rating at the corporate level: to maintain at all times a liquidity R failure of external settlement clearing systems: cushion of at least $250 million: to maintain at all times capital in R failure or disruption of operational or businesses process flow: excess of the minimum regulatory requirements at the subsidiary R natural or man-made business disruptions: and level: and to operate the business within pre-agreed loss constraints.
R the introduction of new products and markets and their related tax, legal, accounting, regulatory, settlement and technology At an operational level, each business head is required to operate issues.
within credit and liquidity limits and is held accountable for managing overall risk within his business area at levels which in Significant operational risks and their controls are continually aggregate reflect the Groups overall risk appetite.
reviewed and assessed using a variety of tools including risk control The Group regularly examines events that could seriously reduce self assessments, key risk indicators and operational process maps.
earnings, impair its liquidity position or create legal, regulatory or Through these measures, corrective steps are taken to reduce the reputational damage and takes appropriate actions to mitigate risk probability of operational risks occurring and to mitigate their where the scenario is likely to result in an outcome which is impact in the event they do occur.
incompatible with the Groups appetite for risk.
Many of the Groups activities are dependent on the integrity and Risk management robustness of its information technology and operational systems Front line management and assurance and significant resources are devoted to protecting the resilience Across the Group, front office management is responsible for of these systems.
This includes formal business continuity plans all control-related business issues and have full accountability and appropriate remote data back-up and disaster recovery facilities for the management of the risks in their businesses, within limits for each of our key locations.
Business continuity for our core and the control environment set by the Group.
Staff and managers activities is tested periodically to maintain effectiveness.
at all levels are required to take a prudent approach to risk taking Regulatory and compliance risk and to continuously review their control environment.
This category of risk covers changes in the regulatory The Groups independent control functions risk, compliance, legal environment that impact the Groups strategic objectives and internal audit are responsible for ensuring that the control or business methodology and the risk of failure by the Group environment is able to identify and escalate independently to to comply with all applicable regulations.
senior management the Groups key risks and that risk mitigating steps are taken where appropriate.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 32 Business review continued Regulatory risk Credit risk Regulatory risk is the risk of either financial loss or opportunity The Group is exposed to credit risk in the event of noncost arising from failure to meet the requirements of the Groups performance by counterparties to its agency and matched principal regulators or to anticipate the impact that legislation has on the broking, post trade, risk mitigation and information businesses and markets in which the Group carries out its business.
Regulators worldwide are under substantially greater pressure Processes and controls are in place to limit and monitor the Groups to increase both active day-to-day level scrutiny of market exposures to any of its trading partners or to concentrations of participants and macro-prudential oversight of banks and clients.
In particular group risk management continuously evaluates structure of markets.
Further, the effect of the huge market the financial soundness, liquidity and solvency of ICAPs dislocations during the recent financial crisis has been to reveal counterparties and sets global limits and where appropriate the conduct, or misconduct, of businesses, such as the allegations regional and other sub-limits for each counterparty based levelled at certain financial firms and their executives.
on internal ratings in order to limit the potential loss which the Group could suffer as a result of a counterparty default.
Where Compliance risk appropriate, country limits are also applied to limit the exposure Compliance risk is the risk that the Group fails to adhere to the of the Group to that country.
relevant rules and regulations that apply to its business.
In name give-up transactions, ICAPs role as broker is to bring The ICAP Group is lead-supervised by the FSA and is required together buyers and sellers and, where appropriate, to assist in the to meet the systems and controls requirements of the CRD.
negotiation of the price and other material terms of the transaction It continually reviews these and, where necessary, takes action in return for a commission.
At the point at which the parties agree to ensure compliance.
In its 2010 11 business plan, the FSA has to terms, ICAP leaves the buyer and the seller to clear and settle announced plans to adopt a more outcomes-focused approach the transaction directly with each other through the appropriate to supervision and will achieve this in various ways including more market mechanism.
ICAPs credit risk in the name give-up broking intensive reviews of prudential returns and control systems as well business and the post trade risk and information businesses is as more frequent visits and meetings with senior management.
limited to the potential non-recovery of commission fee income earned for arranging a transaction or providing information or In the US, the Groups activities are primarily regulated by FINRA a post trade or risk mitigation service.
This risk is monitored by and the SEC.
In December 2009 the Group announced that one regional accounts receivable teams.
of its US subsidiaries, ICAP Securities USA LLC, had reached a settlement with the SEC in respect of a multi-year, industry-wide In certain markets, ICAP facilitates its clients by acting as the investigation into the markets in certain fixed income securities, executing broker of exchange products.
In these transactions, without admitting or denying allegations of any wrongdoing.
ICAP executes the client order on the exchange as principal and then novates the trade to the underlying clients respective ICAP Securities USA LLC has made substantial enhancements clearing broker for settlement.
In the vast majority of cases to the quality of its control environment over the period.
such trades are given up intra day, usually within a few minutes.
These include greater formalisation of its broking practices, In circumstances where novation is delayed, ICAP is left with a enhanced operational, risk and compliance controls, improved position facing the relevant exchange clearing house and, until training and monitoring programmes, revised policies and subsequent give-up is achieved, may be required, in line with procedures, and the recruitment of additional experienced clearing house rules, to post margin.
ICAP maintains liquidity managers in various control roles.
to manage these short-term requirements.
The Groups operations in other countries are subject to relevant In contrast to name give-up transactions, matched principal local regulatory requirements.
Adherence to these regulations is transactions involve ICAP acting as settlement counterparty monitored via the group general counsel who reports regularly for identified buyers and sellers in matching, in whole or in part, to the board.
In such cases the Group is also exposed to the risk of mismatches and errors and outstanding unmatched positions are monitored and liquidated.
To mitigate the potential credit risk implicit in matched principal transactions, ICAP applies a disciplined approach to new client approval, undertakes transactions on a  basis and, through the group risk function, monitors limits and their utilisation on a global basis.
Any exceptions to this are approved prior to the transaction taking place and are reported to the group risk committee.
In US Treasuries ICAP is a FICC netting member, in order to facilitate its customers access to clearing, and as such is subject to margin requirements even across matched buy and sell positions.
ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 Credit risk related to the Groups treasury activities cash Reputational risk investments and derivative financial instruments is limited by ICAP relies on a reputation for the highest integrity in all its 33 the Groups policy of requiring its treasury transactions to be activities both in order to maintain its existing business and to undertaken with financial institutions which have been approved pursue its strategies for growth and new business development.
by the group risk committee and which are investment grade rated.
A number of initiatives are dedicated to the avoidance of reputational damage by ensuring ethical and transparent corporate Liquidity risk behaviour, fair and consistent conduct of business and corporate Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is unable to make payments and social responsibility.
These initiatives include policies and on the dates that they fall due.
procedures for the management of conflicts of interest, anti-money laundering and data security.
These processes are As a result of providing settlement services to its customers for embedded in the day-to-day management of the Group through matched principal transactions and execution and some limited education, training and Group policies and delegated authorities.
instances of clearing in exchange traded products, the Group is required to hold a core level of liquidity in order to provide collateral Inevitably, despite these specific steps taken by the Group, ICAP and margin to the clearing houses of which it is a direct member remains exposed to the general perception of the financial industry.
and to those third party clearing providers who act on the Groups In times of market and regulatory uncertainty, a single large behalf.
On top of this core liquidity requirement, the Group is also negative event in the wholesale financial markets may be widely exposed to temporary movements in margin requirements as a advertised and commented on and, as a result, create through result of changes in the volume and mix of the transactions reputational contagion the impression of wider operational undertaken by its customers.
It is difficult accurately to predict the or organisational deficiencies in the industry.
ICAP is well aware timing and amount of these temporary movements, which are of this situation, routinely monitors events at other companies often only required intra-day.
As a result the Group requires access and regularly upgrades its preparedness.
to significant short-term liquidity, which is addressed through a combination of holding significant short-term cash balances and Market risk having access to same day borrowings under a swing-line credit ICAP aims not to be exposed to any transaction-related market facility.
In May 2010, the Group refinanced its existing revolving risk.
As a result, however, of providing its clients with matched credit facility and increased the amount of swing-line from principal brokerage, it can become exposed to a variety of market $94 million to $200 million.
These changes will increase the risks including price, interest rates and FX.
Groups operational flexibility in terms of meeting margin calls.
The Groups matched principal brokerage business involves To assist with managing liquidity, the Group seeks to diversify its ICAP acting as counterparty for identified buyers and sellers funding sources and maintains an investment grade rating from by matching, in whole or in part, reciprocal back-to-back trades.
The improvement in market conditions enabled In order to facilitate customer transactions and provide liquidity, ICAP to launch its debut 300 million bond in July 2009, the Group may, however, participate in certain marketplaces by commence issuance of euro commercial paper and to refinance posting quotations.
The act of posting quotations in pursuit of its core revolving credit facility in May 2010 with the result that, customer orders can result in ICAP becoming principal to an at 12 May 2010, its debt facilities had an average maturity of unmatched trade.
In such situations, or where one or both 44 months and provided access to 273 million of un-drawn counterparties in an OTC matched principal transaction fail to committed headroom.
While the Group has no facilities falling fulfil their obligations for example an unsettled transaction or due within the next 24 months, its liquidity position could be through trade mismatches or errors, ICAP is exposed to market impaired due to circumstances beyond its control, such as a risk.
In these circumstances, ICAPs policies and procedures require worsening of credit markets or a perception that ICAP or similar the liquidation or hedging and liquidation of these principal market participants are subject to greater uncertainties.
Details positions as soon as reasonably practicable.
of ICAPs borrowing arrangements are set out in note 22 to the A similar risk exists for exchange traded transactions in which ICAP financial statements.
While trades are normally taken up by the With the exception of small, local cash management balances, underlying clients clearing brokers within a few minutes, if take-up surplus cash is invested with financial institutions which have an is delayed or ultimately does not happen, ICAP is left with a position equivalent credit rating of A or better.
The Group invests cash facing the exchange and is exposed to short-term price balances in a range of instruments including money market movements in the underlying asset temporarily held by the Group.
deposits, AAA liquidity funds, government bonds and other more Policies and procedures are in place to reduce the likelihood of such structured, capital protected instruments.
When investing its cash trade mismatches or failed give-ups and, in the event that they balances, the Group considers the protection of principal, liquidity arise, the Groups policy is to liquidate these principal positions as characteristics and bank counterparty risk, as well as the soon as reasonably practicable.
In certain parts of its businesses, the Group, acting in its interdealer Counterparty limits for cash investment are set and monitored by broker capacity, occasionally engages in complex and sometimes the group risk committee and, through the recent financial market very substantial structured matched principal transactions in turmoil, a number of changes have been made to reduce further order to execute orders placed by its highly-rated counterparties.
the Groups exposure to institutions perceived as higher risk.
The Group undertakes significant tax, legal and regulatory due diligence before entering these transactions.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 34 Business review continued In practice, only an extremely small proportion of ICAPs Strategic risk transactions actually result in any exposure to market risk and A number of strategic risks, as set out below, are an inevitable compliance with ICAPs policies is monitored by the risk and consequence of the Groups position in the wholesale financial compliance functions and by senior management.
These risks are mitigated through the management and governance processes of the Group including, in particular, the new Financial risk business initiative process: Interest rate risk The Group finances itself through a combination of fixed and R increasing competition disintermediation: existing or potential floating rate debt obligations and maintains cash on its balance competitors might be able to exploit their size, expertise, sheet to meet a combination of local regulatory capital rules, access to better funding, superior technology or other types clearing house deposits and other commercial requirements, of leverage to change the economics or the mechanics of our including margin calls which arise through the provision of certain business to their advantage and hence reduce ICAPs market markets of clearing services to brokerage clients.
The existence of share or profitability: these cash and debt positions exposes the Group to interest rate R significant change in the structure of markets as a result of risk which, from time to time, it manages with derivative operational changes imposed by regulation and or legislation: instruments with the objective of minimising interest cost and the R variability in economic and financial markets: the volume of impact of interest volatility on the Groups income statement.
business flow transacted by the Group is affected directly by Details of the Groups sensitivity to changes in interest rates are conditions in the global financial markets.
Factors influencing set out in note 24 e to the financial statements.
ICAPs daily volumes include the levels and volatility of Currency risk and correlations between asset prices, credit quality of The Group publishes its consolidated financial statements in pound counterparties, changes in economic activity, political and sterling and conducts business in a number of other currencies, market events, product innovation and indicators of market principally the dollar and the euro.
As a result the Group is exposed confidence: and to FX risk due to exchange rate movements which affect the R diversification into new markets, with novel risk characteristics.
Groups transactional revenue, and the translation of the earnings and net assets of its overseas operations.
Risk measurement and infrastructure The table below shows the anticipated impact for the year ending Day-to-day risk management and mitigation is the responsibility March 2011 on operating profit of a 10 cent strengthening in the of business heads.
Risk management provides support to the dollar and euro on ICAP in terms of transactional and translational businesses with a range of tools adapted to the size and complexity exposure.
of the Group and an independent assessment and reporting of risk Dollar Euro Total to senior management.
These tools include: Operating profit m m m R credit risk and liquidity risk limits based on an internal scoring Transactional 9 13 22 system: Translational 13 4 17 R monitoring tools and reports such as dashboards and key risk indicators: Further details of the Groups hedging strategy and the level of cover in place at 31 March 2010 are contained in note 24 d to R group and risk policies: the financial statements.
R controls and procedures: R risk and control self assessments and process maps: and R significant risk assessment and quantification programmes.
From continuing operations excluding amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items.
ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 The risk team monitors an array of qualitative and quantitative In parallel to developing its staff, the Group has continued to invest measures to ensure that the business risks remain within in its systems and is in the process of rolling out a new consolidation 35 acceptable parameters.
More emphasis is given to the relevance tool to improve further the robustness of the management and of these measures than to their mathematical sophistication.
This work will continue in 2010 11 Metrics that are robust, easy to explain to the businesses and as TriOptima is integrated and will also further standardise, directly related to their risk profiles are preferred.
Examples include automate and streamline processes.
key risk indicators, scenario analysis and credit exposure metrics.
External reporting, which includes the half and full year reports Using these measures, the Group produces a number of market, together with the interim management statements, uses data credit and operational risk and intelligence reports which are produced by the regional teams and relies on systems and disseminated widely among the Groups managers and up to processes functioning correctly.
To minimise the risk of error executive management level and the board.
the Group Finance Director requires the business chief executive Internal control system and internal audit officers and chief financial officers to provide their assessment The day-to-day business of the Group is subject to a system of of the financial control environment as part of a filing assurance internal controls which incorporates financial, operational and review process before the half year and full year report is compliance controls and risk management systems.
recommended by the audit and risk committee to the board for external release.
The effectiveness of the internal control system is reviewed regularly by the independent internal audit function.
Internal audit reports to the audit and risk committee of the board and functionally to the Group Finance Director and provides assurance to executive management and the board that the system of internal control achieves its objectives and highlights gaps and areas for improvement.
The internal audit function is outsourced to Ernst & Young.
Internal audit establishes an annual plan of desks and functions to be examined based on discussions with management and the perception of the level of risk in the Groups activities.
Following audits, internal audit provides management and the audit and risk committee with conclusions of their analysis.
The Group has investments in a number of joint ventures and associates.
Where the Group is not directly involved in the management of the investment it can influence, through board representation, but not control the internal control systems present in those entities.
The boards review of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls in those entities is consequently less comprehensive than in its directly-owned subsidiaries.
Financial reporting The Groups finance function is organised on a regional basis under the leadership of the Group Finance Director whose direct reports include the regional chief financial officer of each of EMEA, the Americas and Asia Pacific, the chief financial officer electronic broking, the group treasurer, the group financial controller and the group tax director.
This group meets on a monthly basis and is responsible for both the day-to-day management and strategic development of the Groups finance infrastructure together with ensuring that Group policies have been adopted and appropriate controls put in place to enable accurate and timely reporting of consolidated financial information for management, regulatory and statutory purposes.
Over the course of the past 12 months, the Group has continued to upgrade the quality of its finance team through selective recruitment, focused training and investment in the finance graduate programme.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 36 Business review continued ICAPs role as an interdealer broker is to facilitate trading in the Corporate and social responsibility wholesale financial markets, thereby helping to ensure the smooth functioning of the global financial markets.
These markets are ICAP aims to conduct its business in a socially critical to the global financial system.
The vast majority of financial responsible manner, to contribute to the communities asset classes exist only in the OTC environment and, consequently, in which it operates and to respect the needs of its the efficient functioning of these markets is essential for the free customers, employees, investors, regulators, suppliers flow and availability of capital, the mitigation of risk and issuer and and other stakeholders.
These markets play a major role in global economic development and are the hub of developments that benefit savers, investors, businesses and governments.
ICAP Charity Day 17 years of making a difference We facilitate trading by using our voice brokers and electronic broking platforms to match buyers and sellers and create liquidity in the OTC markets, enabling our customers to achieve their business objectives and to hedge their risk exposures to numerous markets, including interest rates, FX and energy.
We have spent 2009 many years facilitating the flow of trades to clearing houses on 11.5m behalf of our customers and aim to improve the overall resilience of the financial system.
In addition we offer a wide range of post trade services, which help our customers reduce the overall level of risk.
11.0m The past twelve months have seen increased focus by regulators and politicians on these markets and proposals continue to be debated by 9.2m governments across the world.
There is no doubt that an overhaul of some areas of the regulatory framework supporting the OTC 7.1m markets is necessary and ICAP continues to consult extensively with both politicians and regulators as part of this process.
5.2m We believe that our role as a key participant in the OTC markets 4.2m best positions us to contribute to society, while maximising 4.0m shareholder returns over the long term.
3.3m Staff 2.6m As the Group has expanded and grown, ICAP has attracted people 2.0m with a broader range of skills in both technology and in the original 2.2m broking businesses.
The brokers and their managers comprise 1.3m the largest group of the overall staff and they are required to have 540k 500k very specific skills.
They are highly entrepreneurial, dynamic, 460k 320k team-spirited individuals with extremely strong networking and 1993 288k interpersonal skills and the ability to excel in a pressurised environment.
ICAPs ability to attract and retain the highest quality staff and leverage their intellectual capital is one of the key factors driving the success of our business.
Management is committed to the advancement and training of talented individuals and to providing an environment that is intellectually challenging, motivating and supportive.
This year there has been a greater investment in staff through training, in particular on management and supervisory skills and on providing market knowledge and product training to the business support functions.
The latter is designed to enhance the ability of the business support functions to support the broking functions more effectively.
The use of e-learning has been a particular feature, especially in areas of risk management and compliance policy awareness and training.
This is an excellent way of monitoring effective delivery of training and employees acknowledgement of their awareness of relevant policies and their agreement to be bound by them.
ICAP employs approximately 4,500 people worldwide.
Of this number, more than 2,500 are brokers, sales and customer support staff and over 800 are employed in IT and product development of our electronic broking platforms.
ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 ICAP is a global business reflecting the global nature of the markets life assurance, pension provision and access to an employee in which we operate.
Geographic mobility of the workforce has assistance programme.
Incentive and share ownership schemes are 37 always been a feature of ICAPs business model.
also run for the benefit of employees.
Further information on these schemes can be found in note 27 to the financial statements.
In order to ensure a continuing flow of intellectual capital into our business, ICAP is committed to maintaining and developing further Employee wellbeing an active graduate recruitment programme, even in these more As well as providing medical insurance ICAP promotes a number difficult market conditions.
First launched in 2006, ICAPs global of initiatives to support employee health and wellbeing which, graduate recruitment programme aims to provide a steady flow of in addition to encouraging more healthy lifestyles, also helps to young, developing talent into the business.
Since its launch, a total control medical insurance costs.
These initiatives include in-house of 120 graduates have joined ICAP, with 39 graduates joining in the health screening sessions, free or subsidised health assessments, past year.
The programme has always had an internship element subsidised or discounted gym memberships and sponsorship of focused on 2nd year undergraduates, the best of whom are ICAP staff sports teams.
encouraged to apply for a graduate trainee role.
This has been Equal opportunity and diversity policy expanded to include a short internship element aimed at 1st year ICAP is committed to employment policies that provide and undergraduates and long placement roles lasting between six and promote equal employment and advancement opportunities and 12 months.
to providing an environment that ensures tolerance and respect The graduate recruitment programme has also expanded in terms for all employees.
ICAPs policy is that no employee, contract or of the business areas it recruits for and in geographic scope.
temporary worker will be treated less favourably, victimised or Traditionally focused on voice and electronic broking graduate harassed on the grounds of their disability, gender, marital or civil trainees, with a small intake of trainee accountants recruited for partnership status, race, nationality, colour, ethnicity, religion or ICAPs finance function, graduate trainees are also recruited for similar philosophical belief, sexual orientation, age, or any other shipbroking, shipping research, risk management, operations and IT.
class protected by applicable law.
The programme has also expanded significantly in Asia Pacific and, in In a number of locations, for example the UK and the US, there addition, now operates an internship programme for Traiana in Israel.
has been increasingly active promotion of diversity initiatives.
While the recent financial market crisis has provided opportunities These include an active Diversity Council in the US, which has to recruit highly skilled individuals, ICAP continues to monitor staff arranged presentations by prominent people from minority groups, efficiency and productivity closely.
Broker compensation is directly and the launch of ICAP Mutual Interest Networks which is the linked to commission which varies from desk to desk.
Profit per umbrella framework in the UK for a range of affinity networks such broker will depend on the mix of business undertaken.
Commission as Womens ICAP Network and Family and Dependants Network.
arrangements are structured to ensure no risk remains outstanding These groups also arrange presentations and information sessions at the time of payment.
As a result, there is no requirement for on subjects of interest to the network membership with the overall deferral conditions to be attached to commission payments.
aim of encouraging a more diverse and inclusive environment in ICAP.
While the Group, in common with other similar organisations, is Health and safety exposed to the risk of brokers moving to other companies, ICAP ICAP has a health and safety policy which is approved by the board seeks to minimise this risk by offering competitive remuneration and owned by the Group Chief Operating Officer.
Regional health structures linked to both individual and desk performance.
In and safety committees oversee structures for policy compliance.
addition, as far as possible, ICAP uses minimum term contracts All managers have a responsibility for ensuring a healthy and safe which are normally staggered across a desk to avoid the risk of working environment.
The great majority of ICAP employees work key staff failing to renew, non-compete clauses, gardening leave in an office environment and, as such, there are no significant areas provisions and restrictions on hiring colleagues.
In many emerging markets it is not possible to restrict staffs Charity Day freedom to leave to join a competitor.
In these markets ICAP Corporate philanthropy and charitable giving have always been provides staff with the ability to buy themselves out of their an important part of ICAPs corporate culture and ICAPs annual contract which forms an economic disincentive to leave or, in the Charity Day has played a special role in employee motivation since worst case, financial protection while ICAP rebuilds its platform.
Charity Day is an annual event held each December when the Group donates a whole days revenue to a Employee involvement and employment practices selection of charities worldwide.
There is significant staff, customer ICAP is committed to achieving and maintaining the highest and supplier involvement in Charity Day and the charities are standards in the workplace.
This commitment is underpinned by selected by ICAPs staff in each region in which it operates.
policies on equal opportunities, harassment and discrimination, to which all employees are required to adhere and which are regularly This revenue would otherwise contribute directly to the broker monitored and enforced.
The Group undertakes diversity training commission pool and, as such, our staff contribute directly to these designed to prevent harassment and discrimination and retaliation worthy causes.
against individuals who report problems in the Groups workplace.
Over 800 charities globally have benefited from ICAPs Charity The Group recognises the importance of effective internal Day.
These charities cover the whole spectrum of causes including communication in promoting employee engagement and uses a medical research, crime prevention, developing countries and variety of methods, including ICAPs global intranet, to keep staff children.
In 2009 ICAPs Charity Day raised $18.7 million 11.5 informed about developments in the business, policies and million for more than 125 charitable organisations, bringing the procedures and training and advancement opportunities in a total sum raised since the creation of Charity Day to $119 million.
This very significant sum has contributed greatly to alleviating suffering and improving the lives of thousands of people.
Employee benefits ICAP provides a range of employee benefits to its staff.
These vary by location according to local market practice but typically include benefits such as medical insurance, income protection insurance, ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 38 Business review continued Environment Staff costs represent the single largest expense of the Group and ICAPs environment policy is approved by the board and owned by are variable, in part, with performance in core voice broking and, the Group Finance Director.
to a lesser extent, electronic broking and post trade risk and information.
For 2009 10, staff costs remained flat at 59% of As a financial institution, the nature of ICAPs operations means revenue which reflects a change of revenue mix within our core that its environmental impact is relatively low and is limited to the businesses and the impact of new business initiatives, where it emission of greenhouse gases through running offices and takes time for margins to reach target levels.
ICAP seeks to reduce emissions by purchasing electricity from renewable sources where possible, minimising air The Group estimates that approximately 50% of its cost base travel and recycling waste.
ICAP has worked with Carbon Neutral varies with revenue, which is in line with the prior year.
Limited, an environmental consultancy, to estimate the residual Operating profit margin emissions of the Group in terms of carbon dioxide equivalents.
The Groups operating profit margin generated from its continuing Worldwide, the Group is estimated to emit the equivalent of operations for the year ended 31 March 2010 was 22%, down 1% 15.3 thousand tonnes of carbon dioxide or 3.5 tonnes 2009 on the prior year as a result of a shift to lower margin businesses 3.8 tonnes per employee per annum.
ICAP continues to within core voice broking and investment in new businesses being monitor electricity output and overall emissions output.
ICAP will partially offset by the 23 million of annualised cost savings noted endeavour to reduce further this footprint, although the expansion in last years Annual Report.
of our global office network is likely to impact our footprint in the medium term.
Where it is not possible to reduce this footprint, During the year ended 31 March 2010, the operating profit ICAP purchases Certificates of Emission Reduction CER under the margin generated by the core voice broking business fell by 1% United Nations sponsored Clean Development Mechanism.
to 19%, primarily as a result of a change in the business mix within the EMEA region where an increased percentage of revenue was Furthermore, one of ICAPs business divisions is involved in generated from business with higher commission rates.
The EMEA helping to reduce emissions output by offering broking services in voice broking margin fell by 3% to 23% during the period.
As a emissions credits as part of the EU Emissions Trading Scheme and result of cost control management, the Americas region maintained United Nations Certified Emission Reduction Credits.
ICAP has a its margin at 18% and Asia Pacific, despite challenging market leading market share of OTC brokered European Union Allowances conditions, improved its operating profit margin from 2 % to 1%.
and has a prominent position in the rapidly developing carbon options market.
ICAP is also active in the nascent emissions trading Through a continued focus on costs and our new businesses markets in the US.
reaching operational maturity we would expect to see the operating profit margin for the voice business to show a modest Financial review improvement.
However, the combination of competitive pressure and an ongoing need to invest in our people, systems and Cost management processes will limit our ability to improve voice margins significantly The Group considers the efficient and effective management in the near term.
of its operating expenses as a key component of its operational strategy and continually evaluates opportunities to reduce these.
Revenue from our electronic broking business of 252 million was flat compared to the prior year.
However, as a result of the actions During the year, net operating expenses related to the continuing taken in the prior year to manage costs, the operating profit business increased by 3% to 1,251 million due to the impact of margin improved from 35% to 40%.
FX 68 million and the investment in new businesses principally in Brazil 44 million.
This was largely offset by a reduction in The post trade risk and information business continued to perform performance related commissions and annualised cost savings strongly with the 2009 10 year performance delivering an of 23 million.
operating profit margin of 49% in line with the prior year.
Exceptional items and discontinued operations The Groups policy is to separately disclose items in its income statement as exceptional which are non-recurring and, in terms of both size and nature, material.
On 18 December 2009, the Group announced that one of its US subsidiaries, ICAP Securities USA LLC, had reached a settlement with the SEC in regard to a multi-year, industry-wide investigation into the markets in certain fixed income securities, without admitting or denying allegations of any wrongdoing.
Based on World Business Council for Sustainable Development and the World Resources Institute Protocols, relevant Scope 3 activities mainly business travel and commuting have been included as recommended by these organisations.
Using only Scope 1 and 2 emissions minimum recommended reporting level would reduce ICAPs reported emissions by approximately 80%.
The total figure is after excluding 8.1 tonnes 2009 7.0 tonnes of electricity produced from From continuing operations excluding amortisation and impairment of intangibles renewable sources.
arising on consolidation and exceptional items.
ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 The investigation concerned alleged activities on certain of ICAP Earnings and earnings per share EPS Securities USA LLCs interdealer voice broking securities desks We believe that the most appropriate EPS measurement ratio for 39 between 2005 and 2008.
ICAP suspended two individuals on the the Group is adjusted basic EPS as this measure better reflects the mortgage backed securities desk in June 2008 and subsequently Groups underlying cash earnings.
For the year ended 31 March terminated their employment for violation of ICAPs policies.
2010 we have also presented adjusted EPS from continuing operations so that the impact of the losses arising from the ICAP Securities USA LLC has made substantial enhancements discontinuance of the full service agency cash equities business to the quality of its control environment over the period.
These in Europe and Asia Pacific can be identified.
include greater formalisation of its broking practices, enhanced operational, risk and compliance controls, improved training and Adjusted basic EPS from continuing operations excludes the impact monitoring programmes, revised policies and procedures, and of the performance of discontinued operations, amortisation and the recruitment of additional experienced managers in various impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional control roles.
The calculation of EPS is set out in note 13 to the financial statements.
The Group has recognised an exceptional charge of 21 million in respect of this settlement representing penalties and costs Adjusted basic EPS from continuing operations increased by 1% to related to the settlement of this matter.
The Groups basic EPS from continuing operations decreased from 28.2p to 25.5p and total basic EPS, including discontinued The second exceptional item of 46 million pre-tax relates to operations, decreased from 27.6p to 18.0p.
The expansion into full service agency cash equities in Europe and Asia Pacific failed to deliver the As detailed in note 2 to the financial statements, the Group is necessary returns.
After a thorough review conducted in early adopting IFRS3 revised with effect from 1 April 2010.
This will 2010 we announced in March our decision to withdraw this full result in a number of future acquisition related costs, including service offering.
This exceptional item includes restructuring and transaction fees and changes to the estimated amount of closure costs related to redundancy, the write-off of fixed assets contingent deferred consideration, impacting the income and the termination of third-party contracts.
For acquisitions which closed prior to 31 March 2010, these costs are accounted for on the balance sheet as a movement The closure of the European and Asia Pacific cash equities in goodwill and, as they do not impact on the Groups ability to businesses in March represents a change of strategy for the Group, generate cash flow, it is planned to amend the definition of as these businesses were previously positioned alongside post adjusted EPS used in future reporting periods to remove the trade risk and emerging markets as an engine for growth and, as impact of these adjustments from earnings.
such, received significant prominence over the past 18 months in management presentations, press and analyst coverage.
In order Dividend to enable relevant comparison of future performance, we believe For the past three years, the Group has paid a dividend equal it is important to identify the impact that these businesses have to 50% of adjusted basic EPS which reflects the boards desire had on the Groups results and, as such, have separately disclosed to balance distributions to shareholders against the wider capital them as a discontinued operation in the financial statements.
The Group is continuing to negotiate with the impacted staff For the current year we propose, subject to shareholder approval, and suppliers to mitigate the closure costs and to find alternative to continue to apply the same multiple but to exclude the impact uses for the fixed assets.
of the discontinued business from the definition of adjusted EPS which results in a final dividend of 12.44p being proposed.
No exceptional charges were recognised in the comparative This compares to 12.35p in the prior year and, when taken in financial statements for the 12 months to 31 March 2009. conjunction with the interim dividend of 5.11p per share, results Further details on the discontinued business and exceptional in a full-year dividend of 17.55p which is an increase of 3% on the items are set out in notes 4 and 6 to the financial statements.
Tax At the annual general meeting in July 2009, the introduction of a The overall objective continues to be to plan and manage the tax scrip dividend scheme was approved in order to give shareholders affairs of the Group efficiently within the various local tax greater flexibility and the opportunity to elect to receive new jurisdictions of the world to achieve the lowest tax cash cost and ordinary shares in ICAP as an alternative to any cash dividend effective tax rate while complying with local tax regulations.
As a declared by the Company.
4,567,807 shares were issued in order result of this management the Groups effective tax rate, excluding to satisfy elections in respect of last years final dividend with no amortisation, impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation, shares issued in respect of the interim dividend distribution in exceptional items and discontinued operations, has reduced to 32% February 2010.
It is proposed to continue to offer a scrip dividend 2009 33%.
Further details will be announced on 28 July 2010.
A tax credit of 20 million 2009 22 million has been recognised in the income statement column entitled amortisation Interim dividends are calculated as 30% of the previous years and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation to reflect full-year dividend.
This approach will continue for the 2010 11 the impact on deferred tax of amortising intangible assets.
The Groups tax charge is affected by the varying tax rates in different jurisdictions applied to taxable profits: the mix of those profits: and the rules impacting deductibility of certain costs.
The Group continues to take a prudent approach to the management of its tax affairs and provisions are set to cover tax exposures.
Losses on discontinued operations of 18 million are shown net of a tax credit of 7 million and related reorganisation costs of 41 million net of a tax credit of 11 million.
ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 40 Business review continued Operating profit cash conversion as a result of writing down the carrying value of a number of The Groups consolidated cash flow statement is set out on page customer relationships which have been impacted by the credit 71 of the financial statements.
crisis, a further 4 million 2009 7 million impairment to First Brokers and 1 million of other impairments.
The Group continues to generate substantial free cash flow and in 2009 10 once again saw its post-tax profits, excluding the impact Matched principal gross-up of exceptional items and the amortisation and impairment of Certain Group companies are involved as a matched principal in intangibles arising on consolidation, convert into cash.
the process of broking securities between third parties.
Such trades are complete only when both sides of the deal are settled Year ended Year ended and so the Group is exposed to risk in the event that one side of 31 March 31 March the transaction remains unsettled.
Substantially all the transactions 2010 2009 settle within a short period of time and, as such, the settlement Free cash flow m m risk is considered to be minimal.
Cash generated by operations 345 455 Interest and tax 69 101 All amounts due to and payable by counterparties in respect of matched principal business are shown gross, except where a legally 276 Cash flow from operating activities 354 enforceable netting agreement exists and the asset and liability are 66 Capital expenditure 63 either settled net or simultaneously.
At 31 March 2010 matched Dividends from associates and principal business resulted in the balance sheet being grossed up investments 9 5 by 60 billion.
Free cash flow 219 296 Contingent deferred consideration and deferred consideration Cash generated from operations decreased by 110 million in A number of the Groups recent acquisitions have been structured 2009 10, reflecting the impact of lower trading revenues to include an element of deferred consideration that is contingent 15 million, the settlement of the SEC claim and related costs on the business performance.
These arrangements take a variety 21 million, the impact of initially unsettled trades 13 million, of forms and may involve part of the purchase consideration being and the maintenance of the one-off benefit seen in the prior year deferred and linked to future performance or the vendors retaining from enhancing our working capital practices.
a minority interest which they may have the right to put and ICAP call after a pre-agreed period.
Net payments in respect of interest and tax have decreased by 32 million to 69 million, reflecting the combined impact of lower Overall, the objective of these arrangements is to reduce the risk profits in the year together with timing differences.
inherent in acquiring smaller owner-managed businesses and to align the vendors, many of whom remain with ICAP, to both The Group distributed 92 million of its free cash flow to integrate and develop the business further.
At 31 March 2010, shareholders through its dividend.
In total, 149 million was the present value of these obligations was 19 million which invested in a number of acquisitions during the year, including represents a decrease of 29 million when compared to the prior 122 million to acquire the remaining shares in Reset and year, as a result of the payment of 14 million of deferred TriOptima and 14 million as deferred consideration for Link.
consideration in respect of Link, the removal of the obligation in Balance sheet net assets respect of full service agency cash equities and a rebasing of the Net assets have increased from 1,140 million to 1,215 million expected amount due for ICAP Shipping.
which include the recognition of intangible assets in respect of our An amount of 7 million deferred consideration was recognised previous shareholding of 38.22% in TriOptima.
as a liability at 31 March 2010 which was paid in May 2010 to Intangible assets arising on consolidation TriOptima.
The Group accounts for those assets and liabilities which arise Further details of these arrangements are set out in note 14 of the on acquisition at fair value and recognises goodwill and other financial statements.
At 31 March 2010, intangible assets arising on consolidation stood at 1,489 million, up Net debt and cash 85 million on the prior year as a result of the amortisation charge The Group aims to ensure that it has constant access, even in related to those assets with a finite useful life, such as customer periods of corporate or market turmoil, to an appropriate level of relationships, revaluation of dollar denominated assets, principally cash, other forms of marketable securities and committed funding EBS, Traiana and Reset being more than offset by the assets arising lines to enable it to finance its ongoing operations, proposed on the acquisition of Arkhe and TriOptima.
acquisitions and other reasonable unanticipated events on cost-effective and attractive terms.
During the past 12 months The Group is required to consider the carrying value of these ICAPs risk function has reviewed the liquidity risks facing the assets on an annual basis against their value in use and, if Group and confirmed that $250 million remains as an appropriate appropriate, to impair the carrying value.
Details of the approach level of liquidity headroom to mitigate the operational risks including adopted to review the assets are set out in note 15 to the financial margin and collateral requirements inherent in our business.
statements and resulted in a 5 million 2009 nil charge From continuing operations excluding amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items.
ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 63 65 140 141 143 ICAP plc Annual Report 2010 The Group has traditionally financed itself through a combination In general, higher levels of market volatility result in increased of retained profits, short-term committed and uncommitted bank demand for the Groups brokerage and post trade risk and 41 facilities, equity, and US private placement loan notes and, as set information services.
From a regulatory capital perspective, however, out in last years Annual Report, has taken steps through obtaining the impact is significantly dampened by the fact that much of this investment grade credit ratings and putting in place a Global incremental business occurs in markets which operate on a name Medium Term Note programme GMTN, to ensure that it is able to give-up basis or are cleared through a central counterparty.
take advantage of improving market conditions to diversify these We would, therefore, expect any increase in activity to have a sources further.
limited impact on the Groups capital resource requirement and, as such, absent a material acquisition, loss of the waiver or a change During July 2009, the Group took advantage of stronger market in the basis of computation, existing capital resources are viewed conditions to significantly strengthen its balance sheet through the as sufficient to both operate and grow the business.
issuance of the GMTN programme of its debut bond, raising 300 million of five-year term debt to repay the 135 million Contractual arrangements bridge facility, which had been taken out in April 2008 to finance During 2009 10 the Groups total cost base from continuing the purchase of Link, and to create additional headroom under its operations was 1,270 million 2009 1,243 million of which core revolving credit facility.
approximately 75% 2009 75% was represented by staff costs 11% by technology costs 2009 10% and 14% by other costs The Groups core 473 million revolving credit facility was due to 2009 15% including premises, travel, entertainment and clearing.
mature in March 2011 and, in line with its objective of maintaining appropriate levels of committed headroom for the 12 months ahead, The Group places reliance on a number of key suppliers to carry out ICAP announced on 7 May 2010 that it had successfully refinanced its business effectively and has put in place procedures to ensure this facility into a new $880 million committed revolving credit facility that purchasing decisions balance cost against other factors which matures in May 2013, following which the average maturity including service quality, global reach and resilience.
of the Groups debt facilities has been extended to 44 months.
The success of ICAPs core voice broking business is reliant on its The Groups credit ratings remained unchanged throughout the ability to attract and retain highly qualified staff.
At 12 May 2010, the Group was rated BBB by Fitch arrangements, including rolling contracts and non-compete and Baa2 by Moodys.
Net debt was 148 million, an increase arrangements, are employed to mitigate the risk of key producers of 22 million on the prior year as a result of the borrowings to being lost to competitors.
finance the acquisition of TriOptima being partially offset by strong Information systems and communications are key to the delivery cash generation in the year.
Further details of the Groups net of both voice and electronic products and, in this area, the Group debt, cash and cash equivalent and borrowings are set out in notes seeks to ensure that its systems have full redundancy and are 33 c, 33 b and 22 respectively of the financial statements.
capable of operating from business continuity sites.
Capital structure and regulatory capital The settlement of matched principal and exchange traded ICAP is an international business which provides brokerage, post businesses requires access to clearing houses either directly or trade risk and information services in a wide range of products to through third party providers of clearing and settlement services.
The business is subject to consolidated In North America the Group is a member of the FICC and NSCC supervision by the FSA under the terms of the CRD.
through which it clears US Treasury products, agency, mortgage In March 2007, ICAP obtained a waiver from the consolidated and equity trades for its client base.
In Europe and Asia Pacific, with capital adequacy tests which have the effect of excluding goodwill the exception of base metal clearing on LCH.
Clearnet Group Ltd, from the capital computation and, in so doing, allows the Group the majority of the Groups clearing activities are outsourced to to undertake acquisitions using debt rather than equity finance.
third parties where ICAP seeks to partner with one of the leading The terms of the waiver, which runs until the end of March 2012, clearing providers in each market.
limits our ability to incur market risk and, in effect, prohibits the As more fully described in note 22, the Group relies on a small Group from undertaking proprietary trading activities.
number of international banks to provide it with access to liquidity.
The Groups Pillar 1 regulatory capital surplus represents the No single bank provides the Group with more than 14% of its total difference between the capital resources of the Company, on a committed credit facilities.
stand alone basis, and the regulatory capital requirements of the Events after the balance sheet date Group calculated, in accordance with the requirements of the On 7 May 2010, the Group refinanced its existing 473 million waiver, on an aggregate basis.
three-year unsecured revolving credit facility and $94 million The Groups Pillar 1 regulatory capital requirement calculated under swingline with a new $880 million revolving credit facility the CRD waiver is relatively stable.
However, as a result of timing incorporating an up to $200 million swingline facility, which differences in the receipt of dividends from subsidiaries and the matures on 31 May 2013.
This facility carries a floating interest payment to ICAPs shareholders, the Groups regulatory capital, rate at LIBOR plus 2% with an additional 0.50% payable dependent and consequently the Pillar 1 headroom, may fluctuate.
At the year on the debt to earnings ratio.
end the Group had in excess of 500 million of Pillar 1 headroom.
Our business is in good shape and well positioned to take advantage CRD requires ICAP, under Pillar 2, to evaluate the risks facing the of improving market conditions and regulatory change.
We have business and to determine whether the Pillar 1 capital is sufficient learnt valuable lessons from our expansion into the full service to cover any expected losses.
The Group has developed a scenarioagency cash equities business and adopted new processes, used the based model which utilises data provided by the business to assess financial crisis to strengthen our voice franchise, continued to invest the economic capital required to cover the expected risks and, at in our electronic broking platforms and, through Reset, Traiana, 31 March 2010, viewed the Pillar 1 capital as sufficient to cover TriOptima and ReMatch, to operate some of the key post trade risk the identified risks.
The analysis of economic capital is documented solutions used by our clients.
The business continues to exhibit low in the Groups Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process levels of market risk, remains highly cash generative and has a ICAAP which is required by the FSA, regularly updated and strong balance sheet and, as such, we believe is well positioned to formally approved by the board annually.
respond to future market challenges.
