42 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Corporate social responsibility.
Our people Our investors and financial partners ICG takes great pride in its ability to continue to attract, develop We are committed to ensuring we are as transparent as possible and retain exceptional staff, and believes it is essential to our ability with all our investors.
This includes financial transparency, by to reach our full potential as an organisation.
All 122 employees are improving continually the amount and timeliness of financial of the highest calibre in their chosen field, and have been attracted disclosure, and governance transparency, enabling our investors by the sense of cultural belonging and purpose at work which ICG to understand, assess and hold accountable our Directors.
We are a thriving multi-cultural organisation with our way we believe we are able to cultivate mutual understanding and employees coming from 14 nationalities, who speak 28 different appreciation which in turn reinforces our positive reputation and languages and have made investments in over 20 countries.
To support this we have strengthened our We regularly review our long term compensation and benefits Investor Management Group, who have further enhanced the level schemes to ensure they are market competitive and that they align of service that we provide to our fund investors, and the quality and the interests of our employees with our business strategy and the depth of information they receive around their investments.
A proposal for a new remuneration Our commitment to our investors extends to our actions as an scheme is scheduled to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM for investor ourselves.
As such, we seek to invest in companies who shareholder approval.
act responsibly, and who comply with environmental, regulatory ICG is committed to encouraging the continuous development and social legislation.
As minority partners in virtually all of our of its employees.
This year almost 175 training days were investments, we do not have direct operational control over the completed, an average of 1.4 days per employee.
A total of 29 companies in which we invest, but nevertheless we seek to training and development initiatives were held to support the influence their behaviour and to ensure that their ethos, corporate personal development of our employees.
These courses have structures and policies are sustainable and in line with good covered a variety of topics including commercial, technical, corporate governance practice.
compliance, professional, managerial and personal skills.
ICG works closely with a number of financial partners, It is a legal and regulatory requirement that all executives including private equity firms, commercial banks and other financial involved in making or managing investment transactions receive institutions.
We seek partners who operate based on an ethical, regular compliance training, addressing topics such as anti-money responsible approach to their business activities, and who are laundering, throughout the course of the year.
themselves following sustainable business practices.
All of our employees operate in an office environment and the ICG seeks to be the partner of choice in all our business Directors are committed to maintaining and developing a culture activities.
We recognise that we must offer a collaborative, that ensures the health, safety and welfare of employees while on solutions-based approach which allows us to better serve our Company premises.
During the year there were no reportable partners specific needs.
ICG actively promotes high ethical accidents or incidents occurred either under UK Health and Safety standards in all our business relationships, and undertakes to be regulations or similar regulations in our offices outside the UK.
open, honest and consistent in every transaction.
We aim to be best in class when it comes to delivering the financing know-how and service necessary for our financial partners to be successful.
Business review Business review 43 Spitalfields City Farm is a community farm offering educational Community participation and fun activities, skills training for local communities and visiting ICG operates a corporate Give As You Earn scheme, and also groups.
Spitalfields City Farm is the nearest city farm to Londons manages a separate scheme for its staff.
The Company encourages Square Mile.
Despite this, the farm is located in one of the most employees to give not only financial support but also their time to deprived and densely populated boroughs, although Spitalfields charities.
To support this, we allow each employee to take two paid remains a vibrant and colourful multi-cultural area with strong days a year for direct charity involvement.
ICG has also been actively engaged in a number of initiatives to Receiving over 18,000 visitors a year and spread over 1.3 acres support the local communities in which we operate in.
During the of land, the farm keeps a selection of farm animals and has course of the year around a third of our staff donated their time to developed growing areas in every available space.
local charities by participating in ICG Challenge Days.
These included: One of the ways in which ICG supported the charity during The Private Equity Foundation PEF is a foundation backed by the year was to organise a team challenge day at the farm.
private equity firms and their advisers with a mission to empower ICG donated a new boot shed to the farm, and with the help of a young people by investing both money and expertise from the team of ICG employees, a new shed was constructed to securely private equity community, to help excellent charities achieve a house the farms collection of boots and safety clothing.
PEF carefully selects charities that www.
org empower young people to reach their full potential.
Its investments The Childrens Society is a national charity supporting children address the NEET young people Not in Education, Employment through a network of community based projects provide targeted, or training issue and include not just money but also pro bono immediate and lasting help for children who feel excluded, isolated expertise from the private equity community.
By sharing its members business skills, PEF has developed a ICG sponsored a teambuilding and communications day model of engaged philanthropy and can maximise the social return in south east England for 15 local children and young adults on its donors investments.
This is helping charities achieve a step supported by the charity.
During the day the participants were change in their impact so even more young people benefit from invited to take part in a range of outdoor activities, including effective interventions.
orienteering and raft building, with the ultimate aim of helping them ICG is a founding member of PEF.
Our employees support PEF improve their confidence, team building and communication skills.
throughout the course of the year by taking part in a range of www.
uk volunteering initiatives run by the foundation.
org Trees for Cities is an independent charity working with local communities on tree-planting and landscaping projects.
Their aim is to tackle global warming, create social cohesion and beautify our cities through tree planting, community education and training initiatives in urban areas of greatest need.
org Connection at St Martins helps the homeless by providing specialist services including a day and night centre, outreach for rough sleepers, skills training and career advice, activity programmes and specialist support for complex needs to over 200 people in central London every day.
We offer advice, care and support in a welcoming and friendly environment.
By encouraging each person to address the issues which caused their homelessness, we help them to gain the skills and confidence to make lasting changes in their lives.
Through our partnership with Trees for Cities and Connection at St Martins we are providing support for homeless people to gain recognised qualifications in horticulture and arboriculture which will then enable them to find employment.
uk 44 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Corporate social responsibility.
The Oxford & Bermondsey and Bradfield Boys Clubs are two local boys clubs that provide a stable and supportive environment for young people to relax, interact and develop as members of the community.
Each year the club organises a week long activity trip for approximately 12 of the clubs disadvantaged young adults with the aim to teach team building skills and promote a greater sense of personal responsibility.
During the week participants have the opportunity to experience a number of outdoor activities including mountain biking, climbing and canoeing, in addition to learning more practical skills such as cooking and cleaning.
For many of the children it is the first opportunity that they have had to be away from home.
ICG has sponsored this annual trip for the past four years.
Age Concern Hackney provides support to the over 50s in Hackney, including essential services such as day care, training and an information service.
ICG hosted a summer and Christmas party in our London office for Age Concern Hackney and their clients.
uk Throughout the course of the year ICG also made a number of In Kind donations of office furniture, PCs, and the use of our meeting rooms to local charities.
Our environment As a corporate citizen, we are continually considering ways in which we can reduce our impact on the environment.
We take pride in the fact that we are one of the first financial companies, with under 1 billion of revenue, to participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project: the only global climate change reporting system.
We have reappointed Environmental Resources Management ERM, the environmental consultancy, to help calculate the energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions for the year 2009, across our international network of offices.
Our continued involvement in the Carbon Disclosure Project will enable us to set carbon reduction targets and determine performance improvements on an ongoing basis.
Funds and Portfolio Funds and Portfolio 45 45 Funds and Portfolio.
