Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms people in the arts in new and unexpected ways reflects our own Culture Connection is a programme to engage Sky People in the commitment to bring more of the arts to more people.
Support for the arts is one of the core pillars of our Bigger Antony Gormley was the artist who was commissioned for the Picture strategy, and we want to bring more of the arts to more of Fourth Plinth in Londons Trafalgar Square with his project One and our people as well as to our customers.
Just under 2,000 Other, in which 2,400 people spent an hour each on the plinth over employees have engaged with Culture Connection this year, by a period of 100 days.
The project was the first in the 2009 Sky Arts winning a competition, taking part in an activity or submitting an Artichoke Season, with Sky the main sponsor of the event.
The entry for a competition, for example by writing a poem to win a innovation and quality of our coverage of Antony Gormleys One & weekend at Cork Jazz Festival.
As part of our Rankin Live!
Other was also recognised with a BAFTA Television Award photography project, employees across Sky were asked to Shoot nomination in the New Media category.
The five shortlisted entries won a trip to London and had their portrait taken by Rankin, who also judged the winning Once again we were the Broadcast Sponsor of the Hay Festival, entries at The Truman Brewery.
which brings together the worlds best writers, artists and musicians along with around 100,000 festival goers for a unique Sky also provides help to schools through our initiatives across cultural experience.
Our presence at the festival centres on our environment, sport and arts, with programmes such as Sky Sports specially constructed on site Sky Arts studio, from where we aim to Living for Sport and Global Action Plans Appetite for Action, which engage visitors in discussion and debate, and to provide a different enhance students lives, by helping them to improve their life skills perspective on the arts.
This year for the first time, we offered and raise their aspirations.
behind the scenes tours of the Sky Arts studio, giving visitors the We continue to hold the Business in the Communitys Community opportunity to try out The Book Show presenter Mariella Frostrups Mark Award for the breadth and depth of our community chair and read from the autocue.
From the studio, nearly 23,000 investment and the sustainability of the Joining In programme.
festival goers were able to follow the Sky Arts Path to discover This was awarded to us in July 2009 and runs for three years with a different spaces around the festival, each offering a new creative yearly review to assess progress against public targets.
The path led visitors back to the studio, where they were able to contribute their thoughts and reflections to a People collective Sky Arts book.
Organisation Regional media partnerships help us to provide an important In the past year, we have achieved a number of milestones in our platform for a diverse range of arts organisations across the UK aim to make Sky a great place to work and we continue our efforts whilst also enabling us to create exclusive content for Sky Arts to be an organisation that attracts and retains talented people.
We continue to produce the Sky Arts at ten minute documentaries, working with 24 partners ranging from the National We have an unrelenting focus on recruiting and nurturing talent, so Theatre, The Art Fund Prize, Rankin Live, Pleasance Theatre Trust at we can build a strong team to deliver our customers the best the Edinburgh Fringe Festival, the Royal Liverpool Philharmonic possible service.
Orchestra and Cork Jazz festival, enabling them to share their work The average number of full-time equivalent persons employed by with the Sky Arts audience, as well as helping us to increase our the Group during the year was 16,439, an increase of 1,517 from the visibility in towns and cities across the UK.
previous year, primarily as a result of increases in supply chain and Joining In Sky retail services.
The Bigger Picture is about making a positive contribution to the Talent Management communities where our people and our customers live and work.
We believe that everyone who works for Sky should have the We work with our people, customers, suppliers and the wider opportunity to develop their potential to the maximum without community to make sure were tackling the issues that matter and having to move elsewhere.
This year we have further developed our that were doing it in the right way.
leadership development programme, with over 480 of our Sky People on full time, permanent contracts are entitled to 16 managers and aspiring leaders attending courses.
hours of paid volunteering time per year subject to obtaining We recently opened a Talent Hub a training and recruitment approval from their line manager and we provide opportunities for centre at our Kirkton Campus in West Lothian designed to offer a volunteering by encouraging our people to use their talents to creative and inspiring learning environment, to help employees make a positive contribution to the communities they live and work deliver the best possible customer service.
Sky also offers avenues for fundraising which allow Sky People to contribute financially to the charities of their choice, through taxFuture Talent free donations through their salaries, as well as Sky giving extra to We believe in attracting and nurturing fresh future talent into our the money they raise as a thank you.
We have made good progress business and we offer a range of schemes to provide work against our volunteering and payroll giving targets for all employees experience opportunities.
We do this is through a broad range of on Skys payroll over the last year.
Volunteering has gone from formal apprenticeships, graduate schemes, short and longer-term 4.78% to 18.63% in the period from June 2009 to July 2010 and work placements, as well as through our links with a number of payroll giving averages around 3.75% for the same period.
We are on leading universities and educational partners.
schedule to reach our volunteering target of 25% by the end of the We currently offer 41 graduate placements in the following areas of year and for at least 7% of our people to give to charities through the business marketing, finance, human resources, customer payroll giving in the same period.
ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 21 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW continued We recognise that employees have many other responsibilities People beyond their work, and do what we can to help them manage their continued priorities.
This includes running an advisory website and 24-hour operations, supply chain and technology.
For 2011 we will also be advice hotline for employees and their families, giving access to recruiting graduates into Sky Betting and Gaming and Sky News.
counsellors, financial management advice, information on eldercare and childcare, and health risk assessments.
Sky also offers placements to second year undergraduates on marketing sandwich course placements.
This rotational scheme Diversity offers exposure across all marketing disciplines including: brand, Our commitment to diversity is not driven by meeting targets it is marketing, business development and research areas.
about having the right people for our business.
For school leavers we offer apprenticeships in our supply chain and In 2009, we introduced a new diversity strategy, with a view to customer contact centres which includes training for a NVQ getting a better representation of women and people from Black National Vocational Qualification over a period of two years.
The and Minority Ethnic groups in leadership and management scheme was launched in 2006, and so far over 200 apprentices positions.
have been employed as a result of the scheme.
It is still early days for the strategy, but there have been some We are also in our second year of Skys Fast Forward scheme.
The encouraging results particularly in terms of gender.
We are now scheme provides 16-18 year olds from seven local schools with an 11- seeing an improvement in the ratio of women included in senior month placement in our entertainment and creative departments.
and leadership development programmes, and in the number of women recruited promoted into the most senior roles in the Sky offers a wealth of work experience opportunities and currently company.
runs over 200 work experience and scholarship programmes.
We believe that people with disabilities should have full and fair Employee Engagement and Involvement consideration for all vacancies and promotions.
Should an The Sky Forum has continued to evolve this year.
The Sky Forum is a employee become disabled during their employment with the team of about 80 employee representatives from across the Company, where possible, we will actively re-train and adjust their business, who meet several times a year to discuss a wide range of environment to allow them to maximise their potential.
business issues and to provide input that helps Sky continuously to innovate and improve the way that we do things throughout the Reward and Benefits business.
We recognise the importance of long service at Sky and truly value the experience and knowledge that those who have been with us This year the role of the Forum has evolved, to engage more for a number of years add to the business.
As part of our 20th specifically in working through and resolving issues rather than just Anniversary celebrations, we introduced formal recognition for bringing them to our attention, and we have had some great results those with 20 years, 15 years and 10 years continuous service.
Weve also launched a number of new online services, such as Sky Employees are encouraged to use the Companys intranet portal to Benefits Extra, which offers our people discounts at over 1,500 keep up to date with information and developments that may retailers and an online pensions system to assist our people with interest them such as new product launches, events and Company their retirement planning.
Efficiency Recognition Key to achieving our objectives as a great place to work is ensuring We have implemented a number of change programmes this year to deliver more of our people services through e-systems.
These our people are recognised for their outstanding contribution.
programmes have improved efficiency, reduced costs and support Each business and divisional area runs individual recognition our environmental objectives.
They include the delivery of payslips programmes to reflect their business and people achievements.
on line, the transfer of employee records into an electronic filing Health and Safety system, and online access for candidates from job application through to joining Sky.
The health and wellbeing of our employees is of utmost importance to us.
Every employee, whatever their position, needs to be confident in their role and feel secure that the right procedures are in place to protect them.
We try to take a holistic view of health and safety and to keeping Sky a safe place to work, so while accident prevention and safety training is essential, equally important is the long term wellbeing of our employees.
Wellbeing We support our people in keeping healthy, happy and productive by taking a holistic approach to their wellbeing, providing access to occupational health advice, support and facilities at all of our key sites.
22 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010
