DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW continued helps us to keep track of sustainability issues across the business Corporate responsibility and develop plans to address key risks in the future.
The Bigger Picture is part of Skys approach to ensuring that we are Sky is a member of the FTSE4Good Index, the Dow Jones being a responsible company, and doing the right thing for all of Sustainability Index, the Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations Skys stakeholders including our customers, people, suppliers, and list, and has achieved a Platinum status in the Business in the the society in which we live and work.
The following principles set Community Corporate Responsibility Index.
Sky takes part in the out the way in which we will do this, and are designed to provide a Carbon Disclosure Project CDP which assesses companies for framework for our activities in the UK and Ireland and our potential risks and opportunities relating to climate change.
Sky produces an annual Bigger Picture Review which provides full We will: details of all corporate responsibility activities.
On a day-to-day basis, operate our business in a responsible can be found at www.
manner, and strive to do the right thing for every part of Sky Responsibility stakeholders, based on our understanding of their needs and As a business, we have a responsibility to our shareholders and expectations.
employees to continue to grow and to thrive over the long term.
Work to foster a culture of doing the right thing and taking also have a responsibility to deliver great products and services to responsibility throughout our business so that our people will our customers: to provide them with the tools to use our products know how to act in a way that reflects these principles.
and services responsibly and safely: to make these accessible and 3.
Create an environment where consumers can trust our products useable for everyone, and make sure these are sourced and and services: and where they have the ability to consume them delivered in a responsible and ethical manner.
Sky has pioneered market-leading parental control technology for 4.
Play our part in contributing positively to issues in society where our television platform, allowing parents to protect their children Sky believes we have a unique opportunity to make a difference, from material they consider inappropriate.
Features include filters and look for ways to enable our customers and people an to prevent the viewing of selected programmes, the ability to opportunity to join in with our efforts.
restrict access to specific channels, complete removal of the adult We have a formal committee of the Board, the Bigger Picture channels from the listings screen, monitoring of spend on Sky Box Committee, which manages our approach, provides leadership and Office and online and PIN controlled access to classified films helps to drive corporate responsibility practices throughout the broadcast during the day.
This committee meets twice a year and is chaired by We provide all Sky broadband customers with free parental controls Dame Gail Rebuck, one of our independent directors.
Its for life for their internet connection through McAfee, our internet composition and terms of reference are detailed on page 39. safety and security partner, as well as offering market-leading We have created a high level Environment Steering Group ESG to parental tools which monitor instant messaging and chat rooms for lead our activity on screen and behind the scenes.
This group, potentially dangerous behaviours.
We have worked with Childnet chaired by our Chief Executive Jeremy Darroch, meets regularly to International, a charity focused on keeping children safe online, to set challenging targets and drive progress against them.
As a result ensure we are providing the best information for customers on how of the ESGs work, we have set up a ten point plan to minimise our to use the internet safely, and we provide a number of Childnets carbon impacts across every area of our business.
We also have short films on our website, covering issues such as social separate Arts and Cycling steering groups, and other groups are in networking and blogging, for parents to download.
Sky is an active place to oversee health and safety and human resources policies.
member of the UK Council for Child Internet Safety.
The Bigger Picture team manages our day-to-day work in this area, Sky takes seriously the need to provide its services in a way that collaborating with colleagues across Sky to deliver our environment, encourages responsible gambling.
All of the Sky Betting and Gaming sport and arts initiatives, and ensuring our commitment to doing team receives regular training to ensure that they are equipped the right thing is understood and fulfilled throughout the business.
with the right knowledge and skills to meet our regulatory and social commitments.
We have worked hard to ensure that Sky Bet, To make sure were focusing on the right things, we ensure that our Sky Vegas, Sky Poker and Sky Bingo have all been awarded a seal of customers, employees and other stakeholders have plenty of approval from GamCare, an organisation that promotes responsible opportunity to share their views.
Our employees can communicate gambling, in recognition of the importance we place on delivering their views on corporate responsibility via the Sky Forum of elected the highest industry-recognised standards for customer Sky employees and through the regular Sky People Survey.
continually seek feedback from customers about our products and services and our Bigger Picture activities, using tools like customer We have had a dedicated accessible customer service team for satisfaction surveys and focus groups.
To help us identify specific disabled or vulnerable customers since 2003.
On average during sector issues where we need to take responsibility, we also take 2009 10, our team of over 100 people took around 5,000 calls each part in a number of forums including the Media CSR Forum, the week.
We created an online Accessibility tool in October 2009, Corporate Responsibility Group and Business in the Community.
In which provides additional support to customers with visual, hearing addition, over the last year, Sky has undertaken a series of and mobility impairments.
We continue to exceed all Ofcom interviews across the Group to identify issues which has led to the requirements for subtitling, audio description and sign development of a corporate responsibility risk register.
This register interpretation, and continue to provide a minimum of 20% of programming supported with audio description, which is above the 18 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms Ofcom requirement of 10%, with the exception of Sky Sports 1 and Environment Sky News.
With regards to the new Ofcom requirement for sign Widespread recognition of the impacts of climate change has presented programming, Sky helped establish the British Sign changed the business landscape.
There havent only been changes Language Broadcasting Trust BSLBT, which has been created, by in regulation the expectations of our customers and our people Ofcom, as an acceptable alternative to delivering sign presented have changed too.
They expect us to step up and take action on programming on low audience channels.
This means Sky only the issues that matter to them, and climate change is now high on provides signing on one of the 20 channels we own, Sky Sports 1, as their list of concerns.
Minimising our environmental impact makes all of our other channels are exempt.
sense to us and is key to our future business success not only does it help us to operate more efficiently and effectively, but it In April 2009 our accessible remote control was awarded the Age shows our customers and our people that we listen to their OK accreditation from Help the Aged and Age Concern.
The Sky concerns and are prepared to act on them.
remote was the first product in the UK to gain this accreditation, recognising products that have been designed with the needs of We have been focused on tackling climate change since 2005, and older people in mind.
The accessible remote is provided free of our approach has been two-fold.
First, we have been working to charge to any customer who would benefit from it.
In 2005, we measured our carbon footprint and in 2006 became only the second FTSE100 company to become Skys Responsible Sourcing Principles ensure our products are carbon neutral.
manufactured by our suppliers in a safe, ethical and environmentally aware manner.
These principles explain what we As part of measuring our impact, our environmental performance expect from our suppliers and cover areas such as their data is independently assured by Environmental Resources environmental management and labour practices.
We audit our carbon footprint data each adopted the Prompt Payment Code, devised by the government year, using the results to map out which areas to focus on to with The Institute of Credit Management ICM.
Signatories of the achieve the greatest reduction in our emissions.
Over a five year code commit to pay suppliers on time, give clear guidance to period, between 2003 2004 to 2008 2009, we achieved an 11% suppliers on payment procedures and terms and to encourage reduction in total net CO emissions - a great achievement, 2 adoption of the code throughout their supply chain.
meaning that we had met our target, to reduce net CO emissions 2 by 10% by 2010, a year early.
The Environment Steering Group ESG, Our responsibility also addresses corporate responsibility issues on led by our Chief Executive Jeremy Darroch, then in October 2009 screen through our programmes.
If our ambition is to be the UK and set the business ten stretching targets to minimise our most Irelands first choice for entertainment and communications, then significant environmental impacts, including a target to cut our we must have adequate measures in place to ensure we have the carbon footprint by 25% by 2020.
Details of these targets and our quality and choice in our programming that attracts people, along 2009 10 performance against these targets can be found in the with the value and flexibility of our packages.
Through our programming, we aim to provide: In addition, there are a number of environmental regulations that Something for everyone: there are more than 500 channels on apply to Skys business.
Sky remains compliant with these the Sky platform, covering entertainment, documentaries, regulations and, where possible, seeks to show best practice by movies, childrens programmes, the arts, sports and religion.
going beyond the minimum requirements.
We are also part of the Breaking news: Sky News was Europes first dedicated 24 hour new Carbon Reductions Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme news channel.
We now have 16 news channels on the Sky CRC for our operations in the UK.
Skys environmental reporting platform bringing information and analysis from around the year will be changed next year to be in line with the CRC reporting world.
year i. e. April-March and, as a result, performance data will be Coverage of issues: we pride ourselves on the breadth and included in the 2010 11 Annual Report.
quality of our documentaries, which bring some of the most Our products do not form part of our operational carbon footprint, important issues to audiences in an accessible and engaging but we do want to help customers minimise their own impact in way.
As part of our Green Homes initiative, we continue to The highest programme standards: we apply high standards to provide a recycling service which offers Sky customers options to everything we broadcast on Sky channels.
Whether its a have their electronic equipment such as Sky set-top boxes, VHS commissioned programme, live broadcast or a completed players and DVD players recycled for free.
This was extended to programme weve purchased, we seek to ensure it meets the include alkaline or zinc batteries.
During 2009 2010, a total of 800 expectations of our audience and complies with the Ofcom staff homes were insulated with loft and cavity wall insulation and Broadcasting Code.
3,000 energy monitors were given away in an effort to help staff reduce their impact at home.
Responsible advertising: advertising carried on Sky channels is checked and we seek to ensure it complies with the Television As well as looking at how we as a business can reduce our impact, Advertising Standards Code.
as a media company reaching nearly 10 million homes, we also want More information about our work across Responsibility can be to inspire our customers to take action.
In October 2009, in found in the Bigger Picture Review 2010, partnership with WWF, we launched Sky Rainforest Rescue, an www.
Information about our ambitious initiative which will help to save 1 billion trees in the governance for data protection can be found on page 42.
We can inspire action in part through our programming, so in October 2009 and April 2010 we scheduled two ANNUAL REPORT 2010 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 19 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW continued we organise a mentoring visit from one of our team of past and Corporate responsibility present sports stars.
Our team of athlete mentors, led by continued ambassador Darren Campbell, former Olympic Sprinter, have life weeks of special environment and rainforest programming, the April stories that highlight the highs and lows of being an athlete with week coinciding with Earth Day.
Programmes included the the ultimate aim of showing participants that anything is possible.
acclaimed two-part documentary on Sky1, Ross Kemp Battle for the The initiative has been very successful with evaluation revealing Amazon, as well as Steve Jones in Jones Boys Amazon Adventure.
that over 75% of young people taking part showed improvements in Also in April, Lily Allen visited Brazil to see first hand the damaging their attitude towards learning and over 70% of young people effects of deforestation, with the aim of building awareness about taking part have showed increased self-confidence and improved Sky Rainforest Rescue and helping to drive donations.
To help others take action, we have partnered with Global Action The Sky Sports ECB Coach Education Programme, in association Plan whose expertise lies in developing fun and practical ways to with England and Wales Cricket Board ECB is a scheme which is fight climate change.
We have been working with Global Action Plan designed to equip coaches with the necessary skills to deliver high to develop projects for our customers and employees.
We have quality coaching programmes at all levels of the game.
Participation already broken our target of investing over 1 million in Global in grass roots cricket is increasing every year 2009 saw a 15% Action Plan through cash donations, in-kind support and increase, following on from a 24% rise in 2008.
Our projects have included working with coaches, and our training programme is meeting that demand.
Housing Associations to help make their housing and surrounding Since we launched the Sky Sports ECB Coach Education programme areas greener: and the introduction of EcoTeams within Sky to help in September 2006, the scheme has trained over 23,000 people understand how they can tackle environmental impacts at grassroots coaches, providing more coaching courses and helping home.
Some of our employees also support Global Action Plans the ECB to deliver better quality coaching resources.
Appetite for Action project, which works with schools on Arts sustainability issues.
Our vision for the arts is simple we want to bring more of the arts Further details on environmental initiatives are available in the to more people on screen, on stage, online and on the streets.
We Bigger Picture Review 2010, www.
know that many people are passionate about books, music, film, theatre, opera, art and design - and we also know that many of Sport those people are our customers or potential customers.
Whatever Sport has always been at the heart of what we do at Sky.
Over the their interest, we want our customers to have the opportunity to past two decades, weve provided access to an unprecedented explore it further.
We make this possible by broadcasting more arts depth and breadth of sports coverage.
Our multi-billion pound programming than anyone else, and by supporting the arts offinvestment has helped British sport, from the grassroots to the screen through a number of major partnerships.
elite, to develop its talent and infrastructure.
More investment means better facilities, better training, better equipment, and a We recognise that more people want to be able to enjoy the arts at better experience for players and viewers alike.
With 1.9 million viewers each month, Sky Arts reach has more encourage participation in sport, help develop future talent and than doubled since July 2008.
We broadcast 48 hours of arts encourage increased participation in sports by our customers and programming per day across four dedicated channels.
We are working towards these goals through three main features contemporary arts programming, such as live rock partnerships.
concerts, documentaries and films, and it is home of our flagship programme, The Book Show, which this year aired each day from the Sky is the principal partner of British Cycling and through this Hay Festival.
partnership, Sky aims to get one million more people cycling on a regular basis by 2013.
We will work to ensure the sport benefits at Other highlights of our 2009-10 programming include Theatre Live!
every level from grass roots through to the elite.
At the elite end of which saw Sky Arts achieve what no other television channel has the spectrum, we have our own professional British road cycling successfully achieved bringing live theatre back to television: team, Team Sky.
The team is managed by Great Britain Olympic uninterrupted coverage of LElisir DAmour at the Glyndebourne performance director, Dave Brailsford CBE, and aims to have the Festival: and as well as broadcasting The Book Show, Sky Arts also first British winner of the Tour fide France within five years.
On the took its flagship music programme, Songbook, to the Hay Festival.
ground, our Sky Ride programme goes from strength to strength.
In March 2010, the Sky Arts channels were awarded the Innovation Sky Ride is a series of mass participation events that the whole Award by the Broadcasting Press Guild Awards, who regularly family can enjoy, and takes place around the country.
Last year, we feature our programmes in their picks of the week, as well as Best ran events in five cities with over 100,000 people taking part.
As a Multichannel Programme for Sky Arts Theatre Live!, a series that result, research shows that 298,000 adults were cycling more saw six highly successful authors make their debuts as playwrights frequently at the end of 2009 having been influenced by Skys in summer 2009.
Sky Arts was also highly commended in the cycling activity, of which 92,000 became new regular cyclists.
Broadcast Awards, and won Best Specialist Channel at the Sky Sports Living for Sport is an initiative which uses sport to Broadcast Digital Awards.
motivate and inspire 11-16 year olds.
It is freely accessible to all Our commitment to the arts does not end with the small screen.
secondary and high schools in the UK.
Over 1,000 schools have We have a two year partnership with Artichoke, a creative company registered and 25,000 young people have benefitted to date.
As which works with artists to create extraordinary events that take each school progresses in their Sky Sports Living for Sport initiative, place in public spaces across the UK.
Artichokes ability to engage 20 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2010
