Directors Report: Business Review Responsible lending As a home credit provider, responsible lending is imperative to us developing a successful and sustainable, We have continued the international business.
process of embedding Treating Customers Embedding Treating Customers Fairly TCF Fairly principles into our business because Our TCF programme is based on the Financial Services Authoritys FSA we recognise that the Treating Customers Fairly principles: long-term success of Firms must be able to demonstrate that they are consistently delivering fair the Group depends on outcomes to consumers and that senior management are taking responsibility putting customers first.
for ensuring that the firm and staff at all levels deliver the consumer outcomes relevant to their business through establishing an appropriate culture.
We chose to align voluntarily to these principles despite there being no regulatory requirement to do so and throughout 2010 we have continued the process of embedding them into our business because we recognise that the long-term success of the Group depends on putting customers first.
FSAs TCF Principle IPF Delivery Local TCF groups, drawing from Leadership relevant functions, act as TCF Fair treatment of customers is leaders in market.
central to the behaviour and values TCF is audited through the best of managers.
They communicate practice guide programme and messages about the fair treatment governed by the Corporate of customers effectively and apply Responsibility Steering Committee appropriate controls and monitoring chaired by the Chief Executive Officer, to ensure that the fair treatment of John Harnett.
customers is delivered by staff.
Strategy A global working group, drawing from relevant business functions, The firm has a clear vision which sets TCF strategy.
supports the fair treatment of Local boards carry out a TCF self customers.
This is reflected within assessment every six months.
the formulation and implementation of strategic decisions including change management programmes and outsource arrangements.
The firms risk appetite reflects customer considerations.
TCF considerations and impacts Decision-making are fully assessed before beginning Decision-making at all levels reflects any new project.
the fair treatment of customers.
The Complaints and feedback firm uses staff, customer and other mechanisms are in place in all external feedback where appropriate, markets.
The interests of customers are properly balanced Flexible products rolled out across against those of shareholders and all European markets.
co. uk Directors Report: Business Review 21 Chief Executive Officers review Responsible lending continued FSAs TCF Principle IPF Delivery In connection with TCF management information is Controls managements Treating reported and reviewed every quarter.
The firm has controls, including Customers Fairly The customer principles and charter management information, that programme, and the set out how we should treat aim to ensure and demonstrate reporting of progress, customers fairly.
we have completed These controls are integral to TCF reporting is aggregated and assurance of six Key the firms risk framework.
regularly reported to the Head of Performance Indicators.
Our work, which was We will not accept Best Practice undertaken in the UK Guide our measure of compliance and selected countries, with the standard operating model included testing of scores less than 95%.
managements processes and controls and the PwC has also performed independent assurance over key non-financial metrics.
Our assurance report is TCF training included in all Recruitment and training presented on page 87 employee and agent inductions.
Management makes positive and should be read in Customer focus has been introduced behaviours and attitudes to the full to understand the as one of seven core competencies fair treatment of customers a key scope of our work and for all employees in every market.
criterion in the selection of staff.
They also make effective training and the maintenance of staff knowledge, behaviours and values PwC core to the business.
Managers use performance management to develop their staff in the fair treatment of customers, identifying and acting on poor performance and rewarding good performance.
Customer focus is one of the Reward behavioural competencies used The firms reward framework to assess bonus payments.
including incentive schemes Customer service will be part throughout the business is of the new balanced scorecard.
transparent, recognises quality and supports the fair treatment of customers.
TCF is a major consideration at country board level.
On a six-monthly basis, local management boards make a formal assessment on how their business is performing against the customer principles.
Each principle is awarded a status based on the available management information and any that fall below a set level are assigned an action plan to improve performance.
22 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Directors Report: Business Review Significantly, we also report on conformance with the customer and agent Percentage of agents charters.
We carry out internal audits against the principles in the charters who are female at randomly selected branches in each market.
This allows us to present an accurate picture of performance as well as highlighting any issues, facilitating a timely management response.
81% Our customer principles are the basis of good business practice because it is in our interest to raise standards of customer treatment.
It is about keeping our existing customers longer, attracting more new customers and ensuring our TCF programme sends a clear signal about our commitment to responsible lending.
Providing clear and straightforward information to our customers is fundamental to responsible lending.
It enables them to understand the terms of our loans and our 7-14 day cooling off period allows customers to reconsider their agreement.
Our method of recovery of outstanding debt is also conducive to responsible lending.
The weekly visits made by our agents provide them with an understanding of a customers circumstances that may result in missed repayments.
We support our customers when they face temporary difficulties that prevent them from making their payments by offering solutions such as lower repayments until they overcome their difficulties.
Agents supporting TCF Our agents are the public face of our business and they build close relationships with customers through their weekly home visits.
Their knowledge and judgement of a customers ability to repay a loan ensures we make responsible lending decisions and treat them fairly.
We have 25,100 agents, 81% of who are female and the majority are aged between 30 and 45 years old.
Over 65% of our agents came to work for us through the referral of another agent and more than two-thirds have been, or still are, customers.
They often live within the area where they work which means they are more likely to know new and existing customers.
It also enables them to provide the best possible service and flexibility to our customers.
To ensure agents understand fully our policies and procedures that facilitate providing loans responsibly, they receive a rigorous induction process both in a classroom environment and on-the-job.
As a key part of our TCF agenda they receive our Agent Charter.
To date we have issued over 40,000 of these charters which outlines clearly what they can expect from us as well as what we expect from them.
Agents also meet with local management every week to discuss collections and any missed or late repayments.
Where a customer falls behind on repayments, agents and managers will visit the customer and agree a revised repayment plan that allows them to maintain payments and, at the same time, manage their change in circumstances, before returning to full repayments.
Agent remuneration is weighted heavily towards collecting repayment instalments and not in making sales.
Bonus programmes are focused on building a base of quality customers who pay regularly and only first loans are incentivised with a sales commission.
co. uk Directors Report: Business Review 23 Chief Executive Officers review Responsible lending continued Responsible credit management Using our powerful suite of credit management systems, income and To ensure we lend expenditure assessments and face-to-face contact with customers, our agents responsibly we have are able to assess a customers suitability to take out a loan.
developed bespoke credit management systems.
Our low and grow strategy means that initial loans to new customers are They are sophisticated but small in value below 200 and repayable over a short term usually six months.
simple decision-making Once a customer has demonstrated their ability and commitment to repay, the systems that have also loan and term values may increase.
been instrumental in To ensure we lend responsibly we have developed bespoke credit management helping us manage credit systems.
These systems have evolved over the past ten years but development risk through the economic has accelerated over the past three years.
Our processes are no longer reliant downturn.
They are sophisticated but simple decision-making systems that have also been instrumental in helping us manage credit risk through the economic downturn.
In addition, the home visits, of which we made over 100 million in 2010, allow our agents to build relationships with customers and to acquire a greater insight of customer circumstances and their ability to repay their loan.
New customers Typically, first contact with a potential new customer is via one of our call centres or through the local agent.
The call centre performs initial credit vetting and successful leads are passed to an agent to visit the customer in their home.
Agents help new customers to complete an income and expenditure assessment verifying their income and outgoings from relevant documentation to provide the customers net disposable income.
The customers details are entered into our application scoring system via SMS which generates a recommendation of the amount and term of any loan that might be offered or will advise the agent that no loan can be offered.
For approved loans, the agent will deliver the loan in cash, typically within 48 hours.
Existing customers For all repeat loans, agents verify basic income and outgoings information to re-establish the customers ability to repay the loan.
Agents are supported in this process by behavioural scoring systems which use demographic information together with the customers previous payment performance.
In both instances, agents play an important role in deciding whether to offer a loan and determining the appropriate levels of credit to issue to customers.
They can offer the customer less than the recommendation of the application scoring system, but not more.
24 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Directors Report: Business Review Balanced scorecard We are currently undergoing a review of our field incentives to ensure that we are The additional focus on supporting the right deliverables and behaviours through our incentive schemes.
customer service in every In 2011 we plan to launch a balanced scorecard approach that will ensure every job role will help to embed employee role is rewarded for excelling across each of our desired behaviours.
the principles of TCF even A balanced scorecard is a well recognised and straightforward approach to aligning further into our business.
roles to the strategic objectives of an organisation.
Our balanced scorecard will contain a broad and balanced set of measures that each role is responsible for including financial, building future value, collections and arrears, people, safety and operational excellence, and customer service.
The additional focus on customer service in every job role will help to embed the principles of TCF even further into our business.
The balanced scorecard supports our long-term goal to be a sustainable business by encouraging each employee to contribute to the broad goals which underpin business performance.
Non-financial assurance In 2010 we continued our programme of assurance of selected non-financial Key Performance Indicators with additional emphasis on customer-related performance.
The assurance work was performed in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 the only internationally recognised standard.
The scope comprised the provision of limited assurance of: customer numbers: customer retention: agent numbers: agent retention: and credit exceptions.
In 2010 we added assurance of our Customer Service Score, a branch level measure that allows managers to assess progress and isolate where improvement should be focused.
Previously, we measured customer satisfaction at country level compared with the more granular branch and customer lifecycle level.
The new methodology links customer service more closely to operational performance and business success.
Every month we survey around 30,000 customers across the Group.
This data is available to each market and is weighted across customers in the key lifecycle stages.
The Customer Service Score is calculated monthly and reported as a rolling quarterly score.
The disclosure in this Annual Report and Financial Statements is for the quarter to 31 December 2010.
Looking forward to 2011 we intend to expand the scope and depth of this assurance work and will be working to identify additional performance indicators that should be assured and which will retain our leadership position in this arena.
co. uk Directors Report: Business Review 25
