Performance review Business and society Our focus on ensuring the sustainable success of our business means that we place great emphasis on interacting In 2010, for the first time, with our stakeholders to completely understand the issues we held local stakeholder workshops in each of that are material to them and to respond to the issues our markets to support within our business.
Stakeholders attending Communication with our stakeholders allows us to identify what sustainability these events included means for our business and how we can meet and exceed stakeholder financial regulators, expectations within our markets and communities.
We aim to become a better non-governmental and more successful business by listening and responding to those who affect, organisations, responsible or can be affected by, the way we operate.
investment groups, In 2010 we were, once again, included in the FTSE4Good Index and continued politicians and the media.
to show improvement in the qualitative assessment produced by Experts in Responsible Investment Solutions.
We were not included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index DJSI due to being too small by market capitalisation but commissioned a benchmarking report against the same criteria from SAM Research.
We were awarded a score of 62% against an industry average of 38%.
A number of our scores in individual criterion were higher than the top scores in the financial services industry.
Average Best score in score in financial financial IPF score sector sector Total score 62 38 73 Brand management 88 39 84 Corporate citizenship and philanthropy 72 26 66 Talent attraction and retention 81 38 76 Stakeholder engagement 91 48 97 Environmental policy management system 73 35 79 26 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Directors Report: Business Review Community investment by market Stakeholder engagement 000 Consultation and dialogue with stakeholders is an effective way of gathering important input and ideas, anticipating and managing risk, improving decision- 1,140 making, building consensus amongst diverse views, strengthening relationships and, ultimately, enhancing corporate reputation.
In 2010, for the first time, we held local stakeholder workshops in each of our markets to support our 408 355 regular engagement which includes an annual central workshop: memberships 100 105 90 82 of business and industry associations: and one-to-one meetings.
Stakeholders attending these events included financial regulators, non-governmental Poland Czech - Hungary Mexico Romania UK Group Slovakia organisations NGOs, responsible investment groups, politicians and the media.
Our local stakeholder workshops were well received in each market and participants said they were impressed by the open and frank dialogue.
In some of our markets we were the first financial institution to host a workshop of this kind.
Some of the key discussion topics that arose from these sessions included our role in responsible lending, our financial literacy programmes, the home credit sector and financial inclusion.
Financial education As a financial services company we have chosen to concentrate a significant portion of our community investment programme on helping to raise levels of financial literacy in the communities where we operate.
We are aware that in many of our markets financial awareness is low and it is in our interest to help improve levels of financial literacy.
This will facilitate understanding of our business model and attract well informed customers who understand the terms and conditions of their loan and are, therefore, more likely to be able to meet those conditions.
Each of our markets runs a financial education programme in partnership with charities or NGOs that is tailored to local needs.
We try to utilise a variety of media and face-to-face workshops that help people to manage their household budget, to borrow responsibly and to prioritise spending.
In 2010 we launched a financial education campaign on www.
ro one of the most popular websites in Romania.
This was extremely successful, generating 98,200 page views on our financial literacy articles and a live web chat with our team attracted 50 questions and 288 comments.
Our partnership with Impulsa in Mexico has enabled us to deliver financial education workshops to over 4,000 students and young entrepreneurs in 2010. www.
co. uk Directors Report: Business Review 27 Performance review Business and society continued Investing in social issues All our markets have community investment programmes which focus on We are actively involved benefiting the communities where we operate.
They are also instrumental in the thought development in engagement with a number of our stakeholders.
To engage our people and process on financial promote a cohesive company culture, we launched a Group-wide newsletter in inclusion, which is high 2010 which reports on business achievements, corporate responsibility activities on the European agenda, and community investment.
Where possible we help to fund employee initiated through attendance at projects to further enhance their sense of involvement with the programme.
workshops and meetings with Ministers of the In 2010, our overall Group contribution to charities and community organisations European Parliament.
was 1,139,716 807,198 excluding management costs representing 1.2% of profit before tax maintained at 1.2% from 2009 despite a substantially higher profit in 2010.
A further 2,045,476 was leveraged through, for example, payroll giving and fundraising.
Social inclusion charities We invest in our communities through social inclusion and financial literacy programmes.
This includes grant giving to projects which offer training and skills development to disadvantaged people who are looking for work: financial literacy or money advice initiatives: and projects that help to regenerate our communities through enterprise.
Our employee volunteering programme is an important way for us to contribute to our communities.
It also engages employees by giving them the chance to enhance their job related skills whilst gaining the satisfaction of helping in their local area.
We seek to invest in the same type of projects that we do through our grant giving but also allow the flexibility of supporting projects that have been initiated by employees.
In 2010, 2,313 employees volunteered 8,543 working hours to help local communities.
Public policy Due to the nature of our business model we have an insight into the impact that certain government policy proposals, particularly those related to responsible lending, financial inclusion and financial education, may have on our customer base.
As a responsible corporate citizen we utilise this knowledge and take a proactive position to engage with European Commission officials, Members of the European Parliament and think tanks at an EU and market level.
We are actively involved in the thought development process on financial inclusion, which is high on the European agenda, through attendance at workshops and meetings with Ministers of the European Parliament.
We submitted a response to the consultation issued by the European Commission on access to a basic payment account in October 2010.
28 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Directors Report: Business Review During 2010 we met with consultants appointed by the European Commission to carry out research for a study into the effect of interest rate restrictions and put ourselves forward as a case study for inclusion in the report.
We also participated in a roundtable discussion on interest rate restrictions organised by the specialised consumer credit industry trade body, Eurofinas, to offer our perspective based on experience in our markets.
We will continue to work with policy makers and legislators to ensure that the full impacts of the different forms of rate caps and wider consequences on the financial markets are understood.
Environment Due to the nature of our business our direct environmental impact is relatively low compared to other large companies.
However we acknowledge that where possible, we have a responsibility to minimise our environmental impact in our day-to-day use of transport, energy and natural resources.
We also choose to use our influence to encourage our stakeholders, particularly employees and suppliers, to minimise their own environmental impact.
We have established a robust Environmental Management System EMS across the business which has been designed to meet the international ISO 14001 standard.
The EMS has a regularly reviewed environmental policy and all businesses set annual environmental targets which they monitor on a regular basis through environmental working groups.
We are audited against ISO 14001 and in 2010 all of our businesses met the standard for the second consecutive year.
We recognise that climate change is a significant global issue.
We are exposed to physical risks such as unpredictable weather events that could result in direct damage to property and disruption to our day-to-day business.
Due to the nature of our business model, severe weather can affect our customers ability to repay loans and may result in a higher rate of write-off costs.
Our process for identifying and managing such risks forms part of our wider risk management framework.
In 2010, our carbon footprint was 4.17 tonnes CO per employee, a 2.7% increase 2 compared to 2009 levels.
The vast majority of this increase was due to a rise in business air travel undertaken to support our developing operations in Mexico and Romania as they grow and our senior management conference held in Mexico in November 2010.
More details of our environmental 2010 performance are available on our website at www.
co. uk Directors Report: Business Review 29
