Business Review cORpORAte RespOnsiBility corporate responsibility cr is increasingly central to the way that Britvic runs its business, not just in remove 5000 tonnes of packaging by December 2010 terms of recognising and minimising the impacts of our based on 07 08 volumes manufacturing operations, but also in acknowledging that through our brands and their connections with people, we are well placed to help address public issues.
complete rpEt trial using uk only recycled content by 2010 Below is a snapshot of how we have performed against the targets listed in our last Corporate Responsibility Report.
A comprehensive overview of our achievements last year can be complete trials on more energy efficient chillers and found in the 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report published on dispense equipment by 2010 the 11th December 2010.
It is available in hard copy or on our company website at www.
achieve full compliance from packaging and Since our last report, we have evolved our strategy in a way that ingredients suppliers to our Ethical trading policy we believe will enable us to be more focused on the areas in and complete planned audits by December 2010 which we can have the most impact.
The new strategy is also intended to fully embed CR into the complete evaluation of accreditation options for fruit business.
As such, it has been developed by means of an available in commercial quantities by end of 2010 engagement programme.
We have been able to summarise this new strategic view in promote healthy and enriched lifestyles through three words: Progressive, Sustainable and Responsible.
marketing initiatives and working with partners what wIll thIs mEan In practIcE?
As a progressive business, Britvic will increasingly seek to harness the power of its brands to help address relevant social Improve work-life-balance as measured by our and environmental issues.
Britvic is a brand-led and marketingEmployee opinion survey driven company, and we believe that we are in a good position to influence consumer behaviour for example, through the promotion of healthy lifestyles and sustainable attitudes in areas Further reduce accident frequency rate across the such as the recycling of packaging.
business by 10% Creating a sustainable business means what it says.
Britvics business operations require large amounts of energy directly Improve occupational health services through increased in our own manufacturing and distribution, and indirectly support for musculoskeletal problems throughout our supply chain.
Our packaging uses valuable resources glass, plastics and metals such as steel and aluminium.
These all contribute to our carbon footprint.
Without reduce co emissions by 20% by 2010 compared to 1990 2 water, Britvic could not operate or make its brands and so we by tonne of product and aspire to 30% by 2020 need to use all of these resources wisely.
A sustainable business is one that invests and innovates to minimise its impacts in order to ensure that it has a long-term future.
send zero food and waste to landfill by 2015 Britvic itself employs more than 2,000 people across Great Britain, and our business supports many thousands more individuals and their families throughout the world.
We contribute to an industry-wide absolute target to reduce are responsible for their welfare and for the health of the water use by 20% by 2020 compared to 2007 communities in which they live and in which we operate.
Our new strategy seeks to make a positive contribution to the lives of our employees and the communities around us.
achieve full compliance by indirect suppliers to our Ethical trading policy by December 2014 Increase community investment in line with three year strategy 26 Britvic plc Annual Report 2010
