OveRview OuR peOple EmployEEs Emplo yEE wEllBEIng Our people are critical to Britvics success and we are fully Throughout the past year, we have focused in GB on making committed to making Britvic a great place to work.
Our improvements to work-life balance, improving our safety record emphasis is increasingly on developing our own talent, and supporting a healthier workforce.
combined with proactive external recruitment when we need We measure our performance on work-life balance through to introduce new skills or create positions that support our our annual employee opinion survey.
In 2010, the statement growth plans.
To maximise the potential of our employees we I am able to balance the demands of my work and home life continue to strengthen our focus on performance management achieved an improved score which was due, in part, to the use and provide multiple learning and development programmes in of technology that supports more mobile ways of working.
This GB and Ireland that cover leadership, management skills and enables us to improve communication and engagement and functional excellence.
We are early in the integration process of gives employees the opportunity and control to work flexibly Britvic France, but we retain the same high level of commitment in terms of both location and hours.
to keeping our new colleagues well informed and engaged about Britvics future vision and current group performance as this is Additionally, to further our commitment to providing a safe fundamental to our joint success.
working environment, we established an on-line training campaign targeting driver safety.
This along with our standard We are extremely proud of the high Employee Engagement safety measures has resulted in a reduction of our Accident scores we achieve within Britvic and we conduct an annual Frequency Rate by 30.9% compared with the year before.
survey where we regularly out-perform other external benchmark companies.
Our overall employee engagement score To support the health of employees and their families, we also across GB and Ireland for 2010 is 77, based on an extremely provide a benefits package, which includes the provision of high response rate from 89% of employees.
Particular highlights private healthcare and an employee assistance programme.
from the most recent survey where we achieved scores of 80 Other wellbeing benefits include discounted gym membership, include a strong level of employee satisfaction that our senior and a cycle to work scheme, which was requested by managers are successfully leading and developing the business, employees and has seen a good level of success so far, great pride in working for Britvic, good employee understanding with 5% of the workforce opting in.
of our strategic objectives and a firm belief that employees are Finally, we are in the process of developing an employee treated with fairness and respect.
wellbeing programme, which will link with the principles of Change4Life and focus on healthy eating, exercise and general health education.
This is due to launch early 2011. pEoplE EnaBlEmEnt As Britvic operates across multiple sites in England, as well as within Ireland and France, we have recently been focused on providing the right tools and support for our employees to work in more mobile and flexible ways.
Enabling people to work more effectively in any location, whether that is a Britvic site, from home or when travelling and meeting with customers has been achieved through the use of remote broadband access and sharepoint technology, as well as blackberry phones that allow email access on the move.
This has proved extremely useful, especially during adverse weather conditions when people are able to continue working but without the risk of hazardous driving.
We are also making increasing use of wireless technology within our sites as well as video-conferencing to make it easier for our people to stay connected and work effectively.
