Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility Working together to improve our environment Employees Leadership and management The BSS Group plc Health and Safety Succession planning CSR FRAMEWORK Equal opportunities Safe working environment Diverse workforce Health and safety enforcement Values and KPIs Training and development Protective equipment Fair reward and conditions Branch inspections Benchmark CR Index Committed, loyal workforce Awareness and prevention Business Relationships Community Environment Stakeholder engagement Community engagement Ethical trading and business ISO 14001 Working in partnership conduct policies FTSE4Good Minimising traffic noise and Customer loyalty Energy consumption disruption Raising our profile Emissions Continue raising money for charities Economic sustainability Recycled materials Princes Trust Employing local people Water usage Leicestershire Cares Sharing best business practice Environmental impact Our in house Health and Safety department is led by the Central Services Director, who is a member of the Executive Committee.
The The Board is committed to Corporate Health and Safety pivotal role of the health and safety team is Responsibility and the need to It has been an exciting time within the to ensure continuous improvement across take proper account of our impact BSS Group with the launch of our Primary the Group by acting as health and safety Authority Arrangement.
We were delighted champions, providing pragmatic solutions to on the environment, the morale in February 2010 to become one of the the operational risks within the business to all and welfare of our employees and first major distributors to sign up to the levels of employees with a strong focus on the satisfaction of our customers.
We believe that behavioural safety and worker involvement.
We will consider all social and the Primary Authority Arrangement is about environmental issues that could sensible risk management with the regulator Performance affect our business.
and the regulated working in partnership to We have continued to carry out a robust ensure that the issues most likely to cause accident investigation programme with The strategic aim is to adapt our injury or work-related ill-health are prioritised an emphasis on identifying root causes business to the consequences of and dealt with in a comprehensive, planned of accidents and ensuring that we do climate change including taking way across the whole of our 400 sites.
The something to stop them reoccurring.
advantage of the opportunities BSS Group places health and safety at the Accident statistics for RIDDOR reportable presented.
As a result by 2012 we very heart of its organisation and by entering incidents have decreased by 8.3%.
intend to increase our current sales into this partnership, we are demonstrating of renewable products by at least that we do not want to be part of the There have been no improvement, 50%.
problem of injury and ill-health at work, we prohibition notices or prosecutions from very much want to be part of the solution.
the enforcing authorities from either Corporate values and commitment inspections or accident investigations are to be translated into mainstream Commitment that have been undertaken.
management practice and the The BSS Groups Board of Directors Group has committed to: are committed to health and safety and The health and safety team have demonstrate their commitment through continued to undertake regular health Operate in an open and responsible documented systems of health and safety and safety audits to measure performance manner management.
In addition the Executive of our health and safety management Be inclusive in the way we manage Committee meets monthly whereby health systems and have recommended the business and safety performance is reviewed at improvements where necessary to Ensure that management systems, each meeting.
Each member of the Board ensure that all recommendations have been checks and balances are robust and accepts their individual role in providing implemented.
The team carried out nearly that we comply with legislation and health and safety visible leadership therefore 300 branch audits visits in the year ending proper stewardship standards recognising their personal responsibilities.
30 30 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 31 31 CR Priorities Standard Aims 2010 2011 Health and Safety Ensure we provide safe and productive Proactive safety culture with emphasis on working environments awareness and prevention Environment Compliance with legal requirements and Continue improvement programmes and continue to measure and assess carbon extend ISO14000 footprint Employees All employees are fairly rewarded and Attract and retain the appropriate level of given development opportunities employees Business Relationships Compliance with business conduct and Further improve customer service and ethical trading policies relationships with suppliers Community Continue raising money for charities Further encourage employees to participate through Group and Divisional events in community projects as well as participation in community projects The health and safety training team have additional feedback facility for employees delivered 166 health and safety training days.
to communicate with the Company.
The 1,299 employees have received training on a Company makes various benefit schemes number of courses commensurate with the available to all employees subject to eligibility There have been no breaches of our Group Health and Safety Policy.
In addition a including a Save As You Earn scheme bribery policy.
further 427 employees have completed the SAYE.
A benefits website is in operation online manual handling programme within with benefits ranging from the Companys BSS and the Community the first week of employment.
defined contribution pension scheme to As a key member of the business concessions on gym membership.
community, we conduct all our business with Employee Involvement and honesty and integrity and are a responsible Working Environment We are working in conjunction with a high member of the community, which is The importance of good relations and street bank to provide all our employees with communicated to our employees and communications with employees is an on-site financial advisory service within stakeholders via our Community Relations fundamental to the continued success of the workplace.
Our employees do not need Strategy document.
The Group Chief Executive is to be a customer to take advantage of this the Board member responsible for Human free service.
PTS, part of the Domestic Division, Resources matters and updates the Board continued to support the NSPCC as on a regular basis.
We aim to maintain a progressive equal their charity partner for the year with our opportunities policy to ensure equal employees raising money to provide help We employ just under 5,000 people treatment for all irrespective of race, for vulnerable children.
By March 2010 the across the business and recognise the creed, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, total sum of money raised was 40,000. key contribution they make to our ongoing age, language, religion, sexual orientation, This would not have been possible without growth and success.
Our employees gender or disability.
Individuals are trained, the staff, suppliers and customers of wellbeing and professional development developed, promoted and treated on the PTS.
Several events ranging from hikes is central to recruiting and retaining high basis of their relevant aptitudes, abilities and to summit, golf days and a London performing individuals.
Over the last couple skills.
We recognise that everyone is different marathon participation have helped to raise of years product knowledge systems and by valuing diversity we appreciate this amount.
As of 1 April 2010 PTS is have been introduced across PTS, BSS that people with different experiences, supporting the Cystic Fibrosis Trust.
Industrial and Buck & Hickman, with views, opinions and approaches can bring a number of employees participating important skills to the business.
BSS, part of our Industrial Division, has in apprenticeships, Builders Merchant successfully completed 350 fundraising Federation modules, and 136 employees The Company is committed to offering activities for Rainbow Trust over the last year.
receiving an NVQ qualification in the last development and training to all its employees Staff have cycled in particular the team of 12 months.
The organisation has a robust and offers a wide range of training BSS Group and BSS Industrial directors talent management strategy in place techniques to enable all individuals the ability cycled 215 miles from London to Paris, which incorporates annual performance to develop and progress within the Group.
walked and run a combined 756 miles and reviews, development plans and succession The Training team offer apprenticeships completed hundreds of other daring feats to planning.
Divisional newsletters are published with over 50 employees completing their raise a grand total of 158,481 for the charity regularly to employees to ensure they apprenticeship in the last two years, all which supports families with children facing a are kept well informed.
Annual employee employees have the opportunity of gaining life threatening illness.
Employees have voted attitude surveys are conducted to measure an NVQ level 2, and individuals have the to continue supporting Rainbow Trust in employee motivation and provide an opportunity to gain a City and Guilds.
2010 making it the fourth year running.
30 30 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 31 31 Corporate Social Responsibility Working together to improve our environment 1 CO Direct Emissions Absolute tons 2009 10 2 2 Business operations Fossil fuel use on site 2,339 Owned transport Fuel used by vehicles 20,152 1 CO Indirect Emissions Absolute tons 2009 10 2 Electricity Yearly consumption of directly 12,868 purchased electricity in KWh Employee travel Recorded miles of third party 3,588 provided transport air and rail as well as self-recorded miles road Total Emissions 38,947 1 The Carbon Trust, carbon footprint calculator was used to convert usage into CO emissions.
Emissions disclosed 2 cover circa 90% of Group sites.
2 To convert gas figures an average calorific value of 39.5 was used.
3 Supplied Water Use Absolute tons 2009 10 Supplied water Actual or estimated volume of 17,199 water used 3 Hazardous Waste Absolute tons 2009 10 Recycled treated Actual or estimated weight of 4.5 waste generated 3 Non hazardous Waste Absolute tons 2009 10 Recycled Actual or estimated weight of 678 waste generated Landfill Actual or estimated weight of 10,783 waste generated Total 28,665 3 figures cover ca.
The Company also offers work experience Working with our suppliers towards placements for ex-offenders, those coming ensuring effective environmental supply out of care and long term unemployed.
In chain management April 2010 we were given the Leicestershire Having technologies in place at B & H Cares Company of the Year 2009 award.
and BSS Industrial that monitor the fuel BSS Industrial actively supports the Princes This is in recognition of BSS commitment to consumption of each commercial vehicle Trust with management time and financial the programme over the last 12 months.
and this will be used to promote more contributions.
Founded in 1976 by The fuel efficient driving Prince of Wales to improve the lives of The Groups employees also held fund Remote monitoring of electricity, gas and disadvantaged young people in the UK, it raising events for Great Ormond Street water consumption at all sites above a has become the UKs leading youth charity, Hospitals Jeans for Genes Appeal and certain size to focus on usage reductions giving practical and financial support to the Breast Cancer awareness which the Installation of intelligent heating systems young people who need it most.
in new branches wherever possible A five week course for young people The Environment We continue to hold ISO14001 accreditation currently unemployed and wanting to gain We recognise the importance of responsible for the BSS Group plc.
experience of working in a construction environmental management and the related industry has been held.
A group obligation to protect the environment.
During 2009 10 we have continued our of 18 to 25 year olds were mentored on recycling programme and generated interview and presentation skills as well as In particular we focus on: increased commitment from branch subjects such as time management and Property: reducing the use of energy and colleagues who have become much more manual handling.
water consumption aware of environmental issues.
As a result Transport: minimising emissions from our we have substantially increased the quantity In 2008 the BSS Group joined Leicestershire transport fleet of card and plastic material that is baled Cares which is an organisation of key Waste: seeking opportunities to minimise and sent to recycling mills.
We increased employers in Leicester and Leicestershire, waste produced in all sections of the the amount of cardboard recycled from 279 dedicated to corporate responsibility by business tons in 2008 09 to 510 tons in 2009 10 and bringing businesses and the community Complying with all relevant environmental increased the amount of plastic recycled together.
The Groups Leicestershire based legislation, regulations, standards and from 59 tons in 2008 09 to 124 tons in sites have a number of volunteers who other relevant codes 2009 10.
We had no prosecutions relating to participate in the Right to Read, Numeracy Providing, where possible, the most environmental matters during the year.
This Skills and Interview Techniques via efficient solutions for heating and reflects in part the fact that as a distributor Leicestershire Cares.
pipeline processes our activities generally have a lower impact 32 32 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 33 33 Capital and Funds Return on Investment Products Sales The BSS Group is a member of Business The FTSE Group confirmed that the BSS on the environment but also our proactive in the Community BITC.
BITC supports Group plc had been independently assessed approach when planning and developing and challenges companies to integrate according to the FTSE4Good criteria, new branches.
responsible business through their and continues to satisfy the requirements operations in order to have a positive to be a constituent of the FTSE4Good We recognise that waste and emission impact on society and therefore be of index series.
Created by the global index output are our most significant environmental public benefit.
We have participated in company FTSE Group, the FTSE4Good is impact and are able to report the following: the 2009 Corporate Responsibility Index an equity index series that is designed to CRI, the UKs leading benchmark for facilitate investment in companies that meet PTS, part of the Domestic Division, exhibits responsible business practice and are globally recognised corporate responsibility renewable energy products at Green Energy delighted to announce that we have standards.
Companies in the FTSE4Good Rooms in Nottingham and Newcastle as achieved the Bronze band.
The CRI index series have met stringent social, well as a Renewables branch in Aylesford.
helps companies to integrate and improve ethical and environmental criteria, and are The Green Energy showrooms offer advice corporate responsibility throughout business positioned to capitalise on the benefits of to make an informed choice about being operations, by providing a systematic responsible business practice.
socially responsible and cutting household approach to managing, measuring and bills when considering heating and plumbing reporting on business impacts in society options.
Currently PTS and F & P offer and on the environment.
Achieving Bronze a range of energy efficient products and means that BSS has demonstrated a clear emergent renewable technologies.
outline of its mission, values and corporate responsibility principles, with clear roles and Renewable energy solutions are considered responsibilities being allocated right across and installed at new branches subject to the business.
landlords consent and favourable physical conditions of the building.
In addition, we are now monitoring intelligent lighting systems in branches.
Intelligent lighting turns warehouse lights off automatically in areas which are not used for a period of time.
Investor Funders BSS Stakeholder model Capital is rewarded through dividends and share price appreciation Society The BSS Group generates wealth for society and contributes to socioeconomic development through its sustainable business practices investment and employment The BSS Group plc is a leading distributor to specialist trades providing heating and plumbing products to improve and maintain the quality of life for Employees Suppliers homeowners and businesses.
Remuneration Payments Almost 5,000 Suppliers profit Productivity The Group interacts with its various stakeholders Products employees from the location of through dividends and returns to investors, income knowledge, expertise the Group in local and profit to suppliers, wage income to employees and skill are a major communities and and taxes to local and national government part of the Groups from the Groups intangible value need for long-term stable supply 9% of revenue is partnerships received in remuneration Jobs are created at suppliers in the UK and globally Public Sector Customers Tax payments fund services available to the Our products are sold to contractors, public.
In total Group national insurance and plumbers, heating engineers, corporation tax in the UK amounts to 24m independent merchants and industrial for the year end-users 32 32 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 The BSS Gr The BSS Group plc oup plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 33 33 Services Taxes
