BUSINESS REVIEW REVIEW OF OPERATIONS CONTINUED EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Our UK Employee Benefits business delivered a 46% increase in Principal lines of business revenues and a 52% increase in trading profit in the year.
This reflected the acquisitions of HSBC Actuaries and Consultants and Trustee Solutions iimia Wealth Management.
Organic growth for the year was 4%.
Offering a range of services designed to meet the requirements of pension scheme trustees including actuarial and investment The acquisitions, which have now been integrated into the business, consulting, administration, governance and communications.
provide us with a strong range of services to meet our clients needs in the future.
Market developments during the year have reaffirmed Employee Benefit Solutions the importance of these investments.
For example, we see rising Providing advice on the design, implementation and operation demand for investment consulting services as Defined Contribution of defined contribution and benefit schemes including online schemes grow under the UK Auto Enrolment regulations which take client solutions for pensions, reward and flexible benefits effect from 2012.
The UK pension taxation changes for high earners management.
have increased demand for individual pension and financial advice, Wealth Management providing opportunities for our Wealth Management business.
As responsibility for retirement savings shifts to the individual, We continue to witness considerable change in our market as the we offer advice, support and portfolio management services.
trend from Defined Benefit to Defined Contribution pensions Technology and Systems continues and responsibility for retirement provision increasingly Providing a range of systems and web-based solutions such transfers to the individual.
The UK Defined Benefit market still holds as Profund and BenPal we support the management of over 1 trillion of liabilities across 6,500 schemes in the private pensions and benefits arrangements.
Whilst we estimate a little over half of these assets will remain in long-term run-off under occupational scheme structures, we Pension Capital Strategies expect the balance to be actively managed via forms of liability Providing strategic consultancy and execution for a range of reduction or transfer.
This represents a large and long-term fide-risking and risk transfer options to sponsors and trustees of opportunity for supporting scheme sponsors and trustees.
At the same time, we are witnessing increased attention and growth Independent Trustee Services in Defined Contribution schemes.
The UK Governments decision to Providing independent trustee services to Defined Benefit proceed with Auto Enrolment legislation and the creation of National schemes, particularly to those where risk and conflict may arise Employment Savings Trust will increase the size of, and flows to, or complex transactions may be contemplated.
Employers will need guidance and support in meeting their new obligations under this legislation and we intend to be active in assisting employee engagement and investment solutions for scheme members.
During 2010 we have seen the value our clients attach to our Financial highlights Employee Benefits technology BenPal.
We have secured over 50 implementations and have a healthy pipeline of new business.
TOTAL UNDERLYING TRADING BenPal enables employers to manage online the entire employee REVENUE m PROFIT m benefit programme usually consisting of Pensions, Healthcare, Life and Disability Protection, as well as Voluntary Benefits with low administration and a high employee benefit experience.
132.0 Our Wealth Management business comprises financial planning, Self 22.4 Invested Personal Pension administration and Discretionary Fund Management meeting the needs of higher earners and high-net worth clients.
90.5 14.7 Reflecting the increasing regulatory environment for pensions and the role of the Pensions Regulator, our Independent Trustee business, ITS, had a very strong year.
ITS added to a number of high profile appointments in recent times with its appointment to the Uniq scheme which has recently closed the UKs first major deficit for equity swap, further underlining its pre-eminent position in the 09 10 09 10 independent trustee market.
TRADING MARGIN 16% 17% 2009 2010 20 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2010
