CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Participation in Jardine Lloyd Thompson Pension Scheme Pension pa Increase decrease in increase Pension pa Transfer value Transfer Transfer transfer value decrease increase of increase value of value of Contributions less directors Pension pa due to excluding net of inflation accrued accrued payable by contributions Employers Employee Age at Pension accrued at inflation inflation after directors pension as pension as director payable Retirement Spouse DC DC Note 31 12 10 scheme 31 12 10 during 2010 during 2010 contributions 31 12 10 31 12 09 during 2010 during 2010 age fraction contribution contribution D J Burke 52 N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A B Carpenter b 61 N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A 10,448 16,458 S J Mawson 51 N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A W J N Nabarro 55 N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A J W Rush b 50 N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A 22,733 123,536 V Y A C Wade 49 JLT 112,512 1,569 N A N A 2,034,517 1,777,687 Nil 256,830 60 0.50 Nil Nil This table has been audited by  LLP Note: JLT pensions accrued after 6th April 1997 are guaranteed to increase in payment in line with the Retail Prices Index subject to a maximum of 5% per annum a Employer's DC - means direct contribution payments to either a JLT DC scheme compound.
"or personal pension plan Discretionary benefits b The Group operates a ""Salary and Bonus Sacrifice"" arrangement which affords a saving of 12.8% in respect of Employer's National Insurance Contributions NIC to There are no discretionary benefits taken into account when calculating transfer values."
the Group, the benefit of which is used to enhance pension contributions for the e Retirement rights employees who take part in the arrangement.
This arrangement was available to all The directors have no guaranteed right to early retirement.
f Accrued pension Under this arrangement Mr Rush requested that a portion of his salary for 2010 The accrued pension entitlement is the amount that the director would receive from 121,095 be made in the form of a contribution to his personal pension plan in retirement age if they left service on that date.
addition to the core employee contribution of 2,441.
This amount is included in The increase in the accrued entitlement is the difference between the accrued the Employee Contribution above.
The Company's NIC saving was 15,500 benefit at the year end and that at the previous year end.
and this amount was also paid direct to his personal pension plan.
This amount, g Transfer values together with the employer contribution of 7,233 makes up the total employer contribution of 22,733.
Transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice and approved by the Scheme Trustees.
The transfer value of the accrued entitlement represents Also under this arrangement, Mr Carpenter requested that his UK salary for 2010 the cash equivalent of the directors pension benefits which would be offered by 16,458.31 be made in the form of a contribution to his personal pension plan.
the Trustees of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Pension Scheme to another pension The Company's NIC saving was 2,106.65 and this amount was also paid direct scheme as consideration for the other scheme taking on the liability for providing to his personal pension plan.
This amount together with the employer contribution the directors pension benefits at retirement.
from his Australian pension scheme of 8,341.36 makes up the total employer contributions of 10,448.01.
The transfer value itself does not represent an actual sum payable to the individual director as part of pay and, therefore, cannot be added meaningfully to annual c Pension Scheme remuneration.
"In the pensions table ""JLT"" indicates that the director accrued benefits up to 30th The increase in the transfer value less directors contributions is the increase in the November 2006 on the scale provided by the main section of the Jardine Lloyd transfer value of the accrued benefits during the year after deducting the directors Thompson Pension Scheme formerly the Jardine Insurance Brokers Pension personal contributions to the scheme."
The company contribution to the DC scheme is 10% age 40-49 and 12.5% age d Pension increases 50-59 of pensionable earnings up to the current Scheme Earnings Cap of JLT pensions accrued before 6th April 1997, are guaranteed to increase in 117,600 p. a. payment as follows: Where an employee opts for the cash alternative, the contribution is reduced to Pension in excess of the Guaranteed Minimum Pension: 3% per annum reflect the Companys additional National Insurance liability.
compound: Guaranteed Minimum Pension accrued after 6th April 1988: in line with the Retail Prices Index subject to a maximum of 3% per annum compound.
The table of Remuneration on page 41 sets out for each director Pensions the adjustments made to salaries to reflect the changes made to With the exception of Mr Carpenter and Mr Mawson, during the the Pension Scheme effective 1st December 2006. year executive directors were provided with pension benefits from either personal pension allowances or membership of the Groups Mr Carpenter participates in a separate fund which accumulates principal pension scheme, the Jardine Lloyd Thompson Pension contributions at a rate of 15.5% of salary, payable to the member Scheme.
In respect of service prior to 1st December 2006, this as a lump sum on termination of employment or retirement.
There Scheme provided benefits on a final salary basis except for are no post employment retirement benefits.
An election in respect individuals with pension allowances and Mr Rush who was a of Mr Mawsons personal pension arrangements will be made in member of the defined contribution scheme from August to 2011 and an appropriate adjustment made in respect of 2010.
From 1st December 2006 the defined The details for each director serving during the year are set out in benefit section of the Scheme closed to future accrual with the above table.
members benefits based on their final pensionable salary at that time.
For and on behalf of the Board In respect of service after 1st December 2006, the Scheme John Paynter provides benefits on a defined contribution basis.
Chairman, Remuneration Committee 22nd March 2011 44 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2010 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Corporate Social Responsibility CSR is important to Jardine Lloyd their lunch hours twice a week to visit a school to help with IT Thompson.
We operate our business in line with industry best training and support.
practice striving to ensure that our operations have a positive Secondly, JLT will match pound for pound any amount raised impact on the environment whilst maintaining a strong competitive by our UK staff in fundraising activities they undertake for charity edge.
Each year the Group Charities Committee seeks to ensure that a large proportion of its annual The workplace budget supports these employee fundraising activities.
In 2010 JLT's goal is to create a stimulating, innovative and dynamic the Group provided matching funds totalling more than working environment where talented individuals are rewarded and 74,000.
In the UK, JLT provides a Give-As-You-Earn scheme recognised for their contribution to the success of the business, which enables employees to make regular charitable donations both professionally and personally.
Our continuing aim is to attract and retain the best industry Thirdly, the Group Charities Committee will consider the many professionals, welcome new talent and encourage employees to requests received for donations from a wide variety of local and look at career development opportunities within JLT.
All requests are considered carefully on their flexibility and encourage diversity amongst the workforce, both in merits, however, we take a particular interest in charities recruitment and across all areas of employment, recognising the connected to communities local to our offices.
benefits that this brings to the Group.
The Charities Committee also seeks to act promptly and make Employee involvement is encouraged through wide share significant donations when world events require.
ownership and participation in share option schemes.
The Charities Committee also supports various employee charitable Employees are kept informed of the performance of the Group and fundraising events which are designed to raise funds and all matters affecting them as employees by means of regular encourage greater staff engagement.
Wherever possible, the Group regularly Many of JLT's overseas offices are involved in local charity initiatives communicates with its employees via the JLT intranet both in the and active fundraising.
Several of which have been supported by UK and overseas.
Most recently the Group's CEO was interviewed the Group Charities Committee.
for a staff video, the key theme of which was the Group's 2010 financial results.
Our total charitable donations in 2010 amounted to 332,563.
JLT continues to respond to the constant changes within the Group Environmental policy and the external economic environment.
Training and development JLT remains committed to minimising any adverse impact its at all levels is fundamental to this and is embedded in the culture of businesses have on the environment.
We continue to commit resources equally to technical training and personal development in the firm belief that our employees are The Group's environmental policy is reviewed each year to ensure key to our future success.
that the Group's objectives and targets are achieved.
We operate within a strong health and safety culture, with trained This year in the UK we will be exploring the possibility of the health and safety representatives being present at all our sites installation of solar panels on one of our regional freehold dealing with local issues.
properties, which will enable us to produce our own electricity and feed it back into the national grid.
We support a healthy work life balance and promote good health and wellbeing.
We will be conducting a health and wellbeing staff The recycling campaign in our UK offices has continued to be survey this year to ensure that we maintain best practice across all successful improving recycling by over 15% in 2010 compared to our UK business entities.
In 2010 the Group introduced a new flexible benefits scheme, During 2010, we continued recycling waste paper in all our UK initially in the UK, called BenPal, the online system has been regional offices and are making good progress.
All our shredded developed by JLT's Employee Benefits group and has already been confidential waste is now recycled and added to our general successfully implemented with many clients.
The system allows recycling totals.
We continue to work with our UK regional sites to employees to tailor their benefits to best suit their lifestyle.
address the different waste streams required by their local authorities.
We are committed to maintaining standards of excellence across the Group and will continue to invest in our employees.
Charity and the community Our charity initiative focuses JLTs efforts in three ways: Firstly, all UK employees are able to take advantage of a Charity Day, this gives them one day every year when they can spend company time helping a charity or working in the local community.
As a Lloyd's Community Programme partner, employees from our London offices are encouraged to give up Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2010 45 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY To encourage employee participation we have deliberately avoided producing lengthy policy documents and have instead agreed ten key commitments set out below.
These are also available on the JLT Groups intranet site.
In addition to these Group commitments, local business management is responsible for enforcing standards in line with legal responsibilities and obligations and managing risks associated with environmental matters.
Reduce the amount of paper we use by setting For example, the supplier used for all stationery our printers to default double-sided printing, procurement in the UK is now a carbon neutral where possible company and has a sound ethical and environmental UK paper consumption was reduced by 15 % per policy.
head in 2010, compared with 2009, and this figure 7.
Purchase, where practical, more products will continuously improve as more sites remove their locally to reduce the environmental impact desktop and laser jet printers, replacing them with related to transportation multi-functional devices, which print, scan and copy This requirement is now incorporated into our all in one, these devices are typically also more purchasing process.
Encourage employees to recycle rubbish 2.
Positively encourage employees to think twice For example, in the Groups London offices, before printing emails employees recycled over 140 tonnes of rubbish in Promoting this by adding a short reminder to the end 2010 compared to 110 tonnes in 2009.
was enhanced by the introduction of a confidential 3.
Print all future marketing materials and waste paper shredding and a national recycling publications on recycled paper wherever scheme.
Identify and measure our greenhouse gas All the Group's standard copier paper across the UK emissions and look to introduce a targeting and comes from recycled sources and from forests monitoring scheme managed by the Forest Stewardship Council.
An energy manager has been appointed to prepare 4.
Encourage the use of teleconferencing as the environmental performance reports of all the UK preferred alternative to business travel where buildings where we have control of energy practicable consumption.
This area will be receiving additional investment and JLT has registered with The Carbon Reduction will be the focus of the most up-to-date technology Commitment scheme in the UK in April 2010 and due to the benefits of financial savings and the seeks to continue to reduce its carbon footprint.
reductions in our carbon footprint.
E-learning will be widely promoted and encouraged.
Seek to raise awareness, encourage and enable our staff to make an effective contribution to 5.
Limit our energy consumption environmental improvement, In 2010 we have shown a reduction of 5% per person In the UK this includes a separate staff environmental in electrical energy consumption and 4% of gas use intranet site which sets out these commitments and per person in the UK.
Develop environmentally sound procurement performance targets that have been introduced within practices incorporating environmental criteria the Group are to help ensure that meaningful for supplier selection progress is made in reducing our impact on the All our UK suppliers are vetted through an approved environment.
Part of the vetting criteria is the ability to demonstrate the application of an environmental management system.
46 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2010
