7884 Report 2010 Report 2010 02 06 2010 17:39 Page 28 28 Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility is an integral part of our Employment practices, human rights and standards of ethical conduct corporate decision-making process.
This makes Our new Code of Conduct, previously called the Ethics sound business sense, enabling us to benefit and Policy Guide, ensures that our values, listed opposite, from the adoption of sustainable behaviours for are reected in everything we do.
It includes Group-wide the environment and to strengthen relationships and local employment policies, procedures and practices with key stakeholders.
including equal opportunities and diversity, non-harassment, Employee inform violence prevention and family-friendly policies, which in many Louise Makin Figures correct a instances exceed the minimum local statutory requirements.
Chief Executive officer Our Code of Conduct also includes business ethics policies, Employees BTGs CR framework procedures and practices on transparency, independence Leadership Team In the 2009 10 financial year we adopted a new, structured and impartiality, risk management, data protection, corrupt Board members approach to corporate responsibility CR reporting and practices, condentiality, insider dealing, competition and we aim to operate the programme in accordance with anti-trust matters.
A comprehensive section on whistle internationally recognised standards.
We formed a CR blowing encourages employees to report any concerns Committee comprising employees representing the main and provides for them to do so with anonymity.
Group functional activities and meetings are scheduled on a quarterly basis to set targets and monitor progress.
An Internal Communications Plan was launched to increase The Committee reports to Rolf Soderstrom, the Board employee engagement across our different sites.
Monthly member with overall responsibility for CR.
company-wide meetings, the intranet and email are used to communicate company matters, and elicit questions Our CR reporting criteria have been carefully chosen as and feedback.
Employee Representative Committees in most relevant to our business impacts and widely feature our manufacturing facilities in Wales and Australia meet in peer speciality pharmaceutical company CR disclosures: regularly to discuss items of interest to both employees and management.
Employment practices, human rights and standards of ethical conduct Training and mentoring is an integral part of our culture Research and development practice and dedicated Training Administrators help co-ordinate Suppliers, products and customers employee training and development across the company Community to encourage continuous learning.
We consider work Environment placement requests on a case-by-case basis at each site and over a dozen were completed last year.
Each employee An extensive internal review was conducted by the has an Annual Training Review to support their professional CR Committee to capture all Group activities.
Lunch and Learn Seminars seek to capitalise are summarised here.
Further details are featured on on existing Group expertise and disseminate knowledge our new CR website pages, under each reporting criterion.
internally, for the benefit of all employees.
During the last The CR Committee has set targets for the next financial year we conducted workshops for all employees at all sites year, also featured here.
to ensure that the importance of our values is recognised.
We aim to live by our values and this year they will be formally measured as part of the employee appraisal process.
In the coming year BTG aims to launch an annual employee questionnaire to gauge adoption of company values and give insight into general employee satisfaction.
BTGs values BTG is a member of the FTSE4Good index series, created to measure the performance of companies that Openness meet globally recognised corporate Accounta responsibility standards.
Teamwork Integrity Delivery Continuou 29 Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Diversity Suppliers, products and customers We believe in equal opportunities and diversity which Producing safe, quality medicines has always been a is a central global HR Policy.
This year we are reporting the fundamental business necessity at BTG and the position percentage of women in the general workforce, Leadership of Head of Quality reports directly to the CEO.
All our products and medicines are developed, tested and distributed according to the standard of good practice Employee information required by pharmaceutical regulators.
We only appoint Figures correct as at 31 March 2010 CROs, Contract Manufacturing Organisations and other third-party vendors that have high standard of ethics and Number Male Female quality and comply with good practice guidance.
Employees 268 125 143 Leadership Team 7 5 2 We operate compassionate use and named patient Board members 8 7 1 programmes to ensure that physicians are able to access our emergency medicines for their patients in territories where they have not yet received regulatory approval.
Research and development practice We respect the safety of clinical research participants In October 2010, we will assume responsibility for selling and our clinical trials are performed in accordance with the and marketing CroFab and DigiFab in the US.
listed directives, regardless of whether they are performed To support preparations in advance of this important in developed or developing countries.
We ensure that company milestone, we have successfully attracted new the medical care given to, and medical decisions made talent to the US-based commercial team in the elds on behalf of, research participants are the responsibility of sales, marketing and medical affairs.
To improve our of a qualied physician.
The rights, safety and well-being relationship with our customers we aim to capitalise of the trial subjects prevail over all other interests.
We ensure on this new expertise.
Several targets have been that all patient data is recorded condentially and handled identied for completion during the next year including and stored in a way that allows accurate reporting, the development of a new Sales and Marketing Code interpretation and verication according to best practice, of Conduct and a hotline for sales to incorporate ethical including reporting of adverse clinical events.
and compliance issues such as adverse events reporting.
In addition, during the coming year we aim to roll out Our policy is that all animal experimentation will be a certication process for all employees on compliance performed to the highest standard of ethics, adhering in sales and marketing activities.
to the three guiding principles of reduction, renement and replacement.
All animal experimentation is performed Were also considering the development of a National at external Clinical Research Organisations CRO and Emergency Programme to supply product free of cost academic units and we will only work with external parties to areas where there may be a national emergency.
that evaluate all animal studies using a local ethical review process.
In addition, we will only perform studies in territories where animal studies are strictly regulated.
Alternatives to animal use will always be assessed and in vitro testing performed as an alternative wherever possible.
BTGs values BTG employees As at 31 March 2010 Openness Accountability Teamwork Integrity Delivery Continuous learning 268 7884 Report 2010 Report 2010 02 06 2010 17:39 Page 30 30 Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility continued Community During the last year we made local donations to charities A policy on political and charitable donations is incorporated including: into the Code of Conduct.
We make no political donations but political lobbying is undertaken when appropriate, generally CCLG The Childrens Cancer and Leukaemia Group, UK through local industry associations.
Cancer Research UK Wales Air Ambulance, Wales Local community support is important to us, especially in Christian Lewis Childrens Cancer Charity, Wales our more remote sites such as Australia and Wales.
In our T y Hafan palliative care for children, Wales manufacturing plant in Wales, we periodically organise CARA local riding for the disabled, Wales educational open days for local schools.
In addition we Melmark School, Philadelphia, PA, US sponsor the local, mid-Wales section of Royal Society of Leukaemia & Lymphoma Society, US Chemistry RSC Top of the Bench competition, a national Anti-Cancer Foundation South Australia competition run by the RSC for 14 to 16 year old students.
Lifeline telephone counselling service, Australia Our manufacturing plant in Australia supports local community sports teams and held an educational open We operate a Give As You Earn GAYE Scheme in the UK.
day last year for local students from the University This enables employees to efficiently donate so money of Adelaide.
that would normally be given in tax goes to their chosen charity instead.
A new GAYE scheme will be launched We support charities and organisations that are either in the coming year, following the identication of a more relevant to our area of work or are local to business activities cost-effective service provider.
and operations and we encourage our employees to participate in fundraising events for our designated charities.
A main focus of our charitable giving initiatives involves proactive engagement with sustainable development initiatives.
We are sponsoring the education of David Tusime in Uganda through World Vision.
Were also sponsoring Janvier Kaseniza, a pharmacy student, through the Orphans Project.
Janvier is studying at the University of Butare in south west Rwanda.
Water, electricit In 2009 10 we gave an educational manufacturing fa grant of $10,000 to the Loma Linda University Medical Center Venom Fund Water usage Specific water co which helps supply snake bite antiElectricity usage venom, develops educational materials Specific energy c Gas oil usage and works with local physicians in per litre of drug sub Swaziland and Zululand.
Health and safet Minor incidents a In Au Charitable contributions made by the Group during the year 08 09: 5,955 0 6,193 7884 Report 2010 Report 2010 02 06 2010 17:39 Page 31 31 Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Environment Sustainability is a central CR ethos.
We offer recycling of The welfare of our employees whether on manufacturing paper, cardboard, plastic and metal and food waste at each sites or in ofces is an important priority for us.
Our Health of our sites and we aim to source local materials, suppliers and Safety Manual and Policies and Procedures are compliant and contractors wherever possible, provided these offer with local legislation.
Training, audits and risk assessments equivalent quality and value for money.
Last year our London occur regularly and we maintain strong local relationships with ofce received a Merit Award in the 2009 Clean City Awards government Health and Safety bodies.
Consultative processes Scheme which recognises good waste management are in place in both manufacturing sites to encourage practices in the City of London.
employee reporting and involvement in health and safety issues.
This year BTG has published health and safety We monitor electricity and gas consumption at our incidence rates for our manufacturing sites in Wales and manufacturing site in Wales and try to reduce carbon Australia.
The Group has an excellent safety record with emissions and increase energy efficiency wherever possible.
no fatalities and only four minor incidents during 2009.
This year we have started to report consumption with an aim to increase efficiency over the longer term.
We aim to include An environment policy is incorporated into our Code of gures for our manufacturing site in Australia next year.
Our product supply chain involves international ofce space is rented so we have limited control on controlling transportation over long distances.
Wherever possible, we use environmental impacts but wherever possible we try to ships rather than air freight for product distribution to reduce inuence landlords and managing agents to provide energy its carbon footprint.
Company policy is to adopt best available efficient systems.
Additional initiatives are in place to reduce techniques not entailing excessive cost BATNEEC and best our carbon footprint.
Videoconference and teleconference practicable environmental option BPEO at all times to prevent systems and net meeting software provide an alternative pollution to the air, land and water.
Our manufacturing site to business travel.
Our manufacturing facility in Wales in Wales has an Integrated Pollution and Prevention Control operates a car sharing initiative to encourage efficient travel IPPC permit from the Environment Agency and has achieved to work for employees.
Our manufacturing facility in Australia the Green Dragon Environmental standard Level 2.
Our is working towards a Green Biz Certicate, designed to give manufacturing facility in Wales is installing a waste water small and medium organisations ways to measure eco treatment plant which should be fully functional next year.
manufacturing facility in Australia has installed a 50,000 litre rainwater tank to collect and recycle grey water from gutters.
Water, electricity and gas consumption at our manufacturing facility in Wales in 2009 Water usage 18800 m3 year Specific water consumption 23m3 water Electricity usage 3687 MWh year Specific energy consumption 4.5 MWh energy Gas oil usage 260 tonnes year per litre of drug substance Health and safety Minor incidents at manufacturing sites In Australia: In Wales: 0 4 7884 Report 2010 Report 2010 02 06 2010 17:39 Page 32 32 Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate responsibility continued 2010 Targets Employment practices, human rights and standards of ethical conduct Update the Code of Conduct to reect harmonised HR policies and procedures across the Group and our new commercial activities, marketing and selling our own drugs in the US.
Create a new Employee Handbook, incorporating the updated Code of Conduct: make available to employees on the new company intranet.
Launch an annual employee questionnaire to gauge employee adoption of company values and give insight into general employee satisfaction.
Suppliers, products and customers Update the Code of Conduct to incorporate a new Sales and Marketing Code of Conduct.
Roll out a certication process for all employees on compliance.
Develop a hotline for sales early in the next financial year to incorporate ethical and compliance issues such as adverse events reporting and customer complaints.
Devise an appropriate questionnaire incorporating CR questions to provide evidence of the level of ethical, quality and compliance practices of BTGs contractors.
Community Maintain our sustainable development sponsorships such as World Vision and Rwandan Orphans and increase donations to our local corporate charities.
Launch the new Give as You Earn GAYE Scheme in the UK to provide a more efficient mechanism for employees to give to their charity of choice.
Organise an activity day at the Melmark School near Philadelphia which provides residential, educational, therapeutic, and recreational services for children and adults with developmental disabilities.
Environment Complete installation of a new waste water treatment plant at our manufacturing site in Wales, which should be fully operational early in the next financial year.
Achieve a Green Biz Certicate at our manufacturing facility in Australia, which is designed to give small and medium organisations ways to measure eco efficiency footprints.
7884 Report 2010 Report 2010 02 06 2010 17:39 Page 33 33 Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors and governance The report from the directors, our governance and remuneration reports.
34 Board of directors 36 Directors report 38 Corporate governance 44 Audit Committee report 46 Nomination Committee report 47 Remuneration report 59 Statement of directors responsibilities 60 Independent auditors report to the members of BTG plc DIRECTORS AND GOVERNANCE
