| Business review Directors report Corporate responsibility report We have a long-standing Marketplace: As a leading asset manager, we believe it is important to integrate commitment environmental and social issues into our corporate governance and voting 1 policy through a programme of constructive dialogue and engagement across to the field of our investment portfolios.
sustainable and green investment, Number of companies engaged with on having run our environmental, social and governance issues.
168 flagship fund, the Jupiter Ecology Fund Workplace: for over 20 years.
As a people focused business whose success is directly related to the quality and competence of our employees, we believe it is important that we are an 2 organisation that people want to work for and want to be associated with.
We have a high level of employee share ownership.
We believe that corporate responsibility and commercial success are compatible and we are committed, wherever practicable, to implement environmental good practice throughout our business activities.
Percentage of employees taking % At Jupiter, we aim to act in the best interests up the 2010 Sharesave scheme.
76 of all our stakeholders by engaging with the companies that we invest in, and by exercising our voting rights with care.
Not only is this commensurate with good market practice, it goes hand in hand with ensuring Environment: the responsible investment of our clients As a major UK corporate we believe it is important that we understand our assets.
Equally, we ask companies to impact on the wider environment and look to reduce this wherever possible.
3 present us with their plans for maintaining To help us assess this we have commissioned a 2011 study of our social and environmental sustainability carbon footprint.
As appropriate, we will engage and vote on issues affecting the long-term value of a company in which we are invested.
We will review this area Issues may include, but are not limited following the results of the study.
2011 study to, business strategy, acquisitions and disposals, capital raisings and financing operations, internal controls, risk management, board succession, shareholder rights, corporate and Community: social responsibility and remuneration.
We believe in a bottom-up approach to charitable giving with our strategy for contributions building on this belief.
Our giving is driven by individual 4 employee choice with all employees eligible to join a matched giving payroll Governance structure scheme.
The majority of our giving comes through matching employee The Board is responsible for corporate contributions to this scheme, which empowers employees to direct donations governance and corporate responsibility to their nominated charities and ensures that it is spread across a wide range within the Group.
Percentage of employees taking % part in the Give As You Earn Scheme.
24 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 27 Jupiter Fund Management plc
