corPorate resPonsiBility Objective peRfORmAnce meAsuRes AnD stRuctuReD mOnitORinG Of enviROnmentAl AnD heAlth & sAfety issues cOntinue tO be A fOcus Strategy To transform our strategy into tangible Business conduct code of ethics We believe that Corporate Responsibility activities we undertake the following steps: The Groups business conduct code of ethics CR is not only about the good management policy, which was updated in 2010 to improve of our business but also excellent and the clarity of its provisions and to ensure responsive long term relationships with all our that it continued to reflect best practice, is Devise and stakeholders, whether customers, employees disseminated to every employee as a guide Set policy maintain systems or suppliers.
We have identified seven CR to how employees are expected to conduct elements relevant to our business model: themselves both from a corporate and business conduct code of ethics: employees: individual perspective.
The policy clearly health & safety: environment: community: states that employees should avoid conflicts customers: and suppliers.
These are governed Communicate Measure and of interest, provides guidance on the giving and report to monitor by a policy framework, which is approved and and receiving of gifts and entertainment, stakeholders performance KPIs monitored by the Board, with implementation prohibits illegal payments as well as political at a business area level.
donations and reinforces the need to comply with laws, rules and regulations, protect Our approach confidential information and company assets During 2010 we reviewed our approach Seek and act on and maintain high standards in relationships stakeholder relating to CR issues, seeking input from both with our customers and suppliers.
We confirmed that our management practices relating to During the year we refreshed and CR remained appropriate and we amended relaunched our whistle blowing process, our policies to make them more concise, Speak Up.
New, more prominent, posters Further details of the Groups CR policies, clearer and better tailored to Bunzls specific explaining the process were developed processes and controls and how they are challenges.
We have also decided to adopt the and an additional contact point, where monitored are available in the CR section term CR going forward rather than Corporate an anonymous telephone message could of the Companys website, www.
Social Responsibility to reflect that these be left, was introduced.
policies are part of the way Bunzl operates.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 corporate responsibility 19 corPorate resPonsiBility continued No material breaches of our business 2011 objectives Environment conduct code of ethics policy were recorded Develop the format of the employee survey Bunzl seeks to prevent, mitigate and remediate in 2010.
However, some minor incidents for 2012. the harmful effects of our operations on the relating to employee conduct, such as theft environment.
To ameliorate our impact on Continue to monitor key HR measures such or misuse of the Groups property, did occur and exposure to climate change, our facilities as voluntary turnover, sickness absence, and were dealt with during the normal operate to Group standards, we promote training days, workforce gender and age mix course of business using Group human environmental awareness throughout the and, as appropriate, take action to address resource HR policies and procedures.
business and our branch network mitigates any issues that may arise.
Nine calls letters were received through the against the effects of extreme local climate Speak Up campaign and, where possible, conditions.
Our direct water usage is minimal Health & safety investigations were undertaken.
The majority as it is principally confined to that required for The health and safety of our employees and of the matters raised related to employee workplace cleaning and hygiene purposes.
Although we try grievance issues.
to minimise the risks which occur, particularly Bunzl had no environmental incidents relating to the operation of our warehouses In preparation for the introduction of the in 2010. and vehicles, incidents relating to manual Bribery Act in the UK, a bribery risk handling, slipping and tripping remain the During the year, general waste generated assessment has been undertaken.
For highest cause of accidents.
per 1,000 of revenue in the UK & Ireland, each identified risk, mitigating factors have parts of Continental Europe and Australasia been considered as well as the policies, During the year accident incidence decreased year on year by 13% and controls and processes which are in place.
rates improved by 23% compared to the recovered waste per 1,000 of revenue As a consequence, the tightening of some previous year and severity rates improved increased by 13%.
We are continuing to existing controls and the introduction of by 10%.
This is due to better performance expand the collection of waste data to some additional processes are being throughout the Group, particularly in include more businesses in the Group.
The level of fuel consumption per 1,000 2011 objectives of revenue increased slightly due to the We are pleased to report that in 2010 there If appropriate, amend the policies, controls cold winter and lower revenues in the UK & were no fatalities due to work related and processes in the light of the Bribery Ireland and France where some of our incidents.
It is more than seven years since Act in the UK.
largest commercial vehicle fleets are based.
we have had a year free of fatalities.
Introduce anti-bribery training across Although we have previously reported our 2011 objectives the Group.
carbon emissions data through the Carbon Reduce Group accident incidence and Disclosure Project, we now include our level severity rates by a further 5%.
This is the Employees of carbon emissions as a key performance first year that we have set quantitative Bunzl currently operates in 23 countries indicator.
The level of carbon emissions has objectives at the Group level and therefore worldwide.
We are a service provider, not a increased slightly in 2010 due to the improved we have taken a conservative stance with manufacturer and, as such, our business relies reporting of data combined with an increase the intention of reviewing our approach heavily on the skills and experience of our in energy consumption as a result of the more going forward after the first year.
We pride ourselves on the fact severe weather conditions.
Carbon emissions that we run our businesses locally with local data for the UK & Ireland was independently managers.
We do not unfairly discriminate and audited by the Carbon Trust as part of we respect human rights.
We seek to recruit attaining the Carbon Trust Standard.
INCIDENCE RATE the right people who are passionate about our business and provide opportunities for people ISO 14001 accreditation was attained by Average number to progress within the organisation on the 209 205 the remaining sites in Bunzl Australasia and of incidents basis of their skills, experience and aptitude.
per month per King Netherlands.
To date all sites in UK We believe that to get the best from people 100,000 employees.
& Ireland and Australasia and many sites 157 we need to respect each other and encourage in Continental Europe are now accredited.
By revenue this represents more than 30% of the Group.
In May 2010, we brought our senior managers together for a three day 2011 objectives conference to share best practice and Reduce Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions discuss the key issues presently facing by 2%.
This is the first year that we have set 08 09 10 Bunzl.
quantitative objectives at the Group level and therefore we have taken a conservative The results of and actions taken following stance with the intention of reviewing our SEVERITY RATE the 2009 employee survey were discussed approach going forward after the first year.
at our 2010 European Information and Average number 6,680 Consultation Forum.
The Forum welcomed of days lost Seek to improve the accuracy and coverage the overall satisfaction levels expressed by per month per across the Group of the collection of 5,419 employees and recommended that the next 100,000 employees.
4,863 employee survey be undertaken in 2012.
Our acquisition pipeline continues to be a valuable source of management talent for the Group and the completion of nine acquisitions during the year has brought further highly skilled people into Bunzl.
08 09 10 20 corporate responsibility Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 Community Customers GENERAL WASTE Although Bunzls operations are international, As a service business, our ability to both Kgs per 000 revenue our strength is in the local nature of our anticipate and meet our customers needs 1.12 businesses.
In keeping with this ethos, we is key to our success.
We strive to ensure that Waste sent to landfill and particularly support the fundraising activities we provide high levels of service.
championed by our employees locally.
This is this by building solid relationships at a local supplemented by donations made at Group level by regularly meeting with and seeking level to charities predominantly in the fields of feedback from our customers.
We also provide healthcare, disability and the environment innovative service and product solutions to as well as benevolent societies to support meet our customers needs including projects in communities where our operations requirements to meet sustainability goals.
Where possible and appropriate, During 2010 we further increased our Bunzl also looks to donate stock free of product range to include a broader range 09 10 charge in-kind.
These Group wide, Bunzl donated a total of included plant based compostable trays RECOVERED WASTE 430,000 to charity in 2010.
This does not for meat, fish and poultry in North America, Kgs per 000 revenue include in-kind donations or employee fund using recycled polyethylene terephthalate 2.14 raising.
The largest donation last year was rPET for meat trays in the Netherlands Separated waste which made to Ruskin Mill College in the UK for and a new BioWare Fairtrade promotional 1.90 is recovered recycled.
the replacement of their woodland kitchen.
hot paper cup made from sustainably The college educates people aged 16 to 25 sourced paper in the UK.
with severe autistic spectrum disorders The Group has received a number of awards and developmental delay.
The curriculum from our customers including 2010 Heinz focuses on land based practical skills Supplier of the Year and the Innovative centred around a certified biodynamic farm, Supplier of the Year from Food Services of woodlands and horticultural area.
America in North America, while in the UK, 09 10 Group companies and employees worldwide Keenpac received the 2010 Most Sustainable have continued to support local charitable Vendor award from Disney, Lockhart was initiatives.
In North America, we sponsored named as Best Equipment Distributor by FUEL USAGE a parade in St Louis of the Childrens Charity, Chefs Choice, Bunzl Cleaning and Hygiene Ltrs per 000 revenue whose mission is to promote the health and was named by ISS Best of the Best 2010 7.33 7.55 well-being of children around the world, as and one of Bunzl Retails Account Managers Diesel, petrol and LPG used in the Groups own vehicles.
well as undertaking fund raising for the relief was awarded Best Account Manager by effort in Haiti following the earthquake.
In Continental Europe, Bunzl In Australasia, 126 Bunzl employees took Netherlands customer, Hotel Casa 400, part in the 16 week Global Corporate gave one of our Account Managers its Challenge to improve employee health and Account Manager of the Year 2010 award well-being, which involved competitors and Weita in Switzerland has been rated recording their daily step count, bicycle and by Emmi as its Most Reliable Supplier.
swimming activity to help improve their 2011 objectives overall health, and many have been fund 09 10 Continue to provide innovative products raising for the flood victims in Queensland.
In Romania, Bunzl donated the use of their SCOPE 1 AND 2 CARBON EMISSIONS vehicles to the Romanian Rescue Suppliers Kgs of CO per 000 revenue Association to assist in an environmental 2 Bunzl has relationships with many suppliers.
clean up operation of a local area.
In the 28.2 27.7 We want our suppliers to meet the same CR Measured in accordance UK, employee fund raising has taken place standards we set ourselves and to that end with the Greenhouse Gas for Macmillan Nurses, Help for Heroes and Protocol applying 2009 we have set up our own quality assurance Leukaemia & Lymphoma Research.
quality control QA QC department as part of our purchasing office in Shanghai.
Our QA QC For the fifth consecutive year Bunzl staff perform regular audits of many of our North America was honoured with a suppliers in Asia and work with our suppliers Greater St Louis Top 50 Business Shaping to implement appropriate CR standards.
our Future Award from the St Louis Regional Commerce and Growth Association.
In 2010, we increased the number of Bunzl was honoured for being among 09 10 staff within our Shanghai based QA QC the best companies in its field and for department and further refined our making significant contributions to the All data for the fuel usage, waste, carbon emissions and audit approach.
St Louis region and the future of its accident statistics for each year is based on the 12 months business community.
ended 30 September with comparative measures by 2011 objectives revenue calculated at constant exchange rates.
Contact our key suppliers to update them 2011 objectives on our CR aspirations and to encourage Identify further environmental projects for them to adopt a similar approach.
Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010 corporate responsibility 21 corPorate resPonsiBility continued Risks and opportunities The Directors report on page 24 details the principal risks and uncertainties which could have a material impact on the Groups business, financial condition or results of the operations.
Although many CR risks are not seen as principal risks to the Group, as part of the Group risk analysis the following CR risks which could impact the Groups business have been identified together with the steps taken by management to mitigate such risks: RISK MITIGATING FACTORS CR compliance failures Lack of adherence to the Groups CR policies could result in a variety The Group has comprehensive CR policies and procedures including of issues including those relating to inappropriate business practices, those relating to anti-bribery and corruption in place throughout the accidents at work and increased levies due to levels of waste or business as well as an established reporting framework.
Loss of key employees The Group is not capital intensive but the business is based on The Group seeks to secure key staff with appropriate incentive strong customer and supplier relationships which are built up locally.
packages, development opportunities and career progression.
Stability of key relationship roles amongst the Groups employees is Voluntary staff turnover is measured on a monthly basis, which therefore important.
enables any issues to be identified and resolved.
Loss of operating facilities unavailability of staff Climate change may result in higher frequency of exteme weather The Group has multi-site facilities with products stocked in more than conditions.
This could result in some of the Groups facilities being one location as a result of which the Group usually has the ability to affected or employees being unable to attend for work.
distribute products from nearby facilities.
Business continuity plans are in place to minimise the impact of any such issues.
Suppliers non-compliance with good CR practices The Group is not a manufacturer and has many international The Groups key suppliers are principally publicly owned multinational suppliers across the world.
The failure of one of the Groups key organisations with high standards of operations.
Suppliers are suppliers to adhere to recognised CR standards could affect the monitored by the Groups purchasing departments and the QA QC Groups reputation.
department based in China audits many suppliers throughout Asia.
Key suppliers are made aware of the Groups CR aspirations.
These risks are seen to be outweighed by a variety of opportunities that arise as a consequence of CR and its impact on the business environment.
The principal opportunities include: OPPORTUNITY RESPONSE Environment Throughout the world there is an increased awareness of the need Bunzl is not a manufacturer and therefore there is complete flexibility to conserve resources and reduce carbon emissions.
to offer products that meet customers requirements.
A full range of environmentally friendly products are available.
The Group provides customers with the ability to benefit from a consolidated delivery of their consumable products.
This reduces carbon emissions by eliminating the need for multiple deliveries from many different suppliers and streamlining the related administration for our customers.
Climate change Climate change may result in higher frequency of extreme weather There is likely to be an increase in demand for protective clothing conditions such as floods, cyclones and heavy snowfall.
to cope with climate change as well as the need for other products supplied by the Group, such as cleaning and hygiene products.
Employees Competition for good quality people continues to be strong.
A key element of Bunzls strategy is the acquisition of high quality businesses.
This results in a number of motivated, high performing people joining the Group each year.
It also brings new ideas and fresh approaches to the business which can be utilised elsewhere in the Group.
Health & safety Throughout the world there has been an increase in health & safety This leads to an increased demand from both existing and new legislation and an emphasis on safe working environments.
customers for the Groups personal protection equipment as well as providing the potential to introduce new innovative products in this area.
22 corporate responsibility Bunzl plc Annual Report 2010
