CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY operating responsibly Since its foundation in 1856, Burberry has sought to achieve the very highest quality standards.
This focus is an integral part of the brand and informs ongoing efforts to ensure that Burberry is recognised as much for operational excellence as it is for its luxury products.
Putting Corporate Responsibility at the heart of Burberrys business practices is a key part of this philosophy, and speaks to the heritage and longevity of the brand as well as its pioneering spirit.
Burberry strongly believes that to be a great brand it For more information on Burberrys Corporate must also be a great company.
This belief is reected in its Responsibility CR policies including its Ethical Trading continued pursuit to improve Corporate Responsibility Policy, performance and case studies, please visit the performance and to inspire employees around issues of Corporate Responsibility section of www.
ethics, social and environmental responsibility and Corporate Responsibility Governance community investment.
Michael Mahony, Senior Vice President Commercial Affairs The following section describes Burberrys current & General Counsel is accountable for CR matters on behalf approach to tackling these challenging issues, including of Burberry and the Board.
He chairs the CR Committee some of our achievements in 2009 10. which formally reports to the Group Risk Committee.
The CR Committee held three meetings during the year.
Highlights of the Year Two supplementary committees, the Global Sustainability 30% increase in visits to product suppliers factories and Supply Chain Risk Committees are responsible for over prior year to 634 these specic topics.
Both committees generate formal Launched Sustainability Leaders Initiative across reports for the CR Committee.
the business In 2009 10, the Group strengthened its CR team to Continued to reduce our CO emissions from a total of 13 members.
The global team, which 2 the Groups buildings by a further 9% per 1,000 is based in London, New York, Hong Kong and Tokyo, of turnover leads Burberrys supply chain, labour, environmental excellence and community investment initiatives in Committed to purchasing 29% of all our UK electricity partnership with its stakeholders.
from Combined Heat and Power and renewable sources in 2010 calendar year Ethical trading: supply chain Monitoring the supply chain One of Burberrys five strategic themes is pursuing Burberry believes that its products should only be made operational excellence.
Operational excellence in CR in factories that comply with local labour and environmental has five key areas of focus: laws and by workers who work fair but not excessive Healthy business partnerships: based on shared values hours: are provided with a safe and hygienic work and high ethical standards environment: and who can exercise their right to freedom of association and collective bargaining.
Excellent products and service: quality, craftsmanship, heritage and service standards All Burberry suppliers are governed by its Ethical Trading Policy that sets clear expectations regarding issues like Environmental excellence: operating efficiently with living wage, child labour and regular employment.
Seven minimum waste and maximum control Burberry team members are charged with ensuring the Excellence in people management: attracting implementation of the policy throughout the supply chain and retaining talented employees as their sole responsibility.
Contributing to society: investing and engaging This policy is based upon internationally accepted in the communities where Burberry operates codes, International Labour Organisation conventions and is published in full in the Corporate Responsibility section of www.
com 52 With periodic assistance from third-party auditors the team In 2009, the Company launched its Corporate regularly visits factories to assess their performance related Responsibility Handbook.
The Handbook, distributed to all to Burberrys Ethical Trading P olicy and develops factory suppliers by the Burberry Chief Operations officer, provides improvement plans based on their findings.
Follow-up visits are additional detail and guidance to assist suppliers with conducted to ensure that the plans have been implemented.
integrating our policies into their management systems.
Complementing these audits are worker hotlines installed Product and supply chain standards upstream in select factories, which act as both a whistleblowing Burberry strives to achieve the highest quality standards mechanism and counselling line.
in all components and stages of its supply chain process.
The majority of Burberrys products are manufactured Burberry recognises that its responsibility does not end in Europe through third-party suppliers.
All new Burberry at the first tier supplier and subcontractor level of the suppliers, regardless of location, must be approved by supply chain.
The Company has been working to address the Corporate Responsibility team prior to production issues deeper in the supply chain including raw materials taking place.
like leather, fur and cotton.
Leather Burberry understands that it cannot solve supply chain Burberry joined the BLC Leather Working Group in order to issues on its own and that a participative and collaborative have a clearer understanding of the environmental impact approach is needed.
Burberry will continue to maintain an of tanneries, investigate the possibility of hide traceability open dialogue with its suppliers, peer companies, other and collaborate with other brands and tanneries to improve brands, NGOs and trade unions to bring collective action environmental standards within the leather industry.
to bear across the supply chain.
Burberry supports the working groups efforts to ensure As part of Burberrys ongoing desire to reduce duplicative the preservation of the Amazon Biome rainforest.
audits, we have developed partnerships with companies that Fur produce in the same factories.
Using the Fair Factory There has been, and will continue to be, occasions where Clearinghouse FFC database tool, Burberry is now able consumer tastes demand the use of fur.
Burberry believes to share and access credible information on factory social that any materials derived from animals should be compliance which replaces the need for additional audits and produced without inicting cruelty or threatening the allows for further investments in capacity building and training.
Burberry will not use fur if there is any Burberry is a founding member of the BSR Luxury Brands concern that it has been produced using the unacceptable working group.
The group was established to explore treatment of the animals.
For this reason, Burberry does common approaches to collectively address material not source such materials from China.
Fur is carefully Corporate Responsibility issues specic to the luxury sector sourced, safeguarding the correct ethical standards and like the use of exotic skins.
The Group is currently developing traceability.
Fur is principally sourced from SAGA furs an animal welfare policy for working group members.
which is known for upholding high standards of ethical treatment of animals and shares the Groups concerns Supplier ownership about animal welfare.
The farms that supply fur are open Working closely with Burberry teams, suppliers are to third-party inspections at any time and have been visited demonstrating their increasing commitment to compliance by the Burberry CR team.
by actively participating in capacity building programmes such as management system development, productivity Uzbek cotton enhancement and worker rights training.
These Following the deeply concerning reports relating to alleged programmes improve worker-management relationships, forced child labour in the Uzbekistan cotton industry, improve production processes and empower workers and Burberry has taken steps to exclude Uzbek cotton from management to resolve problems jointly.
In progress is a cotton traceability project related to Uzbek cotton and other raw materials.
53 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED 2009 10 supply chain achievements Burberry established a Global Sustainability Committee in 2009 which meets quarterly.
On the committee every Factory visits: 634 factory visits: a 30% increase region or function of the business is represented by a on last year nominated Sustainability Leader.
Stakeholder engagement: Actively participated in the Burberry regularly communicates its revised Global BLC Leather Working Group and the Responsible Environmental Policy to all vendors and integrates Cotton Network environmental best practices directly into our Non-Stock Capacity building: Developed Corporate Responsibility Procurement procedures and contractual negotiations.
Handbook for vendors 2009 10 environmental performance results Worker hotline: Expanded condential worker hotline Energy: to Japan and Italy Reduced CO emissions from the Groups buildings Raw Materials Traceability: Agreed and signed contract 2 by 9% per 1,000 of turnover to launch a 2010 traceability project Committed to purchasing 29% of the Groups UK electricity from CHP and renewable sources in the Number of CR visits audits 2010 calendar year to drive demand for renewables Year to March in the UK Installed Solar Control Window Film in the new Burberry 634 Americas headquarters at 444 Madison, New York, with a projected annual savings of close to 300,000 kWh Implemented an automated PC shut-down system on the Burberry network worldwide to save energy overnight Packaging: Launched a new Established range of consumer 06 07 08 09 10 packaging made from an FSC accredited sustainable source and 100% elemental chlorine free Environmental performance Logistics transport emissions: Burberry is committed to reducing its environmental Continued to pursue a programme to divert freight to footprint throughout its global operations.
Environmental sea from air driving reductions in carbon emissions sustainability is a key responsibility and Burberry can play an important role in ensuring that its environmental impact Business travel is minimised in the countries where it sources materials Reduced air travel for UK employees by 10% per and products through to the markets where products are sold.
1,000 of turnover, through utilisation of virtual meetings via video conferencing facilities globally Strong environmental performance is important to Burberry Waste employees, customers and future generations and is good for business as it ultimately improves efficiency and leads Renewed focus on increasing recycling globally.
Burberrys most critical environmental In the UK, recycling has increased to 47% of the sustainability impact areas include carbon emissions total waste produced linked to energy use, travel and distribution network, solid waste and packaging materials linked to shipping, Developed a closed loop textile recycling system in marketing and sales.
The Groups global recycling partner converts sample and raw material waste into car door insulation 54 314 487 634 Digitalisation: Air travel CO 2 Converted lookbooks from paper to digital used by Year to March CO kg per 1,000 of turnover-based buying teams and wholesale customers to choose 2 on UK employees products.
This is estimated to save 32 tonnes of paper and 70,000 annually 1.4CO 2 Digitised visual merchandising props ordering process for regional teams Information technology: Launched an online environmental data management system to cover 100% of Burberrys global sites 06 07 08 09 10 Global building energy CO 2 The data in these graphs comes from a combination of Year to March automated and manual internal processes.
The majority CO2 kg per 1,000 of turnover is based on actual data, supplemented, when necessary, Restatement of 2008 and 2009 data to include additional sites in the Americas and Asia.
Most current published conversion factors, Excellence in people revised September 2009, used throughout.
Organisational effectiveness 20.6CO 2 The Burberry Human Resources team continue to drive people excellence with the focus being to recruit, retain and develop world class employees around the world, to deliver extraordinary results in the service of the Brand.
06 07 08 09 10 A commitment to diversity and respect for all is a key foundation underlying the Burberry culture and its success as a global luxury brand.
Primary transport shipped by sea % Burberrys global nature is reected not only through Year to March its geographic footprint, but also through its workforce.
Based on a sea vs. air freight comparison: road data has been excluded to give an accurate representation In the global headquaters at Horseferry House, of progress to divert freight from air to sea.
Burberry employs nationals of 39 different countries from the five continents.
20% Women make up a large part of the workforce in all parts of the organisation, from its manufacturing sites through to its headquarters 70% women.
Burberry was acknowledged for this diversity at the 2010 Opportunity Now Awards where the Company won the Female FTSE 100 Award as well as the FTSE 06 07 08 09 10 Executive Women Award.
The Burberry brand captures the energy of youth and is underpinned by its values protect, explore and inspire.
Burberrys workforce encompasses the digital generation and experienced craftsmen and women.
In the 2009 Long Service Awards, the Company recognised service up to 45 years.
55 22.6 17% 22.6 20% 20.6 1.8 1.5 1.4 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED 2009 10 results Health and safety As a core priority, Burberry continues to ensure a healthy Recruitment: Successful implementation and roll out and safe environment for all employees and customers.
of Burberrys global careers website has attracted over To assure the Board that this is the case, there is a formal 20,000 applications for roles in the Company this year.
health and safety audit process and programme that Organisational development: Continued evolution and ensures all Burberry manufacturing sites and distribution development of the organisation has enabled the centres are audited at least annually with major ofces Group to continue to ensure its infrastructure and and retail locations audited at least once every three capability is able to deliver both the growth agenda in years.
All audits were completed successfully with no line with the key strategic themes and the business problems reported.
efficiencies Burberry is committed to.
During the year, there have been a number of visits by In February 2010, Burberry announced the proposed regional enforcement bodies all with successful outcomes restructuring of its Spanish operations in order to align and no required changes to systems or processes.
Spain to its global business model and introduce the To further strengthen this area, a Corporate Health and Burberry global collection.
Burberry agreed a redundancy Safety Manager was appointed whose role will be to plan with the Works Council and unions, with the resultant further develop the Global management system and loss of just under 300 jobs.
All employees leaving the related training programmes, incident management and Company are being offered outplacement support.
key performance indicators in the coming year.
The most As part of the global cost efficiency programme, Burberry significant of which will be an integrated Health and France undertook a limited collective dismissal process.
Wellbeing Policy linking a number of key departments such This restructure aligned Burberry France with the European as Human Resources, Talent Development, Facilities and Shared Services organisation model and affected the IT the external Occupational Health Provider.
The Group continues to embed this The Burberry Experience new organisation structure into Burberry France.
Following the success of the Burberry Experience sales and service pilot training programme during 2008 09, an Leadership development: Design, development and enhanced programme has been rolled out to mainline delivery of a new leadership programme targeting 100 stores and concessions this year.
Led by the Service and high-potential managers identied in all areas of the Productivity teams at Corporate and in the Regions, more business and regions.
This leadership programme is than 1,800 retail store employees have been trained this developing an internal pipeline of world-class talent to year.
The training programme has been designed for and provide future leaders for the business.
Leadership delivered to all retail staff to ensure that the customer capabilities are developed through mentoring, personal experience is in line with Burberrys brand standards and development plans, one to one coaching, worldwide luxury positioning.
events and workshops, and international mobility.
The evaluation of the effectiveness of the training Meeting structures: At the outset of 2009 10, Burberry is ongoing, and has shown positive results and established a robust meeting structure to improve improvements in levels of service being delivered to our meeting effectiveness and enhance internal customers globally.
The training continues to be enhanced communications and alignment: and extended to improve leadership skills and productivity.
Executive Operations Committee: Oversight of The Burberry Experience will continue to be rolled out to overall performance of Burberry and major cross new markets where Burberry operates globally.
business issues Community investment Monthly Management Reviews: Review of operational Ongoing investment in the communities where the majority performance, outlook and budgets of employees live and work remains a key element of the Burberry Corporate Responsibility strategy.
Management Update Forum: Discussion of product, corporate and regional performance The Burberry Foundation by senior leadership A key extension of the tradition of philanthropy at the Company, the Burberry Foundation UK registered charity Global Quarterly Update: Communication of key no.
1123102 provides a strategic platform for Burberrys strategies as well as product, corporate and community engagement and builds charitable giving in regional performance to the whole Company its regions.
56 Established in 2008, the Foundation is a philanthropic In-kind donations organisation dedicated to helping young people realise their Burberry donates products to the Burberry Foundation dreams and potential through the power of their creativity.
for distribution to charities in its grants portfolio.
Donations The Foundations goals are to help young people to: range from one-off gifts of fabric or materials for an art or design course, to a large-scale annual Christmas Coat gain confidence in their daily lives and develop Donation programme which saw approximately 1,500 self-esteem coats distributed to charities globally.
build connections to their families, friends, partners Corporate donations and society at large An ongoing part of doing business is to selectively support customer and supplier-related events and charitable develop the ability to reach for opportunities in school, causes.
Each regional ofce has a discretionary charity work and life budget which is managed and approved locally.
The Burberry Foundations grant making is focused Disaster relief on supporting innovative programmes and building In response to the catastrophic earthquake in Haiti on sustainable partnerships that leverage the Companys 12 January 2010, Burberry and its employees donated assets and combine financial support with the knowledge, over 149,250 to British and International Red Cross creativity and dedication of Burberry employees.
agencies around the globe to assist with its relief and The Foundation receives donations from Burberry and reconstruction efforts.
other benefactors to award strategic grants and make In 2009 10, corporate contributions totalled over 1.4 million.
targeted donations of in-kind gifts.
In 2009 10, the Groups donations to the Burberry Foundation amounted to 800,000 in cash and more than 150,000 in-kind.
These contributions enabled the Foundation to support charities Community donations m in Boston, Chicago, Hong Kong, London, Los Angeles, Year to March Direct donations are contributions made by the New York, San Francisco and Seoul.
Indirect donations are donations from third parties that have been facilitated For a list of charities supported by the Burberry by Burberry.
Foundation, or for further information, please see www.
1.4m Employee engagement Burberry employees are encouraged to further support the Foundations grant recipients through the Companys employee engagement programme, which allows staff to Indirect donations take up to four hours per month of paid leave to volunteer Direct donations 06 07 08 09 10 with any one of the Foundations charity partners around the world.
In 2009 10, employees volunteered more than 3,500 hours of time, a tenfold increase on 2008 09, lending their personal talents and business skills to help young people.
A significant part of Burberrys employee engagement efforts this past year was dedicated to job training programmes for young people in London and New York City.
These programmes brought 60 students to corporate ofces and retail stores for job training and hands-on work experience ranging from two to ten weeks.
