10 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 our group marKet environment a changing landscape.
our industry faces high levels of regulatory change over the next few years.
while some of these changes offer opportunities, others present challenges to the way we structure and finance the group.
After a very diffi cult 2009 the global industry and marKets The continuing lack of clarity over economy enjoyed a more stable Regulatory change, in particular new capital requirements is creating 2010 led by strong growth in the EUs Solvency II Directive, unwelcome uncertainty at a time emerging markets.
Global equities continues to create uncertainty when there is a major role for the have almost fully recovered their for Europes insurance markets.
sector to play in rebalancing the losses since the collapse of Lehman We remain concerned that new economy and in supporting Brothers, but remain around 25% capital requirements could business investment.
below the peak levels achieved negatively impact the annuities three years ago.
Bond and credit market in the UK and therefore the markets fl uctuated through 2010, income of future UK pensioners.
but by December they had largely delivered modest positive returns.
indd 10 25 03 2011 11:09 our group ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 11 We also anticipate that the FSAs political environment interest rates RDR will impact the landscape of the The UK general election in May was Homebuyers have had another marketplace.
While consumers should followed by a month of uncertainty year of record low mortgage rates.
benefit, one unintended consequence as the Conservatives worked to form The Bank base rate has now been at could be a reduction of access to a coalition and then produce their 0.5% since March 2009.
This should financial advice for some groups June emergency Budget to achieve have enabled many to reduce their of consumers.
mortgage or pay off expensive credit card and overdraft borrowing.
We believe that RDR will accelerate The budget saw tax increases for change in financial services in the all but the lowest paid.
Capital gains Low interest rates, however, reduce UK and expect more customers to tax was, however, maintained at returns for savers.
At the end of 2010 purchase products without advice a maximum of 28% for higher rate inflation as measured by the Retail or through workplace schemes such taxpayers rather than being brought Prices Index RPI was 4.8% making as Company ISAs.
into line with marginal income tax it impossible for savers with cash rates as predicted by many.
deposits to keep pace with inflation.
More information on our response This has a particularly negative impact to the RDR can be found on page 29 Pension tax relief has been reduced on pensioners who rely on savings of the report.
with the annual limit for tax relieved for income.
pension contributions being cut from 255,000 to 50,000 from April 2011 and the lifetime allowance to be reduced from 1.8m to 1.5m.
total investments the uK insurance industry is We responded to over 60 official responsible for consultation papers during the year including several on proposals for changes to the pension, welfare, and regulatory systems.
1.6tn outlooK Representing 24% of the UKs total worth.
This high level of engagement has been As we head into 2011, there is Source: Association of British Insurers ABI.
important at a time of extensive, rapid uncertainty about whether the policy change under a new administration.
measures taken by central banks will be sufficient to generate economic insurance business recovery.
We expect economic investment assets managed environment growth to slow as the Government in the uK During 2010 we saw continued embarks on one of the greatest consolidation and selective exits periods of fiscal tightening since from our markets.
An unprecedented the Second World War.
amount of the change including RDR, 3.9tn the Mortgage Market Review and We expect to see continued Source: Investment Management the implementation of the recent consolidation across our markets Association IMA.
European Court of Justice Gender as providers without sufficient scale Directive will have a material impact struggle to compete.
Additionally, on housing and protection markets providers dependent on high with the potential for further change commission distribution strategies uK share of global in the way products are priced and are likely to be negatively impacted insurance premiums distributed to consumers.
8% The UK is the worlds third largest insurance market.
