Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 57 Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 14 Board of Directors 110 Report of the independent Shareholder information 284 Lloyds Banking Group auditors on the consolidated Group structure 2 Divisional results 26 Directors report 112 Glossary 285 Annual Report financial statements 144 Group performance 3 Other financial information 52 Corporate governance report 114 Abbreviations 290 and Accounts 2010 Consolidated Strategy and progress 4 Five year financial summary 56 Directors remuneration report 124 Index to annual report 291 financial statements 146 Chairmans statement 6 Our people 57 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 153 Group Chief Executives review 8 Corporate responsibility 60 Report of the independent Addressing the key issues 10 Risk management 65 auditors on the parent company Marketplace trends 12 financial statements 272 Parent company financial statements 273 Notes to the parent company financial statements 276 OUR PEOPLE Building long lasting relationships through people We continue to move toward establishing a single organisation and by 1 December 85 per cent of eligible colleagues were on the newly Lloyds Banking Groups continued success depends on people.
This is a significant step forward Banking is about helping people to reach their goals in life by on our journey towards becoming One Bank.
getting the most from their money.
Lloyds Banking Group makes business sense but we also need it to make sense for people for Inevitably in bringing the two organisations together, there has been our employees and customers.
Our employees are focused on an opportunity to rationalise and this has led to a reduction providing our customers with great service every day.
Where possible we have either redeployed colleagues to that successful relationships are at the heart of how we do business other areas of the Group or reduced numbers through natural and how we support our customers through the cycle.
Where it has been necessary for colleagues to leave the organisation, this has been achieved by offering voluntary severance To make this happen, we are creating an organisation that attracts, and by making less use of contractors and agency colleagues.
retains and develops the best talent in the industry and one that Compulsory redundancies are always a last resort.
We want to be recognised as a great place to work.
The focus has been on enabling the business to integrate, while also building foundations for the future to ensure the organisation can At Lloyds Banking Group, we are committed to making a significant attract, retain and develop the best talent.
People have been at the investment in our people.
Life here is fast-moving and full of heart of the change programme, and a robust communications challenges as we strive to be the best.
process has been followed to ensure that colleagues are aware of the In 2010 we recorded our highest ever employee engagement score.
We have four recognised Unions who Engaged employees are more motivated to understand customer have been consulted on all proposed changes.
needs and deliver outstanding service, time and time again.
This is one of the ways in which we will rebuild trust in our industry.
Our We have focused on bringing the majority of colleagues on to one rewards and benefits packages, which go beyond salary and bonus, core colleague system which involved the migration of over 63,000 are designed to keep our employees motivated to do this.
colleagues on to a new platform which is now accessible to colleagues from both heritages.
This year we delivered a significant milestone in our integration when we harmonised Terms and Conditions for most employees in the We also implemented a number of new Lloyds Banking Group Group.
In addition, over 87,000 employees selected benefits available platforms for colleagues.
In 2010 we built an integrated colleague through our Flexible Benefits plan.
Over 52,000 people showed their proposition for the future with a focus on recruiting, performance confidence in the Group by electing to take part in Sharesave, our management, learning, and reward and improving the direct links employee share ownership plan that offers everyone the opportunity to between these factors.
buy shares over a three year period and have a long term investment The implementation of the Resourcing Candidate Management in the Groups success.
We made some changes to our pension System in 2010 provides us with one integrated Lloyds Banking Group schemes in April and our new scheme, Your Tomorrow, was awarded internal role recruitment tool and also one external the Pension Quality Mark Plus the highest quality mark available Lloyds Banking Group careers website.
Combined, they enable from the National Association of Pension Funds.
integration, simplification and improvement of key elements of the As a leader in financial services, we are committed to professional recruitment process.
development and creating outstanding learning opportunities that Your Performance was launched early in 2010 providing a Group allow people to reach their full potential.
We invest in our people, wide on-line approach for managing performance with 96 per cent offering the best coaching and training.
Learning @ Lloyds Banking colleague coverage.
Your Learning was launched providing one Group is one of the largest corporate learning facilities in Europe.
integrated learning tool helping colleagues develop learning plans We also provide our people with the opportunity to contribute to and record training and accreditation.
Your Tomorrow, the first our leading corporate and social responsibility practices, a strong Lloyds Banking Group Defined Contribution pension scheme part of our culture.
Employees celebrated raising 3.4 million for the launched in 2010 and we auto-enrolled over 8,000 colleagues.
We British Heart Foundation in just two and a half years at the end also completed development of an integrated Pay and Bonus tool of 2010.
They also demonstrated their continued commitment and for managing Pay 2011 and Bonus 2010 aligned directly with enthusiasm for good causes when 21,500 voted for the 2011 Charity Performance Management.
of the Year, Save the Children.
These changes have been made with Group wide engagement, Our new Diversity and Inclusion strategy was launched in January with line managers and colleagues embracing the changes.
2010 and our sponsorship of London 2012 offers employees a unique opportunity to be involved both in the Games and the Colleague engagement legacy they leave.
Although 2010 has been a period of considerable change, we are proud of our continuously high levels of colleague engagement.
This Integration is vital in creating a high commitment, high performance organisation.
2010 was significant in relation to people integration.
Shaping our Every quarter we run a comprehensive and confidential colleague new business for the future means having the very best people in every survey to gauge colleagues views on key issues.
The scope of the single role and being as efficient as possible.
We have successfully colleague survey includes all UK and International colleagues across managed the impact of change on our people by working at pace to the Group.
In 2010, we achieved record response rates of 83 per cent establish controls and embed risk management practices, by defining up from 79 per cent in 2009 which is regarded as best in class.
The and implementing the new organisational structure and selecting for it.
overall Engagement Index finished the year at 80 index points, which is an increase of 8 index points from 2009.
The results to individual 58 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2010 OUR PEOPLE questions continued to improve compared with 2010, most notably in Retail Customer Service Training areas such as Performance Management, Learning, Customer and Leadership.
The level of engagement now exceeds all of the external benchmarks, including the UK Financial Services and UK High Performance norms for the first time.
Talent, recruitment and retention One of our highest priorities is recruiting, retaining and developing talented people.
Developing colleagues and succession planning are vital in supporting our strategy and have been a major focus in 2010.
During the year we have undertaken detailed talent reviews and A key focus for training across Retail has been the transformation of our approach in handling succession planning for our most senior leaders.
This has resulted in over 30,000 customer facing colleagues receiving promotion and attracting new talent to the Group in 2010 we have training across Lloyds TSB, Halifax and Bank of Scotland Branch Networks.
The key purpose of improved the talent profile and succession pipeline, while mitigating this training was to improve the experience for customers when advising us of a complaint this included colleagues taking ownership of each complaint at first point of contact, accurate the retention risks of our senior leaders.
recording and effective and timely resolution.
A blend of training approaches was adopted including e-learning, testing, validation and face to face sessions supported by comprehensive In 2010 we recruited 147 people into the Lloyds Banking Group Senior Manager engagement.
This programme has resulted in a significant improvement in the Graduate Leadership Programme.
The strength of our Graduate number of complaints resolved at first point of contact and is having a positive impact on our Programme has been externally acknowledged with The Times rating Customer Service measures.
us in the Top 30 UK organisations for graduate recruitment.
Performance and reward Business focus Our learning strategy is aligned to our goal of outperformance Effective performance management is at the heart of our work to through cost and customer leadership.
It aims to help drive high build a high performance culture across Lloyds Banking Group.
It performance, greater productivity and deep lasting customer also plays a critical role in helping us to develop our colleagues to relationships by supporting the development of highly engaged, build long term partnerships with customers and strong relationships skilled colleagues and capable leaders.
Every colleague has a Balanced Scorecard comprising of five areas building the business, customer, risk, people To further simplify access to business aligned learning we have and finance with objectives that are aligned to our broader strategy.
continued to deploy our Academies approach supported by a At the end of every year colleagues are given a performance rating redesigned Learning @ Lloyds Banking Group website, which attracts based on their overall contribution during the year assessed against around 1.7 million visits per month.
both what they have done performance against their objectives and We remain committed to supporting a range of programmes linked how they have gone about doing it performance against our values to professional qualifications or relevant external certification.
This performance rating is then linked to how each programmes enable us to develop our colleagues in line with colleague is rewarded.
recognised industry standards and provide confidence to customers Throughout the year, line managers provide colleagues with regular and other stakeholders.
open and honest feedback to help them develop the right skills and behaviours and to help them address any challenges they may face in Technical capabilities meeting performance standards.
In 2010 we launched a single Our colleagues need appropriate technical capabilities to enable approach to performance management across Lloyds Banking Group, them to support our customers effectively.
Our business-focused the success of which was acknowledged at the 2010 Personnel Today learning programmes cover critical business skills such as risk, Awards where it was one of the reasons why we received the top relationship management and financial management.
A key focus has award for Managing Change.
been supporting colleagues through the changes needed to successfully progress our integration programme.
In 2010 we introduced a cap on our Defined Benefit pension schemes that will help us to manage the significant long-term cost inherent in Significant activity has taken place to support the implementation of the scheme and continue to meet our obligations to all members common enhanced IT platforms designed to deliver improved in future years.
Alongside this we introduced a new Defined customer service through our branches.
Colleagues in our Telephone Contribution pension scheme that gives considerable flexibility Banking teams also received significant investments in customer to employees to plan for retirement.
Learning and development Leadership and management capability Leaders throughout the organisation play a critical role in bringing In 2010 we have continued to invest in the development of our our values to life for colleagues.
The Group has continued its focus colleagues across the organisation providing an average of 5.4 days on developing and strengthening leadership and management formal learning per full time equivalent.
skills with the launch of new Group wide Executive Development and Leadership and Management programmes.
Using a shared Leadership language these have placed a particular emphasis on Performance Management and leading during a period of sustained rapid change.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 59 Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 14 Board of Directors 110 Report of the independent Shareholder information 284 Lloyds Banking Group auditors on the consolidated Group structure 2 Divisional results 26 Directors report 112 Glossary 285 Annual Report financial statements 144 Group performance 3 Other financial information 52 Corporate governance report 114 Abbreviations 290 and Accounts 2010 Consolidated Strategy and progress 4 Five year financial summary 56 Directors remuneration report 124 Index to annual report 291 financial statements 146 Chairmans statement 6 Our people 57 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 153 Group Chief Executives review 8 Corporate responsibility 60 Report of the independent Addressing the key issues 10 Risk management 65 auditors on the parent company Marketplace trends 12 financial statements 272 Parent company financial statements 273 Notes to the parent company financial statements 276 Diversity and inclusion We have also achieved excellent colleague network growth under our sexual orientation strand, with membership tripling in 2010.
Externally, During 2010, we have continued to make strong progress in all areas 3 we continue to be active and prominent members of Stonewall, of Diversity & Inclusion.
With a broad strategy, significant focus has participating in their annual Workplace Equality Index.
The Group come through the appointment of five Executive Director level has also achieved some firsts: our Home Loan advert featuring a sponsors who cover gender and work life balance, ethnic diversity, gay couple was the first gay imagery from a UK financial services sexual orientation, disability and generational diversity.
And our sponsorship of the largest Our leading edge diversity and inclusion strategy, developed through ever lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender consumer survey active consultation across the organisation, will enhance the Groups covering 23 countries and with over 8,000 UK respondents, will ability to build deep and lasting relationship with colleagues, yield deep insights into the opportunities to strengthen our customers and suppliers.
HR people risk Lloyds Banking Group Ethnic Minority Network A new area of focus for the Group has been the establishment of a Mark Swyny People Risk function within Group Human Resources.
This function Lloyds Banking Group aims to ensure the management of people risks are central to the development and delivery of the Groups business strategy.
People Risk is fundamental to our ongoing success as an organisation.
Consequently we have built people risk management into our overall accountability framework including our Group Risk Appetite and incorporating it into our Group People Strategy.
We have created a team to lead on the development and delivery of During 2010 the GEM Network for ethnic minority colleagues marked its launch across the a people risk strategy.
The team will also support the establishment enlarged Group with an inspirational event held in Leeds.
Themed Your Time to Shine almost of people risk management across the Group.
This will be achieved 300 colleagues from across the Group came together to hear from the Groups Executive through effective support, challenge and oversight of risk Sponsor for Ethnic Diversity, Angie Risley, fellow ethnic minority colleagues inspirational career success stories and celebrity guest speaker Tim Campbell, first winner of BBCs management across Human Resources: managing and co-ordinating The Apprentice.
the Groups regulatory relationship on Human Resource issues and Delegates came away from the event feeling motivated, inspired and equipped to make their through strategic people risk management.
career with the Group all they want it to be.
Following the launch event, by the end of the year GEM Network membership increased to almost 1,500 members.
Strengthening the Groups focus in this way, the People Risk functions I came away inspired and feeling that Lloyds Banking Group is the place to be for ethnic early priorities have included: reviewing and enhancing the minorities.
It was a life changing event for me.
co-ordination and management of the Groups Approved Persons Source: GEM conference feedback form.
arrangements for Significant Influence Functions, providing guidance on moderation of pay and bonuses to comply with the FSAs Through reviewing our resourcing, work life balance and leadership Remuneration Code and increasing the integration of risk into our development practices, we have continued to ensure we are able to reward and performance framework.
attract, recruit and retain talented colleagues from diverse As we enter the final year of our integration programme, we continue backgrounds.
With diversity and inclusion integrated into the to make excellent progress towards becoming One Bank.
We will organisations mainstream management development we are go on building a diverse, talented and engaged workforce and equipping our leaders to embrace inclusion and leverage the equipping it with the skills it needs to provide the best customer opportunities of diverse thinking.
All colleagues have had the service.
By rewarding great service and strong performance opportunity to learn more about our progress, to give their views and appropriately, we will embed the values needed to build deep and to participate through the Groups first national Diversity & Inclusion enduring customer relationships that are at the heart of our business.
Week, a campaign to be repeated on an annual basis.
We also continue to make great progress on matters of disability, 1 2 3 ethnicity and sexual orientation.
With regards to disability, we have implemented new development programmes, grown our colleague network by over 100 per cent and conducted research to better understand our disabled customer experience.
In addition, we launched and sponsor the Radiate 1 Network, the UKs first national network of senior disabled leaders.
Our ethnic diversity colleague network has also grown in numbers, with over 1500 colleagues participating.
Alongside our internal activity, our external presence has grown through our sponsorship of 2 the Runnymede Trusts Snowy Peaks report which researched ethnic 1 Radiate is the network of high-fliers with disabilities or health conditions.
It is supported by minority success at senior management and executive levels.
RADAR the UKs largest disability campaigning organisation and Lloyds Banking Group 2 The Runnymede Trust is an independent race equality think tank 3 Stonewall is a lesbian, gay and bisexual rights charity in the United Kingdom and the largest gay equality organisation in Europe
