60 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2010 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY management.
The Groups risk management framework is set out Supporting our business strategy on pages 69 to 70.
Our business strategy is to be recognised as the UKs best financial Reflecting the importance that we place on risk management, risk services company.
We want to be recognised and recommended as is included as one of the five principal criteria within the Groups a trusted brand by customers, a good employer by colleagues and an balanced scorecard on which individual staff performance is judged.
active, valued participant in our communities.
We work very closely with the FSA and UK Financial Investments to Trust in the banking industry has been eroded over the past few years.
ensure that our remuneration structure is aligned to prudent risk Rebuilding stakeholders trust in financial institutions will be central to management.
Business Executives have specific risk management us achieving our corporate goal.
objectives and incentive schemes take account of performance against these.
Full disclosure on Executive remuneration is on Corporate responsibility is integral to our business strategy.
We need pages 124 to 141 of this report.
to ensure that we are running our business in a responsible way.
We need to demonstrate that we are making a sustained, positive Responsible lending, advice and support contribution to the economy and to society: by playing our part in the As a responsible lender, we wish to ensure customers only borrow UKs economic recovery and by investing in the communities of which what they can afford to repay.
We have a responsible lending we are a part.
Finally, as a relationship-led business, we need to work programme with internal management reporting and accountability.
on building deep and lasting relationships with our customers, Our customer-facing employees are trained to offer the necessary employees and suppliers: by engaging with them, listening to their advice and support to help customers manage their borrowing.
needs and, if appropriate, making changes to the way we do business.
Each customers circumstances are different so we use an affordability The following pages set out how we are delivering on our model, to better assess a customers ability to repay.
We take into responsibilities to all of our stakeholders.
We report under three account customers current and past management of financial headings, Responsible Business Management: our Economic and products.
We also consider their ability to make repayments both at Social Impact: and, Building Relationships.
the time the account is opened, and throughout the duration of the loan, to ensure that the borrowing remains suitable to Responsible business management their circumstances.
We believe that we can make our greatest contribution to society by Lloyds TSB, Halifax and Bank of Scotland all have dedicated Customer being good at what we do, and by doing it in a responsible way.
Our Support and Money Management units to provide specialist help to approach to responsible business management is founded on robust customers who are concerned about their financial situation.
They are corporate governance practices and a risk management culture which there to help customers who actively seek help with their finances, guides the way all employees approach their work, the way they and proactively contact those who we believe are at the highest risk of behave and the decisions they make.
This helps us focus on building missing repayments.
We speak with more than 300,000 customers a and sustaining long-term relationships with customers.
Over time, we month to assess their financial health and find ways in which we believe that this will enable us to deliver superior, more sustainable can help.
We have an ongoing programme to train colleagues to provide Corporate responsibility governance guidance and support to customers on managing their borrowing.
We strengthened our governance framework in 2010, establishing We help them find an appropriate solution, whether through more Board representatives for key strands of our Corporate Responsibility effective budgeting, or by rescheduling their borrowing with us.
Sir Winfried Bischoff, Chairman of Lloyds Banking Group, have trained over 7,000 financial health specialists available to help has overall Board responsibility for Corporate Responsibility.
Where appropriate, we refer customers to Truett Tate, Group Executive Director, Wholesale, is Executive free and independent money advice charities.
In 2010, we contributed Sponsor for Climate Change and Environmental Issues and 12.5 million to money advice and debt charities, including the Money Helen Weir, Group Executive Director, Retail, is Executive Sponsor Advice Trust and the Consumer Credit Counselling Service.
Protecting customers against financial crime We also established a new Environmental Steering Group, chaired by We take protecting our customers and their assets extremely our Group Property Director.
With senior representation from across seriously.
We invest in activities to deter, detect and prevent fraud the Group, this drives our environmental strategy, targets and and we operate systems designed to ensure that our products and performance.
This year, we have established a Financial Inclusion services are not abused for the purposes of laundering the proceeds Steering Group.
of crime or for facilitating terrorism.
We have processes in place to The Board considers corporate responsibilty issues throughout the check the identity of customers and use various tools to monitor the year, and reviews our performance on an ongoing basis.
The validity of transactions that they make and receive.
Corporate Responsibility Steering Group, chaired by Group HR We also want to help our customers to protect themselves from Director Angie Risley, meets on a regular basis to drive corporate financial crime.
Our various brand websites contain information to responsibility strategy.
Most of our activity, however, takes place in the help customers to understand how to protect against the risks of business itself, driven by a network of senior managers who act as common types of internet fraud.
We run regular financial crime Corporate Responsibility champions.
awareness campaigns, support industry education initiatives and sponsor the charity Crimestoppers.
Risk management We have rolled out Lloyds TSBs conservative approach to risk across the entire Group.
This prudent attitude to risk is core to the Groups business model.
It is the foundation for responsible business Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 61 Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 14 Board of Directors 110 Report of the independent Shareholder information 284 Lloyds Banking Group auditors on the consolidated Group structure 2 Divisional results 26 Directors report 112 Glossary 285 Annual Report financial statements 144 Group performance 3 Other financial information 52 Corporate governance report 114 Abbreviations 290 and Accounts 2010 Consolidated Strategy and progress 4 Five year financial summary 56 Directors remuneration report 124 Index to annual report 291 financial statements 146 Chairmans statement 6 Our people 57 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 153 Group Chief Executives review 8 Corporate responsibility 60 Report of the independent Addressing the key issues 10 Risk management 65 auditors on the parent company Marketplace trends 12 financial statements 272 Parent company financial statements 273 Notes to the parent company financial statements 276 Environmental management Resource efficiency We believe that we have an important role to play in facilitating and Reducing our own use of resources helps us minimise our impact on the financing the transition to a low carbon, resource efficient economy.
environment as well as keeping our costs under control.
In 2010, we Our vision is to be recognised by our stakeholders as a leading launched Smart & Responsible, our new targeted environmental action environmentally responsible organisation.
It aims to deliver significant environmental and cost savings, as well as improving colleagues work-life balance.
We are already one of the leading global financers of renewable energy by debt underwriting capability.
In 2010, Lloyds Banking Group We also registered for the Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy was rated the top UK bank in the new FTSE CDP Carbon Strategy Efficiency Scheme in 2010 and will now be required to purchase Index Series, recognising our performance in managing climate risks allowances for each tonne of energy-related CO we emit.
It has 2 and grasping the emerging opportunities.
significant cost implications for the Group which provides a further incentive to reduce our carbon emissions.
We are already working Managing environmental risks in lending towards achieving the Carbon Trust Standard for the Group this We have introduced policies and procedures to reduce the standard recognises organisations that are genuinely measuring environmental impact of our lending activities.
Our groupwide and reducing CO emissions.
Our goal is to reduce our energy 2 Environmental Risk Policy requires all business loans to be assessed consumption by 30 per cent by 2020. for material environmental risks as part of the credit sanctioning process.
Our policy is supported by a robust process which ensures Engaging our employees that there is a consistent approach to identifying, assessing, Employees play a key role in delivering our environmental agenda.
mitigating and reporting environmental risks.
Lending officers are One of the main areas where colleagues can have a real impact is in responsible for ensuring that environmental risks are assessed and business travel.
We have a common travel policy in place across the that action is taken where a risk is identified.
Employees are trained in Group which supports a focus on reducing travel.
This has helped environmental risk management as part of our standard credit risk us increase the volume of teleconferences by 73 per cent in 2010 training course and have access to relevant guidance documents.
2011, we will further strengthen our risk management process with the We strengthened our approach in 2010 with the introduction of implementation of an online environmental risk screening tool.
TRAVELwise, part of the Smart & Responsible programme.
We have set a TRAVELwise target to avoid 1 in 5 business flights by 2015.
Project finance: Equator Principles Lloyds Banking Group is a signatory to the Equator Principles to CO Emissions tonnes 2 support our approach to assessing and managing environmental and 2010 2009 social issues in project finance.
Lending officers are responsible for Total UK CO emissions 442,535 449,207 2 undertaking initial classification of transactions that qualify under the Scope 1 emissions 73,182 76,387 Equator Principles.
Their assessments are subject to further review by our Equator Principles Review Group, comprising experts from both Scope 2 emissions 333,315 343,693 our Risk and Project Finance teams, to ensure that each transaction is Scope 3 emissions 36,038 29,127 compliant and is consistent with our Environmental Risk Policy.
We For 2009, we have reported emissions for January to December.
For 2010 and future years, trained over 100 employees in our Equator Principle Procedures we will report annual emissions from October to September.
Our CO emissions have been 2 in 2010. independently veried by environmental consultants by RPS Group.
The Equator Principles reporting January to December 2010 are Our economic and social impact as follows.
We have a presence in almost every community in the UK and touch Deals many millions of lives.
Our significant role in the financial services A B C Total sector is a privilege, and one that comes with important obligations.
Completed 8 10 18 As a UK-focused bank, we have an important role to play in In progress 4 4 supporting the UKs economic recovery.
We need to demonstrate Not completed 5 2 7 that we are meeting our obligations to our customers by continuing to give them access to the finance they need.
Whilst our main Total 171229 contribution to society is our direct economic impact, we strongly Geography of completed transactions believe that this must also be supported by our active investment in the communities in which we operate.
US 325 Europe 5 8 13 Supporting the UKs economic recovery Rest of world We know that there are those who believe that the banks are not lending enough, and that it is difficult for people to obtain loans.
We Total 8 10 18 believe that at Lloyds Banking Group we are playing a very active part Industry of completed transactions in the economic recovery.
Indeed, as a UK-focused bank, we have a vital interest in supporting its recovery.
Number m Renewables 8 391 In 2010, we extended over 79 billion of new lending to homeowners and businesses.
As a predominantly UK bank, the vast majority of this Infrastructure 8699 lending was conducted in this country.
We remain ahead of the Energy & ulilities 2 78 mortgage and business lending commitments made by the Group to Total 181,168 the Government for the year ending February 2011.
62 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2010 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY In 2010, we launched Money for Life, our new 4 million financial During 2010 we extended 30 billion of gross mortgage lending capability programme for the further education sector.
We are including remortgages to UK homeowners, representing around partnering with the Consumer Financial Education Body and skills 1 in 5 of all new mortgages in the UK.
We extended more than agencies in each of the four nations of the UK to promote and deliver 5 billion in new lending to first time buyers, helping over 50,000 the programme.
Money for Life aims to develop the capacity of the customers buy their first homes in 2010.
We also support various further education sector to improve the financial capability and schemes which help first time buyers, including Right to Buy, Shared personal money management skills of the three million people they Equity and Shared Ownership.
Over the next two years we will also aim to train 500 of our We made available 49 billion of committed gross lending to UK employees through the programme.
This training will provide them businesses in 2010, of which 11 billion was for SMEs.
We continue to with the skills they need to support our financial education agenda in approve over 80 per cent of lending applications from SMEs.
As the their local communities.
UKs biggest provider of start up finance, we play an active part in developing the entrepreneurial culture of the UK.
We helped more Money for life supporting financial capability in the UKs than 100,000 new business start ups last year.
further education sector We also actively participate in all the main Government lending programmes designed to help small businesses access the finance that they need.
We are one of the most active lenders under the Governments Enterprise Finance Guarantee Scheme.
To date we have offered more than 4,000 loans, nearly 30 per cent of total loans granted under the scheme, totalling around 300 million of funding being made available to SMEs across the UK.
Financial inclusion Our approach to financial inclusion is aligned with the Governments aims to increase access to banking and credit, while, at the same time, In Scotland, Money for Life is funding the creation of a DVD, scripted and produced by drama students at James Watt college, to raise awareness of financial issues amongst young offenders developing consumers financial literacy and understanding.
We aim and those at risk of offending.
A second focus group will bring together six adult learning to lead the banking sector in reaching those that are financially colleges to create specially tailored interactive budgeting DVDs for learners.
Stakeholders in the excluded and equip them with the confidence and capability to Highlands, Dundee and Stirling will also partner to create coaching and mentoring programmes designed to help further education tutors and facilitators gain the skills to provide financial manage their money effectively.
We also have a strong commercial capability support to their diverse learning groups.
interest in helping to create a nation of consumers who are both comfortable and confident in dealing with the financial services sector.
Community investment Our economic contribution to society is supported by active In 2010, we published our first standalone Financial Inclusion Report, investment in communities and our community giving programme.
setting out our financial inclusion strategy and our future agenda.
We We invested 148 million in communities across the UK in 2010, have established a Financial Inclusion Steering Group to oversee our including support for financial inclusion and social banking, activities and strengthen our strategic approach.
sponsorship of sports for young people and donations through We have developed dedicated products and services that address the Groups charitable Foundations.
With over four million accounts, we are the biggest provider of social bank accounts in the UK.
Social bank accounts Funding grassroots charities often known as basic bank accounts are a simple form of current Much of the Groups charitable giving is channelled through the account that are open to anyone, regardless of credit rating, as long Lloyds TSB Foundations and Bank of Scotland Foundation five as they have not been convicted of fraud or are an un-discharged independent charitable Foundations funded solely by the Group.
They enable customers to pay household bills by direct the last 25 years, more than 450 million has been distributed to small, debit, which can save them money when compared with other grassroots charities across the UK through the Lloyds TSB methods of payment.
We also are the only bank to offer social Foundations.
In 2010, we established the Bank of Scotland banking customers a bespoke Christmas savings account, the Halifax Foundation to take forward our long term community investment Christmas Saver.
This is an important part of our work to help close in Scotland.
Last year, we donated more than 29 million to the Foundations.
This We are currently providing the Governments Financial Inclusion enabled the Foundations to distribute 1,278 grants to charities across Taskforce with insights and data we gain from our significant market the UK.
These grants often cover charities core costs, such as wages share of social bank accounts, to help them understand the behaviour for key employees.
In the current economic climate, when many of vulnerable social banking customers.
charities are finding it difficult to attract funding, the Foundations grants are helping many charities to survive.
Financial capability We recognise that we are one of the most important sources of Our Charity of the Year programme financial information and guidance for consumers.
We take seriously Our Charity of the Year programme is our flagship fundraising our responsibility to raise levels of general financial understanding initiative.
It is one of the largest corporate fundraising programmes in across the communities we serve and work closely with the the UK.
The British Heart Foundation BHF was our Charity of the Government, the FSA and other stakeholders to deliver this.
Year from July 2008 to December 2010.
We raised 3.4 million in total for the BHF through a wide range of employee, customer and shareholder fundraising projects.
The money we raised funds Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information 63 Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 14 Board of Directors 110 Report of the independent Shareholder information 284 Lloyds Banking Group auditors on the consolidated Group structure 2 Divisional results 26 Directors report 112 Glossary 285 Annual Report financial statements 144 Group performance 3 Other financial information 52 Corporate governance report 114 Abbreviations 290 and Accounts 2010 Consolidated Strategy and progress 4 Five year financial summary 56 Directors remuneration report 124 Index to annual report 291 financial statements 146 Chairmans statement 6 Our people 57 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 153 Group Chief Executives review 8 Corporate responsibility 60 Report of the independent Addressing the key issues 10 Risk management 65 auditors on the parent company Marketplace trends 12 financial statements 272 Parent company financial statements 273 Notes to the parent company financial statements 276 15 specialist BHF Heart Nurses and 12 healthcare assistants, nurses, Building relationships psychologists and health educators, who will support 14,400 patients We know we have much work to do as an industry to rebuild trust and and their families across the UK.
Our starting point is with our In October 2010, colleagues voted for Save the Children as our customers.
As a bank, we have long term, sometimes lifelong, Charity of the Year for 2011. relationships with our customers.
We are entrusted with peoples money their savings, their mortgages, their business bank accounts.
Ensuring we maintain and build customers trust is core to the Save the Children our Charity of the Year in 2011 sustainability of our business.
Only by focusing on customers needs, and addressing those needs, can we expect to deliver benefit to all our stakeholders.
As a relationship-led business, our people are our most valuable resource.
They are the Groups ambassadors.
Building strong relationships with our people, and helping them to develop, is therefore fundamental to the success of the business and achieving our vision of being the UKs best financial services organisation.
Our approach to building relationships with our people is covered Lloyds Banking Groups Charity of the Year for 2011 is Save the Children.
Working together we separately on pages 57 to 59 of this report.
aim to raise at least 1 million to fund 52 Save the Children Families and Schools Together FAST projects in some of the UKs most disadvantaged communities.
FAST is a unique Treating customers fairly programme that works with threeto five-year-olds and their families to ensure that children get the best possible start to their school life.
It brings together children and their parents, Treating customers fairly, and ensuring that we are transparent in schools and community volunteers to help coach parents on how to support their childrens all our dealings with them, is central to our aim of building deep and development, ultimately helping them to break out of the cycle of poverty.
Our customer treatment standards are aligned to the FSAs best Employee volunteering practice standards.
We conduct regular testing and monitoring to Our employees are our strongest link with the local communities in check adherence with our customer treatment policies and have which we operate.
We are committed to enabling employees to make systems in place, such as our Whistleblowing helpline, which allow a contribution to communities.
colleagues to identify and report behaviours which do not meet our As one of the UKs biggest employers, our colleague volunteering high standards.
initiatives can make a real difference.
In 2010, we launched our Day to Make a Difference volunteering programme.
This enables all Listening to our customers Lloyds Banking Group employees to spend one day a year during Every month we contact 75,000 customers as part of a systematic work time volunteering for a charity or local community project of customer feedback process.
We listen carefully to what our customers their choice.
Over 7,300 employees volunteered during 2010 in their tell us, both good and bad, and use this to make changes where local communities.
Often, we learn about the small things that cause irritation to customers.
By listening to our customers, we can quickly put Matched giving things right.
Through our Matched Giving scheme, operated by our charitable Foundations, we enable employees to maximise their contributions Addressing customers complaints to the charities and causes that are important to them.
In 2010, The vast majority of our customers are happy with the service we employees could claim up to 500 from the Foundations to match provide.
When we do receive complaints, we take them seriously, funds they raised for charity, including our Charity of the Year, or time and ensure that they are dealt with quickly, fairly and consistently.
This has been raised to 1,000 per employee Our 40,000 customer-facing and call-centre employees have also in 2011. received extra, in-depth training on handling of customer complaints.
We now resolve 90 per cent of complaints at first touch in a branch In 2010, our colleagues claimed 1.3 million in matched funding, or over the phone with the support of our new Phone a Friend raising 3.2 million for charities in the process.
Overall, we improved our customers view of complaint handling by 10 points in 2010.
However, we know Community sponsorship we have to work hard to reduce the number of complaints we receive As the Official Banking and Insurance Partner of the London 2012 in the first place if we are to achieve our goal of becoming the UKs Olympic and Paralympic Games, we are using the power of the best and most recommended bank.
London 2012 Games to inspire young people to take part in more sport through Lloyds TSB and Bank of Scotland National School Sport Delivering innovative products and services Week, delivered in partnership with the charity Youth Sport Trust in We work hard to introduce new and innovative products that respond England and Wales and Sport Scotland in Scotland.
In 2010, almost to customers evolving needs, underlining our commitment to 50 per cent of UK schools, and five million young people, took part.
building long-term relationships with our customers.
We also support the future stars of Team GB and ParalympicsGB In 2010, Halifax launched the Cash ISA Promise, an industry leading through our Local Heroes programme which will have provided move to help drive a fairer deal for customers when transferring their funding to more than 1,000 emerging young athletes across Britain cash ISA.
The Cash ISA Promise enables all customers switching their by 2012.
Athletes receive 1,000 to help towards their training, existing cash ISA to Halifax, to earn interest from the first day that we equipment and travel costs.
receive their completed transfer form.
It was launched in response to 64 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2010 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY industry-wide complaints that ISA transfers take too long, costing for the next three years, providing expert guidance and support for consumers millions in lost interest.
Lloyds TSB and Bank of Scotland up to 90,000 SMEs on starting up, employment, exporting, bidding have also committed to paying customers interest upon receipt of for London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games contracts, finance their ISA applications.
Halifax also launched a No Fees First Time Buyer Mortgage early in Our dedicated Business Support Unit provides bespoke help to 2011 a first among mainstream lenders.
The mortgage offers Halifax business customers that are facing difficulty.
Wherever possible, current account customers a 90 per cent loan-to-value mortgage at a we work to turn these businesses around and restore their financial two year fixed-rate of 5.79 per cent.
It has been specifically designed stability so that they are able to return to mainstream banking.
to help first time buyers by paying the fees on their mortgage.
By focusing on helping these businesses recover, we have an opportunity to deepen relationships and retain loyal customers.
Lloyds TSBs unique Lend a Hand mortgage enables buyers to take out a mortgage with a deposit of as little as 5% at an equivalent rate Building relationships with our suppliers to borrowers with a significantly bigger deposit.
The mortgage is Our suppliers are important to us.
We actively encourage our linked to the savings of a helper, such as a family member, to top up employees to build strong working relationships with them.
We are the deposit to 25% of a propertys value.
a signatory to the Prompt Payment Code, committing to paying Research published by Lloyds TSB shows that, Second Steppers those suppliers on time and not changing the payment terms agreed at still living in their first home, but looking to take their next step up the the outset of the contract.
This Code requires that we provide clear housing ladder are the segment of the market most likely to have guidance on payment procedures, including redress for any disputes, their equity levels affected by a reduction in house prices.
Second and encourage similar good practice amongst our suppliers and Steppers typically bought their first homes at the height of the market other businesses.
and, due to market conditions, have not benefited from any increase in their equity.
Originally launched for first time buyers, in 2010 Payment of suppliers Lend a Hand was extended to all home movers, in recognition of the 2010 2009 2008 2007 challenges faced by Second Steppers of securing a larger deposit.
No Number of payments 576,940 763,917 335,713 320,579 other major lender offers deals for customers moving house unless Value bn 5.82 5.22 2.67 2.20 they have a deposit of at least 10%.
Average time to pay days 27.21 28.33 26.03 28.78 Increasing transparency Number amount of We took a number of industry leading steps in 2010 to improve compensation payments for transparency for savers.
Lloyds TSB and Halifax have taken steps to: late settlement Nil Nil Nil Nil Ensure current interest rate information is clearly visible online and on 2010 and 2009 data represents Lloyds Banking Group.
Historical data is Lloyds TSB only.
Offer existing savings customers access to all savings deals ensuring Independent assessment of our performance that no barriers exist for those wishing to switch to a better-paying In 2010, we were re-selected for the Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
This comprises the top 10 per cent most sustainable companies Ensure that an online calculator is available to help customers work globally, based on long-term economic, environmental and social out exactly how much interest they can earn in different accounts.
We are the top UK bank in the new FTSE CDP Carbon During 2011, all of the Groups main savings brands, including Strategy Index Series launched in 2010 and a component of the Lloyds TSB, Halifax, Bank of Scotland, Cheltenham & Gloucester and Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index.
We are also Platinum Birmingham Midshires will publish savings interest rates on customer performers in Business in the Communitys Corporate Responsibility statements.
Index and are included in the FTSE4Good Index.
We are also investing in tools to help customers have greater control Summary of their money.
Lloyds TSBs cutting edge online Money Manager service helps customers track spending patterns and manage their Looking ahead, we need to continue to engage in open conversations finances.
It provides a combined view of spending across Lloyds TSB with our key stakeholders and demonstrate how we are listening to personal current accounts and credit cards, and can break down their needs.
We realise that it will take time to rebuild trust and customers expenditure under categories such as bills and shopping, understanding in the sector and we are committed to leading the helping them to budget.
By listening to our stakeholders, and by acting in their best interests, we will support our strategic aim of being recognised by Supporting Britains businesses them as the UKs best financial services organisation.
Over time, we We support corporate and commercial customers throughout the believe that this will enable us to deliver superior, more sustainable economic cycle to ensure their financial health, stability and growth.
Through this approach we are able to build deep and lasting relationships with customers, and support their ongoing contributions to the UK economy.
As part of our award winning 2012 SME Charter, we have pledged to support 300,000 new start-ups across the country by 2012.
The Charter sets out a series of commitments that form a three year programme of support for SMEs to help them grow as the recovery C C Compreh hensive CR resource online: gains momentum.
We are running 200 business seminars every year www.
