28 Man Group plc Annual Report 2010 Business Review Corporate Responsibility culture.
Corporate Responsibility continues to Our approach to Corporate Responsibility play a key role in meeting the aspirations of our employees, and engages with them in an open reflects our strategic objective of being a and transparent manner through these programmes.
Voluntary staff turnover at Man is leader in risk management, governance and low, and has remained stable despite recent business sustainability.
We continue to focus difficult trading conditions.
on four key areas of non-financial risk.
Community Our engagement with and support of communities both local to Mans offices and further afield is a key differentiator in motivating Our marketplace our staff, attracting new talent and developing We use this term to describe our interactions a positive culture.
with our stakeholders as investors both in our Ensuring the sustainability company and our products.
Mans donation to the Man Group plc Charitable Trust and other charities via global of the business and winning Embedded within all aspects of our offices is based on a formula which guarantees the trust of our shareholders marketplace are Mans principles for the donations of no less than 0.5% of Group highest standards of business behaviour pre-tax profits.
Back cover and stakeholders are honesty, fairness, transparency and the fundamental to the role of provision of clear and unbiased information.
This year has seen the launch of ManKind, our employee volunteering programme, where all the Board and the success Our compliance and risk management UK employees receive two days paid leave per of Man.
disciplines are essential components of the year to support either charities of their choice investment management process for investors or one of the charities supported by the Trust Jon Aisbitt and in maintaining a high quality, sustainable and promoted in a quarterly programme.
Chairman business for our shareholders.
Employee volunteering levels are increasing, and we look forward to further engagement Overseeing these disciplines is a robust next year as ManKind gains momentum.
corporate governance framework with responsibility for the overall management and performance of the business as well as the development of strategy and associated policies.
During the financial year there were no material regulatory breaches leading to enforcement $8.7m action by a regulator.
Mans Charitable Trust donation in FY 2010 Our people Attracting the highest calibre individuals, motivating them to excel, and developing them to progress in their careers is critical to the sustainability of our business.
PG 26 Our ongoing commitment to employee welfare is evidenced in the suite of programmes that form part of our CR strategy, which has taken into account responses from employee surveys, for example employees attended workshops addressing health and wellbeing, work life balance, parenting etc.
In addition employees have annual medicals and can make personal choices, e. g. holiday allowances, through our global flexible benefits schemes.
Fostering an environment where employees feel confident in expressing their views is also an essential element of our 29 Man Man Group plc Annual Report 2010 We partner with Arrival Education in their We have been a signatory to the Carbon Success for Life programme developed to Disclosure Project since 2006 and a member address issues facing young people.
Through of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index since our management development and training 2007, demonstrating our climate change programmes our senior managers are actively commitment to the wider investment engaged in coaching students with the community.
Man is also a member of the intention of preparing them for success FTSE4Good Index.
Health and safety Our larger offices select an Employee Annual Man Group is committed to ensuring the Charity, organising various fundraising activities health and safety of all its employees, that are matched by the Trust and global contractors and visitors, whilst on Group charitable committees.
In the UK, employees premises or away on business, so far as is are encouraged to participate in the Give As reasonably practicable.
Local senior You Earn GAYE scheme that the Trust management are responsible for adherence matches up to $150 per employee per month.
with the Group Global Environment, Health & Safety Policy that is facilitated through the Environment individual Building Administrations teams.
Our commitment to measuring and reducing our environmental impact remains a key part of Assurance our strategy, as is appropriate to the nature and To ensure the credibility of the data scale of our office-based business collected and the efficacy of our Corporate Responsibility report and associated In the UK from April 2010 Man will participate programmes we continue to undertake a in the Carbon Reduction Commitment comprehensive external assurance by The Energy Efficiency scheme.
This is part of the Virtuous Circle Limited.
government initiative to encourage companies to address their environmental impacts, Further detailed information on our Corporate specifically their greenhouse gas emissions Responsibility programmes and progress to that cause man-made climate change.
align and embed initiatives across the Group, including a dashboard of performance Using an Internet based application, our indicators, can be found on our dedicated global non-financial data is consolidated and Corporate Responsibility website reported, including our use of utilities and air www.
During the year the Group has continued to enhance its infrastructure through significant investment in technology-driven initiatives that deliver greater efficiency.
Our UK offices Between training to run the purchase green electricity and benefit from London Marathon in aid of our a combined heat and power plant and an UK Annual Charity, Hayley ice bank system.
Our Swiss office utilises used some of her ManKind geothermal heating and cooling whilst the volunteering days to take a New York office benefits from the use of solar group of underprivileged panels.
Further progress has been made children from our local with the introduction of energy efficient IT community to visit the infrastructure and video conference units.
Whilst we recognise the need for air travel, and limit this where practical, we will continue to purchase Verified Emission Reduction credits to offset our emissions.
Hayley Nunn Company Secretariat, London
