26 Man Group plc Annual Report 2010 Business Review People A diverse, engaged employee base.
27 Man Group plc Annual Report 2010 Employee statistics by function Man is fundamentally a people business: % attracting the best, motivating them to Technology AHL Central excel, retaining them and ensuring that they Group 7% Management & Product 14% Support 3% Structuring Finance, progress in their careers are fundamental to Legal & Compliance Distribution 7% the sustainability of our franchise.
16% TOTAL Multi- 1,500 Manager Business Finance 12% At year end, Man had a total of 1,500 Remuneration policy 7% permanent employees of which approximately Our people directly influence our success HR 9% 600 are based in the UK and 500 in as a business and the performance we Marketing & Institutional Sales Client Services 2% Switzerland.
The remainder are located around achieve for our product investors and 23% the world in regional offices, supporting our corporate shareholders.
This contribution is Investment Professionals investment managers and servicing investors recognised in their advancement within the Qualifications beyond first degree and distributors.
Company and in their remuneration.
Our remuneration is heavily performance based Our values and reflects individual, business unit and PhD Mans values, and the behaviours they Company performance.
The Companys Degree encourage, define the working environment at share programmes, which are an important Man, which sets us apart to compete for part of total remuneration packages, ensure outstanding talent.
The decision in March 2009 that our people think and act as long-term to unite our three multi-manager businesses shareholders in the Company.
provided the opportunity to review, companywide, the values which individuals felt were Employee engagement and distinctive, compelling and true about working support for Man at all levels.
A management priority for Man Groups employment policy sets the Master the coming financial year is to ensure that our framework for achieving the highest levels Average length of service values are reflected in our processes and of performance by offering the provision of Yrs measurement systems.
support, assistance and understanding to all our people.
Roles and responsibilities are made clear, and our internal communication Ambition 4.6 5.1 5.2 4.3 4.8 focuses on helping employees understand Top quartile performance and excellence their role in achieving corporate objectives.
in client service Results in corporate and personal growth Employees attend Town Hall meetings and receive regular emails directly from senior Integrity management as well as ebulletins, monthly In every action we take business reports and business magazines Results in trust and accountability AHL Multi-Manager Distribution & Product Governance via the Intranet.
Business Institutional Structuring Compliance Sales & Risk Entrepreneurialism We engage with our people through surveys To challenge and change which are transparently analysed and reported.
Results in innovation Our UK and US employees are encouraged to invest in the business in which they work through Collaboration a share-based savings incentive scheme.
Based on mutual respect Results in efficiency and productivity Mans culture is grounded in mutual respect Open communication and non-discrimination irrespective of age, Without hierarchy disability, gender, race, religion, sexual Results in bringing out the best in all orientation or educational background.
We offer tangible support to our people, which includes making arrangements for disabled employees including those who may have become disabled during their employment with us.
