PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2010 Overview Business review Report of the Ethics Committee Remuneration report 52 52 Governance 53 Financial statements Other information Purpose Business during the year Remuneration policy summary The Board believes that the way in which the Group behaves During 2010 the Ethics Committee met three times to deal with Policy: To provide market-competitive total remuneration packages enabling the recruitment and retention of high calibre and interacts with its stakeholders is key to the Groups longthe following business: individuals required to drive the future growth and performance of its business, recognising the highly competitive and dynamic term success and development.
Reflecting the importance the nature of the online gaming sector and placing an emphasis on providing a share-based remuneration packages appealing to February: Group places on corporate and social responsibility CSR, the entrepreneurial and innovative executives.
Review role of Head of Regulatory Compliance Board has appointed an Ethics Committee, despite there being Fixed elements Market positioning for 2011 no requirement to do so under the Code.
Review reports from the Head of Regulatory Compliance and the Anti-Money Laundering Officer Amounts Benefits Awards Salary Membership Executive Director 2010 2011 The members of the Ethics Committee in 2010 are as follows: Review of CSR management strategy Tim Bristow Chairman Approve the CSR disclosures in the 2009 Annual Report Jim Ryan Lower Median quartile CEO Co-CEO 500,000 500,000 Rami Lerner Review the charitable donations made by the Group in 2009 Martin Weigold Lewis Moonie Review of GoodCorporation presentation Group Finance Director CFO 428,500 428,500 Rod Perry Review the Committees work in 2009 and its terms of Norbert Teufelberger reference Co-CEO 500,000 Details of the future membership of the Ethics Committee are set out on page 46 of the Annual Report.
October: Joachim Baca Review reports from the Head of Regulatory Compliance COO 428,500 Responsibilities and the Anti-Money Laundering Officer The Ethics Committee has adopted terms of reference, Benefits Private medical insurance, permanent health insurance and life assurance.
Lower quartile approved by the Board that are available on the Companys Review of CSR management strategy Pension None N A website: www.
Receive a GoodCorporation update Variable elements Market positioning for 2011 In summary, the main responsibilities of the Ethics Committee are to oversee that the Group has effective controls and Review the policies and processes adopted by the Group to policies regarding the following: ensure its games remain fair Annual Bonus Executive Director 2010 Annual executive bonus scheme responsible gaming including the prevention of underage or Review a summary of eCOGRA EGBA Standards Jim Ryan CEO 960,000 480,000 paid in cash and 480,000 paid problem gambling: Compliance Audit in deferred shares.
compliance with the gaming licenses held by the Company Consider the need for a Group-wide probity policy Martin Weigold 352,403 paid in cash.
or any of its subsidiaries: Group Finance Director Review of the 2010 charitable donations anti-money laundering: 2011 Bonus Banking Plan December: Upper quartile All Executive Directors Up to 300% of annual salary.
Half the award paid in the fairness and integrity of the Companys gaming systems Review of Group probity policy cash and half deferred into shares vesting in Year and the process for managing any challenges to the fairness 3 and 4, subject to 50% forfeiture of outstanding and or integrity of these systems: Tim Bristow amounts in Year 2 and 3 for underperformance.
privacy and data protection: Chairman of the Ethics Committee Share incentives 2010 2011 employment matters relating to codes of conduct and 3 March 2011 Executive fair market value options Value Creation Plan: Shares Upper quartile health and safety: Executive FMV Plan vesting after banked at the end of Years 1, 2 charitable donations and investment in the local community: three years subject to satisfying Clean EPS and 3 subject to TSR performance performance condition.
outperforming a threshold by the Companys suppliers and service providers: at least 10% each year.
Share Performance Share Plan awards PSP the Companys impact on the environment: and pool equivalent to 4% of the vesting after three years subject to outperformance of the threshold, satisfying three-year TSR performance gambling license probity matters.
with each Executive Director condition.
From a day-to-day management perspective, the Group receiving 10% of the pool.
Nil-cost share options granted on Finance Director has executive responsibility for CSR matters.
Shares vest in Years 3 and 4. recruitment and for retention vesting over 4 5 years.
