Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2009 10 33 Business review Corporate responsibility Associations UGAMM.
The service is for elderly people who live This report focuses on some of the many corporate responsibility activities that Cable & Wireless Communications alone and connects them to a 24 7 support line.
has undertaken during the year.
Corporate responsibility is Many of our business units have established programmes, including defined under four business principles against which our apprenticeships, for school children and school leavers.
The Sure Apprentice programme that began in our Isle of Man business has been extended to Jersey and Guernsey.
The Dhiraagu Seek continuous improvement in our environmental performance Using the same methodology that was applied to 2008 09 report, Apprenticeship Programme in the Maldives, started in 2008, we have made good progress on efforts to reduce our carbon received another 20 students in January 2009.
In Macau, we gave footprint and business travel.
We estimate our carbon footprint to scholarships to 12 more students, the eighth consecutive year that be 116,000 tonnes of CO we have been involved in this initiative.
based on our scope 1 and scope 2 2e greenhouse gas emissions compared with 122,000 tonnes last year.
In Antigua and Barbuda, we collaborate with the Ministry of Our electricity consumption reduced from 200 million kWh last year Education to ensure that all students have access to advances in to 170 million kWh this year and our fuel usage is down to 4.6 million technology.
Free internet access is provided to schools in Dominica litres from 5.4 million litres last year.
and the LIME Jamaica Foundation has given away 1,090 computers Last year Cable and Wireless plc reported that it intended to to 110 schools since 2007, 10% of all the schools on the island.
introduce high definition video conferencing and encourage Cable & Wireless Panama Foundation organised its Web Pages colleagues to change their travel patterns.
These initiatives have competition for the fourth consecutive year.
This, along with the contributed to a reduction of 700 tonnes of CO from last years 2e National Oratory Competition, is arranged jointly with the Ministry total of 3,200 tonnes of CO down to 2,500 tonnes of CO 2e 2e of Education.
In the Caribbean we have continued to invest in training with the Our Panama business completed a project in July 2009 that uses launch of a new e-Learning portal on 1 July 2009.
This provides solar and wind power to generate energy to operate radio base access to more than 3,000 courses and is available 24 7 to all stations.
The indigenous community of Piriati in Darin Province is employees in the region.
By the end of February 800 users had the first to benefit.
Its base station is the only one in the country accessed more than 2,500 courses.
that uses alternative energy all the time, saving an average of 5,000kW per month.
Respect cultures, values and human rights throughout The Government of the Maldives is committed to becoming the first our operations carbon neutral country in the world.
This initiative was supported by We continue to develop our ethics programmes.
Our new status has our Maldives business as a main partner of the 350 campaign.
50% led to a full review of our policies and procedures.
Over the coming of our network node sites outside Mal the capital city use year, our London corporate centre will be working to ensure that a renewable energy which accounts for 10% of power generated at risk-management structure, incorporating governance and ethics these sites.
programmes, is operating properly in all regions.
In 2008 09 our Macau business launched an online paperless billing In Panama, we have supported the Inter Collegiate Championship of service and now 33% of its customers have opted for online billing Values.
Students from different schools in Panama attended an event resulting in paper usage decreasing by 24% since June 2009. on the importance of ethical and moral values.
A Go Green billing initiative has been launched by our Caribbean The LIME Jamaica Foundation ran a special summer project of a business across the whole region, aimed at reducing the average bill months employment for 26 students who learnt the importance from five pages to two through consolidated or electronic billing.
of developing good work ethics, teamwork and interpersonal skills as well as the development of competitive spirit.
Each student was Contribute positively to the social and economic development mentored by a member of our senior management team.
of the communities in which we operate All of our regional businesses emphasise the training, development We have contributed US$1.7 million directly to community projects and employment of nationals rather than expatriates.
The issues addressed are as wide ranging as the businesses.
Nurture best practice in our activities Across all our regions there is a growing awareness of the need A sustainable procurement questionnaire was distributed to all to protect children online and we have undertaken a number of of our strategic suppliers and sent out to the top five suppliers for initiatives this year.
Our Maldives business launched a parental each regional business to assess their sustainability practices.
Of control service for broadband ADSL users.
The company has also the environmental impacts identified by suppliers, energy efficiency, joined the GSMA Mobile Alliance against Child Sexual Abuse.
In the packaging and waste are listed as some of the highest, and are Seychelles, we organised a series of workshops in support of the shared by many of our regional businesses.
countrys celebration of World Telecom Day and its theme of We continued with our Gallup employee engagement survey Protecting Children through Cyberspace.
programme with overall colleague participation at 83% compared We are involved in projects aimed at reducing crime.
In Jamaica we to 78% last year.
now provide landline services at a reduced charge for 16 police In 2009, our Panama business was ranked first by the public as stations in rural areas that were previously without a telephone being the company that best fulfils the meaning of corporate social service.
We also sponsor the Private Sector Organisation of responsibility within society in Panama.
Jamaicas PSOJ Crime Stop programme.
Cable & Wireless Communications is a member of the A first in Macau is the Peng On Tung calling service launched in FTSE4Good Index.
partnership with the General Union of Macau Neighbourhood
