22 22 Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report business business revie revieW W a corpora bout uste responsibility reducing emissions and costs through carbon and energy management is a priority.
We are committed to becoming a sustainable Energy consumption in the UK business.
We have set out our progress against 1 2009 10 2008 09 our sustainable business principles.
2 Electricity kWh 403,681,907 330,889,809 Seek continual improvement in our 3 Natural gas kWh 17,294,554 18,290,586 environmental performance 1 The 2008 09 figures exclude THUS and landlord sites.
Reducing emissions and costs through carbon and 2 Used to power our network, to provide support services such as network energy management is a priority.
Our carbon cooling, and in our offices: inclusive of landlord and unmetered sites.
footprint in the UK and Northern Ireland, externally verified for the fourth consecutive year by the The closure of our largest earth satellite station at Edinburgh Centre for Carbon Management using the Thameside and the associated move to a new site Greenhouse Gas methodology, is 239,679 tonnes of has provided four times the capacity in a quarter CO2e compared with 205,885 tonnes CO2e for the of the original floor space.
The addition of a living last financial year.
The increase is due to the inclusion roof will help to insulate the building as well as of electricity consumption at the THUS sites and attract wildlife.
improvements to the monitoring and reporting of consumption.
With more than 90% of our carbon The introduction of a Workforce Management System for our field engineers during the year is footprint attributable to network electricity usage, we have set a target to reduce carbon emissions per unit delivering benefits both in terms of reducing CO2 emission per fault and improving the well-being of of network traffic and data storage by 20% by April 2015 from a 2009 10 baseline.
engineers by enabling them to spend less time on the road for each fault attended.
We recognise the importance of best practice in The amount of waste recycled has increased from environmental management systems and we have 15% of office waste last year to 28% of waste, set a target to achieve ISO 14001 in the UK by including office waste and installation packaging April 2011 and across our global operations by from network sites, recycled this financial year.
Facilitate and encourage responsible and Cable&Wireless Worldwide is in scope for the new UK Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy innovative product and service design IP, data, hosting and applications are intensive Efficiency scheme, which will require us to report our carbon footprint and to purchase the users of energy.
Energy efficiency measures and maintenance improvements have contributed to equivalent number of carbon allowances annually.
We have focused on improving our carbon the higher operational efficiency of equipment.
Developments in reporting and alarm systems management strategies this year to ensure that we are fully prepared for the scheme.
have also contributed to reductions in energy surges often associated with fault repair.
Cable&Wireless Worldwide Annual Report 23 28% oF our Waste has been recycled this year Our sponsorship of Get Safe Online underpins the We are one of the first telecommunications importance of delivering online security to our companies to achieve the BS 25999 standard for customers and, more widely, promoting it in business continuity which reflects our commitment society.
THUS Limited, as the consumer facing to provide service continuity and reduce risks for part of the business, is also a member of the customers.
A commitment to security is also Internet Watch Foundation.
reflected by achieving ISO 27001 accreditation, the international best practice standard for Information Uphold fundamental human rights and respect Security Management Systems.
cultures, customs and values in dealing with colleagues and others who are affected by Our Managed Video Conferencing solution has our activities expanded globally with our partner Regus opening We recognise the growing importance of good sites in 14 of the worlds business capitals business ethics to the wider economy and society.
including Mumbai, Shanghai and Singapore which We are finalising a new mandatory online business offer businesses a real alternative to travel.
ethics training module which will help to ensure that Contribute to the positive social and economic colleagues understand what is expected of them and development of the communities in which in turn the support available.
Online learning is an we operate important development tool for colleagues across Colleagues determined and committed approach the global business.
The number of training hours to their day jobs is replicated in their enthusiasm including e-learning was 14 hours per colleague to support charitable events and their local in 2009 10. communities.
The Radio 2 Children in Need appeal We were the first telecommunications company in November was a great example of colleagues to assist our partners, the Royal Society for the volunteering their technical expertise and time to Prevention of Accidents RoSPA and the National provide the phone lines and take calls from donors.
Examination Board for Occupational Safety & Health Tlcoms Sans Frontires remains a key partner NEBOSH with the International Working Safely for us globally as does Christel House, supported award which aims to provide colleagues with an by Cable&Wireless Worldwide in India.
At Christel overall awareness of the health and safety standards House, Class 4B continues to receive funding for a and legislation in their respective countries.
holistic education to provide skills for everyday life In addition, Cable&Wireless Worldwide was as well as academic teaching.
awarded the RoSPA Gold Award for Occupational The Advanced Apprenticeship Scheme and Health and Safety reflecting our continuing Graduate programmes have expanded by 50% commitment to protecting the health and welland 20% respectively this year.
These programmes being of our colleagues and others.
underpin our support for the UK governments In 2009, with more than 6,000 colleagues in the Backing Young Britain campaign which, at its core, business, eight incidents were reported under the is about providing opportunities for young people.
Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations RIDDOR and there were no fatalities.
