38 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 Corporate RESPONSIBILITY Responsible behaviour is integral to Cairns activities.
As one of Europes largest independent oil and gas companies, we aim to create sustainable value for all our stakeholders through exploring for, and providing, an essential source of energy, while simultaneously safeguarding the environment and respecting and contributing to the communities in which we operate.
This is at the heart of our business strategy.
Cairn Groups 2010 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR was 0.42 0.42 2009: 0.26 : lower than the industry average Charitable donations in UK during 2010 450,000 Committed for environmental research in Greenland since $4.5m January 2008 find out more: www.
com CRR2010 An overview of Cairns approach to t Initiatives continued in Rajasthan to managing Corporate Responsibility assist in providing access to water for CR and a summary of 2010 performance local people, while we also continued is provided in the following section.
For funding schemes to improve health the last ten years, Cairn has also issued in rural communities, a dairy project a separate report with more details on to help assure farmers of a new, year its approach to CR management and round income, and the Enterprise performance data: and since 2009, this has Centre, where local people have been provided electronically on the Cairn learned new skills.
Cairns 2010 CR report is available t Regrettably, there were two fatalities at www.
among contractors working in Rajasthan Environmental Resource Management and three members of the public were ERM has also provided limited assurance involved in fatal traffic accidents with of selected subject matters within the vehicles driven by contractors.
These contents of the 2010 CR Report and a tragic incidents were fully investigated, statement of their findings is available and corrective steps taken with the on this site.
contractors concerned, to minimise their likelihood of happening again.
2010 CR OVERVIEW t Permission was secured to drill up to t We reached our initial production four new wells offshore Greenland: the target of 125,000 bopd from the first for ten years.
The application was Mangala field in Rajasthan in June 2010 supported by detailed environmental and sales started through the 600km and social impact assessments, during Barmer-Salaya crude oil pipeline.
Prior which 74 consultation meetings and to this, crude was transported via road 4 public hearings were held.
tankers and consequently the pipeline is contributing to reducing the risk of road accidents and greenhouse gas GHG emissions associated with Jann Brown visiting a Cairn-supported transporting our product to market.
education project in Rajasthan Business Review Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 39 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 40 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Our approach to corporate responsibility is about how we manage the interaction between financial growth, society and the environment.
Collecting water from a well in Rajasthan OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY OUR APPROACH TO CORPORATE t Three offshore exploration wells PRIORITIES RESPONSIBILITY were drilled in Greenland in 2010 The complexity and scale of our business Our approach to corporate responsibility without environmental incidents and raises a number of CR matters at local, is about how we manage the interaction only one lost time incident, on an national and international levels.
between financial growth, the environment ice management vessel.
This is based on the exploration well was also drilled During 2010, we concentrated on 10 expectations of our shareholders and in Tunisia with no accidents or CR-related areas: other stakeholders in relation to our environmental incidents.
t Stakeholder engagement financial performance, as well as risk t An Impact Benefit Agreement IBA t Business ethics management and wider environmental was signed with Greenlandic National t Continual improvement and societal concerns.
and Municipal authorities which t Environmental impact included commitments to support t Climate change Our Business Principles describe our key education, promote local participation, t Employee development principles and approach to managing the infrastructure and environmental t Labour practices business which are based on our three research in Greenland.
t Health and safety Core Values, known as the 3Rs: t Cairns CR Policies, Business Principles t Community development t Respect: for people, communities, and CR Management System were t Human rights the environment, the rule of law and updated during 2010 through a process human rights.
of consultation across the business.
We address these priorities through t Relationships: we believe that building t Cairn Groups 2010 Lost Time Injury responsible business practices, which are strong, open and lasting relationships Frequency Rate LTIFR was 0.42 underpinned by our CR Policies, Business with our stakeholders is not merely 2009: 0.26, an increase over 2009, Principles and CR Management System.
a social responsibility, but vital to but lower than in the wider upstream achieving our business goals.
oil and gas industry as reported by t Responsibility: we recognise our OGP 2009: 0.45. responsibility to ensure our actions t The Cairn Head Office in Edinburgh do not harm people, the environment was reaccredited with Investor in or society.
Business Review W E S E E K T O C O N T I N U E L A P L I L C Y N I I M R P P R G O Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 41 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Behaving Behaving responsibly responsibly to people towards the environment We develop the Wherever possible, potential of people we avoid negative impacts on the environment and on biodiversity We foster a We prevent, or where workplace that that is not practicable, respects personal minimise emissions CORE dignity, is nonto air, water and land PRINCIPLE discriminatory and provides fair rewards We behave honestly, fairly and We provide a healthy, We operate to safe and secure minimise our with integrity working environment carbon footprint Behaving responsibly to society We seek to make a positive social impact in every area in which we work We respect the rights and acknowledge the aspirations and concerns of the communities in which we work The Business Principles are shown in the In 2010, we reviewed and updated The CEC is advised on CR matters by the diagram above.
our CRMS to ensure that it continued Group CR Committee, which is chaired by to effectively deliver our policies and the Deputy Chief Executive, and comprises The Business Principles are implemented Business Principles, and ensure it executive directors and key heads of by all directors, officers and employees of remains consistent with good practice department.
The Group CR Committee the Cairn Group and subsidiary companies, and international standards.
regularly reviews Cairns CR Policies, and others who work on our behalf, in Business Principles and management accordance with our CR Policies.
Through the CRMS, we aim to recognise systems, CR performance, and CR risks and and manage potential CR impacts, and mitigation measures.
CR risks are also fed These 3Rs and the Business Principles encourage a culture of openness and into the business risk management process.
are promoted to staff, partners, suppliers continuous improvement.
The CR Policies and The Risk Management Committee RMC Business Principles can be downloaded CR GOVERNANCE is responsible for ensuring an effective from www.
com The Board has overall responsibility for business risk management system on defining Group CR Policies and Business behalf of the Board.
To achieve this, it Cairns Group CR Policies, which Principles, and maintaining and seeking receives regular updates on risk matrices cover Health, Safety and Security HSS, improvement to the Groups CR and registers from the appropriate project, Environment and Corporate Social performance.
It also ensures that effective asset, country and corporate departments.
Responsibility CSR are statements policies and management systems are in of intent and commitments towards CR.
place to manage CR risks in the business.
Cairn India Since 2007, Cairn Groups activities in To support the delivery of these Day-to-day responsibility for implementing India have been managed by Cairn India.
commitments, we implement the business management system lies with Cairn India has an integrated internal a Group Corporate Responsibility the executive directors, while the Chief control and assurance framework, Management System CRMS, which is Executives Committee CEC reviews overseen by the Cairn India Board, supported by detailed procedures and and agrees strategy.
and receives regular updates on CR guidelines.
Applying the Group CRMS matters and performance.
to all our business activities is essential in maintaining our licence to operate and building our business reputation.
N V I E H C O R U A R R B E U V S O I N E S S P E R F O R M A N C E 42 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Capricorn were completed in Tunisia and Greenland We use materiality reviews to identify The Group manages the business to reflect our drilling activities during the and communicate the key CR issues outside of Cairn India, including its year, and the PCDP for Greenland will which are relevant to our business and operations in Greenland, Albania, Spain be updated again in 2011 to reflect the our stakeholders.
The issues faced in and Nepal, through its unlisted, whollyproposed exploration programme for each location are very different, and owned subsidiary Capricorn.
their relevance to our stakeholders varies strategy for Capricorn is delivered by an considerably.
The materiality process is asset-led matrix organisation, applying Additionally, in Greenland, as part of the therefore an amalgam of different views a business management system that process to gain approval for our 2010 and represents an attempt to define a includes CR, technical, financial and drilling programme from the Greenlandic complex position for the Group as a whole.
Government, Cairn carried out both an Full details of our latest materiality analysis Environmental Impact Assessment EIA are available in the 2010 CR Report.
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT and a Social Impact Assessment SIA.
The importance of developing strong Both were subject to public hearings.
Through this process we identified relationships with our stakeholders is The public were invited to submit their a number of key CR issues and each enshrined in our Business Principles.
By comments and concerns about the project, is described in more detail in the engaging with stakeholders, canvassing and Cairn provided written responses following sections.
their views and understanding their needs, to the Greenlandic Government for every we can act as a responsible business, comment raised by the process, prior to Cairn India well placed to achieve our goals.
CR is integral to the way Cairn India operates and the Company works closely Guidance on stakeholder engagement OUR PROGRESS IN 2010 with local communities to ensure they is given by the Group Guidelines for Cairn invests in projects at different stages are active partners in its activities.
These help in the value chain, from the early stages of all country, asset and project managers exploration through to production, and in 2010 saw the amicable closing of all to identify and assess stakeholders, vastly different operating environments, land acquisitions claims that arose from and develop engagement strategies.
from the deserts of Rajasthan in India the development of the first phase of to the waters around Greenland.
Cairn India Engagement strategies for every project ensured that all relevant stakeholders are defined within Public Consultation and were kept informed about developments Disclosure Plans PCDPs.
In 2010, PCDPs with an effective grievance system in place that includes a compensation package.
Children playing in Greenland Potential employers seminar held in Nuuk, Greenland Business Review Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 43 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Cairn India also completed projects From first expressing our interest in To ensure we meet these conditions, in focused on access to water and improved exploring offshore Greenland to receiving accordance with our management system, healthcare and education, and a variety drilling approval, we have worked closely we compile compliance registers and of enterprise initiatives designed to help with the Government of Greenland to regularly monitor compliance throughout local communities.
prioritise social and environmental our operations.
We have also worked to ensure Ensuring the security of Cairn Indias that effective CR management mitigates Health and safety installations, sites, pipelines and other or minimises any risks or potential impacts Working in the oil and gas industry carries assets in India, particularly those located connected to our activities.
In keeping with inherent potential risks.
An essential in Rajasthan, is a key requirement.
The our approach to each new drilling project element of our CRMS is to assess the provision of trained security guards, we undertook independent EIAs and SIAs.
health and safety risks associated with our implementation of other preventative activities, implement effective controls, measures and maintenance of good Legal and regulatory compliance set objectives and monitor performance.
community relations has been critical Cairns activities are subject to compliance in minimising the potential for theft with a number of international and national Our employees, at all levels, are crucial to or damage to the facilities.
laws and conventions, internal policy and ensuring the successful implementation performance standard requirements and of our health and safety policies.
We are Greenland voluntary codes and best practices.
These committed to eliminating all work-related In 2010, Cairn drilled the first wells are all detailed in our Business Principles injuries and illnesses and protecting our offshore Greenland for ten years.
In total, and ensuring compliance to them is a employees and contractors through a Cairn now has interests in 11 exploration key goal.
comprehensive and proactive approach licence areas offshore Greenland.
In addition, applications to carry out Operating in this remote environment activities, whether seismic, drilling, However, despite these efforts, 2010 presents specific challenges.
These range construction or oil production, are subject saw in Rajasthan two fatalities among from the health and safety issues associated to host government and or local authority contractors working on our sites and three with operating in harsh weather conditions, approval wherever we work.
These among members of the public during fatal to meeting the expectations of local people, approvals usually come with a number traffic accidents involving our contractor minimising potential environmental impacts of operating conditions.
These tragic incidents were fully and improving opportunities for local investigated, and corrective steps taken participation in our activities.
with the contractors concerned, to minimise their likelihood of happening again.
The importance of developing strong relationships with our stakeholders is enshrined in our Business Principles.
By engaging with stakeholders, canvassing their views and understanding their needs, we can act as a responsible business, well placed to achieve our goals.
44 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Cairn is committed to protecting the health and sustainability of the locations in which we operate, as enshrined in one of our Business Principles.
Local residents, Barmer, Rajasthan Road traffic has been significantly reduced Cairn excluding Cairn India recorded Loss of well control is an example of a since the opening of the pipeline from the an LTIFR of 0.60 and a TRIR of 1.81, while key potential major hazard when drilling.
MPT but we are still constantly reviewing Cairn India recorded an LTIFR of 0.40 Special attention is therefore paid to our road safety plans.
Recent initiatives and a TRIR of 1.55.
The safety indicators assessing and assuring that the right include a Road Safety Task Force, revision have increased over 2009 and reflect mitigation measures are in place.
This of our Road Safety Policy and guidance the increased activity in 2010 in Cairn includes a hazard identification exercise document, continuous engagement excluding Cairn India, with seismic HAZID for the well control programme with vehicle contractors, defensive operations in Greenland and Bangladesh and an audit of well control competencies driving training for both contractors and well operations in Greenland and through both Cairn and contractor and employees, and a recognition Tunisia.
In Cairn India the increase in personnel.
and reward scheme for drivers.
LTIs were mainly due to road accidents involving contractors.
We will be striving Other measures deployed for the offshore We also measure our Health, Safety to improve our safety performance and Greenland programme included: and Environment HSE performance that of our contractors in 2011. t a dual rig strategy, that provided for in line with the OGP KPIs for health and two rigs to provide relief well capability safety.
The key indicators are Lost Time Preventing major accidents at any time if it had been required Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR and Total The Deepwater Horizon incident in the t peer review by independent external Recordable Injury Rate TRIR.
Gulf of Mexico in 2010 has, among other experts things, meant that there is increased t well defined ice monitoring and With the completion of the first 3 trains at awareness of the potential impacts management procedures MPT and the pipeline to Salaya, the total of oil exploration there.
t independently audited and fully tested number of staff and contractor hours in BOPs Cairns group-wide activities declined by Our risk management systems are key t an integrated drilling team with 40% from 71.9 million hours in 2009 to 43.3 to identifying potential major accident extensive experience operating in million hours in 2010.
Cairn Groups 2010 hazards and mitigating these hazards remote and challenging offshore LTIFR was 0.42 2009: 0.26, an increase throughout the design and operation of locations over 2009, but lower than in the wider our activities.
Major projects are subject t multiple well isolation devices upstream oil and gas industry as reported to a gated review process.
This process by OGP 2009: 0.45. enables the review of project plans and A variety of exercises were implemented risk management at pre-defined stages throughout the programme to test of the project, from concept to execution emergency procedures and test reaction and close-out.
times for this critical area.
International Association of Oil and Gas Producers Business Review Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 45 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Ilulissat, Greenland Human rights Environment and climate change These were backed up with spill contingency Respect for human rights is one of our Cairn is committed to protecting the plans, which were extensively resourced both with high-quality equipment and highly defined Business Principles.
We seek to health and sustainability of the locations experienced response specialists.
apply the principles contained within the in which we operate, as enshrined in Universal Declaration of Human Rights our Business Principles.
While we realise At the end of the 2010 Greenland UDHR within our sphere of influence that our activities can have an impact drilling programme, a lessons learned and activities.
This includes the rights of on the environment, we aim, wherever exercise was undertaken to ensure areas employees and those who are affected possible, to avoid, mitigate or, at the very for improvement were identified and by our activities.
least manage, any negative impacts our included in the planning for the 2011 operations may have.
Meeting our responsibility to respect drilling programme.
human rights is critical to the development One of our major achievements in 2010 and maintenance of effective relationships was the opening of the oil export pipeline Business ethics with our workers and the communities in Rajasthan which, by eliminating the use We operate in some countries with a in which we operate.
In Greenland, for of road tankers, will significantly reduce relatively low ranking on the Transparency instance, we are working to understand the our greenhouse gas emissions from International Corruptions Perceptions Index.
potential impacts of our activities on the transporting our product to market.
As a result, we need to be particularly ways of life of the local population through vigilant about corruption and ensure we consultation and social impact studies.
operate with the highest standards of integrity at all times.
We expect all of our employees to maintain high standards of Cairn has taken a pro-active position on personal and professional integrity and we this issue for many years.
Our human rights also have procurement controls to ensure handbook contains guidance for managers fairness and integrity in the placing of on assessing human rights issues, helping contracts for goods and services.
to ensure that human rights are considered at key stages of every project.
In 2010, we further updated our anti-bribery and corruption management system, processes and procedures, including our Group Code of Business Ethics, and ran a series of workshops to raise awareness of the requirements of the new UK Bribery Act.
46 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED In Greenland, we undertook an EIA before t contribution to programmes that The greenhouse gas intensity of Cairn our drilling operations started, which address the environmental and social Indias fields is forecast to decline in 2011. helped us develop a series of measures impacts of climate change.
For Cairn excluding Cairn India, there was described within an Environmental also a significant increase in greenhouse Protection Plan EPP which was applied We measure, monitor and report a gas intensity from the Sangu field in to the 2010 drilling programme.
significant number of environmental Bangladesh, which reflects increased performance indicators in our business emissions from gas compression and lower In the course of its Greenland operations, activities and these are detailed in the levels of production as the field reaches Cairn generated a significant amount of 2010 CR Report.
There were no oil spills the latter stages of its producing life.
environmental data, which it is sharing with or environmental incidents associated the Greenlandic authorities.
In addition, with our offshore exploration wells in Supply chain Cairn has contributed to environmental Greenland or Tunisia.
We did, however, Cairn, like other oil and gas exploration research which monitors the level of noise experience a diesel fuel and chemical companies, outsources a number of generated by drilling activities and the spill from our Sangu offshore and onshore its activities to other contractors.
As a mapping of theoretical oil spill sensitivity facilities in Bangladesh, and two minor consequence, the majority of operational scenarios along the west coast of chemical spills during seismic and seabed hours worked are being undertaken by Greenland.
$4.5 million has been surveys in Greenland.
In Cairn India, there contractors employees.
Their performance committed for environmental research were nine minor oil spills associated with is therefore vital to ours overall.
in Greenland since January 2008. our crude trucking operations in Rajasthan, all of which were cleared up.
Our Business Principles are important Climate change is a complex issue that has to many aspects of our supply chain the potential to change the way in which The flaring of excess gas during the start up and we seek to ensure that we treat our we live our daily lives.
Cairn acknowledges and commissioning of the MPT facilities in prospective and successful contractors these potentially adverse effects and Rajasthan and major maintenance activity and suppliers with honesty and integrity.
understands the role we have as a carried out in Ravva contributed to a To do so, we implement a rigorous system responsible business in responding to them.
significant increase in greenhouse gas to ensure fair and transparent tendering intensity from the producing fields of Cairn of supplies and services to our activities.
Our climate change strategy, which is India from a re-stated 58.7 tonnes CO2 enshrined within our Business Principles, equivalent per 1000 tonnes of production To bring additional benefits to the locations comprises four elements: in 2009 to 90.7 tonnes CO2 equivalent where we operate, we prefer to use local t GHG measurement, verification per 1000 tonnes of production in 2010. contractors and suppliers where possible.
and reporting: This is still well below the average In many countries where we operate, there t energy and emissions efficiency: greenhouse gas intensity as measured is no well-established sector of companies t informed and transparent action on by the OGP at 163 tonnes CO2 equivalent with experience of working for oil and climate change: and per 1000 tonnes of production in 2009. gas activities.
In these cases, we work Students in Nuuk, Greenland Business Review Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2010 47 Overview Business Review Directors and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information to promote understanding of the needs As recognition for these efforts, the In 2010, for our first drilling operations and requirements of our activities, in company was proud to receive Investors in Greenland, we entered into an Impact particular as they relate to health and in People reaccreditation in 2010.
Benefit Agreement IBA with national safety requirements, and liaise with and municipal authorities.
This agreement international contractors and suppliers COMMUNITIES AND SUPPLIERS sets out a number of commitments from to develop partnerships with local One of the key business goals at Cairn Cairn towards social investment and enterprises, encouraging knowledge is to maintain positive relations with the impact mitigation related to the 2010 transfer where possible.
local communities in which we operate.
We believe our business activities can PEOPLE contribute to community and social The IBA in Greenland was split into four Employing more than 1,300 staff in five development by providing energy, main areas: different countries puts people at the infrastructure, employment and trade t Support education and skills heart of everything we do, and this is with local enterprises.
development in Greenland in order strongly reflected in our CR approach.
to promote greater participation We also aim to add value to these benefits by Greenlanders in future oil and Our priorities include protecting our through focused social investment.
gas activities peoples health, safety and security Our community development strategies t Promoting local participation through and providing them with a supportive are devised and implemented through raising awareness of the opportunities workplace in which diversity and equality consultation and partnership with local and requirements of local enterprises are respected and valued.
We engage authorities, NGOs and other organisations.
in future oil and gas activities with our people to understand their views, t Investment in infrastructure and and provide them with opportunities to By using tools such as SIA and social institutional support such as search develop their careers at Cairn.
baseline studies, we can assess the and rescue and emergency response potential social impacts of our activities capabilities Integral to this approach is staff training and start to develop mutually beneficial t Environmental research commitments and across the Group, over 50,000 hours relationships with our stakeholders.
in conjunction with the BMP and NERI of training were delivered in 2010.
Other Danish National Environmental Institute initiatives at our Edinburgh offices such as Over the last seven years, our operations Child Care Vouchers, wellness events and in India have brought many benefits In recent years, we have also been staff rewards all help to ensure that Cairn to local people, from employment to strengthening our relationships with continues to be considered a desirable improved healthcare and new income existing suppliers and contractors, and place to work.
opportunities, such as our work to help encouraged them to meet the standards dairy farmers in Rajasthan sell their milk.
required by our CR Polices and Business Principles.
Edinburgh based office staff visit operations in Greenland GREENHOUSE GAS INTENSITY Tonnes of CO E per 1,000 tonnes of 2 hydrocarbon production Sangu production site, Bangladesh Cairn India production sites OGP benchmark OGP benchmark is not yet available for 2010 2009 data restated using 2009 API compendium methodology previous gure for 2009 is 47.3 using 2004 API compendium methodology 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY RATE LTIFR Number per million hours Cairn excluding Cairn India Cairn India OGP benchmark OGP benchmark is not yet available for 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 TOTAL RECORDABLE INJURY RATE TRIR Number per million hours Cairn excluding Cairn India Cairn India OGP benchmark OGP benchmark is not yet available for 2010 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 1.5 0.76 14.0 2.75 0.6 48.4 2.9 0.99 163.0 0.36 23.0 0.71 1.64 0.39 37.7 2.68 0.66 162.0 0 0 23.0 0.73 0.27 40.8 2.08 0.55 162.0 0.64 0.64 13.1 0.26 58.7 0.64 1.75 0.45 163.0 1.81 0.60 66.4 1.55 0.40 90.7
