RISK AND RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS INTRODUCTION FOUNDATIONS FOR THE FUTURE I am very proud this year of the way we have listened to our stakeholders and developed a group-wide approach to responsible business which lays the foundations for a sustainable future as a company and as an investor.
This approach is designed to ensure we actively address the issues that matter most to our stakeholders and will help us realise our vision of becoming our customers most trusted partner.
Don Schneider Group Human Resources Director and Chairman of the Responsible Business Committee Responsible Business highlights from 2010 Q First full year of operation of the Responsible Business Committee which oversaw: Responsible Business Policy rolled out across the Group Responsible Investment taskforce set up Q Conducted stakeholder research into responsible business issues Q 13.6 million invested in our local communities focusing on financial education, enterprise development and sustainable community development.
For example: 4.6m through the Masisizane Fund including micro-finance 2.7m spent through the five Old Mutual Foundations.
118 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information Responsible Business is central to our business and shows the nine material issue corporate strategy areas, identied in our stakeholder research, which we discuss in the following sections.
We believe Being a responsible business lies at the heart of this approach leaves us well placed to build on the building trust, an issue that has become ever more progress made by individual business units in important for any financial services company since recent years and to ensure we all work together to the recent financial crisis.
In order to obtain their deliver responsible business consistently across all trust, our stakeholders must believe that we are our operations in the future.
taking our responsibilities as a business seriously, and are actively managing the most important Metrics and more issues we face from a social, environmental and ethical perspective.
Our approach to responsible We want to be accountable when it comes to responsible business.
So we are working to business is therefore a vital enabler of our corporate vision of becoming our customers develop a series of key metrics and performance indicators.
We believe it is vital to have these most trusted partner.
quantiable markers of our approach, but we also believe that responsible business is much more Developing our approach in 2010 than this.
It is how all of our employees approach During 2010, we have laid the foundations for the every decision they make on a day-to-day basis.
It future of responsible business at Old Mutual.
is the way we communicate with our customers.
The way we ensure that we understand them and We conducted research with our stakeholders, their needs.
And how we make sure they who included: understand what we are doing and why we are Q customers doing it.
Q shareholders Q employees Looking forward In the following pages we set out details of the Q industry experts progress we have made on each of these issues.
Q non-governmental organisations We also set out our plans for the future and outline Q corporate responsibility experts the key initiatives planned for 2011.
be able to report back, a year from now, on all that has been achieved.
And for this ongoing activity to We used this research to identify and explore begin to come together to tell a bigger story about which issues our stakeholders felt were most us as a business, and our progress towards important for a financial services company to building peoples trust in us to help them achieve address.
And we have used the findings of this their lifetime financial goals.
research to develop a group-wide approach to responsible business.
We will roll this out in 2011 Don Schneider to ensure that we are addressing these priority Group Human Resources Director issues in a systematic, structured and strategic way.
The diagram on the following page summarises our evolving approach to responsible Don Schneider Group Human Resources Director Old Mutual plc 119 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 S R E M O T S U C S O C I E T Y S R E I L P P U RISK AND RESPONSIBILITY OUR APPROACH TO RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS BUILDING TRUST BY MAKING SURE WE ADDRESS OUR STAKEHOLDERS KEY ISSUES The diagram below summarises our evolving approach to responsible business and shows the nine material issue areas, discussed in the following sections, which were identied in our stakeholder research.
MATERIAL ISSUES AND IMPACT AREAS Supply Financial chain crime Direct environmental Customer impact service GOVERNANCE AND RISK SYSTEMS Community Responsible impact marketing and selling Indirect Our investment employees impact 120 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 S E M P L O Y E E T S N E M N O R I V N E Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information Highlights from 2010 GOVERNANCE Q We completed the first full year of the Responsible Business Committees co-ordination of our management approach towards social and & RISK environmental issues Q We rolled out our Responsible Business Policy across the Group Good governance and risk Q We are developing a series of group-wide social and environmental metrics, systems help us understand against which we will report in 2011 Q We conducted our own stakeholder research on our responsible business and manage our impacts in a approach clear and consistent way.
For Q We participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project and continued to be a member of the JSE SRI and FTSE4Good Indices us, this means being able not Q We received external recognition for our progress in 2010.
A full list can be only to minimise potential found on our website.
Examples include: threats effectively, but also to Old Mutual South Africa OMSA was commended in the Life Insurance category of the Top 500 Survey for South Africas Best Managed seize opportunities when Companies they arise.
Commended by the Financial Services Authority for our Risk and Governance Reporting in our 2009 Annual Report Andrew Birrell Highly commended in  Building Public Trust Group Risk and Actuarial Director, Old Mutual Awards for our Executive Remuneration Reporting in our Annual Report.
Our future plans Risk management is central to how we manage our capital.
This puts it at the heart of how we do Q We plan to roll out our group-wide responsible business metrics and to business.
Understanding the nature of the risks we continue building on our established governance and risk systems to take, and their implications, is critical to building manage our social and environmental impacts.
trust among our customers and, ultimately, to making our business successful.
This drives us to analyse our risks rigorously and regularly.
We incorporate social and environmental risks and opportunities into this analysis, and build stakeholder perspectives into our business strategy.
This is fundamental to understanding our risk prole, and building a sustainable and successful business.
EMBEDDING VALUES THROUGH EXPEDITION SKANDIA Were a values-driven organisation and I believe this benets our 81% customers and they appreciate it.
In Expedition Skandia, we all Employee participation in Skandia Expedition embarked on a journey aiming to understand our brand promise and how that connects to our DNA and core values.
Marie Agren, Interim Human Resources Director, Skandia Nordic Expedition Skandia was an innovative the business, history and goals of the employee engagement project to company, using team tasks such as build a solid understanding of and storytelling, dilemma games and Expedition Skandia employee game commitment to Skandia Nordics knowledge tests.
It was a huge brand promises and company values.
success, inspiring an 81% The project was structured as a participation rate, extremely positive journey through five stages exploring feedback and improved team spirit.
Old Mutual plc 121 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 RISK AND RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CONTINUED Highlights for 2010 RESPONSIBLE Q We delivered training for employees across many of our business units on how to improve the clarity of our customer communication MARKETING AND Q We continued to review the approval process, at a business unit level, that SELLING all our marketing material must go through including legal, actuarial and marketing screening One of the most important Q We delivered initiatives to help build financial understanding.
For example: Skandia Germany and Skandia Poland offer comprehensive support for issues is to help improve distributors including information packs, video podcasts, an extranet for financial education to help brokers, and workshops about products and services Old Mutual South Africa OMSA has focused on changing the way it more people understand our assesses financial advisors to focus on customer relationships rather products, as well as than only on number and value of policies sold Skandia UK launched an online video to explain its fund platforms and providing access to those how to manage investments My Money Plan in South Africa provides advice and help with debt products.
consolidation see page 9 for a more detailed case study Employee Q We helped more people access our financial products and services.
Old Mutual Stakeholder research 2010 For example: A mobile money-transfer service, M-Pesa, introduced by Nedbank and The importance of marketing and selling financial Vodacom in South Africa products and services in a responsible way has Across South Africa we continued to expand access for low-income been reinforced by the turmoil of the past few individuals and community groups by using supermarkets and post years.
It is absolutely vital that we provide clear ofces as distribution points.
and transparent information on our products and Our future plans services which is easy for our customers to Q Responsible marketing and selling will continue to be a focus area for us understand, and that we do everything we can to across all our business units throughout 2011 and beyond.
ensure our customers not only have access to, but also choose, the product or service that best ts their financial situation and their needs.
This is the best path to customer satisfaction and one of the most important ways in which we can build trust with our customers.
122 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information Highlights from 2010 CUSTOMER SERVICE Q We launched new initiatives designed to improve our customer communications.
For example: Skandiabanken and Retail Europe now use online social media channels Good customer service is to gather customers opinions and reach new customers about doing what we said Old Mutual Wealth Managements UK business has launched a new we would do, or more.
And customer website and a centralised system for emails from customers Q We continued to deliver customer service training across the Group such doing it when we said we as Skandia Frances programme on meeting customers expectations, would do it, or sooner.
And which includes seminars and workshops on technical and behavioural training at the price we set, or Q We recognised outstanding examples of customer service through better.
initiatives such as OMSAs Workplace Heroes competition Q More business units now monitor and track complaints and customer Rose Keanly, MD Old Mutual Services, satisfaction.
For example, Nedbank has developed a Client Complaints Technology and Administration OMSTA Tracker system to improve its approach to resolving customer complaints Head of LEAN, Old Mutual Long-Term Savings Q We received a number of awards for customer service, including: We want to be our customers most trusted Skandiabanken Norway won the Norsk Kundbarometer 2010 award for partner.
We can only achieve this if they believe we Most satisfied Customers for the ninth year in a row are committed to providing a good service to them Skandia UK won five-star awards for both the Investment and Life and in all their dealings with us.
Good service stems Pension categories in the FTAdvisor.
com Online Service Awards from understanding our customers needs and OMSA won the annual Ask Afrika Orange Index for Service Excellence in giving them good advice and suitable products.
It the long-term insurance category.
means being transparent and accountable in our Our future plans discussions with them.
And always delivering what Q We plan to adopt a further customer advocacy metric to measure customer we say we will.
satisfaction across the Group and help improve the service we deliver to our customers.
SHARING OUR CUSTOMERS INTERESTS Clients can have peace of mind knowing that Old Mutual Investment 84% Groups fund managers invest their own money in the funds they manage, of all deferred bonus pay of our investment professionals alongside that of their clients.
This was invested in OMIGSAs ensures that every investment decision funds in 2010 is made with a view to achieving longer-term outperformance.
Diane Radley, CEO, Old Mutual Investment Group South Africa OMIGSA We are committed to acting in the significant proportion of their variable best interests of our customers, while pay invested into the funds that they operating a sustainable and profitable manage for customers.
That is why we have clear investment establishes a client-agent safeguards in place to avoid conflicts shared interest in the performance of of interest.
For example, most the fund, providing an additional layer boutique investment managers and of security below our Code of Ethics.
senior executives at OMIGSA have a Old Mutual plc 123 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 RISK AND RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CONTINUED Highlights from 2010 OUR EMPLOYEES Q We launched our ActNow!
Leadership Actions, translating values into actions and behaviours see opposite page Employees are key to Q We made our new Group Vision and Strategy accessible to employees via a special workbook edition of our employee magazine intouch, translated excellent delivery and we into five languages work hard to provide the Q In a World Cup year, we showcased our South African heritage and united our employees through our Old Mutual Group Football Tournament conditions under which they Q We renewed our commitment to the UN Global Compact, which is focused can excel and deliver on our on promoting diversity, human rights and labour rights Q We introduced new development initiatives including leadership promises to our assessments and redesigned our leadership development programmes customers.
Q We delivered wellness at work initiatives across the Group, such as Skandia Colombias week-long programme providing health, sports and recreational Basetsana Magano activities for employees and their families Human Resources Director, Mutual & Federal Q We won external recognition for our employee relations, which included: Treating our employees well is one of our most Skandia UK was awarded Gold Investor in People status important priorities.
We have 55,730 employees in Nedbank won Best Training Programme at the Achiever Awards in 34 countries, who will help us reach our vision of South Africa becoming our customers most trusted partner.
OMSA achieved, and Nedbank maintained, a level 2 rating status and Leveraging the strength of our people and making Mutual & Federal M&F a level 3 status as Broad-Based Black the most of their capabilities is fundamental to our Economic Empowerment Contributors.
It is essentia l that we work with our people Our future plans in a way that enables them to perform to the fullest extent of their abilities and that shows that we Q We plan to integrate our ActNow!
Leadership Actions into all aspects of believe in them, and want them to succeed.
how we evaluate and develop our employees, introduce a new employee culture survey to explore gaps between our current culture and where we would like to be, and update our mobility practices to encourage knowledge transfer around the Group.
DEVELOPING OUR PEOPLE In-house training gave me the chance to study at a pace and time 1,935 that suited me.
Its given me a recognised qualication and it has employees trained through built my confidence at work.
Mutual & Federals in-house training programme Bevan Manchest, Business Development Consultant, Central Gauteng Regional Ofce Building the skills of employees is an Short-term Insurance Level 4 important part of our approach to qualification.
This programme is a responsible business.
Mutual & long-term strategy to build M&Fs Federals M&F in-house training internal skills base offering personal programme, run by our accredited development, benefiting the company training provider, enables employees and tackling the skills shortage facing to gain credits towards the National the South African economy.
124 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information Highlights from 2010 INDIRECT INVESTMENT Q We established the Responsible Investment Taskforce with representatives from Group Head Ofce and business units, to explore how we could IMPACT embed responsible investment principles across the business Q We had over 2.8 billion of funds under management in specically social, From the perspective of an environmental and transformation related-investments, including Old Mutual Investment Group SA s Futuregrowth Fund, the African Infrastructure asset manager, the indirect Investment Managers Fund, and Skandias Ideas For Life Fund impacts of investments Q Futuregrowth 7 billion funds under management and Acadian Asset Management over 31.6 billion funds under management remained have become much more signatories to the UN Principles for Responsible Investment important.
Q Skandia Denmark and Skandia Investment Group drew up plans to put Shareholder expanded agreements in place with external fund managers that include social and environmental criteria for 2011 Stakeholder Research 2010 Q In South Africa we continued to focus particularly on investments that are We recognise that our investment decisions have central to the transformation of the South African economy for example, significant impacts on the environment and society, Old Mutual Investment Group SA created the countrys first Housing and on the communities where our investments Impact Fund, providing over 700 million to help redress South Africas are based.
We encourage our fund managers to huge shortfall in affordable housing.
think about these impacts and how they may Our future plans inuence financial returns when they make these Q During 2011, the Responsible Investment Taskforce will continue working decisions, subject to client mandates.
We also on group-wide policies and frameworks on responsible investment, as well recognise that many of our customers want as helping individual business units to rene their approach and increase environmental, social and governance ESG the range of responsible investment products we offer.
factors to be incorporated explicitly into the investment-making process in a structured way.
We aim to offer our customers a choice of products that include an ethical perspective or can be tailored to include one.
LEADERSHIP ACTIONS A im high and take your team with you C ustomer first theyre the reason were here T reat the business like its your own N eed to listen carefully and talk honestly O wn our decisions decide and deliver W in together help others succeed Old Mutual plc 125 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 RISK AND RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CONTINUED Highlights from 2010 FINANCIAL CRIME Q We began a group-wide anti-bribery risk and control assessment in relation to the requirements of the new UK Bribery Act in readiness for its implementation during 2011 Companies have to have Q We reviewed our Group Code of Conduct to make sure that it provides a systems in place that help clear statement of what we expect from employees in relation to our business practices and financial crime.
The Code will add to the framework prevent financial crime and of controls helping our employees to make the right decisions for our reduce the probability of it customers, and will form part of our approach to Bribery Act compliance when it is issued to business units in 2011 occurring.
Q We continued to work closely with regulators, law enforcement agencies Shareholder and trade associations to share good practice both inside and outside the Stakeholder research 2010 Group.
For example: Skandia Nordics Financial Crime Prevention Team shared knowledge Maintaining our customers trust by delivering both and experience with the Swedish Finance Police on both anti-money strong financial returns and high levels of service to laundering and fraud prevention measures our customers requires the effective management Nedbank is working closely with Department of Home Affairs and the of financial crime risks including fraud, money South African Banking Risk Information Centre to use biometric data to laundering, bribery and threats to customer data help reduce identity theft.
Part of this includes giving our employees Our future plans effective frameworks and training so that they can make the right decisions for our customers in Q We intend to continue our work to ensure that appropriate financial crime controls, such as completion of our anti-bribery risk and control different jurisdictions.
In the process of managing these risks, we seek to ensure that customer assessment and our new Group Code of Conduct, are embedded in employee behaviour.
protection is balanced with customers need to access our services easily and quickly.
126 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information Highlights from 2010 SUPPLY CHAIN Q All business units signed up to our new Responsible Business Policy, which includes commitments to factor into their procurement decisions, where practical, the environmental and social impact of our suppliers and to work The people who have been with suppliers to create awareness and promote understanding of their impacted the most by the social and environmental impact Q Across the Group our business units have continued to develop systems financial crisis and are still and policies that deliver against this policy.
For example: trying hard to meet our Nedbank has developed a nine-point procurement scorecard as a requirement for prospective suppliers requirements are our Skandia UK now includes a requirement in all Requests for Proposals that suppliers.
suppliers have a corporate responsibility policy that matches or exceeds the Group policy Shareholder Stakeholder research 2010 Q These policies have helped us deliver supplier initiatives such as Skandia Nordics policy of sourcing environmentally friendly new ofce furniture, textiles, We procure goods and services from a broad ooring and cleaning services for its ofces range of suppliers.
By engaging them in our vision Q In South Africa we maintained our commitment to help in the transformation and approach to responsible business, we will be agenda through our supply chain.
For example in 2010: in a better position to meet our objectives.
Through Old Mutual Investment Group Property Investments OMIGPI ran a series our procurement policies, we also have the of roadshows in which we explained our policy and helped smaller suppliers opportunity to play a vital role in helping build local to get accredited to the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment economies in the markets where we operate.
choice of suppliers reects our values and has a Our future plans direct impact on the places where we operate.
Q We plan to share best practice on green procurement across the Group, and in our South African business units we will continue to practise preferential procurement in line with the requirements of BBBEE.
BLACK ECONOMIC EMPOWERMENT THROUGH OUR SUPPLY CHAIN The construction and planning team for our new Head Ofce at Mutual 17.8m Place consists of 26 different companies.
It is a very large and BBBEE procurement from all diverse team who are tasked with suppliers R201m based on delivering a agship investment for exchange rate of 11.3095 Old Mutual.
The power of the team lies in its diversity.
Brent Wiltshire, Property Development Executive, OMIGPI We are committed to promoting and to help them achieve BBBEE Broad-Based Black Economic accreditation.
We also continued to Empowerment BBBEE through all train employees and engage larger avenues, including our supply chain.
We are already This year, Old Mutual Investment Group seeing the results: for example, Mutual Property Investments OMIGPI ran a Place in Johannesburg is using series of roadshows to explain our professional suppliers from uniquely procurement policy to smaller suppliers, diverse backgrounds.
Old Mutual plc 127 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 RISK & RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS INTRODUCTION CONTINUED Highlights from 2010 COMMUNITY IMPACT Q In 2010 we invested 13.6 million in our local communities Q We delivered financial education to our customers and other groups, aimed at There are broader issues in giving them the knowledge and skills to make informed choices about their nances.
For example: South Africa, to do with Group Head Ofce continued our support of financial education in London through the Young Enterprise Personal Economics Programme creating jobs, investing in In OMSA we continued to deliver activity through the financial wellbeing local housing and programme, the Financial Sector Charter programme and our Masisizane Fund infrastructure, and also Q We continued to help develop the economic infrastructure in the countries recognising that financial where we operate.
For example: services cannot exist as an In Namibia we supported Womens Action for Development, helping develop basic vocational and business skills for marginalised women island of prosperity in a sea of Skandias businesses in Mexico and Colombia continued an employee poverty.
mentoring programme to help orphaned children develop life skills Q We continued to work with local communities to deliver real social change Employee through our business units, our five Old Mutual Foundations and the Nedbank Stakeholder Research 2010 Foundation.
For example: Our support for communities in all the countries in Nedbank Groups Caring for our Communities and Saving our World which we operate is not just about giving money to programme, which reached 23 schools good causes, but also about making real and The Bulungula Incubator in South Africa, helping rural communities through sustainable positive impacts.
It is in our interests to developing education, health, basic services and sustainable livelihoods.
build a stronger society by supporting Our future plans communities effectively, especially in the emerging Q We will continue to focus on financial education, enterprise development and markets where we operate.
So where appropriate, community development.
We will share best practice and extend the policies we work with others to deliver programmes that for employee volunteering across the Group.
This view is reected in responsible to all stakeholders being one of the three building blocks of our Group strategy.
MASISIZANE: FINANCING DEVELOPMENT IN SOUTH AFRICA After the drought I was devastated I didnt know what 1,496,659 my animals would eat or drink.
But with the loan, I was able to invested through the Masisizane Fund revive old boreholes, buy in 2010 R16.9m based on exchange machinery and expand and rate of 11.3095 feed the herd.
Now my business is booming.
Mrs Nduzulwana, Masisizane recipient Masisizane is a non-profit organisation and people with disabilities.
Its main set up by Old Mutual which provides aim is to be a catalyst for sustainable financial support to enterprise and employment creation.
So far over community development initiatives in 1,000 people, have benefited from South Africa.
Including Mrs granted to diverse development Nduzulwana, pictured here, who was projects from community financial named 2010 female farmer of the year education and skills programmes to in the Eastern Cape.
micro-finance for rural women, youth 128 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Management statements Business review Risk and Responsibility Governance Financials Shareholder information Highlights from 2010 DIRECT Q We have developed a Group Climate Change Strategy, which aims to: Improve the completeness and accuracy of our emissions data ENVIRONMENTAL Set a Group target for carbon reductions IMPACT Create initiatives to engage all our stakeholders Q We increased the proportion of business units accurately reporting energy consumption to just over 80% and we work directly with the remainder to Through initiatives such calculate estimated consumption as the Carbon Disclosure Q We decreased scope 1 and 2 emissions intensity to 2.32 tonnes of CO e per 2 employee 2009: 2.33 but recorded an increase in emissions intensity in our Project, companies are 2 South African property portfolio to 0.17 tonnes CO e m 2009: 0.16 2 already making a lot of Q We continued to improve the environmental performance of our buildings by progress towards helping retting existing buildings and building or leasing more  buildings.
For example: Skandia Nordic has recently relocated four of its largest address the impacts of workplaces including its headquarters to new, highly energy-efficient ofce buildings climate change: however, Q We completed our fourth public submission to the Carbon Disclosure Project we want to help encourage CDP and maintained our place in the CDP leadership index these companies to do Q We have continued to work with our employees to inspire them to reduce our environmental impact.
Old Mutual Swaziland ran a workshop helping employees reduce their Non-Governmental Organisation carbon footprints Skandias businesses in Colombia and Mexico ran an employee Stakeholder research 2010 communication campaign on Skandia Green Year for 2010 We recognise that we, like other businesses, have a Q We continued to support a number of international climate change forums, duty to do what we can to minimise the risks created including the Cancun Communiqu and through Nedbank the Princes by the direct environmental impacts of our Rainforest Project.
Our focus on putting the right systems in Our future plans place and building a coherent approach across the Q We will develop tools, frameworks and metrics to help our business units deliver Group means we are now better positioned than in our Group Climate Change Strategy, and will expand our data collection the past to manage these impacts appropriately.
processes across our business units.
Categorisation as per GHG Protocol Corporate Standard methodology.
2009 gures have been restated in light of improved data collection in 2010.
Old Mutual plc 129 Annual Report and Accounts 2010
