The directors encourage employee involvement at all levels through the staff appraisal process and communication between directors, managers, teams and individual employees.
Environmental policy The Group is engaged in mortgage and consumer finance and arrears management and therefore its overall environmental impact is considered to be low.
The main environmental impacts for the Group are limited to universal environmental issues such as resource use, procurement in offices and staff and business travel.
The Group complies with all applicable laws and regulations relating to the environment and operates a Green Charter, which: ensures all buildings occupied by the Group are managed efficiently by its Facilities Team and Building Surveyor encourages staff to conserve energy provides facilities to enable employees to re-cycle used products controls business travel and provides opportunities for employees to travel to work in various ways: i. e. providing cycle racks and showers where possible displays a Paragon Green Charter at all sites to encourage employees to be environmentally friendly at all times ensures liaison with the local community ensures that redundant IT equipment is disposed of within current directives regulations WEEE - Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment, recycling 98% of such equipment ensures that all fluorescent light tubes are disposed of in a safe manner, compliant with appropriate regulations arranges for paper waste products to be recycled, securely, by third parties The Green Charter is kept under continuous review by the Facilities team.
All of the Groups paper based stationery is procured from FSC certified suppliers.
The Group has been involved in no prosecutions, accidents or similar non-compliances in respect of environmental matters.
The environmental key performance indicators for the Group, determined in accordance with the Reporting Guidelines published by the Department for Environment Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA in 2006 are set out below.
Direct inputs operational Greenhouse Definition Absolute tonnes Normalised tonnes CO 2 gases CO per m income 2 2010 2009 2010 2009 Gas Emissions from utility boilers 366 373 2.5 2.5 Vehicle fuel Petrol and diesel used by staff and company cars 306 342 2.1 2.3 Waste Definition Absolute tonnes Normalised tonnes per m income 2010 2009 2010 2009 Landfill General office waste, which includes a mixture of 154 150 1.0 1.0 paper, card, wood, plastics and metal Recycled General office waste recycled, primarily 164 96 1.1 0.6 paper and cardboard The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 19 Indirect inputs supply chain Greenhouse Definition Absolute tonnes Normalised tonnes CO 2 gases CO per m income 2 2010 2009 2010 2009 Energy use Directly purchased electricity, which generates 1,523 1,417 10.3 9.4 greenhouse gas emissions Water Definition Absolute cubic metres Normalised cubic metres per m income 2010 2009 2010 2009 Supplied Consumption of piped water.
No water is 6,697 6,374 45.2 42.3 extracted directly by the Group water Gas, electricity and water usage is based on consumption recorded on purchase invoices.
Vehicle fuel usage is based on expense claims and recorded mileage and waste generation is based on volumes reported on disposal invoices.
Waste generation figures for the year ended 30 September 2009 have been restated following the receipt of corrected data from contractors.
CO values above are calculated based on the DEFRA guidelines published in October 2010.
CO values for the year ended 2 2 30 September 2009 have been restated for the revised conversion factors published by DEFRA.
Normalised data is based on total operating income of 147.9m 2009: 150.8m.
Health and safety policy It is the Groups policy to comply with the terms of the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974, and subsequent legislation, and to provide and maintain a healthy and safe working environment.
The health and safety objective of the Group is to minimise the number of instances of occupational accidents and illnesses and ultimately achieve an accident-free workplace.
The Group recognises and accepts its duty to protect the health and safety of all visitors to its premises, including contractors and temporary workers, as well as any members of the public who might be affected by our operations.
While the management of the Group will do all within its power to ensure the health and safety of its employees, it is recognised that health and safety at work is the responsibility of each and every individual associated with the Group.
It is the duty of each employee to take reasonable care of their own and other peoples welfare and to report any situation which may pose a threat to the well-being of any other person.
Health and safety policies and procedures are managed by the Group Services Division who liaise with senior management and Human Resources as necessary.
All employees are provided with such equipment, information, training and supervision as is necessary to implement the policy in order to achieve the above stated objective.
The Group makes available such finances and resources deemed reasonable to implement this policy.
All injuries, however small, sustained by a person at work must be reported.
Accident records are crucial to the effective monitoring and revision of the policy and must therefore be accurate and comprehensive.
The Group recognises the civil and moral need to ensure that all employees adhere to this health and safety policy and is prepared to invoke the disciplinary procedure in case of any deliberate disregard for the health and safety policy.
20 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Groups health and safety policy is continually monitored and updated, particularly when changes in the scale or nature of our operations occur.
The policy is updated at least every twelve months.
A six monthly health and safety report is produced by Head of Group Services for the Senior Management Group.
Consultants are employed to carry out an annual audit of all health and safety records, including policies, procedures, risk assessments and training records.
Charitable contributions The Group contributes to registered charities relating to financial services or serving the local communities in which it operates.
Included in the charitable contributions shown in the Directors Report are contributions of 46,453 2009: 36,792 made by the Group to the work of the Foundation for Credit Counselling which operates the Consumer Credit Counselling Service.
The Group has also contributed to charities throughout the year by way of single donations.
The Groups main objective is to support childrens and local charities although no charity request is overlooked.
During the last year the Group has helped many and varied charities and causes such as: Youth Speaks, Pathway Project, Lupus UK, TSUKTransplant Active, Action for Sick Children, Special Needs Adventure Playground Kenilworth, Trinity Hospice, Second Chance, The Childrens Trust, Downs Syndrome International Swimming Organisation, Childrens Cancer Care, Happy Days, The Foundation for Conductive Education, British Blind Sport, Childrens Heart Foundation, RMCH, Shelter, Meningitis Trust, Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Walk the Walk Worldwide, The Royal Marsden Cancer Campaign, Motor Neurone Disease Association, CHICKS, Penn Hall School for the Physically Disabled, Care, Child Haven Appeal SPACE, Zoes Place Baby Hospice, Help for Heroes, County Air Ambulance.
The Group also supports Paragons Charity Committee, consisting of volunteer employees, which organises a variety of fundraising activities throughout the year, raising in the region of 7,000 for the employees chosen charity.
All employees are given the opportunity to nominate a charity and a vote is carried out to select the beneficiary of the years fundraising.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 21 Report of the Board to the shareholders on directors remuneration This report has been prepared in accordance with the Directors Remuneration policy for the Chairman and executive Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and also sets out how the directors principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance relating to executive directors remuneration are applied by the The Companys policy is to ensure that the Chairman and the Group.
As required by the Regulations, a resolution to approve executive directors are fairly rewarded for their individual the report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting of performance, having regard to the importance of retention and the Company.
The performance measurement of the Chairman and the executive directors and the determination of their annual Certain parts of this report are required to be audited.
Where remuneration packages are undertaken by the Committee.
disclosures are subject to audit, they have been marked as such.
In forming and reviewing remuneration policy the Committee has given full consideration to the Combined Code on Corporate Governance and has complied with the Codes provisions relating UNAUDITED INFORMATION to directors remuneration throughout the year.
Moreover, the Committee has given due regard to the link between Remuneration Committee remuneration and strategy, seeking to ensure that the remuneration structures in place do not encourage excessive risk During the year, the Committee consisted of Edward Tilly who or activities that are not in line with the agreed strategy.
chaired the Committee, Terence Eccles, Christopher Newell and Alan Fletcher, all of whom are independent non-executive The remuneration packages of the individual directors are directors and the Chairman of the Company, Robert Dench.
assessed after a review of their individual performances and an assessment of comparable positions in the financial sector and None of the non-executive directors who sit on the Committee within a group of pan-sectoral comparators comprising a number has any personal financial interest other than as a shareholder, of companies with market capitalisations similar to the Groups conflict of interest arising from cross-directorships or day-to-day discounted net present value, there now being few financial involvement in running the business.
The Chairman of the service businesses in the UK of similar size to the Group.
Company does not participate in discussions on his own remuneration.
The executive directors receive a combination of fixed and performance-related elements of remuneration.
Fixed The Committee determines the Companys policy on executive remuneration consists of salary, benefits in kind and pension remuneration and specific compensation packages for each of the scheme contributions see under Pension contributions below.
executive directors and the Chairman.
No director contributes to Performance-related remuneration consists of participation in the any discussion about his own remuneration.
The Committee also annual bonus plan, the award of shares under the Performance reviews the level and structure of remuneration of Share Plan and participation in the award of shares under the senior management.
Matching Share Plan from time to time.
The performance-related elements of remuneration are intended to provide a significant The terms of reference of the Committee are available on request proportion of executive directors potential total remuneration.
As a result of the difficulties in the financial markets in recent In determining the directors remuneration for the year, the years and the Boards rejection of an offer for the Company in Committee consulted Mr N S Terrington Chief Executive about 2008, the Committee has kept the Companys remuneration its proposals.
The Committee also retains Hewitt New Bridge policy under review.
The Committee, having consulted major Street HNBS as its advisor on remuneration matters.
HNBS also shareholders, believes that the current policy is appropriate for advised the Company on various sundry remuneration matters the present needs of the Company, acknowledging that its during the year, which did not conflict with its advice to application will take into account the specific context in which the the Committee.
The Committee will continue to keep the position under review during the coming year.
22 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC
