84 Shareholder Information Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Prole POLAR CAPITAL TECHNOLOGY TRUST PLC PROFILE Polar Capital Technology Trust plc was launched Management on 16December 1996 under the name Henderson Polar Capital LLP has been the appointed investment Technology Trust PLC, with the issue of ordinary shares manager throughout the year.
Mr Ben Rogoff, the plus one warrant attached to every five shares.
The appointed fund manager, has been responsible for the original subscription price for each share was 1.
On Companys portfolio since 1 May 2006.
Mr Craig Mercer 30September2005 the warrants reached their final is deputy fund manager and along with Mr Ben Rogoff is exercise date and were converted into ordinary shares supported by a team of technology specialists.
In 2005, the shareholders voted to Fees continue the life of the Company and they will have in 2010 The Company pays both a basic management fee as and every five years thereafter the right to approve, or well as a performance fee if performance is above a otherwise, the continued existence of the Company.
Further details are given in the Objective Directors Report.
The investment objective is to maximise long-term Information on the Company can be accessed at: capital growth through investing in a diversified www.
co. uk and further portfolio of technology companies around the shareholder information is given at the back of this report.
The investment policy is set out in full in the Directors Report.
Share Price and Net Asset Value The Companys Net Asset Value NAV is released daily, Benchmark on the next working day, following the calculation date, The Company has a benchmark of the Dow Jones World to the London Stock Exchange.
Technology Index total return, sterling adjusted against which NAV performance is measured for the purpose of The mid-market price of the ordinary shares is published assessing performance fees.
daily in the Financial Times in the Companies and Markets section under the heading Investment Rationale Companies.
Over the last two decades the technology industry has been one of the most vibrant, dynamic and rapidly Share price information is also available from The London growing segments of the global economy.
Technology Stock Exchange Website www.
companies offer the potential for substantially faster co. uk PCT, Bloomberg PCT.
LN, Datastream PCT, earnings growth than the broad market, reecting the Lipper 71000395 and Reuters PCT.
L. long-term secular uptrend in technology spending.
The SEDOL code for the shares is 0422002 and the ISIN is Investment Approach GB004220025.
Stocks are selected for their potential for shareholder Portfolio Details returns, not on the basis of technology for its own Portfolio information is provided to the AIC for its monthly sake.
The investment manager believes in rigorous statistical information service www.
co. uk and fundamental analysis and focus on: monthly fact sheets, as well as previous copies of annual management quality report and accounts, are available on the Companys website www.
co. uk the identication of new growth markets the globalisation of major technology trends and exploiting international valuation anomalies and sector volatility Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2010 20826 ARC Polar Back.
