42 Business review and management report: Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility For Provident Financial, corporate responsibility CR is no recent innovation.
Its been part of how weve worked for some time.
A decade ago we took the decision to formalise our approach to CR management.
Ten years down the line we have refined and developed our approach to ensure that CR forms part of our overall strategy and continues to be firmly Peter Crook rob lawson Chief Executive Corporate Responsibility embedded across the organisation.
Manager At Provident Financial our mission is to be the Our CR strategy is organised around six themes: Highlights leading non-standard lender in the UK and Ireland, governance, customers, our people, our supply acting responsibly in all our relationships and playing chain, communities and the environment.
In each W e continue to a positive role in the communities we serve.
That area we have developed policies and initiatives that be represented puts corporate responsibility right at the heart of reflect our company values.
socially responsible Five core values guide our behaviour.
We aim to investment indices our Cr strategy be fair, responsible, accessible, straightforward O ur new head Our CR programme is a crucial part of our strategy and progressive in all our dealings.
We continue office achieved to build a profitable, sustainable business.
It helps to embed these values right across the group by a BREEAM us distinguish ourselves from other companies in ensuring that all our employees understand and environmental our sector, secure business advantage and ultimately sign up to them.
performance deliver long-term shareholder value.
rating of Cr reporting very good It helps us to understand and manage the social, In addition to reporting to stakeholders on our environmental and economic effects of our approach to CR in our annual report, we also W e supported operations.
This, in turn, ensures that we continue produce a CR report each year which documents 23 three-year to deliver high levels of customer satisfaction, the CR programme in detail.
This provides a written community reduce our impacts on the environment, act account of our CR performance and shows how it projects through responsibly in all our relationships and play a relates to our values and business strategy.
It lists our Good positive role in the communities we serve.
explicit targets and presents progress for each of Neighbour our six areas of focus.
The content and quality of programme Our CR programme is also a useful tool for engaging the information in the CR report is externally assured during 2010 with our key stakeholder groups, including against the AA1000 Assurance Standard.
It is also customers, employees, suppliers, local communities, evaluated against the Global Reporting Initiatives investors and regulators.
We regularly seek feedback from stakeholders Further information on CR reporting can be found and use it to inform our strategy.
with employees and focus groups, conduct customer satisfaction surveys and convene We respond positively to requests from investors and annual roundtable sessions with representatives other stakeholders to share information about our from key stakeholder groups.
We make annual submissions to the Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility Index and the Carbon Disclosure Project.
Provident Financial plc annual report & Financial statements 2010 Company number 668987 Directors report: Business review and management report 43 We continue to be represented on the main global A disciplined underwriting stance has been adopted.
accreditations sustainability indices, including the FTSE4Good Agents will only extend credit if they are convinced index, the Dow Jones Sustainability indices for that the customer can afford the repayments.
Formal the World DJSI World and Europe DJSI STOXX credit assessment systems assist decision-making.
and the Ethibel Pioneer and Ethibel Excellence Investment Registers.
For Home Credit, the System Enhanced Lending SEL system assesses existing customers on the Governance basis of their previous payment history.
Each CR is embedded into the way we run our business.
customers SEL status is updated weekly irrespective We have management structures in place to ensure of whether an application has been made.
Agents that CR considerations play a full role in strategic can view customers status and use this to assist decision-making.
The Chief Executive, Peter Crook, has overall For new Home Credit customers, the Single View responsibility for our group-wide CR programme.
of Customer SVC system is used.
SVC helps us He chairs the Management Committee, which meets create a risk profile of new customers using a 12 times a year and guides overall CR strategy.
Other senior personnel on the committee include Vanquis Banks system for assessing current the Finance Director, the managing directors of customers applies behavioural data alongside the Consumer Credit Division and Vanquis Bank, bureau data to re-score each account every month.
the general counsel and company secretary, the corporate affairs director and the corporate We set repayments for Vanquis lending at a slightly strategy director.
higher minimum rate than mainstream providers.
This suits the non-standard market.
Experience has The working groups we have in place help to address taught us that people on modest incomes want the social, environmental and economic issues that to stay in control and they prefer the discipline affect the business.
Our corporate responsibility and of quicker repayment.
We also conform to The Lending Code & Joint Commitment which set environmental working groups collect performance out a number of new rights for card holders, data, co-ordinate management initiatives and for example, how payments are to be applied contribute to CR strategy.
our customers We also recognise that sometimes money is Lending responsibly is a regulatory requirement, a tight.
We have built payment flexibility into our CR commitment and a business imperative.
We have Home Credit product.
The total amount to be repaid built a successful business over 130 years by treating remains unaffected if customers miss a payment.
Some families We find it makes sense to be flexible about the have stayed with us through successive generations occasional missed payment.
It helps build trust and because they trust us to arrange tailored credit we keep good customers in the longer term.
Vanquis products that meet their needs and represent Bank cardholders can opt to pay a small fee to get value for money.
a similar facility to miss occasional repayments.
As responsible lenders we dont want customers to take on more than they can reasonably afford.
We offer straightforward products and provide clear information to help customers make informed choices.
In our Home Credit business, our loans are delivered to customers in their home through a network of 95.25% 11,400 self-employed agents who then call back The score we were awarded in every week to collect repayments.
Agents earn June 2010 which enabled us to achieve a platinum rating commission on what they collect, not what they in Business in the Communitys lend.
Company number 668987 Provident Financial plc annual report & Financial statements 2010 44 Business review and management report: Corporate responsibility continued our people our suppliers We want to attract, develop and retain the best Annual procurement spend in 2010 was 89.7m.
people by providing a working environment that The supply chain is a significant part of our is safe, inclusive and challenging, and where CR footprint.
We aim to purchase products behaviours aligned with our core values are and services that are ethically sound and have recognised and rewarded.
We employ 3,700 people across the UK and Ireland.
We work to ensure our suppliers are aware By helping them achieve their potential we are also of our commitments to manage the social, helping our business to flourish.
environmental and economic impact of our operations.
We undertake site audits and We aim to promote a culture where everyone is prepare pre-qualification questionnaires to encouraged and supported to do their best to meet assess their sustainability credentials.
Rani, Contact our business objectives and their personal goals.
We centre operative are committed to providing a working culture that is We are committed to treating our suppliers fairly.
I led my team in a inclusive to all.
We ensure that the latest thinking on Specifically, we undertake to pay for goods and equal opportunities underpins our recruitment, services punctually.
challenge to create employment, training and remuneration practices.
a flower bed, paint Communities fences and tidy the We have introduced structured training and There are two main strands to our community grounds of a local development programmes in both of our businesses.
We support programmes that residential home.
The process includes regular performance reviews.
address education and social inclusion for people It was a refreshing We work with staff to highlight individual in less-privileged communities and work with change from our development needs and maintain Personal the money advice sector to promote issues such usual work routine Development Plans.
PDPs are updated periodically as financial education.
and a great way to track progress and clarify new objectives.
We also of improving team have mechanisms in place to identify and support Our flagship programme, Good Neighbour, supports high-achieving employees.
We provide three-year skills and team funding to help deliver long-term, local projects.
morale whilst We have initiated several company-led employee making a worthwhile volunteer schemes.
And we provide matchedcontribution to our funding and grant aid when employees get involved community.
really satisfying to see what we had achieved Among projects funded in 2010 were Reach Across, and we eagerly await a cross-community initiative for young people in our next challenge!
Londonderry, N. Ireland: a healthy eating project for people on Bradfords Holmewood estate: and the Venchie Children and Young Peoples Project which serves the Craigmillar area of Edinburgh.
We also provided one-off funding for Veronica House Support Groups Breaking the Cycle, a project to help children seriously affected by domestic violence in Leicestershire.
We continue to support money advice and financial education across the UK.
We support Advice UK, Citizens Advice, Consumer Credit Counselling Service, Institute of Money Advisers, Money Advice Liaison Group, Money Advice Scotland, Money Advice Trust, and National Debtline.
We also support more specialised providers such as Credit Action, DebtCred, and Christians Against Poverty.
Provident Financial plc annual report & Financial statements 2010 Company number 668987 Directors report: Business review and management report 45 a GooD neIGHBour ProJeCt The Joshua Project The Joshua Project is based in Great Horton, one of the most economically deprived areas in Bradford, and indeed the UK.
The project aims to provide self-esteem enhancing activities for young people in the local community through youth clubs, drop-in sessions, music and media workshops, boxing and football academies, a small group mentoring network, environment one-to-one relationship counselling and much Our overall impacts on the environment are more.
The work of the project has received relatively small compared to businesses in some commendation both locally and nationally.
Even so, reducing energy and The project will receive 60,000 from Provident resources can make a significant contribution over the course of three years.
Rich, We published our low carbon strategy in 2007.
The Joshua Project We are continuing to deliver on that by measuring and reporting on energy outputs, by promoting The demand for the energy efficiency both internally and with our project is ever customers, by progressively switching our electricity expanding and with consumption to low carbon sources, by reducing Providents help we unnecessary travel and through carbon offsetting.
have been able to reach even more The Consumer Credit Division moved into a new young people in the head office in Bradford city centre in the autumn area.
This building has been designed with sustainability in mind.
We used the internationally see the aspirations recognised Building Research Establishment of a rising generation Environmental Assessment Methodology BREEAM lifted beyond hopeless for Offices to assess and improve its environmental circumstances, thus performance.
It was awarded a Very Good rating.
enabling the young people we work with Details on the activities we undertook during to have a positive 2010 to deliver our low carbon strategy, along impact on their with information on our performance against community, city other environmental KPIs, are included in our and nation.
annual corporate responsibility report go to www.
Improving performance by reducing our carbon footprint... Company number 668987 Provident Financial plc annual report & Financial statements 2010
