BUSINESS REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 91 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW Corporate Responsibility CR continues to be guided by We direct our resources towards the issues that we believe are Harvey McGrath, Chairman, Prudential plc.
Led by the most relevant to our business and where we can make the most Chairman, the Board regularly discusses the Groups CR impact through our actions and expertise.
As such, we have performance and reviews strategy annually.
established four global areas of focus: The following review provides an overview of our activities and 1 Fair and transparent products meeting customer needs progress.
Prudential publishes an annual CR report, available 2 Best people for the best performing business online at www.
co. uk 3 Protecting the environment 4 Supporting local communities T hrough 163 years of experience looking after Fair and transparent products meeting customer needs our customers interests, and supporting wider We are deeply aware of the importance our customers attach society, we have established a heritage of to the financial decisions they face in meeting their changing responsibility.
requirements for savings, income and protection.
Across the Group we serve more than 25 million customers.
Our approach The demographics of our geographies mean the proles of our The very nature of our products is long term and we do not customers and the products we offer vary across our operations.
underestimate the trust our customers place in us to ensure But, in all our markets, we are committed to listening to our we effectively plan and provide for them in the future.
Through customers and understanding their individual needs so that they 163 years of experience looking after our customers interests, are able to make well-informed decisions.
and supporting wider society, we have established a heritage of In 2011 we will be publishing our Customer Charter on the responsibility that is integrated into the way we run our business.
Prudential plc website, which highlights our key commitments This culture of individual responsibility also extends to the high to our customers across the Group.
standards of behaviour we expect from our agents and intermediaries.
In Asia, we serve more than 15 million customers, with a mix of life insurance, pensions, mutual funds, consumer finance, asset management, health and protection products and services.
W e direct our resources towards the issues that we believe are most relevant to our business and Healthcare is particularly important in a number of our markets where we can make the most impact.
in Asia, and we continue to broaden our health and protection product offering.
Our evolving suite of health-related products includes innovative solutions such as PRUmy child, the first We are in no doubt that acting responsibly with our customers of its kind to offer coverage during pregnancy and infancy.
investments, supporting the welfare of the communities in which PRUmy child also combines protection with savings, enabling they live and playing our part in protecting the environment are parents to provide for their childrens education.
fundamental to managing a sustainable company.
We rmly believe that these activities are best managed by our businesses Last year, Prudential was the first insurance company in Asia to on the ground, those who are closest to the customer and local launch an iPhone app.
Our iPhone Retirement Calculator allows stakeholders.
customers to model different financial scenarios and lifestyle variables to calculate the savings they would need to fund their However, we also recognise the importance of ensuring good retirement.
The app is available in Hong Kong, Malaysia, the governance and achieving consistent standards across the Philippines and Singapore, with local language versions also Company, which is why the Group is accountable for developing launched in Indonesia, Korea, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam.
the overarching framework, principles and policies for each of We continue to innovate in this eld and have a BlackBerry our CR priorities, and for reporting progress to the Board and Retirement Calculator in development.
OUR FOUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBITY THEMES 1 Fair and transparent products meeting customer needs 2 Best people for the best performing business 3 Protecting the environment 4 Supporting local communities 92 BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CONTINUED CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW The United States is the worlds largest retirement savings With ination once again a concern for investors, M&G has 1 market.
Each year more of the 78 million baby boomers developed a number of innovative investment strategies for will move into retirement.
Jackson, our US business, has more clients.
For institutional investors, M&G offers the Secured than 2.8 million policies and contracts in force.
The economic Property Income Fund, which matches commercial property downturn and demographic changes have led many people to be rents against pension funds' long-term liabilities.
In the retail unprepared as they approach retirement.
Jacksons educational market, the recently-launched M&G ination-linked Corporate programme, Retirementology, is designed to help people Bond Fund enables savers to protect their investments in understand how better to prepare for their financial future.
corporate bonds from rising prices.
Recognised for its financial strength, in 2010, Jackson increased As one of the largest active investors in the UK stock market, the number of advisers selling its variable annuity products to M&G takes seriously its responsibilities as a shareholder.
This made these products more widely Its strategy is to invest in companies, not chase share prices.
available as customers continued to seek greater security in M&G takes a long-term approach to investment opportunities times of economic uncertainty.
We also introduced further and, provided the investment case remains intact, maintains its innovations that deliver long-term value to customers.
This conviction in the companies it holds.
includes the launch of the LifeGuard Freedom Flex, the As a Group with a long-term view, it is clearly important to Companys first guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit, participate in global debates and policy considerations that affect giving investors the ability to build a personalised benefit our customers.
Across our business we share our knowledge and that meets their retirement planning objectives.
expertise to help inform policy debates.
Like the US, many people in the UK are insufficiently prepared In October 2010, in partnership with the Washington DC-based for increasingly long periods of retirement.
Prudential UK is one think tank, the Center for Strategic and International Studies of the largest annuity providers in the country, paying an income CSIS, we published the Global Aging Preparedness Index.
to more than one million customers every year.
In addition, our This study discussed the policy implications of aging populations with-profits offering is among the strongest in the industry, in 20 countries and potential reform strategies.
During 2011, we consistently outperforming the market for our long-term investors will continue to participate in the debate.
A copy of the report is and providing them with attractive returns compared with many available at http: gapindex.
The with-profits offering also protects investors from the full impact of volatile market conditions while Customer service and performance giving them the comfort of knowing that their savings are invested Prudentials reputation for good customer service has continued to in a nancially strong and well managed fund.
be recognised through a number of awards and industry rankings.
To help customers make informed financial decisions, Prudential UK has developed a series of online guides offering clear In 2010... product information.
This includes an interactive questionnaire Prudential Corporation Asia achieved: which helps customers nd an annuity product to meet their Best in Achieving Total Customer Satisfaction Life Insurance needs by calculating what level of income could be generated.
at the 2010 Indonesia Customer Satisfaction Awards, sponsored by SWA Magazine Best Fund in Overseas Equity in the 2010 Money TodayA s one of the largest active investors in the Morningstar Fund Awards, sponsored by KOFIA Korea UK stock market, M&G takes seriously its Financial Investment Association responsibilities as a shareholder.
Best Performing Fund of its Category awarded to PRUAsia Pacic Shariah Equity Fund at the Edge-Lipper Malaysia M&G, Prudentials UK and European fund management Fund Awards business, has served retail and institutional investors for 80 years.
It has a history of innovation, designing new funds In the US, Jackson achieved: and investment plans that meet a clear client need.
World Class status and Highest Customer Satisfaction from the Service Quality Measurements Group SQM.
This marked the fifth consecutive year that Jackson has achieved world class status Note 1 US Census Bureau those born since 1945.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW 93 Prudential UK achieved: Best people for the best performing business Five-star rating for excellent service at the Financial Adviser Across the Group, we have around 25,000 employees.
Service Awards for the second year running We work in an extremely competitive marketplace that Best Annuity Provider at the 2010 Professional Adviser Awards demands we attract the most talented people.
It is important that we continue to create an environment that appeals to the M&G was awarded: right individuals those who are committed and able to Global Group of the Year at the 2010 Investment Week Fund deliver top performance for our customers and shareholders.
Manager of the Year Awards Outstanding Investment House Award at the OBSR Honours Developing credible successors for Excellence Awards Strong leadership is critical to the continued success of our business.
Every year we conduct a review across the Group to In the UK, Prudential is a member of the Association of British identify, develop and reward people with leadership potential.
Insurers ABI Customer Impact Scheme, which seeks to drive During 2010, we held four events in each of our Management continuous improvement through monitoring customers Development and Leadership Development programmes.
We are one of 35 companies that participate in the These events support the Groups succession and development annual Customer Impact Survey.
In 2010, our UK business saw strategy and, in 2010, more than 75 individuals were assessed an increase in the number of customers rating it very good or for their long-term leadership potential.
excellent for the time taken to arrange an annuity 64 per cent.
In part this is due to our participation in the Options initiative.
It is important that we not only develop talent from within the This industry-wide scheme, of which we are a founding member, business, but also use our brand strength and heritage to attract is designed to speed up the exchange of information and funds new talent.
Our agship development programme, Momentum, between pension and annuity providers.
operating since 2007, aims to recruit high potential individuals early in their careers and to provide them with a fast-track Despite improvements in consumer confidence and market gains development plan.
Through business placements and training in 2009, some scores in the ABI Customer Impact Scheme fell modules, participants gain the management skills and experience sharply across the industry in the 2009 10 study, especially for required to succeed in an international business.
Momentum return on investment and industry reputation.
Our scores came places a strong emphasis on diversity and is open to people within the industry average.
While this demonstrates that we both within and outside Prudential.
In 2010, the Momentum have achieved a solid performance in very challenging market website received more than 58,000 visits from 142 countries.
conditions, we are taking action.
This includes providing more More than 2,800 people from 83 countries applied for the information about how our with-profits fund is performing and programme.
The 30 successful applicants increased the total what impact this may have on a policy.
We are also improving our number of participants in the programme to 60, who are in roles service to our annuity customers.
We have revised our annuity across the Group.
quotes to make them clearer, and we are providing interactive online tools which explain the effects of different annuity choices.
Across the Group, we always try to resolve problems for our customers as quickly and smoothly as possible, and we are committed to handling any customer complaints in a fair and timely manner.
In the UK, the Financial Ombudsman Service FOS publishes complaint data on case adjudications for more than 150 financial services companies.
Prudential performed well and was placed in the top 10 per cent of all companies in the FOS data.
In 2010, the website for our flagship development programme, Momentum, received more than 58,000 visits from 142 countries.
94 BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CONTINUED CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW Building and rewarding performance Diversity We believe that employees should be rewarded for the contribution they make to our business as a whole.
Our reward W e fully recognise the value that a diverse system is therefore based on both individual performance and workforce brings to our organisation and believe behaviours.
Our remuneration policies are regularly reviewed to Prudential should reflect the diversity of the ensure that our reward structure keeps pace with the markets in markets in which we operate.
which we operate, and that they remain relevant to the growth of our business.
We are committed to integrating diversity into our business It is important for our employees to have an opportunity to practices.
Our policies are guided by the principles of the UNs benefit from the Groups success through share ownership.
Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International In the UK, we operate two all-employee share plans: a Share Labour Organisations core labour standards.
These are also Investment Plan SIP and a Save As You Earn SAYE scheme.
incorporated into our Group Code of Business Conduct which In 2010, more than 14 per cent of eligible employees participated sets individual standards of employee behaviour.
The code is in the SAYE scheme and almost six per cent in the SIP.
Through made available to all employees on the Group intranet site.
these plans, more than two-thirds of employees in the UK now own, or have an interest in, Prudential shares.
In Asia, we operate We fully recognise the value that a diverse workforce brings two SAYE schemes, similar to those in the UK, which are open to our organisation and believe Prudential should reect the to both employees and agents.
Almost a quarter of eligible diversity of the markets in which we operate.
It is Group policy employees and more than 37 per cent of eligible agents to give full and fair consideration and encouragement to the participated in these schemes in 2010. employment of applicants with suitable aptitudes and abilities.
It is our policy to recruit and develop talented people, regardless Developing an organisation that works of their disability status, and to continue employing people who We recognise that an important part of sustaining performance become disabled.
comes from effectively engaging and communicating with our We also train our people to be aware of, and sensitive to, employees.
We conduct regular surveys in our businesses to: the needs of employees and customers with a disability.
monitor levels of engagement with Prudential as an employer: identify the effectiveness of our organisations structures and Protecting the environment practices, and highlight areas for improvement.
Our environmental strategy is focused on increasing the Across the Group there are dedicated intranet sites to efficiency of our business operations by reducing the direct keep employees up to date, and Town Hall events that impact of the properties we occupy, and the properties we offer employees the opportunity to ask questions of senior manage through PRUPIM, our real estate investment manager.
There are also a number of employee consultation forums in place such as the M&G Staff Consultative Reducing our direct impact: occupied properties Committee and the UK Employee Forum within Prudential UK.
For all UK buildings, and Jacksons main premises in North Our UK business also has a long-standing relationship with the America in Lansing, Michigan and Denver, Colorado we union Unite.
assess the direct impact that our occupied properties have on the environment.
This includes monitoring energy At Group Head Ofce, a dedicated team provides regular consumption, carbon dioxide emissions, water consumption, communication to employees across the Group, through the waste and recycling.
This includes communication from senior management on Group strategy, direction and performance.
One of the challenges we face in reporting our environmental We also regularly hold a conference for the Group Leadership impacts on a global basis is the collection of robust data for our Team, approximately 75 senior managers from across the operations in Asia.
Across the region we are often an occupier Company who are either leading a significant part of the Group of multi-tenanted properties and environmental data collection strategy or responsible for implementing a major part of it.
Nonetheless, we are developing processes, and identifying technologies, by which we can accurately begin to measure our impact.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW 95 The UK Government is committed to reducing national carbon In 2010, the business developed a Sustainability Education emissions by 80 per cent from 1990 levels by 2050.
A central Programme for its employees.
This included more than part of its strategy is the introduction of a mandatory climate 22 hours of workshops, seminars and discussion groups, change and energy savings scheme, the Carbon Reduction enabling colleagues to improve their understanding of Commitment Energy efficiency Scheme.
In 2010, we registered sustainability issues.
as a participant in this scheme.
We will be reporting our footprint Part of PRUPIMs strategy is to incorporate sustainability data in July 2011. considerations into its investment appraisal and decision-making Under the European Union Energy Performance of Buildings process.
This includes a sustainability questionnaire as part of Directive, Energy Performance Certicates EPCs are required the appraisal system which determines the value of the assets.
for any building that is constructed, sold or rented.
EPCs rate the PRUPIM is a signatory of the UNs Principles for Responsible energy usage and efficiency of a building, enabling property Investment and continues to lead the property industrys investors and prospective occupiers to consider energy developments in sustainability through its active involvement efficiency ratings and levels of carbon emissions.
EPCs for our in the British Property Federation, British Council of Shopping occupied and commercial properties have been introduced in Centres, UK Green Building Council, Green Property the UK.
In 2010, we retained our ISO 14001 environmental Alliance, UN Environment Programme Finance Initiative, management certication for all our UK occupied properties.
Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change and Better A number of our customer-focused initiatives also deliver wider Buildings Partnership.
benets in support of our CR agenda.
For example, in the US, PRUPIMs approach and progress can be found in its annual Jacksons green delivery programme offers customers the Sustainability Report.
For more details please visit www.
option to receive some of their correspondence electronically.
com This has helped Jackson to reduce its paper consumption and generate cost savings for the business.
Jackson has also Supporting local communities provided funding to the US non-profit organisation Green Prudential has a long history of supporting the community, Forests to plant 100,000 trees.
from our earliest days of Victorian philanthropy.
All our businesses implement community investment programmes Reducing our impact from our property and we encourage our operations to establish partnerships investment portfolio focused on education particularly financial education and PRUPIM manages more than 16 billion at 31 December 2010 social welfare.
worth of property assets, making it one of the largest real estate investment managers in the UK and Europe.
Our approach to community investment is to support charitable organisations and appropriate NGOs, not only through funding, PRUPIMs vision as a leading real estate fund manager is to but also through the experience and expertise of our employees.
deliver superior investment performance through further integrating sustainability into its business culture, activities Employee volunteering and decision making.
It seeks to address its own impact, In 2010, almost 25 per cent of employees volunteered in their and inuence the property sector, through innovation and community on a wide range of projects.
fundraising for local charities such as Cancer Research and the PRUPIM was recertied during 2010 to ISO 14001 for the Muscular Dystrophy Campaign in the UK, to employees giving management of its real estate investment portfolio.
PRUPIM up their time to distribute food to the homeless in the US and also maintained ISO 14001 certication at 26 managed ofce delivering financial education seminars in Asia.
investment properties and PAS99, the worlds first integrated management system which includes ISO 14001, at 10 managed shopping centres.
96 BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CONTINUED CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW Chairmans Challenge Financial education As a provider of financial services we believe that encouraging and supporting financial literacy helps to underpin overall O ver the last five years, since the Chairmans economic development and success.
Challenge was launched, 108 annual projects In addition to the financial education projects included in the have been supported.
Chairmans Challenge, we support a number of other initiatives that aim to improve financial knowledge.
Many of our employees volunteer through our Group-wide In 2010, our financial capability strategy in Asia continued to gain agship programme, the Chairmans Challenge.
This year more than 4,400 women in China, Indonesia Over the last five years, since the Chairmans Challenge was and Vietnam, participated in our financial training seminars launched, 108 annual projects have been supported by our Investing in Your Future.
These events, first launched in China employees in partnership with charities including Help Age in 2004, directly support women who, while often responsible International, Plan International and Junior Achievement.
for planning the familys financial needs, have traditionally had limited financial training.
In the past six years, more than 27,500 All of the projects included in the Chairmans Challenge receive women have attended our financial training seminars in Asia.
a financial donation from the Group for each employee who signs up as a volunteer, and the five short-listed projects receive Since 2007, Prudential has partnered with the Chinese Ministry additional funding.
Each year, employees across the Group are of Education, the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences CASS invited to vote for the shortlisted project they believe has made and the Chinese Insurance Regulatory Commission CIRC, to the greatest impact.
develop and introduce an insurance education curriculum in schools.
The programme has reached more than 6,000 students The winning project from 26 schools in seven provinces.
In 2010, the winning project was the Goal for Youth programme In the UK, we partner with a range of organisations such as in Hong Kong, where more than 1,800 secondary school Citizens Advice, the Personal Finance Education Group pfeg, students benefited from attending financial management and the Specialist Schools and Academies Trust.
As a result of workshops run by more than 188 Prudential volunteers, in these partnerships, thousands of adults and children are learning partnership with Junior Achievement.
Our partnership with Citizens Advice is also helping people to make decisions that will have a Shortlisted projects included: profound effect on their financial welfare.
Prestasi Junior Indonesia working with more than 120 Prudential volunteers, who gave up four weekends to run a variety of educational projects for children at a safe house in Jakarta Junior Achievement in the US, where 163 Jackson employees dedicated 463 hours to teaching young people financial skills in 105 classrooms, benefiting 2,500 students Plan International Thailand, working with 316 Prudential employees who helped to build financial skills in seven schools reaching 1,500 students Prudential UK employees dedicated 660 hours to Age UKs Call in Time programme, helping 370 isolated older people re-engage with the community.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW 97 Disaster relief Accountability and governance The Group maintains a fund which can be activated to support The Board relief efforts following disasters in the countries where we The Board discusses the Groups CR performance at least once operate.
a year and also reviews and approves the Group CR Report and strategy on an annual basis.
Our commitment to disaster relief often goes beyond financial aid, providing on-the-ground support to address the most Responsibility Committee critical needs.
Following the earthquake that struck Western Below the Board, the Responsibility Committee comprises Sumatra in Indonesia, near the city of Padang, at the end of senior representatives from relevant Group functions and 2009, we contributed approximately 1 million, and many of our each of our core businesses.
This committee is responsible for employees worked as volunteers.
Funding was used to support monitoring the Groups CR activities and for raising issues that initial emergency relief efforts and subsequent reconstruction need to be addressed.
We have continued to monitor progress and, during 2010, Prudential leaders in Asia attended a ceremony in Padang, Code of Business Conduct celebrating the completion of 220 new houses, a children's library Consideration of environmental, social and community and a play centre.
These buildings were constructed by Padang matters is integrated in our Code of Business Conduct.
Our Kapas villagers and our charity partner, Posko Jenggala.
code is reviewed by the Board on an annual basis.
Refer to In 2010, Save the Children became a new charity partner page 120 for more information.
through the Groups support for its Childrens Emergency Fund.
Payment policy Donations It is our Group policy to agree terms of payment when orders for In 2010, the Group spent 7.5 million supporting community goods and services are placed, and to pay in accordance with activities.
Direct donations to charitable organisations amounted those terms.
to 5.7 million, of which approximately 3.5 million came from In the UK, we have signed up to the Prompt Payment Code, EU operations.
launched in December 2008 by the UK Department for This is broken down as follows: education 862,000: social Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform.
In 2010, our trade and welfare 1,804,000: environment and regeneration creditor days, based on the ratio of amounts that were owed to 19,000: cultural 61,000 and staff volunteering 727,000. trade creditors at the year-end to the aggregate of the amounts The aggregate gure for direct charitable donations from invoiced by trade creditors during the year, were 23 days.
Prudential's non-EU subsidiaries Jackson National Life The Prompt Payment Code and its signatories can be found Insurance Company and Prudential Corporation Asia at www.
Supply chain management It is the Group's policy not to make donations to political parties Prudential recognises that its own social, environmental and nor to incur political expenditure, within the meaning of those economic impacts go beyond the products and services it expressions as dened in the Political Parties, Elections and supplies to include the performance of its suppliers and Referendums Act 2000.
The Group did not make any such contractors.
donations or incur any such expenditure in 2010.
It is our policy to work in partnership with suppliers whose values and standards are aligned with our Group Code of Business Conduct.
Procurement practices in Prudential UK have been successfully accredited with the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply CIPS certication, an industry benchmark of recognised good practice.
In 2010, Save the Children 7.5m became a new charity partner In 2010, the Group spent through the Group's support for 7.5 million supporting its Children's Emergency Fund.
community activities 98 BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CONTINUED CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE RESPONSIBILITIES PRUDENTIAL PLC BOARD Approves strategy Approves CR Report GROUP RESPONSIBILITY Monitors progress COMMITTEE Identifies and develops CR policies GROUP CR TEAM Collates data for internal and external reporting Publishes annual CR Report Oversees CR risks and issues management Collates and shares CR practices across the Group BRAND COUNCIL Develops and drives initiatives related to functional responsibilities HR DIRECTORS Tracks, reviews and assesses ongoing initiatives COMMUNITY FORUM Provides data information for internal and ENVIRONMENT, external reporting HEALTH & SAFETY COUNCIL & PRUPIM OPSCO Prudential plc Annual Report 2010 GOVERNANCE 99 GOVERNANCE 100 Board of directors 104 Governance report: Corporate governance Risk governance Corporate responsibility governance 121 Additional disclosures 122 Index to principal Directors' Report disclosures
