Corporate responsibility report Introduction I am pleased to introduce our third annual corporate responsibility report.
Rathbones is committed to act as a good corporate citizen and takes its responsibilities as investment manager, employer and consumer seriously and I believe that this is reflected in this report of the Social and Environmental Committee SEC which I chair.
This Committee is responsible for ensuring that Rathbones effectively manages its sustainability issues.
It is formed by members of staff from key functions such as facilities management, personnel, marketing, IT and investment management.
It meets on a quarterly basis and reports directly to the Group Executive Committee of the Board.
With regard to environmental, social and governance ESG matters as they affect our business, the Board believes that the SEC has identified and assessed the significant risks to the Companys short and long term value.
1 The past year has been one of progress.
Our total estimated carbon footprint has fallen by 3.3% from 2,521 tonnes CO2e in 2008 09 to 2,439 tonnes CO2e in 2009 10.
In particular, I am pleased to report a fall in business travel emissions following the disposal of our offshore trust businesses.
Plans are well advanced for the move of our London data centre to a specialist third party provider which should lead to a reduction in energy usage associated with the cooling of the equipment which has always proved difficult and inefficient in our New Bond Street offices.
The creation of a green team in Liverpool, of which more below, has increased awareness of environmental issues in our key Liverpool office.
Looking forward, the SEC has recognised that it is unlikely that further significant reductions in our carbon footprint will be possible.
It will therefore be looking at possible carbon offset arrangements with a view to making Rathbones a carbon neutral company.
Finally, I am delighted that our corporate responsibility reporting has been recognised with both the 2008 and 2009 reports nominated for the ICSA Hermes Transparency in Governance Award for best sustainability and stakeholder disclosure by a FTSE 250 company.
The Company remains a constituent company in the FTSE4Good Index Series.
Andy Pomfret Chief Executive Chairman of the SEC 1 We have expressed our carbon footprint in terms of CO2 equivalent CO2e to accommodate non-CO2 greenhouse gas emissions Our strategy Rathbones corporate responsibility strategy can be summarised as follows: Environment Manage our environmental impact and reduce our carbon footprint by the efficient use of resources.
Clients Maintain and develop the relationships we have with our clients, treat them fairly and continue to meet their needs.
Investments Consider corporate responsibility issues in the companies in which we invest on behalf of our clients.
Employees Motivate and reward appropriately, encouraging their development.
Communities Engage in the communities in which we operate.
Environment As a responsible business, Rathbones believes that environmental concerns should be central to the day to day running of its business, and all due care and consideration should be given to reducing our impact on the environment.
Our direct environmental impacts are those typical of an office-based business, for example, energy consumption of buildings, travel related emissions, resource consumption and waste generation.
As such, Rathbones considers itself to be at limited risk from any change in regulation or government policy on issues such as climate change as they might relate to restrictions on emissions of major greenhouse gases.
The Company is not a large emitter of such gases, nor is it an excessive consumer of resources.
Unless future regulations impose restrictions on universal business environmental issues such as resource use, building procurement and business travel, then we do not consider that there would be any significant impact on our business.
The need to comply with any future tightening of energy efficiency standards would be of greater impact.
However, Rathbones considers that the steps we have already taken in the course of refurbishing our Liverpool and London offices have largely addressed any reasonable measures we could be expected to take.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2010 50 Corporate responsibility report Our environmental performance Scope Our reporting period covers the year to 30 September 2010, with comparative figures for 2008 09 and 2007 08.
The 2 carbon footprint calculations now cover all UK employees.
Data has been collected and calculated in accordance with the requirements set in the following standards: the World Resources Institute WRI Greenhouse Gas GHG Protocol revised version, DEFRA Guidance on How to Report GHG Emissions September 2009 and ISO 14064 part 1.
We have used the financial control approach in setting the organisational boundary, and measured our total direct Scope 1, 2 and significant Scope 3 emissions.
Scope 1 includes all direct operational emissions primarily from the use of gas for office heating, Scope 2 covers electricity consumption and Scope 3 includes all indirect operational emissions including business travel.
Base year Our base year is 2007 08, which is the first year for which verifiable emissions data is available.
Base year emissions for 2007 08 and 2008 09 have been recalculated in order to provide a means of consistent comparison across the years.
Our base year recalculation policy is to recalculate prior year emissions for relevant significant changes which meet our significance threshold of 5% of total base year emissions.
This year, recalculation was undertaken to include three offices which had previously been excluded from the analysis: Birmingham, Jersey and Kendal.
We have also included the newly acquired office in Aberdeen.
It should be noted that we have used the emissions factors for 2009 to recalculate the emissions figures stated for 2007 08 and 2010 emissions factors to recalculate 2008 09 figures.
This is in accordance with the Governments guidance on incorporating updated emissions factors into previous carbon accounting, to ensure data accuracy and comparability.
Our carbon footprint Our total carbon footprint for this year is 2,439 tonnes of CO2e 2008 09: 2,521 tonnes of CO2e.
Our reported emissions have fallen 3.3% from last year as a result of a number of efficiency measures taken across our operations.
In particular, a significant reduction in long haul flights has contributed to this improvement.
Tonnes of CO2e by emissions source Tonnes CO2e Electricity 1,745 Gas 247 Flights 214 Non-company cars 120 National rail 95 Company cars 14 Taxis 4 Total 2,439 Table 1.
Absolute and relative CO2e from Rathbones offices under scope 2007 08 3 2009 10 2008 09 Base year 2 Office floor space m 11,461 11,461 10,496 4 Number of employees as at 31 December 689 683 673 Scope 1 Gas, company cars 261 267 308 Scope 2 Electricity 1,745 1,763 1,688 Scope 3 Business travel 433 491 505 Total CO2e tonnes 2,439 2,521 2,501 Intensity measurement CO2e tonnes per employee 3.54 3.69 3.72 2 Previously, the scope covered 92% of Group employees 3 Data re-baselined for 2008 09 and 2007 08 in order to include four offices previously excluded from calculations and to utilise the latest available emissions factors for the relevant years, using 2009 emissions factors for 2007 08, and 2010 emissions factors for 2008 09, in accordance with Government Guidelines 4 Employee numbers have been restated following the collection of improved data Rathbone Brothers Plc 51 Corporate responsibility report Report and accounts 2010 Our environmental performance continued Targets Based on our carbon emissions during baseline year 2007 08, our overall goal is to reduce our carbon footprint where possible, to achieve savings year on year.
In order to achieve this goal, we have agreed a series of actions focused on addressing carbon intensive activities.
These include: Monitor and reduce the energy consumption of our offices through improved energy efficiency, management and staff engagement: Further reduce the need for travel through the use of video conferencing systems.
In addition, we are currently evaluating the business case for offsetting some of our carbon emissions.
Intensity measurement In line with the Accounting for Sustainability model, we are reporting our carbon intensity against our operating income and funds under management.
Carbon intensity 5 Carbon intensity 2010 2009 m m 2010 2009 Operating income 127.2 116.8 19.2 21.6 Funds under management FUM 15,630 13,100 0.16 0.19 5 Tonnes CO2e per m of operating income or FUM Liverpool case study Rathbones occupies two floors in the iconic Grade II listed Port of Liverpool building.
It is the largest office in the Group with 46% of employees based there.
It was identified that significant improvements in the Groups environmental performance could be made by addressing the energy, travel, waste and resource impacts associated with the Liverpool office.
A structured programme was introduced a number of years ago to strategically address the environmental performance of the Liverpool operation.
Highlighted below are some of our milestones: an office refurbishment in 2006 allowed us to invest in energy efficient and sensor-controlled lighting technologies: waste and recycling facilities in the office were upgraded.
We recycle our paper, card, plastic, metal, glass and toner waste: an environmental assessment in 2009 helped us measure our carbon footprint and identified carbon and cost saving opportunities: we have run a number of staff engagement projects to raise awareness and share learning: a green team has been created to encourage recycling, reduce energy usage and make people more aware of the environmental impact of their actions.
As a result of these actions we have managed to reduce the energy carbon footprint of the Liverpool office by 8% since 2007 08 and have achieved a zero-to-landfill policy.
Performance analysis Energy Electricity Total electricity use and associated CO2e emissions have decreased by 1% compared to the previous year.
The main decrease was from the London office.
Our IT infrastructure is a major user of electricity but consumption levels are falling as the energy efficiency of IT equipment improves.
For example, 155 diskless PCs were deployed during the year, which use 10% of the power of a normal PC.
Natural gas Natural gas consumption has decreased by 3% over the past year.
Improved data quality has allowed us to measure a reduction in consumption in the Liverpool office of 126,900kWh, which has contributed significantly to the overall reduction.
Gas use from a number of offices has been calculated using benchmark data, and accurate estimates of reduction cannot be calculated for those sites.
Objectives for 2011 We will continue to improve our data collection processes so that accurate data on energy consumption can be provided for all of our offices.
We will seek to identify opportunities to improve our energy efficiency and will implement these where practical and cost-effective.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2010 52 Corporate responsibility report Performance analysis continued Business travel Overall, we are pleased to report a total decrease of 14.4% in CO2e emissions associated with business travel from the baseline year, and a 12% decrease on last year.
These represent a significant proportion of the overall savings within the carbon footprint.
Our business travel bookings are now fully centralised, and this has resulted in a higher level of data quality and reporting accuracy in the current reporting year.
Company cars The emissions from our small fleet of company cars have remained stable this year.
Flights A reduction in the total number of long haul flights contributed to a 28% reduction on the previous years emissions, which was the largest reduction in CO2e made throughout the total carbon footprint.
Rail National rail travel decreased by 3% in 2009 10 from 1,732,000km to 1,675,000km, with a concurrent reduction of 3% in associated CO2e.
Taxis and non-company cars Our use of taxis has decreased by 46% to 15,113km with staff encouraged to use public transport where possible.
This has contributed to a reduction in 3 tonnes CO2e.
Non-company car use has increased by 34% on the previous year, with a corresponding increase of 31 tonnes CO2e in carbon emissions.
This is due in part to the growth of the investment management business and in particular the acquisition of clients from the Lloyds Banking Group.
Objectives for 2011 We will continue to encourage the use of public transport where practical.
Video conferencing facilities are being installed in those smaller Group offices which currently do not have the facility.
Waste and recycling All offices have active recycling programmes with high levels of participation that cover at a minimum paper and cardboard.
In most offices shredded paper, glass, plastic bottles and cans are also recycled.
Of the 344kg of waste produced per employee per annum, it is estimated that 271kg is recycled.
Redundant IT equipment is passed to EOL IT Services an approved WEEE disposal agent with a zero-to-landfill policy for re-use or recycling.
Wherever possible we continue to recycle fluorescent tubes, batteries, toner cartridges and mobile telephones.
We have carried out wide sampling of our waste streams in our main offices and have improved the quality of data received from our suppliers.
We continue to improve our recycling level, achieving an estimated average 93% recycling level of recyclable materials across the business.
In London and Liverpool we have also seen waste to energy initiatives fully implemented and send 69% of our non-recycled waste to energy production.
As a result, in London and Liverpool we have achieved our objective of sending no waste to landfill.
Objectives for 2011 We remain focused on reducing the mass of waste generation and improving recycling levels in our offices.
Overall, we seek to achieve a total reduction in the amount of residual waste sent to landfill.
Waste and recycling data Mass collected Mass collected 2009 10 2008 09 tonnes % of total tonnes % of total Paper and cardboard 72 30% 70 30% Secure shredding 106 45% 104 44% Other materials 9 4% 9 4% Total recycling 187 79% 183 78% Waste to energy 34 14% 18 8% Residual landfill waste 16 7% 33 14% Total waste 237 100% 234 100% Per employee kg 344 343 Rathbone Brothers Plc 53 Corporate responsibility report Report and accounts 2010 Performance analysis continued Paper usage Total paper consumption amounts to 128 tonnes, which is approximately equivalent to 17.1 million A4 sheets.
Paper is an energy and carbon intensive product to produce.
We aim, where possible, to reduce usage, to purchase recycled paper and to work with our print suppliers to reduce waste in the printing of our reports and brochures.
Paper usage Total Total Total 6 6 Paper weight tonnes 2009 10 2008 09 2007 08 Recycled paper 88 104 84 Virgin paper 40 18 24 Total paper 128 122 108 Recycled percentage 69% 85% 78% Total paper usage per employee kg 186 179 160 6 As a result of data quality improvements, increases of 24 tonnes in the paper consumption for 2008 09, and 10 tonnes for 2007 08 reporting years were identified.
These have been added into the calculation to reflect best available data.
69% of our paper consumption by weight is recycled stock.
The majority of the stationery paper purchased is Evolve brand, a 100% recycled product made exclusively from UK post-consumer waste.
We have managed to reduce our stationery paper use by approximately 4 million sheets since 2007 08.
Paper used for printing has, however, increased by 38% as a result of the growth of the investment management business and increased levels of client communication.
This has resulted in a net increase in our overall paper consumption.
We have estimated that our paper consumption this year has caused emissions of 178 tonnes CO2e.
However, as no agreed standard currently exists for GHG emissions for paper, we have excluded this from the overall carbon footprint.
Objectives for 2011 We remain focused on improved paper management in our offices and will increase efforts to reduce our printed paper use.
To address the issue of our increasing print consumption, we will consider means of delivering our client communications in a more resource efficient manner, and will consider electronic media as part of this review.
We will also seek to reduce our use of virgin stock to achieve or exceed our 2007 08 level of 78% recycled stock.
Performance versus our objectives Our objective for 2010 Performance Comment Our objective for 2011 Energy Energy audit in Bristol On track An energy audit for the Bristol Investigate environmental benefits office has been commissioned of outsourcing the London IT and communications facilities Travel We will review our travel Achieved We have reported a reduction in the Introduce video conferencing policy and seek ways of number of flights.
Our Scope 3 facilities to all offices increasing the use of video emissions have decreased by 17% conferencing Enhance the central Achieved The use of a single travel Increase internal data travel booking system provider has increased our quality rating to 4 by 2011 with online access data quality significantly see data quality rating below Waste Seek ways of reducing On track Our zero-to-landfill programme has Seek ways of reducing waste in waste in offices other than been successfully initiated in our other offices London and Liverpool London and Liverpool offices Paper usage Seek ways to reduce On track Stationery use has been successfully Consider resource efficient printed stationery use, addressed.
However, increased options for delivering our client particularly for client communication has resulted communications, including client communication in increased print consumption electronic media Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2010 54 Corporate responsibility report Carbon Smart opinion statement This statement provides Rathbones and its stakeholders with a third party assessment of the quality and reliability of Rathbones carbon footprint data for the reporting period 1 October 2009 to 30 September 2010.
It does not represent an independent third party assurance of Rathbones management approach to sustainability.
Carbon Smart has been commissioned by Rathbone Brothers Plc for the third consecutive year to measure Rathbones carbon footprint for all offices for its 2010 Corporate responsibility report.
Through this engagement Carbon Smart has assured Rathbones that the reported carbon footprint is representative of the business and that the data presented is credible, coherent and compliant with appropriate standards and industry practices.
Data has been collected and calculated following the ISO 14064 part 1 standard and verified against the WRI GHG Protocol principles of completeness, consistency and accuracy.
Our work has included interviews with key Rathbones personnel, a review of internal and external documentation, interrogation of source data and data collection systems including comparisons with the previous years.
We have concluded the following: Relevance We have ensured the GHG inventory appropriately reflects the GHG emissions of the Company and serves the decision making needs of users, both internal and external to the Company.
Completeness Reported environmental data covers all employees and all entities that meet the criteria of being subject to control or significant influence of the reporting organisation.
We recommend that Rathbones continues to improve its data collection processes.
Consistency In order to ensure comparability, we have used the same calculation methodologies and assumptions as previous years.
We have re-baselined data to account for four additional offices which were included under scope this year, as well as changes in the Governments emissions factors.
Transparency Where relevant, we have included appropriate references to the accounting and calculation methodologies, assumptions, estimations and re-baselining performed.
Accuracy To our knowledge, data is considered accurate within the limits of the quality and completeness of the data provided.
Carbon Smart has assessed the data quality against the GHG Protocol principles.
Data from each emission source has been rated 1 poorest to 5 best.
For this year, overall data quality has been rated 3.6 which reflects a consistent improvement from the base year of 2.6.
Data quality rating % Carbon footprint Data quality rating Data quality rating Data quality rating Scope 2008 09 2009 10 2008 09 2007 08 Overall 100% 3.6 3.2 2.6 Scope 1 11% 3 2 2 Scope 2 71% 4 4 3 Scope 3 18% 4 3 2 Paper 4 4 4 Waste and recycling 3 3 2 7 Most of our gas use data comes from meter readings or invoices.
Data for gas consumption in the Birmingham, Cambridge and Chichester offices was not available and so a government benchmark was used.
In the case of Liverpool, gas data was only available for the whole building and had to be adjusted pro rata to give estimated figures for the space occupied by Rathbones.
Most electricity data comes from primary sources and is complete.
Travel data quality has improved significantly from last year: approximately 5% of train journeys were estimated based on cost 2008 09: 40%.
The waste data from Aberdeen, Birmingham, Chichester, Jersey and Kendal was estimated based on office samples.
London paper data from last year has been recalculated based on a miscalculation discovered in the dataset.
Paper consumption was based on paper purchased and printing records Ben Murray Louise Quarrell Director Director Carbon Smart Limited Carbon Smart Limited 16 February 2011 Rathbone Brothers Plc 55 Corporate responsibility report Report and accounts 2010 Clients The fair treatment of our clients is central to our culture.
We provide a personal service with a clear charging structure and aim to report to clients in a clear and understandable way.
Each FSA regulated subsidiary has a director who is responsible for ensuring our adherence to the FSAs Treating Customers Fairly TCF principles or outcomes.
Management information is produced and monitored at Board level.
This covers staff training, client complaints, account closures and any TCF issues raised during internal peer reviews of client files.
During 2009, we undertook a telephone survey of a sample of clients.
Lessons learned were that most clients really valued the personal contact from an Investment Manager.
Many wanted less paper and more electronic communication.
Our procedures for new clients have been simplified and revised with the introduction of a client guide to the process whilst our terms of business have been re-written.
Our client web portal is increasingly used by clients to access their investment portfolio.
Investments Asset allocation and stock selection form part of the Rathbone Investment Process from which all our Investment Managers draw guidance and investment ideas whilst retaining the necessary flexibility to ensure that their clients individual needs are met.
Clients are not invested in pre-determined model portfolios but benefit from a structured portfolio construction process that encompasses the full range of assets that you would expect from a professional investment management firm, including equities, funds, gilts and corporate bonds, fund of hedge funds, structured products and so on.
To support this approach, Rathbones produces in-house strategic and tactical asset allocation models for its Investment Managers to assist them in constructing portfolios suitable for individual clients.
Recommended lists are also produced in order to help our Investment Managers select individual holdings.
Internal performance monitoring and risk control processes ensure that the appropriate quality of service and fulfilment of client objectives are achieved.
Responsible investment Although general investment activities are not covered by a formal responsible investment policy, social, environmental and ethical SEE considerations are taken into account for specific mandates throughout the Group, but particularly by our specialist ethical investment service, Rathbone Greenbank Investments.
As at 31 December 2010, Rathbone Greenbank Investments had 434.5 million of funds under management, representing some 3% of the total funds managed by Rathbone Investment Management.
Media coverage and consumer awareness of SEE issues especially climate change continue to raise the profile of ethical or socially responsible investing.
However, while coverage of socially responsible investment products such as unit or investment trusts, ethical banking and ethical mortgages tends to be quite widespread, less attention is given to the opportunities for private investors to invest directly in companies addressing social and environmental challenges through bespoke portfolio management.
Through Rathbone Greenbank Investments and Rathbone Unit Trust Managements Ethical Bond Fund, the Company is able to provide investment services tailored to clients interests in these areas.
Where appropriate, the Company is also able to participate in new share issues offered by companies that provide environmentally or socially beneficial products or services.
Affiliations Rathbone Brothers Plc has been a signatory to the Carbon Disclosure Project since 2006 and became a signatory to the UN Principles for Responsible Investment in September 2009.
In addition, Rathbone Greenbank Investments is a long-standing member of influential groups such as the UK Sustainable and Investment Finance association UKSIF and the Ecumenical Council for Corporate Responsibility ECCR, as well as being a founding endorser of the Forest Footprint Disclosure Project.
Voting During 2010, the Group continued to implement its policy on proxy voting, which covers all companies in the FTSE 350 and those where it holds 3% or more of the issued share capital with the exception of Rathbone Brothers Plc.
Voting is also undertaken on any company if requested by an underlying shareholder.
As part of ongoing efforts to enhance the Groups governance and voting policy and ensure that we meet the key principles of the UK Stewardship Code as published by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2010, we are appointing a proxy voting consultant to assist in this process.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2010 56 Corporate responsibility report Investments continued Engagement Engagement with companies on environmental, social or governance ESG matters is largely undertaken by Rathbone Greenbank Investments ethical research team.
This ranges from low level contact with companies on issues relating to ESG disclosure to participation in co-filing and voting on shareholder resolutions at company AGMs.
These activities may occur as a result of fundamental analysis of companies ESG data, or it may come about because of collaborative efforts initiated by interest groups such as UKSIF or the UN PRIs Clearinghouse project.
Employees As with all professional services firms, Rathbones greatest asset is its people.
Their health, well-being, development, remuneration and involvement are all vital to the continuing success of the business.
Health and welfare Rathbones is committed to providing a safe and healthy environment in which its employees can work.
With the help of external consultants our health and safety policy for the UK offices is regularly updated to reflect current legislation and best practice.
We provide a range of training courses for those staff with health and safety responsibilities and a steering group comprising representatives from all our offices meets twice a year to share knowledge and to ensure that health and safety standards are maintained.
It is chaired by Ian Buckley.
Upon completion of a qualifying period, all UK employees and their direct family members are eligible for private medical cover paid for by the Company.
All UK staff have the opportunity to attend an annual medical examination and Rathbones also provides an independent and confidential employee assistance programme offering advice on employment, personal and legal concerns.
Equality and diversity Rathbones is an equal opportunities employer and it is our policy to ensure that all job applicants and employees are treated fairly and on merit regardless of their race, gender, marital status, age, disability, religious belief or sexual orientation.
It is our policy and practice to give full and fair consideration to applications for employment by disabled people.
If employees become disabled during their service with Rathbones, wherever practicable, arrangements and adjustments are made to continue their employment and training.
Should this not be possible we provide support in the form of a permanent health insurance scheme which pays a monthly income in lieu of salary and pays pension contributions on behalf of the employer and employee.
Work-life balance Rathbones recognises the importance of an appropriate work-life balance both to the health and welfare of employees and to the business.
Holiday entitlements are 25 days increasing to 30 days after five years service.
Employees are able to buy up to five additional days of leave with the agreement of their manager.
We also provide time off for dependants, parental leave and paternity leave and have a childcare voucher scheme in place.
Maternity benefits remain in excess of those required under statutory provisions.
Career breaks of up to two years are also available for those with childcare responsibilities.
Flexible working policies are offered with a high number of successful applications, particularly from parents with young children.
On completion of five years service, employees have the opportunity to take up to three months unpaid leave once in every ten years without any loss of service-related benefits such as pension or death in service cover.
The uptake and effectiveness of these policies is monitored together with other indicators of staff satisfaction levels such as average annual sickness rates and staff turnover.
Code of conduct FSA registered staff are required to adhere to FSA rules and to the Rathbones compliance manual.
The manual includes the Rathbone code of business conduct and a number of policy documents including policies on dealing, gifts and business benefits and bribery and conflicts of interest.
Rathbone Brothers Plc 57 Corporate responsibility report Report and accounts 2010 Employees continued Training and development We are very much a people business and therefore training and development continues to be a high priority.
In September we were successful in gaining accreditation from the Chartered Institute of Securities and Investment CISI for our continuous professional development scheme.
This required us to demonstrate how our training measured up to the rigorous standards expected by the institute.
The CISI were particularly impressed by the support for training and development from senior managers and the use of business sponsors to ensure that content of training is absolutely tailored and relevant to the needs of the business.
A number of successful initiatives continue to gain momentum with excellent feedback from participants, some of which are covered below.
Qualifications Rathbones continues to support its staff to gain qualifications relevant to their roles.
During 2010, 136 staff studied towards appropriate qualifications.
The table below shows the variety of qualifications taken.
Qualification Number of staff studying CISI Investment Administration Qualification 38 Management Qualifications 23 CISI Private Client Investment Advice and Management Certificate 17 IT Qualifications 11 Chartered Financial Analyst 6 CISI Diploma and Masters in Wealth Management 6 Chartered Institute of Management Accountants 4 CISI Investment Advice Diploma 4 Project Management 4 Other 23 Total 136 Financial training Following on from a 2009 course which focused on the use of financial ratios in stock selection, a number of portfolio construction technique courses were held in 2010 which 164 investment management staff attended.
Senior Investment Management Programme Using a similar format to the Rathbone Development Programmes of previous years this course was targeted at 19 Investment Directors from around the Group.
The aim was to engage them in the business to improve their understanding of the strategic issues faced by the business and to gain their input to challenges coming up in the future.
The feedback was very positive and we plan to hold a similar programme next year which will include staff from the support departments with a view to increasing their business awareness.
CISI Chartered Membership Following the granting of the Royal Charter to the CISI, 147 Investment Managers have upgraded their membership to become individually chartered members and in doing so are demonstrating a commitment to maintaining the highest standards of professional development and ethical behaviour.
Secretarial training The secretarial training and networking programme has continued to grow with the aim of engaging secretaries in the business.
It is designed to ensure that secretarial staff are aware of business changes that will affect them, for example, the introduction of a new client relationship management system and an online travel booking system.
This initiative contributed to our success as being a runner up in the employer of the year category at the 2010 Executive PA magazine awards.
Management and leadership development The development of good leadership and management skills within the Company is vital and we continue to run long term programmes that are linked to nationally recognised qualifications provided by the Chartered Management Institute.
The training is very practical and concentrates on developing skills that can be immediately used back at the workplace.
The delegates have the opportunity to share their experiences and constantly learn from each other.
IT skills Our IT systems are fundamental to our business and the IT training team offer training that is completely bespoke.
The great advantage of having in-house trainers, in addition to their knowledge of the business, is that they can personalise courses for small groups or use one to one sessions to ensure that staff can learn in a way suitable to them and which enables them to maximise the potential of our IT systems.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2010 58 Corporate responsibility report Employees continued Coaching We strive to provide a range of development opportunities to all staff across the Group and have recently increased the amount of coaching that is available for one to one performance enhancement.
We have been able to do this because we now have qualified coaches within the training team.
Investment Rathbones continues to invest in training, in 2010 we spent 393,000 on development 2009: 327,000.
This equates to an average of 562 per person 2009: 480 and 2.2 days 2009: 2.3 days.
Expenditure by type of training % Qualifications 29 Continuous professional development 28 Soft skills 17 Coaching 14 IT 6 Other 6 Challenges for the future The FSAs Retail Distribution Review RDR has increased the focus on professional standards.
We are reviewing the gaps between the new standards and the qualifications gained by staff and are supporting them with the training needed to refresh areas of knowledge.
This is an opportunity for the business to provide some highly relevant and inspiring courses.
We have recently reviewed our examination requirements for Investment Managers in light of the new upgraded qualifications now available.
The decision has been made that we will continue to encourage staff to complete qualifications over and above the minimum regulatory requirements.
Communities Donations and fundraising During the year, the Group made total charitable donations of 162,000, representing 0.54% of continuing Group pre-tax profits 2009: 174,098, representing 0.59% of continuing Group pre-tax profits.
Employees are encouraged to donate to charity in a tax efficient manner through the Give As You Earn GAYE payroll giving scheme.
In 2010, Rathbone employees made payments totalling 107,000 2009: 384,000 through this scheme, which is administered by the Charities Aid Foundation.
The Company matched staff donations of up to 200 per month made through GAYE and in 2010 donated 85,000 2009: 81,000 to causes chosen by employees through this method.
In 2010, Children with Leukaemia and The Anthony Nolan Trust were selected by an employee ballot as the charities we would support for 2010 and 2011.
During 2010, 8,000 has been raised by employees for these two charities.
During the year, Rathbone employees have undertaken a wide variety of community and fundraising events.
Rathbone Brothers Plc 59 Corporate responsibility report Report and accounts 2010
