Business review Governance Accounts Delivering business responsibly The Capita Group Plc 51 Economic impact and regeneration Community investment programme Charitable support 4.6 Through our operations we improve service In addition to the benets our business and We have an active charity programme, Capita Engaging and supporting delivery for our clients, including helping local services bring to local communities, we also Helping Hands, and support our employees in local communities authorities to reduce the costs and improve contribute through our community investment raising funds for charity.
Our central charity the quality of public services.
This in turn helps programme, tackling exclusion of all kinds.
team organises a number of Group-wide Aim: Our business places us at the heart of the to minimise the taxation burden on local We have an employee volunteering scheme, activities throughout the year and are communities where we operate, and where communities and enhances frontline citizen encouraging our employees to donate their supported by a network of charity champions many of our employees live.
time, skills and resources to support local across our operations.
make a positive impact in these communities, community projects.
As an employer we contribute to local We have a central payroll giving scheme and in delivering economic and social benets.
economies directly, through salaries and also We often work collaboratively with other 2010, we were awarded the Silver Payroll giving How we work with our communities through national insurance contributions.
businesses in the local community, helping to award, recognising the 1,400 employees who Wherever possible we use local suppliers, build and strengthen relationships.
By using our donate to over 219 charities through this We work with our communities in a number of particularly SMEs, and when our operations skills and experience we ensure that we make a scheme.
Through our matched funding scheme ways, helping to regenerate local communities require further resources we look to recruit from real difference in the most effective way.
we also support our employees in their and through our community investment local communities.
We also provide support to individual charitable efforts, donating 88,000 programme and charitable support.
We use the London Benchmarking Group the unemployed in our local communities by in matched funding in 2010. methodology to capture as much of our Our community investment programme is funding apprenticeship roles.
community investment data as possible and We support one corporate charity partner and applied centrally at a Group level and also at to put a monetary value on our contribution.
in 2010 our 3 year partnership with Macmillan an individual business level, including our As the Group is made up of a wide range of Cancer Support came to its conclusion.
We operations in India, allowing us to address geographically spread operations, the extent of had set ourselves a target of raising 1 million specic local needs.
our data capture is limited.
In 2010, we estimate through our partnership.
At the end of 2010, that our total community investment was we had exceeded our target and raised over 1.65m 2009:1.4m.
Our employees have chosen Alzheimers Society as our new corporate charity for the next 2 years and we have set ourselves a target of raising 1 million by the end of 2012.
2010 2009 CR performance Total community investment using London 1.65m 1.4m Benchmarking Group methodology Total corporate donations including support for our 0.7m 0.5m charity partner and matched funding scheme, other CR initiatives and disaster appeals Employee fundraising for corporate charity partner 600k 440k
