Sustainability Ulster Bank extends MoneySense Building on its commitment to widen access to financial education, Ulster Bank launched its own MoneySense for Single Parents Guide in 2010.
This was produced with OPEN in the Republic of Ireland and Gingerbread in Northern Ireland.
This is the first in a set of financial life guides designed to give more practical support based on peoples specific circumstances.
Our five key themes How others have judged us Every year independent, external bodies judge our performance and compare us with our peers.
Fair banking We are committed to treating our customers to the highest of standards, We received the AA1000 2008 reporting and assurance accreditation for and being transparent about the products and services they can expect our 2008 and 2009 annual Sustainability Reports.
We were also short-listed from us.
This theme covers: responsible lending practices, customer for the ICSA Hermes award for best sustainability and stakeholder service including dealing with customer complaints, access to financial disclosure for the Sustainability Report 2009. services, and financial education.
We have participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project since its inception and in 2010 received the joint highest score for financial services globally, scoring 93 and an A rating for performance, a significant Supporting enterprise improvement since 2009.
We were also included in the Dow Jones One of our main responsibilities is to provide tailored support to a broad Sustainability Index for the third year running, scoring 75%, and in the range of businesses.
There are a number of ways that we demonstrate FTSE4Good index.
our commitment to enterprises: from lending to small and medium enterprises SMEs, to funding microfinance institutions in India, to Newsweek magazine placed us 27th in their recent Green Rankings making finance available to social enterprises and facilitating youth where three environmental research organisations ranked the worlds enterprise through working with partners 100 biggest listed companies across a number of environmental issues.
Employee engagement Our community programmes Our employees are the core of our organisation and it is very important that we treat them fairly and responsibly.
It has been a difficult year for some of them as we continue to restructure the Group.
So its vital that as We recognise our responsibility to play an active role in the communities we build the new RBS we support our people throughout these changes we serve.
This begins with providing the services our customers want, by involving and listening to them as much as possible.
and operating in a sustainable way.
We then go further through our community programmes, which allow us to make more of a difference in areas that we can have an impact.
Our efforts centre on our MoneySense, Supporting Enterprise, and Employee and Community Safety and security Engagement programmes.
Protecting the security of our customers money and data is a fundamental responsibility of the Group.
We have continued to invest MoneySense heavily in the prevention of financial crime.
This theme also includes how The aim of our MoneySense programme is to increase financial we safeguard the safety, health and wellbeing of our employees.
education, capability and inclusion, which is part of our wider commitment to Fair Banking.
Citizenship and environmental sustainability We continued to invest in our Group MoneySense programmes in 2010.
As a global organisation we have to manage our broader economic, We improved and expanded our MoneySense for Schools programmes by developing new online resources, holding teacher training days and social and environmental impacts.
This includes wider citizenship issues such as business and human rights and bribery and corruption as well completing the 3rd annual MoneySense Panel Research.
This research as environmental concerns.
We fully support the transition to the more revealed the attitudes towards money of over 10,000 12-19 year olds.
sustainable use of natural resources.
The 2nd annual RBS Personal Finance Education Awards for Schools recognised the 2010 achievements of primary and secondary schools.
RBS Group 2010 45 Sustainability continued We introduced a new magazine called Pocket Money for families, reaching This programme provides simple and practical tools to help small an audience of over 600,000 people in the UK.
New Business Start-Up businesses gain insights and build a network of trusted contacts, Guides were launched on NatWest.
com, and our MoneySense booklets enabling start ups to progress and promote growth.
for adults were revised and written in plain English as part of the UK Customer Charter commitment to make banking easier.
In 2010, we launched a partnership with the British Academy of Film and Television Arts BAFTA and its Youth Mentoring Programme, delivered Over the last three years our funding to Macmillan cancer support helped in conjunction with Media Trust.
In this programme, BAFTA members, them to expand their benefits helpline by 50%.
In 2010, three new face to award-winners and leading practitioners volunteer as mentors to face Macmillan advice services were launched.
Together this helped disadvantaged young people on media projects, enhancing their 9,500 people unlock over 20 million of funds to help with the impact of knowledge, skills and personal development to give them new their cancer diagnosis.
At the end of 2010, the RBS Group agreed to fund opportunities in life.
Macmillan for a further three years to increase delivery of face-to-face money guidance for people living with cancer across the UK.
We also sponsor Youth Business International projects in Russia, Hong Kong and France that provide opportunities for would-be young The Group continued to assist our key partners.
We remain to be one of entrepreneurs in those countries.
the largest corporate sponsors of the Money Advice Trust and in 2010 provided funding for key projects or areas of research to Mind, RNIB, Our microfinance programme in India goes further than simply lending Gingerbread, Transact, Toynbee Hall, and Citizens Advice.
We will to Microfinance Institutions MFIs.
We have also invested in 'technical continue to work with the charities in 2011 to fund projects which will assistance' to create and sustain robust, creditworthy MFIs in improve access to information, increase the number of quality financial underserved regions.
This programme has supported 37 MFIs, education and training resources available, and meet the specific needs facilitating access to finance for over 200,000 households.
Also in India, for the members of each charity organisation.
our Livelihood projects improve communities' income generating abilities through a range of interventions including training, investment and Our Ulster Bank MoneySense for Schools programme was launched in market linkages.
We currently have 17 Livelihood projects across 14 2007 and is already the largest financial education programme for states, reaching over 63,000 households.
secondary schools in Northern Ireland and Ireland, with 380 volunteers from Ulster Bank.
The Youthbank programme run by Ulster Bank also 2010 also saw the launch of the RBS SE100 Index, a unique report that helps to develop a range of skills in young people by distributing grants provides information on the growth and impact of the top 100 social for youth-led projects in their communities.
This will play a vital role in promoting the success and diversity of this sector.
The Community Reinvestment Act in the US encourages banks to lend to low and moderate income communities.
In 2010, Citizens and Charter One Employee and community engagement provided more than 275 financial literacy programmes, educating over Our Employee and community engagement programme supports the 13,000 people.
Citizens has also partnered with the Federal Deposit great work that our employees already do in their communities and Insurance Corporation to provide Money Smart Training, helping people encourages further involvement to strengthen our support for the outside the financial mainstream enhance their money skills and create communities we live in.
Citizens Gear for Grades programme provides school supplies for children whose families cannot afford them.
As part of our UK Customer Charter we launched the Community Fund Since its inception in 2003, Gear for Grades has served over 150,000 in 2010, a way of putting real benefit back into the communities, at the school children.
To date 1.8 million has been given to charities chosen by our customers and employees from their local branch and Supporting enterprise 7,547 days off have been given to branch staff to help support the Our Supporting enterprise programme works with partners to support causes important to them.
potential business start-ups and helps to build the capability of alternative means of finance and support for would-be entrepreneurs Our volunteering programme provides a range of team activities that who would not normally qualify for direct support from banks.
our employees can take part in during work time.
We run the activities through nine charities so that our employees can deliver the skills, We have a long standing relationship with The Princes Trust.
We are services or fundraising that they need.
This year 4,100 employees the largest corporate sponsor of The Princes Trust Enterprise engaged in 225 activities.
Programme, which helped nearly 5,000 young people in 2010.
We are proud sponsors of their new practical guide to starting up your Our Global Banking and Markets division launched a new, bespoke own business.
This book condenses the years of expertise The Princes volunteering programme across all of its businesses, targeting four Trust has gained when helping young people in business and includes areas where it hopes to have a lasting impact on the lives of children and real life stories of success and advice from business leaders.
This is young people: education, health, social welfare and enterprise and just one of the ways we have supported them through our corporate employability.
In 2010, over 1,000 employees volunteered their time in partnership.
We also provide support for The Princes Scottish Youth support of this programme.
In 2010, the Citizens Charitable Foundation invested more than $14 smallbusinesscan provides guidance and support to help small million in charitable grants to more than 1,000 non-profit organisations businesses in the UK and Ireland and is supported by Ulster Bank.
