Sustainability Taking sustainability seriously One of the ways we show the world that we take sustainability seriously is by embedding it in the way we run the business, from the highest levels to the responsibilities of individual employees.
Our Senior Independent Director, Sir Sandy Crombie chairs the Group Sustainability Committee GSC.
Other members of the GSC include the Chief Executive Officers of a number of our divisions.
The GSC reviews the Groups overall sustainability strategy, values and policies.
The Group Sustainability Forum is a network of senior managers from each division that makes sure we put into practice the priorities Sustainability in practice the GSC sets.
The executive-led Environment Working Group monitors environmental developments, commercial opportunities, Stakeholder feedback operational impacts, and communications and engagement.
The Retail Sustainability Taskforce focuses on the sustainability We work actively with stakeholders to find out issues that most affect our Retail division.
The Microfinance what they think about us and how we do Advisory Board comprises senior members from a range of business.
The table below outlines some of the stakeholder groups and provides external oversight and support for ways we consulted stakeholders in 2010. microfinance and supporting enterprise programmes across the Groups international business.
Stakeholder group Types of consultation Customers We started to change how we gather our customers opinions.
We launched a new Public Group Board Opinion Survey and we spoke to over 21,000 people through surveys.
This work, along with the Group regular feedback we receive from our customers is Sustainability a key component in how we shape our business.
Committee Employees Our Employee Opinion Survey gathered the Group Group Retail Environment Microfinance views of over 119,000 employees, a response Sustainability Sustainability Sustainability Working Group Advisory Board Team Forum Taskforce rate of 81%.
Investors Last year the Group engaged with over 1,200 institutional investors.
Socially responsible investment continues to grow in importance and last year we took part in regular meetings with To ensure that we are operating as a sustainable business in analysts on this issue, including meetings with our Chairman and senior executives focused every sense of the word, we will have to develop and work to a exclusively upon sustainable investment.
set of principles which guide our management on social and Industry Forums The Group is involved in a number of industry ethical issues.
forums including both the Equator Principles EPs and UN Global Compact UNGC which have a Sir Sandy Crombie, Senior Independent Director specific focus on sustainability issues.
Last year we took the lead in one of the EPs working groups and became Chair of the UK Network of the UNGC.
In 2010, we substantially increased our dialogue Consumer Groups with consumers groups.
We met a wide variety of groups to discuss a range of issues from debt advice to our Group Customer Charter.
Non-Governmental We regularly consult with NGOs, which in 2010 included direct engagement with both our Organisations NGOs Chairman and the Group Sustainability Committee.
