Additional information continued Economic and monetary environment In Ireland, hopes of a recovery in 2010 were dashed, as GDP contracted Global recovery has continued in 2010, but the strength of the recovery by an estimated 0.6 per cent.
This followed a 7.6 per cent reduction in remains unevenly spread.
Although most developed countries have 2009.
The Irish government requested a financial rescue package of 85 avoided a double-dip, they have been unable to find a firm footing from billion in November, equivalent to about half of Irelands GDP.
which to build a solid recovery.
This reflects the burden of high levels of public and private sector debt, low consumer confidence and high levels The general improvement in economic conditions must be viewed against of unemployment.
a backdrop of financial market turbulence at various points in the year, most notably the sovereign debt crisis that affected the Eurozone In the UK, the Groups largest market, economic conditions improved in periphery.
This led to a marked fall in risk appetite in Q2 2010 and, again, 2010.
Total economic activity, as measured by gross domestic product in Q4 2010.
Equity prices fell in the banking sector and there was a flight GDP, grew by 1.3 per cent in 2010.
This followed a contraction of 4.9 to quality, which pushed down long-term interest rates on government per cent in 2009.
However, a fall in activity in the final quarter of 2010 debt in some countries.
This included the UK, where the 10-year gilt rate served as a timely reminder that, while conditions are generally improving, fell from more than 4 per cent at the start of 2010, to less than 3 per cent the recovery is fragile.
The UKs inflation rate increased sharply, reaching in October.
UK gilt yields subsequently rose in the final months of 2010, 3.7 per cent by the end of the year.
Yet policy makers kept the main in anticipation of interest rate rises in 2011. policy rate unchanged at 0.5 per cent throughout 2010, attributing the pick up in inflation to temporary factors such as rising commodity prices The increase in risk aversion also caused some sharp currency and an increase in VAT.
At one point the pound was 11 per cent down against the dollar, but sterling rallied in the second half of 2010, to end the year just The recovery has helped many of our customers.
Company trading slightly lower than where it started $1.57 from $1.61.
Sterling rose by 10 profits grew for the first time since 2008.
The unemployment rate levelled per cent against the euro in the first half of the year, before giving up off at around 8 per cent, which is much higher than at the start of the most of these gains, to end the year at 1.17 from 1.13. recession, but still relatively low compared to the peak in other recessions.
These factors supported commercial property prices, which were 6 per The economic outlook cent higher in December 2010 than they were a year earlier, according to We expect the global recovery to be maintained, but to remain uneven.
Most of those gains came in the first The pace of growth in the major developed economies, including the UK half of the year.
The residential market was less robust: house prices fell and the US, is likely to remain sluggish by historic standards, and volatile.
in the second half of the year, dragging the year-on-year growth rate to -1 This reflects high levels of indebtedness, fiscal rebalancing and the per cent in December 2010, according to the Nationwide index.
expectation that interest rates will gradually rise.
Emerging markets, especially Asia, will continue to outperform as they are less encumbered The US economy registered the fastest growth amongst our principal by balance sheet strains.
Moreover, growth in countries like China and markets.
GDP grew by 2.8 per cent, following a contraction of 2.6 per India will continue to be underpinned by the process of catch-up with cent in 2009.
Despite this, the unemployment rate remained stubbornly industrial nations.
high, which prompted a further loosening of monetary and fiscal policy.
Inflationary pressures were generally subdued, but picked up somewhat towards the end of the year.
Policy makers pledged to keep Fed funds rate exceptionally low for an extended period of time to provide a necessary support to the economic recovery.
