CORPORATE RESPONSIBILTY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REMAINS FUNDAMENTAL TO THE WAY RSA CONDUCTS ITS BUSINESS.
DURING 2010 WE CELEBRATED OUR TH 300 BIRTHDAY ENCOURAGING ALL EMPLOYEES TO VOLUNTEER OR FUNDRAISE FOR THEIR LOCAL COMMUNITIES PROGRESS IN 2010 Executive Committee review of CR and as a Group we achieved 67% of 2010 targets.
Our progress in 2010 was recognised by the annual review by the Board.
Briefings We recently set a challenging target to achieve Goldman Sachs, who named RSA as one and training on specific CR issues are provided a reduction in CO of 40% by 2020 against our 2 of the top five global insurers in their on an ongoing basis.
CR targets and objectives 2006 levels.
GS: Sustain report, a Silver award in the are included in the Group CEOs goals, which Dow Jones Sustainability Investor Index, are also cascaded to direct reports and Further information on our approach, retaining Platinum in the Times Top 100 relevant business functions.
governance and policies can be found at: Companies and winning the Arabian CSR www.
com award for best mid-sized company.
Our CR data, processes and external reporting are verified by external auditors CR SUPPORTS OUR STRATEGY APPROACH AND GOVERNANCE AA1000, GRI, ISAE3000 with an extra Our commitment to Doing the Right Behaving responsibly and ethically has a audit of the Groups carbon footprint Thing underpins our global business strategy.
positive impact on people, communities and GHG Protocol.
We use a web-based We incorporate the activities discussed below the environment in which we operate.
We are environmental management system to into our strategic priorities.
For example, committed to Doing the Right Thing, both as help collect and analyse data across RSA.
our work on flood mapping helps us identify individuals and as a company and all employees the appropriate price for the risk accepted, are assessed against our brand beliefs Bright Environmental, social and governance ESG driving sustainable earnings, while also Ideas, Brilliant Service, Doing the Right Thing, risks are actively monitored and reviewed allowing us to prioritise our claims approach.
Getting the Job Done, Positive People to regularly by the Board.
In 2010, the main The development of our renewable energy ensure that this forms part of the performance risks identified included the forthcoming UK products has also been a key factor in and remuneration structure at RSA.
Carbon Reduction Commitment legislation, delivering targeted profitable growth and environmental impacts of shipping and establishing RSA as a leading renewables Our approach is practical and focused on flood risk in the UK.
We set environmental insurer globally.
The work we do on three key themes: road safety, social inclusion improvement targets at a country level and environmental management to reduce travel, and the environment.
These issues have been identified as important by our customers, investors and employees.
Forum for the Future, the sustainability charity, carry out an annual assessment to check we are focusing on the right issues.
The principles by which we operate our business and our brand beliefs underpin our commitment to our customers, staff and other stakeholders and our Corporate Responsibility CR policies form an essential part of our broader risk and governance framework.
Every country is required to confirm quarterly that they comply with our CR, environment, charity and human rights policies.
Compliance with the policy framework is reviewed by the Group Executive Committee and Group Board in regular CR updates.
Responsibility for CR lies with the Group CEO, who chairs the biannual Group 32 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW paper consumption and energy and water usage, not only helps us meet environmental targets but reduces overall cost in our continued focus on operational excellence.
CUSTOMERS As part of our 300th birthday celebrations employees were encouraged to volunteer As an insurer, we play a vital role in helping and fundraise for the causes closest to their hearts.
Over three months, every office was people and businesses recover when the encouraged to take a day to help charities.
With strong feedback internally and externally worst happens.
Helping get their lives back around 6,000 volunteers took part, donating 36,000 hours.
on track is our first priority.
During the 2010 earthquake in Chile we helped our customers Community strategy through our rapid claims response with over Our community strategy remains focused on issues that are important to our customers 32,000 claims reported in this terrible event.
and where we feel we can achieve most through our skills and experience: In Canada we experienced 99% customer Road safety satisfaction levels thanks to fast track claims We continue to support programmes in Chile, Lithuania, the UAE, Sweden, Denmark and handling, specialised claims and empathy the UK.
In 2010, we launched a road safety education programme for children in the UK, training for employees coupled with Voice encouraging our employees to nominate the school that their child attends.
of the Customer telephone surveys that give customers the opportunity to provide Social inclusion immediate feedback.
RSA employees from all over the Group are actively involved with poverty alleviation, education and crime reduction initiatives.
Across Latin America, staff made donations Our commitment to customers was to orphanages and helped build homes for the homeless.
In the UK, employees helped underlined by the UK business wining to mentor teenagers aspiring to a career in business and launched a new youth-focused the prestigious Insurance Times General crime prevention scheme.
Insurer of the Year award.
The award was in recognition of our consistent Environment performance and a major achievement During 2010, we supported a number of environmental projects including planting trees in our 300th anniversary year.
and cleaning up polluted beaches in the Middle East.
In the UK, teams helped at local nature reserves and parks, with volunteers preparing a park in London to be the site Product innovation is also key to our success of an urban river restoration project with WWF.
and across the business we have created tailored and relevant products for specific In 2010, we gave over 2.4m in charitable donations 2009: 2.7m, with 58,000 volunteer customer groups.
Social and environmental hours 2009: 21,195 donated and 13,160 volunteers 2009: 10,127. changes create demands for innovative insurance solutions.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 | RSA | 33 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILTY CONTINUED For example: issues and engaged in active dialogue to We continue to focus on developing improve standards.
In Scandinavia, we employees at all levels through our major In Canada, our green home endorsement re-launched our supplier codes of conduct, initiatives.
Our Graduate Programme was policy was launched for customers, any ensuring strong action on environmental and challenged to develop long term charitable claim is carried out with environmentally social issues.
In the UK, we also held our first initiatives which link to our business as well friendly and healthy materials supplier workshops to discuss our approach as tackling responsible business dilemmas.
Our UK business is actively working to to CR and what we look for from suppliers.
minimise waste in our claims supply chain CLIMATE CHANGE AND through the use of recycled car parts and Broker satisfaction is also important and THE ENVIRONMENT repairing electrical goods in the home in Ireland we won the Best Technical As an insurer, any change in the intensity In Denmark, we are offering customers Excellence award from the Irish Broker or frequency of extreme weather conditions a 10%-20% discount if they install an energy Association.
The award was in recognition is a significant issue.
We remain committed and water control distributor to prevent of our Broker Academy which delivered to leading the debate on climate change leaks and fire risk.
over 50 sessions to 1,200 brokers in 2010. and collaborating with a range of forums, The aim of the Academy is to develop including the insurance working group of BUSINESS PARTNERS product awareness and technical skills the United Nations Environment Programme We work closely with our business partners through accredited programmes.
for Financial Institutions and the ABI and intermediaries to grow a successful ClimateWise initiative.
business while reducing our collective EMPLOYEES environmental and social impact.
During A sustainable business needs to attract, develop Our operations in the UK, Ireland and Group 2010, in the UK we asked 184 of our and reward talented people, as well as making Corporate Centre remain carbon neutral.
suppliers about their management of CR them accountable for their actions.
All offsetting of equivalent emissions is made GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS FOR RSA INSURANCE GROUP GEOGRAPHICAL BREAKDOWN OF CO E EMISSIONS FOR 2010 2 TONNES OF CO E TONNES CO 2 2 2006 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 2010 2009 baseline UK including GCC 7,904 16,093 7,317 1 Scope 1 16,309 15,153 International 2,8627,4896,144 2 Scope 2 32,411 33,616 Emerging Markets 5,542 8,830 5,789 3 Scope 3 19,251 15,890 Total gross 67,971 64,659 77,247 Water Waste Paper Energy CO 2 3 Gross tonnes CO per m NWP 9.0 9.6 14.1 m Tonnes Tonnes MWh Tonnes 2 260,950 2,552 121,107 3,806 67,971 64,659 Carbon offsets 34,000 32,887 2,248 106,915 183,248 2,709 Total net emissions 33,972 31,772 77,247 Net tonnes CO per m NWP 4.5 4.7 14.1 2 Group carbon dioxide equivalent emissions tonnes 1.
Scope 1: All direct GHG emissions 2.
Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions from consumption of purchased electricity, heat or steam 1.
Leak in Mexico caused a major increase in water consumption in 2009 3.
Scope 3: Other indirect emissions 34 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 1 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW in renewable energy projects certified to the Voluntary Carbon Standard.
Our commitment to reducing our environmental impact is on track to achieve a 40% reduction in CO For more details see www.
com 2 emissions relative to our net written premiums by 2020 based on 2006 levels.
WWF PARTNERSHIP We are actively working with WWF to We officially launched our partnership with WWF across the UK, Canada, Sweden, integrate environmental risk considerations Denmark and China a year ago.
Focusing on the risks of environmental change, RSA into our business.
has been supporting conservation projects relevant to our business, developing new products and engaging our employees and external stakeholders on the environment.
RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT We are focusing on three key issues: The bulk of our UK equity assets continue to be managed by F&C Asset Management.
Flooding F&C has one of the largest Governance Flooding remains a key issue for RSA.
The impact of increased frequency or intensity and Sustainable Investment teams in Europe, of rain has a direct impact on our customers.
With increased pressure on flood defence enabling it to follow a policy of active budgets, insurers need to find environmentally sensitive and cost effective solutions.
engagement across its portfolios on Construction has started to restore an urban river in East London.
Slowing down the river, environmental, social and governance issues.
re-creating the natural meander and a floodplain demonstrates a cost-effective, natural Last year, F&C engaged with 94 companies solution.
We have completed a new report examining the feasibility of sustainable urban on a wide range of issues from climate change drainage systems, which was launched at the House of Commons to raise awareness.
to labour standards in our portfolios.
Marine For further details of CR progress please As one of the largest Marine insurers, we are acutely aware of increasing pressures on fishing, see the full Corporate Responsibility Report, shipping and resource extraction and we are working to improve sustainability of our seas.
available in April on our website.
In Canada, we are establishing marine protection areas to help safeguard the long-term future of the fishing industry and in Scandinavia, we are collaborating with governments to better manage the commercial use of the Baltic Sea.
In 2010, RSA joined a group of global marine industry leaders to launch the Sustainable Shipping Initiative which will focus on shaping regulations to improve safety and minimise the impact on the environment.
Renewable energy Governments are placing an increased focus on renewable energy to combat climate change.
As a leading insurer of this risk, our Global Renewables business is uniquely placed to help the transition to a low carbon economy.
In China, we have been working with WWF and a range of stakeholders to develop renewable energy usage and energy efficiency.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 | RSA | 35 HIS VILLAGE IS THREATENED communities across the globe are likely to A lot of the credit goes to our employees BY CLIMATE CHANGE.
THATS face even greater threats from coastal erosion, as they have helped to reduce our footprint.
WHY WERE CHANGING THE flooding and violent storms in the future.
Our success has led customers to ask if we WAY WE OPERATE.
can help them and we have become a leading Arctic We recognised early on that, as a global provider of renewable energy insurance and company, we have a global responsibility offer a range of services to reduce energy use.
Climate change is one of the great to limit our impact on the environment.
We recorded our global footprint and Our role as a company is to keep people and While the seriousness of the problem in 2006 became the first UK insurer businesses moving.
But we wont be able to is debated, there is no doubt that to achieve carbon neutrality.
do that if we forget the world we all live in.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 38 Board of Directors 40 Executive team 42 Directors and corporate governance report 54 Remuneration report
