30 Corporate responsibility Schroders has a long-standing commitment to Teamwork: We work as a team to create value for our sustainability, maintaining consistently high standards clients.
We value the contribution of individuals and in all areas of corporate responsibility.
We seek to: Excellence: We strive to deliver the best and continually look for ways to improve.
Attract and develop the best people: Reduce our environmental footprint: Governance structure The Board is responsible for corporate governance Support the communities in which we operate: and corporate responsibility within the Group.
Alan Be transparent in our operations and reporting: and Brown, Chief Investment Officer, chairs the Corporate Responsibility Committee that oversees employee, Encourage and support these principles in the environmental and community involvement issues.
companies in which we invest.
This Committee is responsible for the development of Schroders is an index component of both the Dow Schroders policies on corporate responsibility and Jones Sustainability World Index and the Dow Jones their implementation throughout the Group as we look STOXX Sustainability Index.
We are also included in to embed corporate responsibility principles in all our theFTSE4 Good Index, which is designed to identify activities and culture.
companies that meet globally recognised corporate Our approach to corporate responsibility is built around responsibility standards.
As a major investor, we four main areas: recognise that how we behave can influence other companies.
Marketplace: Our stakeholders, with whom we maintain an ongoing Workplace: dialogue, include shareholders, clients, employees, Environment: and regulators, non-governmental organisations, the wider community and the companies in which we invest.
Weendeavour to develop close relationships with all stakeholders.
Our behaviour is influenced by our core F urther information on our activities is published onour website at www.
com cr values: Integrity: We are honest, open and uncompromising in our commitment to our standards.
We welcome the responsibility that comes with the trust our stakeholders place in us.
Passion: We share a deep-rooted belief in what wedo.
We demonstrate this through the dedication, enthusiasm and energy we bring to our work.
Innovation: We challenge the established way ofdoing things and seek to anticipate future developments.
Schroders has a longstanding commitment to sustainability, maintaining consistently high standards in all areas of corporate responsibility.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2010 48485 TEXT pp30 36. indd 30 15 03 2011 04:25 31 The business monitors the following key performance indicators to assess our progress in each ofthese four areas: Key performance How have we indicator performed in 2010?
Performance Marketplace Our voting record at From London we voted Per cent.
of resolutions voted on annual general meetings.
As a leading asset Ourpolicy is to vote on 09 88 management group, all resolutions except we recognise that our 10 85 where there are onerous engagement with conditions.
companies in which we invest can have a significant impact.
of survey respondents proud to be We regularly conduct Our employees remain associated with Schroders a survey of employees highly engaged with the where results are firm and 95 per cent.
05 89 benchmarked against of employees who 08 92 other financial services responded to our most organisations and high recent survey, in the UK 10 95 performing organisations.
and Europe, indicated The results provide the that they were proud to management team be associated with with aninsight into Schroders.
how employees view thebusiness over the longer term.
Environment Tonnes Our CO output in During 2010, our carbon 2 London, as a result output has reduced by 08 5,656 ofelectricity and gas eight per cent.
reflecting consumption, has been our continued 09 5,098 calculated using the latest investment in energy 10 4,700 2010 DEFRA Guidelines.
We are committed to continuous reduction in the negative environmental impact of our operations and we are targeting a 15 per cent.
We began measuring our carbon footprint in 2007.
Community The Groups financial We have increased m contributions tocharitable our charitablegiving 08 1.1 causes during the year.
by 0.5 million in 2010 to 1.1million, reflecting 09 0.6 Our charitable giving is our improved financial focused on employee 10 1.1 performance.
choice, with the Group matching employee donations and sponsorship.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2010 48485 TEXT pp30 36. indd 31 15 03 2011 04:26 32 Corporate responsibility continued Marketplace tovote.
We will usually only vote in cases where the Transparency, accountability and sustainability are benefit of voting outweighs theability to trade.
essential to the success of our business and have We publish details of our voting record on our website, become increasingly prominent in the light of market after a suitable period to ensure that the publication of events in recent years.
At Schroders, we put our clients voting does not influence the outcome of discussions first and we are committed to developing sustainable with companies.
Voting reports are also provided relationships.
Treating clients fairly is an important quarterly to Institutional clients.
We believe effective principle for our business.
Our long-term values are engagement must sometimes be confidential, for embedded in our culture and can be seen in the example when publicity is more likely to entrench integrity with which we behave.
In providing solutions positions than resolve issues.
to address our clients investment needs, we seek to communicate clearly the services we offer.
As a leading asset management group, we also recognise our responsibility in ensuring that we engage We regard corporate engagement as integral to our with companies to assess not only the financial risks investment process.
It is essential to understanding the but also the environmental, social and governance sustainable value of the companies in which we invest ESG risks that can impact long-term value.
During 2010, our equity fund managers and analysts attended over 10,000 Our Global Equity Responsible Investment Policy meetings with companies to discuss issues such as outlines our approach as responsible equity investors financial performance, strategy and management.
and how we integrate an analysis of ESG issues into our investment process and our intention toengage Our global Investment and Corporate Governance with companies to enhance our ESG understanding.
Policy sets out our approach to the governance of This policy meets the Association ofBritish Insurers companies in which we hold equity investments and Disclosure Guidelines on Socially Responsible our approach to conflicts of interest.
During the year, Investment and endorses the Voluntary Code on we voted in over 4,700 company meetings as part of Shareholder Activism issued by the Institutional our aim to vote at all company meetings where we have Shareholders Committee.
We are alsoasignatory an equity holding.
to the United Nations Principles for Responsible We are committed to the UK Stewardship Code Investment which serves to reinforce ourcommitment published by the Financial Reporting Council in July to integrating ESG issues into our investment decision 2010 and we outline in detail how we comply with the making.
We are a founding member of the Institutional Investors We will engage and normally vote on any issue Group on Climate Change, signatories to the Bali affecting the long-term sustainable value of a company Communique issued by the Corporate Leadership in which weinvest.
Our focus will primarily be on issues Group on Climate Change and a member of the material to the value of the companys shares.
Our investment process incorporates ESG research into the corporate In the UK we vote at all meetings except where there responsibility performance of companies and we areonerous restrictions, for example, where trading engage with companies where their ESG practices isrestricted prior to a meeting in shares committed fallshort of acceptable standards.
Further information on how we comply with the UK Stewardship Code can be found on our website at www.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 48485 TEXT pp030 036. indd 32 15 03 2011 16:02 33 During 2010, we engaged in dialogue with 81 Remuneration companies 2009: 87 companies on specific ESG Our approach to remuneration is consistent with related issues.
Overall, we voted on 116 shareholder ourambition to be an employer of choice.
We have resolutions of a social, ethical or environmental nature developed flexibility to enable our employees to 2009: 99 resolutions.
personalise elements of their remuneration package tosuit their own needs and ambitions.
We also utilise the Ethical Investment Research Service to screen investible universes in order to reflect clients High ethical standards values in their investment portfolios.
At the end of 2010, We actively promote high ethical standards.
Concerns we had 8.3 billion of funds under management which about behaviour, or decisions that are perceived to be had some form of ethical criteria attached to them unethical, can be raised by employees through our 2009: 3.8 billion.
Personal securities trading by employees is regulated.
Employees are not Workplace permitted to solicit or accept any inducements which The Group has more than 2,700 employees across 25 are likely to conflict with their duties.
Our aim is to be an employer of choice and provided in relation to these issues and in relation to one of our strategic priorities is to develop our talented money laundering, terrorist finance, data protection people in order to deliver to ourpotential.
We work to ensure that our employee policies reflect best practice within each of the countries in which Diversity weoperate, and that our employees understand the We are committed to providing equal opportunities strategic aims and objectives of the Group, are clear inemployment and to avoiding unlawful discrimination.
about their role in achieving them and participate in We expect our workforce to reflect the diversity of the the wider community.
We communicate regularly many communities in which we operate.
We recognise with employees worldwide.
We utilise employee that through the attraction and retention of a diverse meetings to facilitate the exchange of views with workforce we are better able to understand the needs senior management and discussion of the progress of all our clients.
Communication In the UK, there is an Employee Consultation Forum consisting of employees elected by their peers.
Members of the Forum meet regularly with management as a Joint Consultative Group which discusses employee-related matters and provides feedback and recommendations to seniormanagement.
One of our priorities is to develop our talented people in order to deliver to our potential.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2010 48485 TEXT pp30 36. indd 33 15 03 2011 04:26 34 Corporate responsibility continued A flexible working policy has been developed to Environment recognise the diverse needs of employees in managing Our environmental policy was approved in June 2009. the responsibilities of their work and personal lives.
We look to minimise the negative environmental Webelieve that achieving an effective balance in these impacts of our operations through good management areas is beneficial to both the Group and the individual.
and by committing to continuous improvement in our environmental performance.
Equality During 2010, we continued to make improvements to It is the Groups policy to give fair consideration to all help minimise our environmental impact and promote applications received, having regard to their particular positive environmental practices.
For the purposes of training, career development and progression, all employees We gained accreditation in March 2010 for the Carbon are treated fairly with other employees.
The Group Trust Standard in recognition of the reduction in our iscommitted to creating a work environment free of carbon footprint since 2007. harassment and bullying, where everyone is treated We are also members of Green500, an initiative from with dignity and respect.
A policy is in place toassist the London Development Agency, which works with the Group and our employees in putting this organisations to achieve carbon reduction goals.
In commitment into practice to treat everyone fairly 2010 we were awarded the Green500 Gold Award regardless of their age, gender, race, sexual forthe second year running, in acknowledgement orientation, disability, religion or belief.
ofour progress in reducing our carbon emissions.
This policy is monitored periodically to judge its We organise a number of events for our employees effectiveness and will be updated in accordance with toincrease environmental awareness, culminating changes in the law.
Where possible, we will capture inan annual Corporate Responsibility Week which theethnic, age and gender composition of our existing hasastrong environmental focus.
These events are workforce and those applying for jobs and the number designed to give employees the opportunity to learn of people within each of these groups.
Our equal how they can reduce both Schroders and their own opportunities policy will be reviewed in the light personal carbon footprint.
In line with our environmental policy, we measure our Personal development performance in terms of waste management, energy Our performance management process comprises usage and water usage performance indicators.
anannual performance appraisal against agreed objectives and our core values.
Output from this Waste management London only performance process is used to inform decisions on We have improved our waste data measurement remuneration, career development and progression.
systems this year and historical figures have been restated accordingly.
In 2010, we have included the In creating a high performing organisation, we disposal of confidential waste for the first time.
The recognise the importance of encouraging all our amount of waste we produced rose by 15 per cent.
employees to learn, develop and fulfil their potential.
perheadcompared with 2009, primarily due to the We provide our employees worldwide with access addition of 19.91 tonnes of confidential waste.
toarange of training and development opportunities thatare relevant to our business.
We aim to reuse or recycle over 90 per cent.
of our waste and reduce the amount that goes to landfill to Health and safety less than 10 per cent.
With the inclusion of confidential We promote high standards of health and safety at waste our recycling figure for 2010 has improved, up to work and have a global health and safety policy, which 83 per cent.
All waste not suitable for recycling is sent we expect all employees to follow and which highlights toincineration plants and used to generate electricity for our commitment to ensuring employees are provided the community.
No waste has been sent to landfill sites.
with a safe and healthy working environment.
Training is offered to all employees.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2010 48485 TEXT pp30 36. indd 34 15 03 2011 04:26 35 Energy usage London only Waste recycled or used per cent.
Energy usage is one of the most significant direct 08 82 impacts that our operations have on the environment.
We aim to reduce carbon output by 15 per cent.
In 2010, our head office 10 83 wassupplied entirely with renewable electricity.
Energy consumption in 2010 decreased by 6.9percent.
compared to 2009 reflecting our Waste generated per employee tonnes continued investment inenergy reduction measures.
08 0.23 We have used the latest best practice 2010 09 0.15 Guidelines to Defra DECCs Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors for Company Reporting to 10 0.18 recalculate our CO emissions for the past three 2 years.
During 2010, our carbon output has reduced byeightpercent.
Energy MWh Electricity Gas We encourage our employees to use video conferencing as an alternative to business air travel 08 9,850.17 1,625.90 11,476.07 andusage increased by 15 per cent.
Despitean increase in staff numbers, the consumption of piped water in London reduced slightly in 2010 per person asa result of the water-saving measures we have introduced.
Community We encourage all employees to participate in thecommunity and in civic and charitable causes.
Webelieve that involvement is valuable to both thecommunity and the individual as it can assist inpersonal development.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2010 48485 TEXT pp30 36. indd 35 15 03 2011 04:26 36 Corporate responsibility continued Charitable giving Volunteering Our charitable giving is focused on employee choice, We encourage employees to spend time working in the with the Group matching employee donations and community.
Employees globally are able to take up to sponsorship up to 2,000 per annum.
In 2010, 15 hours paid leave per year for volunteering services.
In London, we are a corporate sponsor of the Hackney This reflected the improvement in our financial Schools Mentoring Programme, established by the performance and an increase in the number of East London Business Alliance and Hackney Learning discretionary donations.
Our employees help to mentor 14 and 15 largely given in memory of deceased employees, were year old students in the London Borough of Hackney to charities with which they were closely involved, to increase students self confidence, whilst allowing including St Pauls Way School and St Martin-inthem to gain experience of the working environment the-Fields.
Overseas, our In addition to our successful matched giving scheme, employees also participate in local volunteering we expect to make further discretionary donations in schemes.
2011 which will be focused on charities that operate inthe area of Social Welfare.
A number of our offices operate payroll giving schemes, of which the UK scheme is the largest, with22 per cent.
Charitable donations by the firm of 220,000 were made through this scheme 2009: 202,000 and we again received the Payroll Giving Quality Mark Gold Award in 2010, which recognises that over 20 per cent.
of employees donated money tocharity via payroll.
Our charitable giving is focused on employee choice, with the Group matching employee donations and sponsorship.
| Schroders Annual Report and Accounts 2010 48485 TEXT pp030 036. indd 36 15 03 2011 14:40 Directors profiles 38 Corporate governance report 40 3.
Governance Nominations Committee report 49 Audit and Risk Committee report 51 Remuneration report 55 Directors report 72 Statement of Directors responsibilities 74 As one of the UKs largest assetmanagers, corporate governance is very important to us.
We are committed to businessintegrity, ethical values and professionalism acrossall our activities.
