L A T n N i E a M h c N y O l R p I p V u N S E D N A N O y I T t i C s r E e T v O i R d P o i E B C R U O S E l R a t L n A s e R t c U m a T n p A o N m r i i v n E y t i n u E m C R m O o F C K R O W D N e A l p S E o I e T I p N r U u M O M O C E L B A d N I n A a y T t S h e t U f l S a a s e H Our performance Sustainability review Sector leading performance.
In this section of our Annual Report we provide a summary of what we are doing to make our business more sustainable.
A more detailed account will be provided in our 2010 Sustainability Report, which will be published on our website www.
Making tomorrow a better place MAKING TOMORROW A BETTER PLACE 32 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 e c n a N n O r I e T v C o U G D O R P D N A s r N e O m I T o P t M s u U C S N O C E L B A N d I n A a T k S e s U i u r S l a V Y G n R E g i N s E e D D N A E G N A H c C i r E e s T t h c A p a s M p o I L m m C i t A T e N c r E u e M s o E u s e C R N A H N E Sir Quentin Leiper, Carillion Group Chief Engineer, is congratulated by Jonathan Porritt for being named among the top 50 sustainability leaders in 2010.
The Al Futtaim Carillion Joint Venture won Construction Weeks 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Award, which was received by Stuart Mee, Head of Sustainability for Carillions Middle East and North Africa business, and Arthika Narth, Sustainability Coordinator for Al Futtaim Carillion, at the awards ceremony in Dubai.
Our sustainability strategy The Sustainability Committee is supported For the second year running, one of our Our sustainability strategy has been by a Group Sustainability Forum, comprising Joint Venture businesses in the Middle East, thoroughly embedded across all our our senior business leaders, that informs Al Futtaim Carillion, won the Corporate businesses over the last 10 years and is the development of our sustainability strategy, Social Responsibility Award at the 2010 regularly reviewed and updated.
Our current shares best practice and ensures the effective Construction Week Awards held in Dubai.
strategy model for sustainable development dissemination of our sustainability strategy Carillion Al Futtaim was declared the clear continues to be aligned with the four priority and policies to each business.
All our winner by the judges for addressing every areas defi ned by the UK Government in its businesses have a sustainability plan and aspect of life and work for their employees, sustainable development strategy, Securing objectives, which form an integral part of both staff and labour.
the Future, namely their annual business plans.
Since 2003, we have organised an annual Sustainability Week In 2010, as well as continuing to set specifi c Sustainable communities and workforce to coincide with World Environment Day in sustainability targets for each of our business Natural resource protection and June.
In 2010, this event focused on raising units and for the Group as a whole, we environmental enhancement awareness of the impact of the everyday focused on a number of important specifi c Climate change and energy actions of our people on the environment areas, namely Sustainable consumption and production.
and on the communities in which we live and work.
We organised a walk a mile challenge engaging with Forum for the Future, a We have identifi ed 12 behaviours and during the week and captured a total of 7,000 selection of our customers and also with activities across these four priority areas, miles walked by our people.
our own people to establish our future which affect the delivery of our business sustainability strategy objectives.
These behaviours and their Our performance focusing on our carbon reduction relationships with the four priority areas of In the 2010 UK Sunday Times Best Green strategy to work towards the delivery of Securing the Future are illustrated in the Company awards, Carillion was ranked in our target to reduce carbon emissions diagram on page 32. the Top 10.
We also maintained our Platinum by our UK businesses by 50 per cent by ranking in Business in the Communitys 2010, measured against a 2006 baseline During 2010, we began to redefi ne our Corporate Responsibility Index, with a score setting challenging carbon emissions future sustainability strategy, working in of 96.5 per cent.
The Corporate Responsibility targets for our Middle East and North partnership with Forum for the Future.
We Index involves a detailed, independent Africa businesses against a 2009 baseline plan to publish the results of this detailed assessment of Carillions sustainability and establishing a carbon emissions exercise in our 2011 report and further details strategy, management processes and baseline for our business in Canada of the work we are doing can be found in our performance.
Such assessments enable us to delivering our commitment to halve the 2010 Sustainability Report.
benchmark our performance against other volume of construction waste we send companies, including those in different to landfi ll by 2012 Managing sustainability market sectors.
enable over 110 candidates to gain Our commitment to sustainability is driven valuable two-week work placements by our Board, supported by a Sustainability Carillion continues to be a member of the in our businesses and supporting their Committee.
This Committee is chaired by FTSE4Good Index and in 2010 we submitted a re-introduction to employment, through our Chief Executive, John McDonough, and full response to the Carbon Disclosure Project, the Business Action on Homelessness includes a number of Executive and Senior having done so for the fi first time in 2009. programme.
The Committee also benefi ts from expert advice from two external members, The Groups sustainability targets for 2010 Dame Julia Cleverdon, Vice President of were based on 14 specifi c and measurable Business in the Community BITC and targets.
In order to drive continuous Jonathan Porritt, Founder Director of Forum improvement we set demanding targets for the Future.
and our performance against them is independently verifi ed.
A full report on what we have achieved will be published in our 2010 Sustainability Report.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 33 Our performance Sustainability review Sustainable communities and workforce National resource protection and Creating a sustainable business requires the environmental enhancement commitment of all our people.
We seek to What we do and how we do it can have achieve this through our Health & Safety, signifi cant impacts on the use of natural leadership, personal development and resources and the environment.
We use our employee engagement programmes, which knowledge and skills to develop sustainable are described in more detail on pages 18, 38 service solutions for customers to create and 39. positive impacts in these areas.
How we do business is based on our belief Carillion has developed and implemented that it is not only what we do that matters, environmental management systems across but also how we do it, which drives our the Group and all our UK and Middle East commitment to living our values in everything and North Africa operations are accredited we do.
We make Values Awards to our people to ISO14001 by a registered third party.
A to recognise the outstanding contributions number of contracts within our Canada they make to our success in delivering an business have also become accredited in excellent service to our customers and to 2010 and we have a programme to extend creating a positive impact on the communities accreditation to more contracts in 2011.
Mike Dilger, from the BBCs One Show, accepts in which we operate.
a cheque for 35,000 on behalf of the Wildlife The preservation of natural habitats and the Trusts, bringing Carillions total donations to the We feel proud that our people are also wildlife they support is important both socially Wildlife Trusts to over 300,000. winning prestigious awards.
Our Group Chief and environmentally.
2010 marked a major Engineer, Professor Quentin Leiper, CBE was milestone for our work with the UK Wildlife named one of the Top 50 Green Leaders in Trusts.
Over the past ten years Carillion has the West Midlands by Sustainability West supported the Wildlife Trusts through Midlands SWM.
voluntary work by our employees and annual donations to the Natural Habitats Funds.
Our commitment to sustainable communities To date we have donated over 300,000 to also extends beyond the roles played by our this fund which has supported 48 projects.
We have a community The local Wildlife Trusts, which care for engagement strategy for all our major almost 2,500 nature reserves across the UK, worksites and projects and we encourage our are able to apply for grants from the Fund people to understand how Carillion can have to support conservation projects.
We also positive impacts on the communities encourage our employees to work with in which we operate and to participate in their local Wildlife Trusts on these projects, community activities.
especially where projects are close to Carillion offi ces or worksites.
Carillion gives over one per cent of its pre-tax profi ts in cash or in kind to community In recognition of our ongoing commitment to activities.
We are a national partner in the integrate sustainability into our supply chain, Business Action on Homelessness BAOH we continue to apply the principles of the campaign, designed to help homeless people UK Governments Sustainable Procurement break the cycle of no home, no job and since Taskforce SPTF Flexible Framework.
In 2010, becoming a partner in 2006 we have assisted we produced a new Sustainable Supplier over 100 homeless people every year on their Charter, online accreditation process and journey to full employment.
In 2010, as part e-invoicing system, with which our suppliers of our regular giving to good causes, Carillion are required to comply when working donated a total of 25,000 to a wide variety for Carillion.
of charities nominated by our people, all of whom were asked to put forward their Carillion continues to be a member of the recommendations and the reasons why they WWF-UK Forest and Trade Network FTN and wanted Carillion to support their chosen during 2010 we continued to work towards charity.
ensuring we use timber products from sources certifi ed by the Forest Stewardship Council on In 2010, Carillion became a supporter of all our projects.
We report the volumes and the Defence Career Partnership, Return to sources of the timber we use to the WWF-UK Work Initiative.
Carillion will run a pilot FTN annually and develop detailed action plans programme for this scheme, offering a for improvement.
During 2010 we successfully number of work placements to the Ministry of achieved full FSC Chain of Custody for our Defence for ex-military personnel.
This project joinery workshop in Oman and for our product will continue in 2011, as we are committed to sourcing business in China.
ensuring that this programme is a success.
As one of the UKs leading providers of training for support services and construction skills, we continue to work with the Construction Industry Training Board and contribute to the development of individuals and communities.
34 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Climate change and energy In 2010, we continued to develop our Climate change is increasingly recognised as understanding of how our operations the most serious long-term threat to human affect climate change, together with our prosperity and lifestyle.
The effective commitment to developing new measures management and reduction of greenhouse to reduce these effects.
We regard this as gas GHG emissions has become increasingly fundamental to the development of our important, as it is now widely accepted that business and we have also linked this to companies will need to make substantial other measures we are pursuing, including changes to the ways in which they operate, the reduction of our overall cost base.
We if we are to respond effectively to this threat.
continue to promote the use of telephone and video conferencing to reduce the need to In 2007, Carillion set the challenging target travel, introduced more fuel effi cient cars and of reducing its direct UK carbon emissions by procured all the electricity for our permanent 50 per cent by 2010, measured against the offi ces from renewable or climate change Groups 2006 carbon emissions, adjusted for levy-exempt sources.
We are also working revenue growth.
Our progress towards this with our customers to provide sustainable target will be verifi ed by a third party and building, infrastructure and lifetime facilities published in our 2010 Sustainability Report, management and services.
To support the achievement of this target, we have developed a carbon Our 2010 Sustainability Report will provide reduction strategy and policy, which involves more information on our carbon reduction measuring and reporting our carbon footprint programme when it is published on our each quarter, in accordance with the website in April 2011.
Greenhouse Gas Protocol carbon accounting standard.
Our carbon footprint covers our Sustainable consumption and production direct emissions generated from buildings, Carillions leadership in developing and transport, travel, waste and from plant implementing its sustainability strategy powered by fossil fuel on project sites.
model, which relates our impacts on the environment and on society to business In addition, Carillion has registered for the performance, has made a major contribution Carbon Reduction Commitment and has to the Groups risk management policies invested resources to ensure we meet our and processes.
These policies and processes address As a member of Business in the Communitys strategic risks and those specifi c to May Day network, Carillion was invited to individual businesses and contracts, During our 2010 Values Week, Carillion present its work on sustainability at the including economic, social, environmental employees volunteered for work on Wildlife START event held in Birmingham in 2010. and ethical risks, and are therefore Trusts projects.
START is a national initiative, led by The fundamental to the management of the Prince of Wales Charities Foundation, Group and all its operations.
Carillion employees at the Great Western that seeks to help people lead more Hospital, Swindon, are helping students in local sustainable lives by encouraging them to We believe that our leadership in schools to understand sustainability and how work towards a more energy effi cient, sustainability differentiates us from our we can make our lifestyles more sustainable.
We seek to understand the needs of our customers and their objectives Carillion supported the WWF Earth Hour in respect of sustainability and to use our during 2010 where lights were simultaneously knowledge and skills to meet their needs switched off for an hour across the regions in by developing sustainable service solutions.
which we operate to show our commitment We also seek to promote sustainable to climate change.
solutions by explaining to our customers how a sustainable approach can not only For many of the schools we are constructing create positive impacts on the environment in the UK, we are now providing Combined and on society, but also reduce costs, Heat and Power plants.
Furthermore, we are increase effi ciency and improve the quality delivering some of these schools as Public of the services we offer.
Private Partnerships, using private fi finance, which means we also provide maintenance This demonstrates how Carillions leadership and facilities management services for these in sustainability helps to differentiate us schools over the lives of the concession from our competitors and contributes to contracts.
In the Middle East, we are the strong positions we hold in our installing photovoltaic panels at our chosen market sectors.
offi ce in Abu Dhabi and we plan to extend this to other offi ces during 2011.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 35
