Business Review Corporate Social Responsibility Report St. Jamess Place is committed to growing the business in a way that considers the economic, social and environmental impacts of what we do.
We understand that responsible management is employees making regular monthly donations out increasingly important to our stakeholders of their income or salary and also raising funds from shareholders, clients, Partners, employees, suppliers events and sponsored activities.
The amounts raised and the communities in which we operate.
by members of the SJP community are then matched pound for pound by the Company and the total This report provides information on how we manage funds are utilised in the support of UK registered Corporate Social Responsibility CSR at charities operating in both the UK and abroad.
St. Jamess Place and identifies the key areas where we have made a positive impact during the year.
Foundation Income 2010 The Foundation is governed by a board of Trustees We are pleased that St. Jamess Place continues which include the Executive Directors of the to be included in the FTSE4GOOD Index which Company.
However, they devolve much of the comprises companies that meet globally recognised day-to-day decision making to a National Committee corporate social responsibility criteria.
which meets regularly, throughout the year.
The Committee is made up of members of the St. Jamess CSR Governance Place Partnership and employees of the Company St. Jamess Places CSR programme is overseen by the from each of the 22 locations around the UK and HR Corporate Social Responsibility Steering Group.
they help to drive the Foundations main aims and The Steering Group met on a monthly basis objectives, including the vetting of charities applying throughout the year to review the Companys HR and to the Foundation for support.
The Group is chaired by the Company Secretary and comprises senior executives 2010 was a record year for the Foundation, both in from across the business.
During the year, the terms of funds raised and the amount of funds Steering Group considered a number of CSR-related donated and pledged to good causes.
A total of 2.7 matters including how to encourage more employeemillion was raised in the year including matching volunteering in the local community, fundraising and gift aid, with 3.2 million donated to charities.
activities for the SJP Foundation and how to reduce the Groups environmental impact through changes to A key aspect of the Foundations strategy for 2010 the Company Car scheme.
The Group also considered has been to assist charities by making multi year actions emanating from the staff survey, recruitment commitments whereby the cost of a salary or a and recognition policies and employee development.
related project will be funded over two to three years, thus giving the charity greater stability in Environmental matters are also considered by the terms of funding.
As a result, a further 1 million St. Jamess Place Environmental Working Group.
has been pledged to good causes in 2010, but is due The Group met on a regular basis throughout the to be paid in 2011 and beyond.
year to review the Companys environmental programme against its objectives.
The Group is How the Foundation Chooses the Causes chaired by the Operations Director and, during it Supports the year, focussed on ways to reduce landfill waste, The Foundations grant making is guided by themes increase recycling and increasing the overall and these are updated every three years following awareness of environmental matters with staff.
consultation with the St. Jamess Place community.
The two main themes have until recently been the St. Jamess Place Foundation Hospice Movement and Cherishing the Children The St. Jamess Place Foundation the Foundation assisting children whose lives have been challenged has been an important part of the St. Jamess Place by illness and disability.
In 2009, the Foundations culture since the Companys formation in 1992, reach was enhanced and the themes were broadened nearly 20 years ago, when the founders of the to include people with cancer and young people Company had a collective desire to give something struggling to get on in life who are disadvantaged back to people who need it most and set up the socially and economically.
The Foundation tends to Foundation to achieve this.
support small to medium sized charities with relatively low levels of reserves, as the Trustees The Foundation is a grant making charity with believe that grants to such charities are likely to a difference.
It relies on the support it receives from have a greater impact on the people supported the entire SJP community, with Partners and by the charities.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 31 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued Foundation Giving in 2010 by Theme Through the Foundations grant making we help children with various different illnesses and conditions including Cerebral Palsy.
In 2010, the Foundation awarded Cerebral Palsy Sport CP Sport a grant of 39,347 to fund the salary of a part-time specialist athletics coordinator over two years.
The Foundation and CP Sport believe that participation in sport can impact positively on a childs health and mobility and can increase their self confidence.
Helping to Change the Lives of Children and People in Need Overseas In 2010, a total of 772,230 was donated to causes H elping children challenged by illness and disability focused on children living in poverty overseas and Making a positive and lasting difference to lives of people whose lives have been devastated by disaster.
disadvantaged young people in the UK The Foundation and the SJP community responded Helping young people living in poverty overseas by donating a significant amount to UK charities Supporting the Hospice Movement in the UK helping those people adversely affected by the Supporting other causes devastating earthquake in Haiti and the floods in Pakistan.
Helping Disadvantaged Young People In 2010, a total of 1,098,208 has been donated or pledged to causes focused on disadvantaged young people, who are often marginalised and struggling to reach their full potential.
A good example of the Foundations support of marginalised young people in London was the grant we made to the New Horizon Youth Centre, who help vulnerable and disadvantaged young people to achieve independence and positive futures through advocacy, support and education.
A grant of 96,000 was made over three years to fund their The Foundation donated a total of 75,000 over ICT Life Skills Project aimed at helping young three years to the Philippine Community Fund who people overcome barriers to learning and to achieve work with the poorest Filipino communities key vocational qualifications.
particularly the rubbish tip communities in Manila, improving their quality of life through Helping Children Whose Lives Have Been education, nutrition, health, medical and family Challenged by Illness and Disability enhancement programmes.
In 2010, a total of 969,457 was donated to fund projects assisting children with disabilities, illness or Supporting Hospices to Provide Quality life limiting conditions.
We aim to help children Holistic End of Life Care whose quality of life has been affected adversely and In 2010, a total of 239,019 was donated to where we can help to make a difference to both the Hospices providing quality palliative care to people child and their familys day-to-day existence.
The of all ages across the UK.
The Foundation has Foundation funds both capital items and revenue funded a range of different projects from the costs, including, for example, specialist equipment purchase of specialist equipment, building of new which will make a real difference to the mobility facilities, to covering the costs of nurses providing of a child with a disability or funding the cost of direct care and support to patients.
a therapist who works with children to alleviate physical or mental health issues.
St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
3183415 32 Business Review As well as giving regularly by covenant, many A good example of how the Foundation helps Hospices is illustrated by the 30,000 donated to Partners and employees also raise significant sums by taking part in organised events or by creating St. Cuthberts Hospice to part fund the construction of a dedicated bereavement room to enable their own fundraising events, from walks and cycle rides to mountain treks, triathlons, talent enhanced specialist counselling and therapy services to children and young people.
St. Cuthberts competitions and quiz nights.
Hospice is based in Durham and helps families to cope with the physical, social, psychological or spiritual effects of life-limiting illnesses.
Fundraising in 2010 The Foundation continues to be reliant on the incredible generosity of the St. Jamess Place community, both in terms of sums donated but also the time set aside to attend or organise events in For example, a group of Partners and employees support of the Foundation.
In 2010, Partners and travelled to Sicily in September 2010 and trekked employees of St. Jamess Place raised a total of 2.7 to the summit of Mount Etna, raising 20,000 million including Company matching and gift aid.
This record is an improvement on the 2.6 million raised in 2009 and takes our total fundraising since the formation of the Foundation in 1992 to a total of just over 20 million: an outstanding achievement.
The following table shows the amount raised for the Foundation by Partners and staff including Company matching in the period from 2002 to 2010.
Amount raised million In June 2010, 90 members of our community cycled from London to Paris, raising in excess of 250,000 1.09 1.19 1.50 1.65 1.88 2.44 2.45 2.65 2.71 for the Foundation and the Laureus Sport for Good Foundation.
Plans for 2011 We have some exciting plans to grow the reach of the Foundation in 2011 by increasing the income received through covenants and through various events planned across the UK, including two The Foundation plays a central role in the day-to-day walking weekends which we hope will attract many activities of the Company.
It holds a valued and participants from across our community.
In unique position within the culture of St. Jamess addition, we hope to continue to increase the Place and this is illustrated by the total funds raised amount we are able to grant to good causes which and the ongoing support we receive from our match the Foundations themes and put in place community through regular monthly donations and plans for the next significant milestone of the also participation in sponsored events.
Over 80% Foundations history, being the 20th anniversary of of the St. Jamess Place community give a regular the Foundation in 2012. monthly donation to the Foundation and these funds are then matched by the Company, raising over People 2.7 million in 2010.
Our Approach At induction, all employees and members of the St. Jamess Place Partnership receive a booklet entitled Our Approach which gives guidance on the culture and values of St. Jamess Place.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 33 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued We believe it is important for all areas of our Employee Feedback community to know and understand our objectives, We continue to seek employees views and opinions including the ethos behind the St. Jamess Place brand through a bi-annual Employee Survey with the most and how its integrity and values should be maintained, recent survey being conducted in September 2010. our corporate culture and management style, how we The survey was carried out by independent third deal with internal and external communications and party consultants ORC International so staff could our commitment to the St. Jamess Place Foundation.
be assured that any feedback would be confidential and strictly non-attributable.
Spirit of Partnership Partners are also provided with a document entitled We received a strong survey response rate of 85% The Spirit of Partnership, written by Partners for compared to 82% in 2008 so we believe that the Partners, which sets out the principles that have made survey results provide a good snapshot of how our the Partnership our competitive edge and a group of employees are feeling on a number of important professionals that other advisers aspire to join.
document emphasises our values of integrity, trust, openness, partnership and teamwork and is designed ORC measure the engagement of staff through to guide individual and corporate actions, decisions a series of questions in the survey which together and standards across the Company.
form an employee engagement index, which ORC used to compare SJPs results to those of other Our Employees financial services organisations that take part in We take pride in being a people business and continue their surveys.
We were delighted that SJPs overall to believe that our success as a business depends on engagement score was 84%, considerably higher the loyalty and dedication of our people, whether than the financial services benchmark of 69%.
Our employees give us a following table shows the responses to the questions sustainable competitive advantage and the attitude, linked to our employee engagement index: knowledge and commitment of our people continues to be a strong differentiator.
We aim to attract the % Difference Question % Positive to Benchmark best people, enable them to fulfil their potential and secure their continued commitment by providing I feel proud to work for SJP 90% 14% them with an interesting and challenging career I would recommend SJP as a within a first class working environment.
We share good place to work 84% 16% ideas and are always receptive to suggestions for Considering everything, change.
We give credit where credit is due and work I am satisfied with SJP hard to recognise individual performance.
as a place to work 86% 17% Employee Communication I feel a strong sense of We remain committed to an open style of belonging to SJP 82% 18% communication with employees.
We keep all of our I intend to still be working community informed frequently on matters that for SJP in 12 months time 83% 13% might affect their day-to-day work and communicate items of interest via a bi-monthly employee This organisation motivates me to go the extra mile 74% 22% newsletter.
Regular feedback from employees at all levels is sought through informal lunches hosted by Working here makes me Directors, and managers are expected to have regular want to do the best I can 84% 11% team meetings and regular one-to-ones with their team members.
Directors and senior managers The results of the survey have been shared with all frequently visit St. Jamess Place office locations staff at Department or Divisional team meetings, to disseminate key corporate messages and obtain with discussions taking place on those areas of the valuable feedback.
survey where lower scores indicated that improvements could be made.
The various ideas for improvement from employees have been collated St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
3183415 34 Business Review by HR and, where appropriate, will be used to all new joiners.
The inclusion in the programme of a enhance our procedures in the future, whether member of the Partnership, together with selected divisionally or across all employees generally.
members of staff from our third party suppliers, Particular areas of focus for 2011 include improving is proving very successful in helping them build the development plans put in place for staff a better understanding of the Company.
following annual appraisals and greater understanding of the pay and promotion Our Field Management Team has different specialist process across the Company.
areas, so we have created a development programme that is tailored to each role.
This commences as soon Employee retention in 2010 was 91.3%, whilst as a new Manager joins St. Jamess Place and average days lost through sickness across the continues throughout their career.
An example business was 3.6 days per employee, which is below of this is a programme of six courses for Business the national average.
Whilst our employee turnover Development Managers that helps them develop remains low, we carry out farewell interviews for all their skills to act as a consultant and help Partners our employees, to gain valuable feedback on reasons build their practices.
This covers various topics from for leaving and act where possible.
recruiting staff to business planning.
During 2010, we worked extensively with our Senior Field Our workplace gender profile is fairly evenly split Management team to implement a more effective with a total of 54% female and 46% male employees.
appraisal and review process to ensure that everyone We are keen to ensure that individuals are has clear personal development objectives.
encouraged to develop and are given opportunities to seek new challenges across the business and, as A new initiative in 2010 was the growth in our a result, job vacancies are advertised internally.
Changes in regulation will require many of our Partners to hold People Development a higher level qualification by the end of 2012 and St. Jamess Place is a Corporate Member of the we wish to ensure that our Partner support teams Institute of Customer Service ICS.
During 2010, are qualified to a similar or higher level as the the ICS Awards programme continued to provide Partnership.
We have therefore implemented a practical support to the development of employees programme of development courses to help the with growing numbers of staff involved in the relevant staff obtain their Diploma qualifications.
We now have over 60 people participating During 2010, 132 exams were successfully passed in the Awards programme and many of the early by our employees.
participants now assist colleagues in coaching and mentoring roles.
The Company retained its Following a Leadership Conference in the final Approved Centre Status by the ICS which recognises quarter of 2010, a project group has been put in that our programme is self-sufficient with our own place to consider our approach and make training events, coaches and assessors.
recommendations regarding the future of senior management development and succession planning.
The Knowledge Development Meetings implemented Ensuring that we have employees with the necessary during 2008 for Cirencester employees were further competencies for our current and future needs is key extended in 2010 and were supported by a new range both to our business and the personal growth of our of events for Managers.
In total, we ran 37 of these leadership team.
This approach has proved to be successful in helping employees develop Performance, Reward and Remuneration their understanding of our business and learn new We encourage a culture of high performance and skills.
These meetings are extremely well received service delivery.
This is supported by a formalised and the programme will continue to evolve Performance Development Review process throughout 2011. underpinned by our Competency Framework, which articulates the importance to SJP of core The induction programme for new employees activities and particular behaviours including ensures that the unique brand and culture of communication, relationship and people St. Jamess Place is shared in sufficient depth with management, project delivery and strategic Annual Report and Accounts 2010 35 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued development at each level.
Employees are Each year we carry out fire risk assessments, fire encouraged to develop their skills and knowledge evacuation tests and health and safety inspections through internal and external learning and and the actions identified from these are completed workshop opportunities, including our popular appropriately and overseen by the Health and Safety Knowledge Development Meetings presented working group.
The working group is chaired by the by employees to employees and during which Operations Director and meets at least quarterly to knowledge and expertise across different areas review policies, review the progress against targets of the business is shared.
and agree the action plan for the following year.
Our reward package is competitive with a Diversity and Equal Opportunities comprehensive range of benefits provided to all St. Jamess Place has a well-established awareness employees including Pension, Life and Critical of its statutory and social responsibilities with Illness cover, income replacement and Private regard to the recruitment and employment of staff.
Medical cover and health screening.
The Company is committed to maintaining an appropriately skilled and diverse workforce We provide all employees with the opportunity irrespective of age, colour, race, nationality, to benefit from annual cash bonuses linked to ethnicity, sex, mental or physical handicaps.
We St. Jamess Place corporate or team performance.
seek to employ the best person for each job and aim All employees are also provided with an annual to ensure everyone can enjoy equal opportunities opportunity to sacrifice their cash bonuses to their in an environment that is free from discrimination pension arrangement, with any amount sacrificed of any sort.
enhanced by 10% by the Company to encourage and communicate the importance of retirement In respect of employees with disabilities, we will planning.
A pension salary sacrifice arrangement always consider possible modifications to the working was introduced during 2009 to complement the environment to ensure that anyone with disabilities existing bonus sacrifice arrangement enabling staff has the chance to take up opportunities or enhance to enhance their pension by sacrificing a portion their role.
We ensure that every effort is made to of their annual salary, such amount again enhanced achieve continuity of employment in the event of an by 10%.
Over 20% of our employees elected to employee becoming disabled.
Similarly, best practice participate in the scheme.
principles ensure that our responsibilities are met as an equal opportunity employer.
We also recognise the value of employees being given the opportunity to acquire St. Jamess Place Our Clients shares and as a result all employees are invited to St. Jamess Place has always recognised that the participate in both the Sharesave plan and a new interests of our clients are paramount and central Share Incentive Plan which was launched in 2010. to our culture.
We strive to build and maintain Currently 70% of employees participate in the long-term relationships with clients through the Sharesave plan which allows shares to be acquired St. Jamess Place Partnership.
These relationships after a three-year savings period with 20% of are founded on the principle that every client has employees having also elected to participate in the different goals and aspirations, requiring an Share Incentive Plan, which provides the opportunity individual, personal and bespoke advice service to acquire up to 1,500 worth of SJP shares from from a St. Jamess Place Partner.
By applying this pre-tax salary with every tenth share acquired in principle, our Partners have developed exceptionally this manner matched by the Company with one strong and lasting relationships with their clients further share.
Further opportunities to participate which are founded on trust.
We aim to deliver in these share plans will be provided during 2011. consistent all round performance to clients by: Health and Safety Providing trusted advice through experienced We work hard to create an excellent working and suitably trained advisers.
environment for employees and Partners.
We Providing solutions to meet identified client ensure every office complies with Health and Safety needs.
regulations and also seek to improve awareness Ensuring that our literature is clear and easily through regular training sessions on subjects such as understood.
manual handling, fire marshal and first aider training.
3183415 36 Business Review Doing our very best to ensure that our clients Community Activities investments are managed effectively and meet Our community activity is focussed on the or exceed expectations.
recognition of our responsibility to help build strong Exhibiting empathy and consideration when and healthy communities in the areas in which we dealing with our clients and working within operate our business.
Where possible we work the spirit of our relationship with them: we with local charitable partners and community listen to their needs.
The combination of their expertise and the talents and enthusiasm of our employees We support and encourage Partner client makes our community involvement effective and relationships by ensuring that the range of wealth rewarding for all concerned.
management products and services on offer is comprehensive and meets both the current and Our Employee Volunteering programme was future needs of clients.
We wish to ensure that our revised in 2010 with employees being encouraged clients perception of St. Jamess Place is positive to share their knowledge and business skills with in every sense and that their experience of dealing charities and other voluntary organisations, rather with the organisation is consistent with the image than providing one-off support.
We also guarantee the advice given can benefit the charity as well as enhance the Winner by Partners when they recommend any of the personal development of the employee by helping products and services provided by companies to develop and build a range of skills and abilities Wealth Manager in the St. Jamess Place Group.
that they can bring back to the workplace.
of the Year 2007, 2008 & 2010 In settling life and health claims, we take a positive Cirencester College is a good example of the type of view and do not hide behind the small print.
voluntary support we provide to local communities.
Wherever possible, we will pay claims in line The College has over 1,600 students between the with the spirit of the contract.
We also place great ages of 16 and 19 and a further 7,000 students emphasis on communicating the characteristics of our attending a variety of adult learning courses.
Our products and services with clarity and transparency.
main involvement with the College is to provide support for the 16 to 19 year old Academy Client consultation is undertaken on a regular basis Programmes, of which there are eight, all designed via client surveys and focussed research on specific for students who aspire to work in a particular areas of our offering.
We conduct annual satisfaction market sector.
In 2010, we supported six students surveys on a regular basis, giving us a clear with paid summer internships and we continue to understanding of what clients want and expect provide extensive personal mentoring and business and enabling us to enhance the service we are able coaching to a number of students.
St. Jamess Place to offer them.
also sponsors a number of awards and continues to have representation on the various Academy Boards We were delighted to receive recognition for the of the College.
We have also employed five Academy quality of advice and service we provided to our students as a direct result of our relationship with clients during 2010.
Readers of the Daily Telegraph the College, following their graduation.
rated St. Jamess Place Wealth Management the winner of the Wealth Manager of the Year Award Young Gloucestershire Young Glos is the leading the third time we have won the newspapers voluntary youth organisation in Gloucestershire, leading award since it was first launched in 2007. delivering high-quality programmes and training for vulnerable young people.
In 2009, we helped Young We were also voted Best Financial Adviser at Glos to set up a drop-in centre for young people in the Money Pages 2010 Personal Finance Awards.
South Cerney, near Cirencester, and assisted their bid for government funding to build a new centre These awards recognise the importance of the client for young people in Gloucester.
Members of the relationship, which together with our successful Legal department helped Young Glos with a approach to wealth management, lies at the heart variety of legal issues, including the provision of our business.
Two of our employees Annual Report and Accounts 2010 37 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued also act as Trustees of the charity, helping Young Glos to enhance their governance procedures and plan for the future in light of government cutbacks for youth service programmes.
Environmental Performance In 2010, we again demonstrated our commitment and responsibilities towards improving our Environmental Performance through continual improvement in our working practices in order to generate reductions in our emission output.
We recognise that both the Company and our staff have a responsibility to manage the effects on climate change by taking a positive approach in managing our business activities while also encouraging staff to consider their own personal activities and environmental responsibilities.
We measure our environmental data from October to September to allow sufficient time for data collation and review prior to inclusion in this Annual Report.
The table below summarises our normalised CO emissions for the years 2008, 2009 and 2010, produced 2 for our core business and calculated using 2010 conversion rates as provided by DEFRA for all our emission categories.
Our normalised figures are based on the full-time occupants FTO in our offices divided by the amount of CO.
In 2008, we set ourselves a 3 year target for reducing our normalised energy figures by 2 5%, travel by 3% and waste by 5% by 2011.
We are pleased to report that we have exceeded our 3 year targets in our second year.
In light of this we will look to re-base our 3 year targets this year, and these will be introduced into our full Annual Environment Report to be published in the second quarter of 2011.
Normalised Emissions Full-Time Occupant 2008 Base Yr 2009 2010 Since Base Yr 3 Year FTO CO e FTO CO e FTO CO e 2008 Target 2 2 2 Gas 0.424 0.373 0.281 34% Electric 1.867 1.841 1.711 8% Total energy 2.291 2.214 1.992 13% 5% Business Travel 1.954 1.717 1.638 16% 3% General Waste 0.173 0.167 0.078 55% 5% Totals 4.418 4.098 3.708 16% 4% Absolute Change Since Base Yr 3 Year Tonnes Tonnes Tonnes 2008 Target Recycled Paper 0.119 0.125 0.131 10% 10% Absolute Change Since Base Yr 3 year Cubic Meters Cubin Meters Cubin Meters 2008 target Water Usage 5.774 4.973 4.296 26% 2% CO e Carbon Dioxide equivalent Methane and Nitric oxide are converted to Carbon Dioxide.
2 Energy We are again pleased to see that both absolute and normalised energy emissions have continued to reduce, despite the recent harsh winters.
We attribute the reductions to more efficient use of the building management systems, increased general awareness and improved billing from our suppliers.
3183415 38 Business Review Business Travel Environmental Projects Again, both the normalised and absolute emissions While continuing to find small ways to reduce have significantly reduced, exceeding our original our CO emissions we recognise that, in spite of 2 target of a 3% reduction.
This saving can be improvements made over the years, we are still attributed to a more fuel efficient car scheme, producing emissions from fossil fuels, which we are additional audio-conference use and better control unable to avoid while alternative fuel sources remain of our travel budget.
This reduction is a particularly unavailable in the energy market.
In view of this we pleasing result given increases in both business levels decided to continue with our carbon neutral and members of staff.
program in 2010 and offset our emissions for a further 12-month period.
We will review this The introduction of the new car scheme has reduced option on an annual basis, taking into account any our overall fleet CO emission per car from 176g 2 changes in the market and budgetary constraints.
km to 149g km, in two years, while the average for new vehicles since January 2010 is 126g kg.
In 2010 we once again engaged with The Carbon Neutral Company to evaluate our CO emissions 2 Waste through verification by Ecometrica and confirm the The amount of waste we have sent to landfill has amount of carbon required for Carbon Neutral status.
reduced significantly since 2008, again beating our 5% target by a significant margin.
This is due to La Pradera, Columbia improved recycling facilities introduced in all of This project has been set up for the destruction of our offices in 2009. methane gas from two landfill sites serving the area of Medellin.
A portion of the proceeds from this Our Marketing Department has succeeded in project are used to promote research at the introducing additional items of marketing literature University of Antioquia and fund students from low into our on demand print options, which has income groups.
This project is validated by the reduced our print and distribution process.
For items which are still printed, we use Forestry Clean Development Mechanism CDM and is generating CERs.
Recently an additional flare has Stewardship FSC or Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification PEFC been installed at the La Pradera site to deal with accredited paper stock.
We use 100% recycled more landfill gas than was originally expected.
branded copy paper throughout the company and we work closely with our paper and copier suppliers Wind: Sangli, India to ensure that such paper does not impact on our This project forms part of a larger group of turbine equipment performance.
projects and consists of ten wind turbines in Maharashtra.
The project provides employment for Water up to 500 people and has been validated by the The amount of water used within St. Jamess Clean Development mechanism.
The project is Place has reduced by 26% since 2008 in normalised delivering the expected volume of carbon credits, terms.
This improvement is largely down to better with 24,000 CERs validated between June 2008 to awareness and repairing leaks more efficiently.
Engagement with Third Parties eTree Electronic Communication We have once again participated in The Carbon We remain a member of the eTree Initiative, a Disclosure Project, a Global Project to evaluate programme which encourages shareholders to companies performance and attitude to climate receive electronic communications as a way of change including the business risks which could result saving paper and reducing the impact on the from climate change events, and the management of environment.
The scheme is run in association with such identified risks.
We regularly engage with the Woodland Trust Tree for All campaign.
We Business in the Community BITC not only on sent out a further invitation to shareholders during environmental issues, but also on the wider subject 2010 to sign up for electronic communication, the of Corporate Responsibility CR.
We aim to objective being to donate a sum of money on the continue to be included in the FTSE4GOOD Index.
Annual Report and Accounts 2010 39 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued shareholders behalf to an area selected for reMaintaining our commitment to recycling forestation in the UK by the Woodland Trust.
as much as possible and provide the relevant Further details of the scheme can be found at facilities to enable the achievements to date www.
Engaging with our employees to encourage them Activities Planned for 2011 to become more environmentally responsible.
We remain committed to continuing our approach We will continue to engage with staff through of reducing our environmental impacts and our such activities as our Environment Day and initiatives for 2011 include: quarterly articles in our Community Newsletter.
Engaging with organisations such as Business Concluding the energy audits commissioned in the Community and The Carbon Neutral towards the end of 2010 to evaluate office energy Company, to look to find other ways to reduce options and potential improvements and, where our emissions and keep up our level of practical, upgrade less efficient energy systems.
Further reducing printed material and transfer further items onto electronic on A full Environment report is produced annually demand ordering.
This will continue to and can be located, together with a copy of our reduce wastage, particularly when legislative Environment Policy, on our corporate website changes are introduced.
Ensuring that audio web conferencing and online training facilities are adequately available to help towards further reducing travel options and reduce business mileage.
3183415 40 Business Review Annual Report and Accounts 2010 41
