People Focusing on our culture and values to drive engagement In 2010, our people strategy remained consistent and focused onsustainable high performance Our highlights in 2010 Our priorities for 2011 Increased the engagement of our employees, moving Increase our focus on attracting and retaining talented from 4.03 to 4.21 on a scale of 1 to 5 in our annual Gallup employees in our key strategic markets, such as Greater 12 Q Employee Engagement Survey China, Korea and Africa, by offering more opportunities for training and development Maintained an impressive retention record for leaders and high-performing individuals, with an average Enhance our distinctive culture by giving our employees attrition rate of less than 1.5 per cent practical guidance on how to live our values and establishing an even closer link between values Implemented a new, transparent online system for and reward managing individual performance Embed our Here for good brand promise into the tools Doubled our investment in learning and development we use for recruiting new staff and helping them adapt to over $50 million to our ways of working Build on our efforts to ensure that we offer our employees competitive rewards, while complying with evolving regulation and maintaining control of cost and risk 38 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
com Business review People Training leaders in finance Standard Chartered puts significant effort into developing leadership capabilities across our markets operate: our focus on consistently doing the Our approach right thing and acting responsibly: and our We employ over 85,000 people, aim to continually lead the way across Asia, representing 129 nationalities, working Africa and the Middle East.
It has raised the across 71 markets.
We pride ourselves bar on how we demonstrate our values on being a truly diverse organisation, through our everyday business activity.
combining an international footprint with in-depth local understanding.
Our This year, we have stepped up by pervasive sense of shared values helps embedding our values further into our us feel and behave as one team across processes for managing individual our different markets and business performance.
For example, we have functions.
Wherever we are, our established a clearer link between ambition remains one and the same: to performance and reward and how our work in partnership with our clients to people live our values.
Using our new online provide solutions that meet their needs.
performance management system, all our This unique culture is a strong Employees employees are asked to assess their own competitive advantage for the Bank.
This assessment is then reviewed by their line Focusing on our culture and values manager as part of the basis for 85,231 Our distinctive culture is the reason why determining their annual reward.
clients and customers choose to bank with us.
It is why employees want to join us and Our Consumer Banking Customer Charter stay with us.
Our five core values are at the reects Here for good, our brand promise.
Number of nationalities heart of our culture.
At all times we aspire In 2010, to support the roll-out of the represented globally to be: charter and help our employees live up to the brand promise, we facilitated over 1,500 Courageous standing up for what one-day workshops, reaching 92 per cent 129 we believe is right of our Consumer Banking staff globally.
Responsive delivering thoughtful, In our Wholesale Banking business, we timely solutions conducted interviews with over 50 internal Proportion of new leaders International valuing diversity and leaders and major clients, and held focus recruited internally collaborating as a team groups for more than 220 employees in nine markets, to nd out how we can Creative continuously improving deepen the understanding of our unique 64% the way we work approach to business.
We also held team Trustworthy being reliable, open discussions, talking about how we bring to and honest life our culture in the choices we make.
Female representation Our brand promise, Here for good, In both businesses, we are integrating our globally reaches out to all our stakeholders, values further into the materials we use to including our employees, through a simple attract people to the Bank.
Our orientation and compelling promise.
It says who we material for new staff incorporates case 45 % are, what we stand for and what makes studies that explore how we live the values.
This ensures we attract people who have an afnity for our culture, and help them Here for good captures our genuine understand what our values mean to the commitment to our customers and clients, way we work every day.
our staff and the communities where we www.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 39 People expanded our signature Women in Building our leadership capabilities The increase in our employee engagement Leadership Programme for high-performing In the last two years, our leadership score was due in part to a planned and women in middle management into nine population has grown over 40 per cent, concerted effort to strengthen our markets across Asia, Europe and the with almost two-thirds 64 per cent of new management culture.
When surveying participants leaders coming from inside the Bank.
leaders encouraged line managers to place after the programme, we found a 21 per This indicates the level of effort we put more emphasis on staff development, both cent increase in those feeling able to into developing our leadership capabilities formally through our performance articulate their ambitions and a 24 per cent across the business.
management process, and informally in increase in those who said they were clear everyday conversations.
Teams were also on the steps required to achieve their We aim to have possible successors in encouraged to integrate their action plans aspirations.
97 per cent of participants said place for all of our leaders.
Succession for increasing employee engagement into they aspired to become senior managers.
plans for our top executives are reviewed their overall business strategies.
on behalf of the Board by our Nomination In 2010, we also introduced special Committee twice during the year, and this Supporting our business growth employee networks for D&I.
Launched in process is replicated through all senior Our business functions, such as Finance numerous markets, including China, Korea management levels.
This helps us to ensure and Risk, play a vital role in supporting our and the UAE, these networks provide an that our high-performing employees are growth and ensuring that we demonstrate important additional source of social fully prepared for opportunities as they good governance and comply with current support and guidance for our employees.
In 2010, we undertook a Through online discussions and targeted thorough evaluation of these functions to assess whether they have the necessary events, employees learn from each other by All our leaders receive one-on-one structures, processes, systems and people talking about their experiences.
To date, coaching and team support, provided by capabilities in place to support our four kinds of employee networks have been in-house leadership coaches.
The evaluation formed, including networks for female supported over 160 leaders and 30 senior concluded that our functions are well employees, for people working teams and provided targeted coaching for positioned to meet both the current and internationally, for parents and carers, newly-hired senior leaders during their first future needs of the businesses.
However, it and for spouses and partners.
also identied opportunities for further improvement, such as ways in which to Performance and reward In addition, we have a special development adapt certain functions so that they may Our performance and reward policies programme for our most senior leaders, expand more seamlessly as the business are designed to drive our business strategy Leading the Journey.
The programme provides a forum for senior leaders to come grows.
In 2011, we will focus on and reinforce our values.
The Group is together across markets and functions to implementing these recommendations.
committed to an extremely high level of discuss issues affecting our business.
governance and is supportive of the This helps our most senior leaders work Enabling Diversity and Inclusion Financial Stability Boards principles on together as a cohesive group and Diversity and Inclusion D&I is embedded in sound remuneration practices.
During 2010 demonstrate Group-wide leadership our values and forms an inherent part of our we enhanced our existing reward policies going beyond their individual functions.
We strive to offer all our and processes in a number of ways.
people an inclusive and supportive Growing our employee engagement environment in which they feel valued and We introduced a new global online system The commitment of our employees is appreciated for who they are and what they for managing individual performance, fundamental to our business success.
This year, in our annual which is more disciplined and transparent We track our employee engagement employee engagement survey, we achieved than our previous paper-based system.
annually, using the Gallup Organisations an increase in our inclusiveness score from Using the new system, 98 per cent of our 12 Q 4.13 to 4.28 on a scale of 1 to 5. employees in 2010 had clear and approved Employee Engagement Survey.
In 2010, objectives to guide their performance.
based on a response rate of 96 per cent, We strongly encourage gender diversity, this showed a significant increase from with women representing 45 per cent 4.03 to 4.21 on a scale of 1 to 5.
During the year major markets, including Hong Kong, we continued to develop our female India, Taiwan, China and Singapore, leadership talent.
For example, we saw increases in their scores.
40 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
com Business review People Encouraging gender diversity In 2010, we launched Diversity and Inclusion networks in China, Korea and the UAE In 2011, to strengthen our employer brand Creating long-term value for our even further, we will be reviewing our shareholders is our core business objective.
people processes, starting with how we We recognise the importance of long-term attract and select new employees.
We will performance and have structured our refresh our recruitment websites and performance and reward packages update our selection tools, including how accordingly.
In 2010, we increased the we interview for senior roles.
deferred proportion of the variable compensation that we awarded to our staff.
Our sound performance during the financial This followed an ongoing review of our crisis signicantly strengthened our deferral policy.
Between 2004 and 2010, we more than During the year, in addition to the deferral doubled the number of people we employ policy review, we assessed the reward to over 85,000. structures in other specic areas of the business.
As a result, some employees in We actively encourage international Wholesale Banking saw their packages mobility, for example through our rebalanced from variable to xed pay.
The International Graduate Programme and aim of this rebalancing which was in line targeted talent programmes across regions.
with advice from the Financial Stability These programmes support our growth in Board was to ensure that our some of the worlds fastest growing compensation structure guards against markets, while helping to develop our junior excessive risk-taking, while remaining talent by giving them international competitive.
experience early on in their careers.
We have also enhanced our claw-back Summary policy, which species that, in certain In 2010, our people strategy remained circumstances, deferred awards will not consistent and focused on sustainable high vest.
From 2010 these circumstances relate performance.
We delivered on our not only to the restatement of our financial results, but could also apply where an objectives, by further increasing our employee has caused a material loss as a employee engagement, by strengthening result of inappropriate behaviour.
For further our leadership capabilities and by rewarding information on our remuneration policy, our employees not only for what they please refer to our Directors remuneration deliver, but also for how they deliver it.
Supported by the launch of our brand promise, Here for good, we renewed our Strengthening our employer brand focus on culture and values, enhancing our We rely on our employees to keep our distinct competitive advantage.
brand promise to be Here for good in their interactions with each other, with customers, with clients and with communities.
In 2010, to support the launch of Here for good, we articulated clearly what the brand promise means for our employees, by outlining both what we offer our people and what we expect in return.
Our annual employee engagement survey showed a high degree of understanding of what our brand stands for and what makes it different from our competitors.
Our score in this area was 4.40 on a scale of 1 to 5. www.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 41
