Sustainability Our social and economic impact We believe that by doing things the right way, banks can be a powerful force for good Were proud of what we have achieved in The last few years have been 2010, proud of where were going.
testament to Standard Chartereds We have a clear and consistent strategy unwavering commitment to to be the best international bank, leading sustainability.
Through the financial the way in Asia, Africa and the Middle crisis and changing political and East: we have a distinctive culture with regulatory environments we have strong, shared values: and we remain stood rm in our commitment to committed to building a sustainable building a sustainable business as a business, creating long-term value for bank, delivering value to our our shareholders, working in partnership customers and shareholders whilst with our clients and customers, and contributing to the communities in having a positive social and economic which we live and work.
impact in the communities we live andwork.
In 2010 we lent more, making a vital contribution to economic growth: we continued to place our sustainability agenda at the core of the way we do business: we stepped up our efforts to measure our impact on markets where we operate: and we invested more in Peter Sands Group Chief Executive our communities.
We passionately believe that by doing things the right way banks can be powerful contributors to economic progress in societies.
We aim to have a positive impact in three ways: by contributing to the real economy: by promoting sustainable finance: and by leading the way in our communities.
42 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
com l a i c n a n e i f m g i r n c i l k c a T y m s o e t o c i g n v o r n o t e i s s t c s l u e a e i c b c c i l n A r a a t n n e i f r o C e g h n t i t e e k l r b a s i s m u n o d s p t n P B s a a r e a i S g s R o n u n i i s a c l t l m s e a b i s l o n o Business review Sustainability Seeing is Believing Small and medium-sized enterprises Through our global programme to tackle avoidable SMEs are key drivers of growth and employment across blindness, we have restored sight for thousands of people, our markets including young Farouk from Nigeria Our approach Our priorities in 2011 We believe that a bank can be about more than the profits Build on our work to measure our social and itmakes.
As an international financial institution, by doing economic impact things the right way, we can have a positive social and Continue to widen access to finance along the economic impact on the markets where we operate.
We agricultural supply chain, supporting economic growth remain committed to building a sustainable business, and food security simultaneously creating value for our shareholders, supporting our clients and customers and contributing Increase our employee volunteering days to 57,000, tothe communities where we live and work.
including targeted skills-based volunteering Arrange for all existing and new Consumer Banking employees to complete eLearning on our Customer Charter Our sustainable business priorities Roll out sustainable finance training to Wholesale Banking employees Sustain momentum in employee engagement, focusing on our culture and values Reduce annual paper consumption per full-time employee from 30kg to 25kg Continue to reduce our energy and water consumption in line with our long-term targets Economic contribution www.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 43 e f a t b b i l f e i a n n n f i g k n a t i y a n n t n n i e g n c c e u m e t m s m e v o n C i s y a e i w t i n e e h u c k t a r m l o p g w t n m a i o e r d t o G a c e n L i t n e m g n n i t o c r i e v t o n r e P e h t Sustainability Sustainable finance is fundamental to our aim of creating long-term value for our shareholders while having a positive impact on communities.
Key highlights Carbon emissions 14 20 million tonnes CO2 full time lending position beneciaries of essential eye care employee statements implemented through Seeing is Believing 2.91 2.53 2.37 129 1.6 million nationalities represented people educated on HIV AIDS across our business 2008 2009 2010 300,000 Decrease 18% 315% small-scale farmers benefiting from 2008-2010 increase in paid volunteering agricultural finance deal in Zambia leave taken by our employees 65,698 $4.98bn employees completed anti-money mobilised towards the laundering eLearning renewable energy market 36% 4.8 million of Consumer Banking statements lives impacted by our delivered electronically, micronance business saving 10,800 trees 44 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
com Business review Sustainability Responsible selling and marketing Access to finance Video conferencing allows customers to consult with With appropriate access to finance, the agriculture sector specialists who may not be available at the branch can make a significant contribution to global food security Contributing to the real economy We believe that by doing things the right Our performance way, banks can be a powerful force for good in society.
Our aim is to promote sustainable growth in the real economy, Our core objective in building a through our core business of banking.
sustainable business is to create long-term shareholder value.
Millions of people across our footprint are We have an ongoing engagement We are listed in the FTSE4Good index, either unbanked or severely under-served programme with socially responsible which has been designed to measure the bynancial institutions, restricting their investors and researchers.
Our performance of companies that meet economic activity.
Widening the access sustainability performance is also globally recognised corporate tonance is a core part of our strategy evaluated by rating agencies and responsibility standards.
tohave a positive impact on communities.
indices specialised in the socially Wefocus on offering relevant products responsible investment market, andservices that we understand fully to including: clients and customers with whom we have deep relationships.
Our success in managing our environmental impact has been Financial crime can erode the positive recognised by the Carbon Disclosure contribution of banking to the real economy In 2010 we were included in the Dow Project CDP, which promotes and affect our business performance.
We Jones Sustainability World Index DJSI awareness of business implications of have a long-standing commitment to World.
The DJSI evaluators noted our climate change.
Our work in 2010 placed preventing our products and services from strong performance in stakeholder us in the FTSE 350 CDP Leadership being used for criminal nancing activity.
engagement, human capital Index and FTSE 350 CDP Strategy Index.
development, risk and crisis Access to finance management, financial inclusion and We continue to support small and mediumclimate change governance.
sized enterprises SMEs, which are key drivers of growth and employment across our markets.
Again this year we increased our SME lending substantially.
We also Providing solutions to populations with very real needs is rmly embedded in our launched new products and services, specic finance needs is a key part of our responsible selling and marketing practices.
tailored specically to meet the needs of agenda.
Standard Chartered Saadiq, our these vital companies.
Islamic banking brand, was voted Best In 2010 we rolled out our Consumer Islamic Investment Bank by Global Finance Banking Customer Charter, our Micronance is key to our aim of this year.
Since 2005, we have arranged commitment to needs-based selling and extending basic banking services to more than $34 billion of Islamic nancing for service excellence.
We also increased the more people.
In 2010 we provided our clients.
number of complaints resolved within 48 $180 million to micronance institutions.
Since 2005, we have provided a total of We also continue to reach more people more than $720 million to 70 micronance through new distribution channels, such In Wholesale Banking, we maintained our institutions, impacting the lives of around asmobile banking.
In Africa, for example, focus on deepening our client relationships 4.8 million people.
we partner with telecommunication and investing in staff training to ensure that providers in several markets to enable our employees fully understand the In Africa we developed innovative solutions people to use their mobile phones for products we sell.
We aim to be the core that helped widen the access to finance for payments and transfers, whether or not bank for more of our clients, providing agriculture.
We provided a structured they hold a bank account.
relevant solutions for their needs, from finance warehouse deal in Zambia, commercial banking to strategic solutions.
benefiting around 300,000 small-scale We demonstrated that we continue to stand farmers by enabling them to receive a fair Responsible selling and marketing by our clients when times get tough, using price for their crop.
We focus on clients and customers, not our capital and liquidity to support them.
Our determination to treat clients and customers fairly and respond to their www.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 45 Sustainability To create long-term value for our shareholders, we must help address some of the critical environmental and social issues that affect the communities where we live and work.
Tackling financial crime We are committed to combating money laundering, terrorist nancing, fraud, bribery, and market abuse.
To guard against the risk of financial crime within our business, we focus on training our employees, strengthening our screening systems, and ensuring that our policies and procedures are comprehensive and up-to-date.
This year we upgraded our Norkom monitoring system by adding additional detection scenarios, increasing our capability to detect and prevent money laundering.
We also invested signicantly in tools to identify market abuse and to tackle fraud, particularly e-crime.
The vigilance of our employees is paramount to our success in ghting Our impact in Ghana Highlights of the study include: financial crime in all its forms.
This year we Contributing to the economy: our trained over 65,000 people in anti-money We want to have a positive social and impactamounted to $400 million of laundering procedures.
Our internal economic impact on the communities value-added in 2009, equivalent to Speaking Up programme is now supported where we operate.
This year we 2.6per cent of Ghanas GDP in 14 different languages, available to staff commissioned an independent study through the Internet and by telephone.
of our impact in Ghana the first in a Connecting Ghana to world markets: series of such studies to help us we lent $193 million as trade loans in2009 Promoting sustainable finance understand our contribution and how Sustainable finance is fundamental to our we can deepen it.
Supporting SME growth: we provided aim of creating long-term value for our $17.2 million to SMEs in 2009 shareholders while having a positive impact In 2009, we provided Ghanaian on communities.
Our approach is to Generating employment: our activities businesses, consumers and government manage the environmental, social, and supported around 156,000 jobs in agencies with nearly $900 million of governance risks that come with our 2009, approximately 1.5 per cent of nancing, more than any other nancing decisions, working with our Ghanas workforce commercial bank.
But our contribution clientsto encourage progress towards goes far beyond the provision of credit.
Delivering financial innovation: we international standards.
were the first bank to provide As an international bank, we help support commodity, interest rate and Our sustainability risk management Ghanas economy by using our global currencyhedging framework was first established in 1997. footprint to increase trade and investment This year, we focused on embedding it Developing human capital: four ows: we support clients in reaching more deeply into our nancing, while banking CEOs in Ghana are alumni international environmental, social and expanding it to cover more areas.
ofStandard Chartered governance standards: we spur innovation through the launch of new products: we Our 14 position statements including a improve access to finance: and we new statement on water added this year provide world-class employment guide our approach to providing financial opportunities and training.
services to clients who operate in sensitive business sectors or face specic issues.
For further information Together with our commitment to the you can visit Equator Principles on project finance, the www.
com statements provide the bedrock of our 46 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 www.
com Case study Business review Sustainability Protecting the environment Employee volunteering Employee volunteers help out at an eye-screening In 2010 we reduced carbon e missions by 6 per cent and water consumption by 21 per cent in our larger premises programme at a local school in Shanghai Great place to work Community investment sustainability risk management approach.
Our people are crucial to the delivery of our This year we made great strides in To ensure that our standards are applied sustainable business model.
In our expanding our global community robustly across our markets, we have continuous drive to make the Bank a great investment programmes, meeting and rened the tools we use to evaluate our place to work, we focus on attracting the insome cases exceeding our targets.
best talent from across our footprint and Seeing is Believing is a global collaboration enhancing employee engagement.
For us, to tackle avoidable blindness across our We recognise that as a responsible high performance is not just about markets.
Launched in 2003 as asimple nancier we should not confine generating large profits: it is also about staff-led initiative to raise enough money for sustainability risk management to a narrow living our values, demonstrating the many 28,000 cataract operations, the programme range of products.
While the industry norm ways that we are Here for good.
In 2008, having already is to follow the Equator Principles on project 2001, we have measured our employee raised $17 million we committed to invest a finance only, we have extended our engagement through an internal annual further $20 million to reach an additional environmental, social and governance 12 survey, The Gallup Organisations Q 20 million people by 2014.
As of 2010, standards to lending, debt and equity thanks to the Bank matching contributions advisory and principal finance transactions.
This year dollar for dollar, we have reached 79 per saw a significant increase in engagement cent of that target.
By 2014, we will have Our determination to promote sustainable across our business, moving us from raised a total of $37 million since the finance means we also work hard to capture 4.03 to 4.21 on a scale of 1 to 5.
We also programmes inception, impacting over 38 the opportunities represented by the progressed on our targets for diversity million people.
renewable energy and environmental and inclusion, ensuring employees finance sector.
At the end of 2010 we had continue to feel valued and appreciated Living with HIV, our workplace education reached $4.98 billion of our commitment for who they are.
programme, reached its target to educate under the Clinton Global Initiative to mobilise one million people globally about HIV and $8-10 billion towards all segments of the Protecting the environment AIDS.
Launched in 1999, our network of renewable energy market.
Meanwhile, we We operate in many countries vulnerable to over 1,000 staff volunteers and partner have established a specialised equity environmental challenges, including the organisations have delivered HIV education research desk, reinforcing our environmental effects of climate change.
Rather than to over 1.6 million people 970,000 this finance capabilities.
simply continuing current business year.
Pledges from partners to deliver their practices, we work to inspire and own education programmes now total Leading the way in communities encourage our employees, clients and 2.3million.
To create long-term value for our customers to minimise their environmental shareholders, we must help address footprint.
This strategy is supported by someof the critical environmental and social Goal, launched in 2006, uses sport, senior management on our Group issues that affect the communities where life skills and financial education to help Environment Committee and implemented we live and work.
Our people are crucial to transform the lives of adolescent girls through our network of Country this effort.
We take seriously our operational around the world.
Reaching only 70 girls in Environment Co-ordinators.
This year we impact on the environment and empower the first year, Goal now spans four different continued our drive for more efficient use our employees to help minimise our footprint countries, changing the lives of 12,000 girls ofresources in our ofces.
In our larger through their everyday business activity.
Operating in cities across premises over 20,000 square feet around community investment programmes focus China, India, Jordan, and Nigeria, Goal half of our global property portfolio we on generating high social returns and reduced carbon emissions by 6 per cent aims to reach 100,000 girls by 2013. strengthening the economic health of our and water consumption by 21 per cent, markets.
Employee volunteering is at the both per full-time employee.
We were proud In 2006 we also joined forces with five other heart of our commitment to play an active this year to be included in the FTSE 350 donors to launch Nets for Life and distribute role in tackling the challenges faced by Carbon Disclosure Project CDP one million long-lasting insecticide treated disadvantaged populations.
This year Leadership Index and the FTSE 350 CDP nets across 15 African countries.
We ourstaff donated 49,050 days of paid Strategy Index.
Thisrecognises our committed a further $5 million in October volunteering leave to the community, an achievements in managing our use of 2008 to provide five million more nets by increase of 315 per cent on2009.
This year 3.7 million nets were distributed and over four million people received information on malaria prevention.
com Standard Chartered Annual Report 2010 47
