SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2010 42 Corporate social responsibility Introduction The long-term business success of the SVG Capital group requires effective management of both financial and non-financial performance.
Our business relies in particular on strong relationships with our employees, our investors, and the general partners of the funds in which we invest.
Although we are a major investor in private equity funds, regulations and commercial realities limit the degree to which we can have an active influence on those funds.
We aim to develop open, long-term relationships with the general partners with whom we invest.
Nonetheless we do engage with general partners to identify where non-financial issues may have an impact on our reputation and on that of our investors.
We also engage with relevant industry associations and participate in other initiatives to help raise awareness and understanding of these issues, both within and outside the sector.
The Group employs 70 people based in London, Boston and Singapore.
As a financial services firm, the environmental and social impact of our activities is low.
However, we are looking at ways to reduce this environmental impact, and to support local communities.
We recognise the mutual benefits that can arise from doing so in a consistent way.
Overall responsibility for the implementation of the Groups Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Policy rests with the Board, working with relevant corporate functions, including a CSR committee chaired by Nicholas Ferguson.
The Boards strategic priorities with respect to the CSR policy are: Employees Our objective is to recruit, train and retain high calibre employees, and to foster a work environment that helps them to fulfil their potential.
To do this we aim to: provide a supportive work environment and corporate culture provide appropriate training and development address, where possible, employees interests regarding environmental, social and governance issues.
Investors Our objective is to ensure that our operations address investors policies relating to environmental, social and governance issues.
Todo this we aim to: maintain a high standard of corporate governance respond to investors environmental, social and governance concerns as they relate to our own operations give full consideration to investors concerns as they relate to our investment activities.
Funds in which we invest Our objective is to develop strong relationships, balancing the legitimate needs of the general partners of the funds in which we invest with our interests and the expectations of our investors.
We aim to do this by: ensuring the highest levels of integrity in our relationships with general partners developing strong and open working relationships with general partners, so that we can maintain trust without unnecessary restrictions and unrealistic requests undertaking early and constructive engagement on environmental, social and governance issues of legitimate concern to our investors.
Prior to investment, we evaluate how the general partners assess such issues as part of their due diligence on underlying companies and how they report on such issues.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2010 43 Making a difference where we can Communities Our objectives are to support our employees volunteering and charitable donations through a matched giving scheme and to support communities by providing charitable donations from the Group of up to 350,000 in aggregate per annum.
The CSR committee has responsibility for the implementation of the charitable donations policy which is focused on: creating opportunity providing access to education protecting the environment.
In 2010, the Group agreed to continue to support the School for Social Entrepreneurs and Fairbridge and to start supporting the Venture Partnership Foundation.
A total of 130,000 was committed in 2010.
Fairbridge Based in 15 of the most disadvantaged areas in England, Scotland and Wales, Fairbridge supports young people aged 13-25 who are not in education, employment or training giving them the motivation, confidence and skills they need to change their lives.
uk School for Social Entrepreneurs The School for Social Entrepreneurs SSE exists to provide training and opportunities to enable people to use their creative and entrepreneurial abilities more fully for social benefit.
SSE also want to recruit more innovative and capable people into voluntary and other organisations.
The SSE runs practical learning programmes aimed at helping develop the individual entrepreneur and their organisation simultaneously: SSEs approach, and belief, is that social change is people-powered, and that the most valuable assets and resources we have are human ones.
uk Venture Partnership Foundation VPF is a grant-making foundation dedicated to supporting social entrepreneurs and the dynamic charities that they run.
Using a due diligence process, VPF sources small, fast growing and well-run charities with an innovative solution to a deep social need and entrepreneurial and visionary leadership.
VPF provides these charities with financial support 25,000 of unrestricted funding for three to five years and significant non-financial pro-bono support from its members and volunteers, such as strategy expertise, senior management mentoring and pro-bono legal advice.
In 2010, a number of SVG Advisers staff took part in a volunteer-led due diligence process conducting web-based due diligence followed by face-to-face interviews with a range of charities social enterprises that VPF was looking to include into its portfolio thereby supporting an important new philanthropic concept.
The due diligence culminated in our staff making presentations to theVPF Board to ask for funding for the charities.
VPFs current portfolio of charities is as follows: Kids Education Peas 2010 partner MyBnk 2010 partner Kids Company 2007 partner Beatbullying 2008 partner Teach First 2008 partner Health disability Basic Needs 2007 partner Changing Faces 2008 partner Riders for Health 2007 partner Homelessness Homeless International 2008 partner Training for Life 2007 partner Humanitarian Shelterbox 2009 partner Human Rights African Prisons Project 2010 partner Livelihoods Twin 2008 partner Corporate information SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2010 44 Corporate social responsibility Environment Greenworks 2009 partner Excellent Development 2008 partner Social Investments Charity Technology Trust December 2008 Training for Life December 2008 Riders for Health 2007 partner For more information: www.
uk Environment Our objective is to reduce the most significant environmental impact of our operations.
We aim to do this by: periodically undertaking a carbon footprint analysis reducing the impact of our travel and energy use disposing of office waste and used equipment in a responsible manner.
During 2009 and 2010 we supported the ERM Low Carbon Fund.
Engagement with the sector Our objective is to engage in debates on the role and impact of private equity.
We aim to do this by: working with relevant sector associations participation in other relevant initiatives engage in discussions with stakeholders.
In 2010 members of the Groups legal team provided pro bono advice at the Islington Legal Centre.
This volunteering initiative was conducted together with the law firm Slaughter & May LLP, who have supported the Islington Legal Centre for a number of years.
