O Ov five er rv viie ew w D Diir re ec ct to or rs s r re ep po or rt t: : D Diir re ec ct to or rs s r re ep po or rt t: : F Fiin na an nc ciia all S stta atte em me en ntts s B Bu us siin ne es ss s r re ev viie ew w G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e 13 Corporate social responsibility Our Corporate Social Responsibility CSR policy is designed to meet the long-term expectations of our customers and other stakeholders and ensure the sustainable development of our business.
It is clear that protecting the environment and running our business ethically makes good commercial sense and apart from improving the environment for both our staff and our customers, will also help us to enhance shareholder returns.
Neil Page reports to the Board on CSR matters and co-ordinates the groups CSR policies and activities.
Heissupported by a team providing support and advice to develop the business policies and approach.
Our key measures within this area are: Issue Indicator 2010 2009 Progress Providing great service Complaints per 1m of sales 13.1 13.6 3.7% fewer complaints Developing committed people % of employees with 3 year service 35% 27% 29.6% improvement instaffretention Creating a safe place to work and shop Number of reportable accidents 15 11 A disappointing increase, although this remains below the long-term average of 31 pa 2 Respect for the environment Energy efficiency kWh m 240.7 249.2 3.4% less gas electricity used of sales space Energy efficiency km litre 3.36 3.35 0.3% increase in efficiency ofdelivery fleet Recycling in tonnes 2,131 1,342 58.8% more polythene sheet andcardboard recycled More detailed information, notably performance data and future targets, is available in our full CSR Report, available to view at www.
Over the last four years we have been developing and improving To ensure we understand our staff s expectations and fully take policies to cover the following: advantage of their experiences and opinions, we have conducted an employee survey in the UK & RoI and followed up the results Providing great service with a series of Have Your Say workshops where staff have had Our aim is to provide outstanding customer service by selling a the opportunity to voice their concerns and contribute ideas comprehensive range of flooring products at the keenest prices, towards the continuing development of the Carpetright brand.
supported by excellent store staffand, where required, by organising The outcome of these workshops is still being evaluated but a high quality carpet fitting service.
the business has already made significant changes as a result ofthe employee feedback and this will be an ongoing part We have now equipped mobile fitter training pods enabling us to ofthecompanys people agenda.
offer all of our recommended fitters access to the Flooring Industry Trade Association FITA assessment and additional training Staff stability is important to us as a measure of employee loyalty where required to meet FITAs exacting standards.
We are now andsatisfaction and we track retention rates continually.
able to recommend over 2,600 registered fitters who have attained FITA qualifications, 536 of whom have attained the FITA fitting Sourcing great products qualification in the past 12 months.
We are committed to buying great products from suppliers who operate in a responsible manner.
Our aims are to ensure suppliers are We commissioned consumer research looking at the service offering subject to vetting for satisfactory ethics and procedures: to insist our in our stores and will continue to work on the findings over the next 12 months increasing service training in our stores.
supply chain partners sign up to the Carpetright Codes of Conduct and to ensure we act in a responsible and ethical manner.
Developing committed people All of our suppliers have now signed up to compliance with our We employ close to 4,000 people in stores, depots and offices Ethical and Environmental policies.
We have additionally introduced throughout the UK & RoI and Europe.
Our aims are to ensure a timber policy to ensure all timber floor covering products are everyone has the right skills and knowledge to do their jobs: to offer manufactured from sustainable resources.
our people a good range of incentives and benefits and to value and promote the diversity of our workforce.
uk 14 Corporate social responsibility continued Creating a safe place to work and shop We are committed to achieving high standards of health and safety inall operational areas.
We have reviewed our policies and procedures and implemented a new way of managing health and safety, particularly within our stores.
There were 15 reportable accidents in the period 2009: 11, the largest proportion of which were manual handling related.
We remain committed to eliminating all heavy manual handling from our stores.
Wherever possible, each of our branches has a pedestrian operated boom truck to unload and move carpet and vinyl deliveries and where it has not been possible to provide a truck we have arranged a series of nearby buddy branches to accept deliveries.
We have also been involved in the design and development of a new lifting device to lift carpet onto roll stock stands and after successful trials have now ordered 200 of these devices to be delivered through 2010 2011 andanticipate ordering a further 200 the following year.
Respect for the environment We are committed to taking steps to control and minimise any damage our operations may cause to the environment through manufacturing processes, transport, energy usage and packaging.
Inparticular we are aware of the issue of climate change and we wantto understand and minimise our carbon emissions.
We have now calculated the carbon footprint of our UK and Republic of Ireland operation and will be in a position to publish that information once the methodology and calculations have been externally assured.
This information will be published onthecorporate website when available.
We are particularly proud of our recycling record and have improved this by almost 59% against the previous year.
All cardboard tubes and sheet polythene wrapping is now returned to our central distribution centre where it is compacted and sent for recycling.
This cardboard and polythene was previously sent to landfill.
Donations Charitable donations of 6,647 2009: nil were made during the year.
No political donations were made 2009: nil.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2010
