12 Principal risks and Employees uncertainties continued The Groups Treasury policy is intended to ensure that there are The Group employs approximately 4,000 adequate financial resources for the development and growth of people and is proud of being regarded the business whilst financing its operations at the lowest cost and asa responsible and respected employer.
minimising foreign exchange and interest rate risk.
The objective is to achieve this without operational disruption or recourse to complex financial instruments.
Equal opportunities The strategy and policies are approved by the Board.
The Group does The Board believes in creating throughout the Company a culture not engage in speculative transactions.
The key financial risks relate to that is free from discrimination and harassment and will not meeting debt repayments as they fall due, interest rate risk and limited permit or tolerate discrimination in any form.
The Group operates foreign currency exposure.
a whistleblowing hotline through a third-party provider enabling The Groups term based borrowings are a direct result of the employees to raise matters of concern with the Company on a named, acquisition of businesses in the UK and Europe and the strategic or anonymous, basis.
The Company gives full and fair consideration investment in new systems and the warehouse and cutting facility.
to applications for employment when these are received from disabled The borrowings are denominated in Sterling and Euros.
The Group people and employs disabled people whenever suitable vacancies arise.
anticipates that there will be sufficient Euro cash flow to pay both Should an employee become disabled while working for the Company, the interest on the Euro borrowings as well as the capital repayment efforts are made to continue their employment and retraining is amounts due over the life of the underlying loan.
The Group fixes the provided, if necessary.
interest rate on at least 75% of term borrowings via interest rate swap arrangements to provide interest cost certainty and reduce risk.
Training and development Our training and development programmes are focused on giving Any current account deposits generated from the strong operational our staff the skills they need to move up to new roles, enabling them cash flows of the Group are invested in the currency in which they are to develop their careers and ensuring that there is a pipeline of talent received unless there is a clear need for conversion.
During the year within the Group.
the Group invested these deposits in a combination of overnight and longer-term investment graded accounts arranged via the Groups Employee engagement principal bankers in the countries in which it trades.
There are a number of communication channels in place to help people develop their knowledge of, and enhance their involvement Legislative and regulatory risk with, the Group.
These channels include staff surveys, the Groups Whilst Carpetrights industry is not regulated, Carpetright is always annual conference, management briefings, weekly briefings from the mindful of its legal and regulatory obligations.
The Groups Legal Chairman and Chief Executive broadcast to stores and offices and Director is responsible for identifying prospective changes to laws other less formal communications.
Additionally all annual results andregulations and to bring those changes to the appropriate forum and interim management statements are made available to employees so that the emerging risk can be addressed.
Of particular note are risks through the intranet.
Directors and senior management regularly relating to health and safety, competition law and price promotion.
visit stores and discuss matters of current interest and concern Ineach case the Company has developed clear policies and guidelines withemployees.
and, where necessary, a compliance programme to mitigate the risks.
Employee share ownership The Directors believe it is in the interests of both the Group and the employees for staff to have an opportunity to invest in the Companys shares and operates two all-employee share schemes, namely an All Employee Share Ownership Plan and a Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
Approximately 580 employees participate in these schemes.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2010
