Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2010 Business Review continued Ethical issues Corporate social responsibility The Companys approach to ethical behaviour and corporate governance is speci cally written into policy and Tullett Prebon Introduction documents, for observance by all members of staff, and provide for: Throughout the reporting period the Company continued to provide support for the ef cient operation of the global capital Maintaining high standards of compliance and risk management markets, which helped to ensure that its clients were able to activities ultimately reporting to the Chief Executive and continue to prosper and to achieve their own business objectives, monitored by the Board and Audit Committee: and to meet expectations of their own shareholders and their other stakeholders.
In this way Tullett Prebon found continued expression Fully complying with legal and regulatory requirements in each for its positive contribution to society more widely.
of the jurisdictions in which it operates, including the Financial Services Authoritys Conduct of Business Sourcebook and the By successfully providing a critical component of the global capital Bank of Englands Non-Investment Products Code: markets infrastructure Tullett Prebon is best able to maximise returns to shareholders over the medium to long term.
As a publicly Disallowing corrupt practices such as inappropriate payments listed company Tullett Prebon continues to enjoy a positive record to any third party directly or indirectly: in creating value for both institutional and individual investors.
Fully complying with tax laws in each of the jurisdictions in In turn this allows the Company to make a signi cant contribution which it operates relating to its affairs and the deduction of to society through social transfer payments in the form of tax taxes from staff remuneration: remittances.
Trading fairly, knowing its clients and properly understanding The Company intends that its high standards of governance and its trades with its clients.
The Company has a policy of not business ethics contribute to the wider social good through the participating in trading activities which it suspects may not be example it sets and the high standards it maintains, both in the for legitimate trading purposes, or whose sole purpose appears United Kingdom and in all other geographies where the Company to be tax reduction by the counterparty: is present, complying with all laws and regulations, trading fairly, and only participating in legitimate trading activities permitted by G uiding employees involved in procurement activities, including its various licences.
a requirement to adhere to the highest ethical and social standards: and Governance Responsibility for social, ethical and environmental matters rests Maintaining appropriate guidelines on gifts, hospitality, with the Board, and is included in its terms of reference.
The Chief entertainment and con icts of interest.
Executive Of cer is the Board member responsible for Corporate and Social Responsibility CSR.
Employees Attracting and retaining the best brokers, professional and other The Companys CSR Governance Committee, which was support staff, and management remain crucial to the Companys established in 2009 in recognition of the increasing importance ongoing success.
Management recognise that the Companys of the CSR agenda and which comprises all members of the ability to maximise returns to shareholders is dependent on Companys Executive Committee, oversaw and helped re ne the employing and retaining the best staff in all the geographies in CSR activities of the Company in 2010.
This Committee and its which it operates.
The Company is committed to developing and members in their executive roles will continue to oversee and guide motivating its staff and offers training where appropriate and the CSR activities of the Company, re ecting the continued measures performance to achieve this objective.
importance the Company places on this broad and increasingly visible area of responsibility.
Building on the management training review conducted in 2009 as part of the succession planning process, the Company undertook Policies and ethical issues an extensive middle management career development programme The Board expects the Company to maintain high standards of across its European businesses in 2010.
This involved some 50 governance and of ethical behaviour throughout the business, and directors and desk heads from the United Kingdom, France, policies and procedures exist to ensure employees at all levels Germany, Luxembourg, Poland and Switzerland completing a maintain the standards that are set and which are expected of them.
financial analysis and training package designed and delivered by staff from one of the United Kingdoms leading business schools.
Policies on equal opportunities Concurrent with the director and desk head development Tullett Prebon is committed to attract, retain, develop and advance programme, a parallel development programme for the Companys the most quali ed persons without regard to their race, ethnicity, Managing Directors across its European of ces was also launched religion, or belief, gender, age, sexual orientation or disability.
This and will continue into the subsequent reporting period.
Together, commitment is underpinned by policies on equal opportunities, these two development programmes will provide the foundations harassment and discrimination, to which all employees are required for the Companys succession planning in its European region.
20 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2010 The productivity and welfare of employees in a business so In 2010 there was a further reduction in absence due to short dependent on people, such as Tullett Prebon, continued to attract term employee sickness in the UK and in Asia Paci c, in terms of considerable senior management attention, and management both total days taken and average time off work.
In the UK the at all levels are aware of the importance of active engagement Company lost 1,679 sick days 2009: 2,080 sick days and the with employees.
average time off work due to short term sickness was 1.70 days per employee 2009: 2.18 days.
In Asia Paci c 1,175 days were To this end, the Company maintains effective internal lost due to short term sickness 2009: 1,200 days, an average of communications channels at both group and regional levels 2.13 days per employee 2009: 2.23 days.
The US do not report to ensure staff are informed in a timely way about major short term sickness in the same way as in Asia Paci c or the UK, developments in the business, such as the launch of new products, but in terms of longer term disability sickness the average rate key hires, and financial announcements.
Information is provided to was 1.77 workdays per employee compared to 1.50 days per employees regularly through integrated and complimentary employee in 2009: and channels such as internal emails, the Companys intranet site, print collateral and town hall meetings, as appropriate.
The use made of 2010 saw 2 minor reported staff accidents in the UK, compared posters for internal communications across all the Companys to 11 in 2009.
Again, no visitors suffered injury on Company of ces was reviewed in 2010 and will provide for an enhanced premises during 2010. communications channel going forward.
As the Company is highly dependent on its employees the Staff welfare remains a serious matter for the Company especially retention of key personnel remains one of managements core given the demanding nature of the broking environment.
2010 has continued to present challenges in this regard, but day responsibility for staff welfare and the management of stress management believe that, in the ordinary course of its business, rests with line management and the Human Resources retention policies in general have proved successful in retaining department, and this is supplemented by an Employee Assistance staff at all levels.
programme which provides counselling and advice to staff and their families and the further use of an occupational health To better track the health of the Company in respect of staff specialist if required.
The Companys policies on health and safety retention beyond the simple end-of-year headcount numbers, provide a formal framework for line management responsibilities in which whilst useful as a general guide does not help with this area to be discharged.
developing an understanding of retention in a qualitative way, the Company monitors length of service of all staff.
This provides a Records on employment and pastoral care matters are maintained more qualitative measure as it implicitly re ects staff attitudes to as required in each legal and regulatory jurisdiction.
These help to employment with the Company, as a dissatis ed workforce would provide senior management with a metric to measure both the be expected to be highly uid with few long serving members of performance and welfare of staff: staff.
This approach has the added merit of being able to be delivered within existing resource constraints.
In 2010 the average revenue generated by each broker was 540,000 2009: 565,000 : Accordingly, the Company records percentages of staff, by region, that have five and ten years or more service.
In the US 55.4% The Company employed 2,461 full time equivalent employees 2009: 55.5% of employees have five plus years service, and and directors worldwide in 2010 48% in Europe, 30% in North 38.6% 2009: 34.7% have ten plus years service.
In the UK the America and 22% in Asia Paci c compared to 2,479 staff in percentages are 55.9% 2009: 54.9% and 32.9% 2009: 31.6%, 2009 45% in Europe, 33% in North America and 22% in Asia and in Asia Paci c the percentages are 41.0% 2009: 31.5% and Paci c. Total remuneration for all staff in 2010 was 555m 15.8% 2009: 18.7% respectively.
2009: 566m : Claims for compensation for work-related accidents and illnesses remained minimal in 2010 with two claims for Workers Compensation in the US which resulted in 221 workdays total absence.
There were no such claims in the UK or Asia Paci c. In 2009 there was only one claim in the US with none in the UK or Asia Paci c : US UK Asia Paci c 2010 2009 2010 2009 2010 2009 5 years service 55.4% 55.5% 55.9% 54.9% 41.0% 31.5% 10 years service 38.6% 34.7% 32.9% 31.6% 15.8% 18.7% 21 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2010 Business Review continued To help alleviate the high-stress work environment the Companys Tax and other social payments pastoral care programme has continued to respond to staff requests The Company continues to strive to maintain a Low Risk rating for an improved work life balance and speci cally for support with from HMRC.
The Company has earned this Low Risk rating in each access to improved physical exercise and active outdoor pursuits.
of the last five years since HMRC started to publish the names of The business bene ts of this are clear and are evidenced in the those companies achieving this important status.
dictum mens sana in corpore sano.
Accordingly, the Company has been keen to support the provision of a general physical tness The Board continue to believe that as Tullett Prebon is registered, agenda where there is demand for it and as resources allow.
regulated and publicly listed in the UK, the Company has a social duty to pay the right tax at the right time.
In 2009 the Company introduced a scheme to provide team clothing to staff taking part in team and other sports competitions.
Tullett Prebon made payments to tax authorities principally in the This scheme has continued in 2010 with over 10% of the UK and US, the main jurisdictions in which it operates for 2010 of Companys staff globally taking part in some form of regular team 267m 2009 of just under 280m, covering corporation tax, based or other competitive physical sport: cycling, running and employers social security payments, and income taxes and social football being the most popular activities.
The Company continued security paid on behalf of employees.
to provide military style circuit training for its London based staff and this programme remained oversubscribed.
In addition, the UK In addition the Company makes further income tax and employee governments Cycle to Work scheme has seen a further 93 staff social security payments to the tax authorities in all tax purchase cycles in the reporting period, on top of the 133 who took jurisdictions in which it operates.
advantage of this scheme in 2009.
Yet again, and in response to staff demand, the Company provided resources in 2010 for staff Donations to participate in the annual JP Morgan Chase runs in London, The Company has maintained the policy of making no donations New York and Singapore.
Similarly, charitable donations are not normally allowed.
These two policies re ect the Boards view that Management hope that the Companys support for physical shareholders funds should be retained for use within the business activities and exercise will improve staff welfare and general and that it is for shareholders to determine what non-business use health, and thereby contribute to an improved work life balance.
should be made of their resources.
Support has also been given to employees in the UK with access to Public policy engagement childcare provision and charitable giving, by the Company running Tullett Prebon continued its engagement in the public policy salary sacri ce programmes for these two schemes.
debate surrounding the future of the financial services sector.
Notwithstanding being a relatively small UK listed entity the Social and community issues Company, using its position at the very heart of the capital markets Service in the Volunteer Reserve Forces which gives it an informed view available to very few others, was Recognising that members of the Volunteer Reserve Forces in consistently able to punch above its weight.
both the UK and the US the two countries that account for around 80% of Tullett Prebons revenues continue to provide a critical Continuing the pattern established in the previous reporting component of the Armed Forces of both countries, the Company period, the Company concentrated on three strands of public amended its terms of employment in the Staff Handbook to re ect policy activity during 2010: the commitment it had made to provide additional support to its employees who are members of the reserve forces in these two Deepening involvement with the several trade and other countries.
In the UK by providing one additional week of paid leave professional bodies that the Company is a member of.
In to help a volunteer complete his or her annual training particular further financial support was provided to the commitment.
In the US to make up a volunteers mobilised pay to Wholesale Markets Brokers Association WMBA in the UK, and their civilian salary to ensure they are not worse off as a result of to the Wholesale Markets Brokers Association of the Americas their public service commitment.
WMBAA in North America, who are the inter-dealer brokers trade bodies.
Both of these organisations now have active and In furtherance of this support, the Company also signed up to the well resourced lobby programmes seeking to engage with UK Ministry of Defences employers organisation SaBRE which lawmakers, of cials and regulators in their respective jurisdictions.
seeks to foster greater understanding between the Armed Forces, In addition, the Company has continued to develop its employers and service personnel.
involvement with other key professional and industry speci c bodies in all the countries in which it has an of ce.
Focusing the During this reporting period one of the Companys employees, Companys representation in the key trade bodies in one member a member of the UKs Territorial Army, has been mobilised and of the Companys Executive Committee has ensured coordinated is currently serving in an infantry unit in Afghanistan.
and effective advocacy throughout the reporting period: 22 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2010 The Companys Chief Executive Of cer continued his engagement in 2012, by introducing the necessary monitoring of its GHG in public debate on issues relevant to the financial services emissions.
With this in mind, the Company completed a second sector, where appropriate and where opportunity arose: and carbon footprint and GHG audit in its key geographies for 2010 which will allow it to compare its emissions with its benchmark The Companys Global Head of Research, who was recruited year of 2008, and to comply with the new reporting requirements into a new post established in 2009 to increase the Companys when they come into force in 2012. visibility in, and penetration of, the public policy arena, was very active publishing papers addressing the principal economic The Companys environmental management system EMS themes of 2010.
Two products were developed during the has been successful in achieving savings in energy use at the reporting period: Strategy Insights, larger and in-depth papers Companys two largest properties in the UK in 2010 compared to of which six were published in 2010: and Strategy Notes, shorter 2009: the trading oor at 155 Bishopsgate and the Companys head and quicker to write, and designed to respond to issues of the of ce, both in the City of London, have seen reductions in energy moment of which 21 were published in the reporting period.
consumption of 12.2% and 16.0% respectively, representing a Considerable traction has been achieved with this product and saving of circa 60,000. the Companys visibility in serious political commentary has increased as a consequence.
Contractual or other arrangements essential to the business of the Group The Companys public policy engagement programme will continue The success of the Company relies on certain contractual or into the subsequent reporting period as required by the debate other arrangements within individual entities and across the surrounding the reform and regulation of the financial services Group relating to revenue generation, operational performance sector, to ensure that the Company is able to continue to develop or nancing.
and to grow shareholder value.
The successful generation of revenue relies on the Groups ability Environment to hire and retain highly quali ed employees.
Employment costs Tullett Prebon, as an of ce based business, is not engaged in made up 79% of the Groups administration expenses in 2010. activities that are generally regarded as having a high environmental A number of legal arrangements, including in certain circumstances impact.
However, the Board has agreed that it will seek to adopt rolling contracts and non-compete arrangements, are used to policies to safeguard the environment to meet statutory enhance the Groups ability to attract and retain key personnel.
requirements or where such policies are commercially sensible.
The Group facilitates a nite number of customer relationships.
The emission of greenhouse gases GHG, as a result of of ce These relationships are serviced over a wide range of products based business activities and from business travel, is the main and across a geographically diverse business.
environmental impact from the Companys business.
A stringent cost control regime continues to minimise business travel and The ef ciency of the Groups operations depends on certain increasing use is still made of video and telephone conferencing.
The Groups clearing is provided by, or executed through, the DTCC, Euroclear, Clearstream, and certain With the assistance of specialist external consultants a Group-wide key banking relationships.
environmental policy was developed and adopted during the reporting period, as was an environmental policy speci cally for the The Group is dependent upon certain information, communication UK.
The Companys procurement policy similarly contains a strong and IT system providers and operates from a limited number of statement in support of the environmental policy: properties.
The Group seeks to ensure its systems are robust and are capable of operation from tested business continuity sites.
It is TPs policy to encourage awareness and commitment to improved environmental performance amongst its people, The Group relies on a number of international banks to provide suppliers and clients.
In this regard, our procurement choices will banking services and credit facilities.
The new committed facilities favour products showing clear environmental advantages unless are provided by five banks, The Royal Bank of Scotland, Lloyds there are signi cant reasons for not doing so.
Banking Group, HSBC, Bank of America and the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group.
Further analysis of the Groups debt Anticipating the introduction of Carbon Reduction Commitment structure can be found in Note 21.
CRC obligations on UK companies in April 2010 the Company took advice from professional specialist consultants and was Terry Smith prepared to comply with CRC requirements when the scheme Chief Executive came into force.
Similarly, during 2010 the Company prepared 8 March 2011 to meet the new requirements for reporting on GHG under the Climate Change Act 2008, which are expected to come into force 23 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE BUSINESS REVIEW Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2010 In this section: Governance 25 Board of Directors 26 Directors Report 28 Corporate Governance Report 32 Report on Directors Remuneration 39 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 24
