Business Review Corporate Responsibility Review Corporate Responsibility Managing our business impact Smart Energy Expert training at Dartford engineering academy An integrated business and CR strategy Centricas corporate vision is to be the leading integrated energy company in our chosen markets.
In February 2010, we agreed a new CR strategy and programme, which directly supports our vision.
The main emphasis of our CR strategy is to identify ways in which Centrica can contribute to reducing the levels of carbon emitted into the environment: a role we are uniquely placed to fulfil through our customer relationships, the skills of our service engineers and our expertise in sourcing energy and generating power.
We see significant new market opportunities in helping to deliver a low carbon society and want to ensure that British Gas and Direct Energy are the energy Mary Francis, Senior Independent Director and services providers of choice.
Building trust in this area will enable Chair of the Corporate Responsibility Committee us to grow our business whilst delivering environmental and social benefits to society.
Centricas corporate responsibility Our flagship programme focuses on delivering energy for a low CR ambition is to be the most carbon world.
The strategy has four supporting focus areas: prioritising safety: supplying energy needs: building and trusted energy company, leading the maintaining customer trust: and developing our people.
These are move to a low carbon future.
We must underpinned by responsible business practices and behaviours which are essential to gaining the trust of our stakeholders.
understand the impact our activities have on society and the environment, CR strategy and contribute to the long-term health To be the most trusted energy company, leading the move to a low carbon future and sustainability of both.
We believe that we can do this in a way which creates opportunities and advantages for our business and shareholders.
Energy for a low carbon world CR is also about the values which underpin our business.
Our experience is that a principled approach to doing business wins the trust of our customers, regulators, investors Customer Supplying Health People and other stakeholders.
It also helps us to attract and retain trust energy needs and safety talented and committed employees.
Supported by responsible business practices During 2010 we developed a new CR strategy which is aligned with our business goals.
It is described in more detail in the Underpinned by values, business principles and behaviours following section.
To see more online, go to: www.
com responsibility 24 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Shareholder Information 151 CR governance Building a successful and sustainable business requires an possibility that new issues will become relevant as a result of organisation to have strong values and clear principles.
Strong changes in our operations, the political or social environment or governance and internal communication are essential.
The Board of Directors has oversight of the CR strategy and The Group risk and internal control functions already cover some programme through its Corporate Responsibility Committee, chaired aspects of CR.
Following the CR strategy review, they have been by the Senior Independent Director.
The Committee endorses our asked to ensure that CR risk management is fully integrated into CR strategy, oversees its implementation and challenges the a regular cycle of review and audit.
The principal risks and Groups performance and alertness to external developments.
uncertainties for the Group are described on page 30.
The Executive Committee, chaired by the Chief Executive, has We ensure that we have a comprehensive understanding of the overall responsibility for implementing the CR strategy.
material issues affecting our business by undertaking regular Centricas set of business principles underpins our culture and stakeholder engagement.
Understanding societys expectations approach to decision-making.
In 2010, we continued to embed of us as a business is important and we believe our approach the business principles through training and awareness campaigns, ensures we are accountable and can listen to and respond which included asking all management to sign a declaration that accordingly.
During the year, CR issues were included within a they understood and adhered to the principles.
More than 99% number of shareholder presentations.
We also engaged with a of management have done so, exceeding our 95% target, and range of opinion formers on current and future CR issues and, the exceptions are being followed up.
While we are already in in late 2010, agreed the creation of a CR advisory panel with compliance with the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, we are also members drawn from key stakeholder groups to provide regular working to ensure that our procedures will meet the standards dialogue on CR issues, strategy and performance.
British Gas that will be required under the new UK Bribery Act.
also created a Customer Panel in 2010 to gain a better insight into how customers view us.
Risk management Our business involves us in a wide range of social, environmental and ethical issues.
Most of these are familiar longstanding subjects that we are experienced at managing.
But there is always the Energy for a low carbon world Climate change presents significant risks to people and the Customer carbon environment and requires sustained global action and urgent cuts The UK Government sees both domestic and commercial energy in greenhouse gas GHG emissions.
Our business has a substantial efficiency as key to meeting its targets of reducing carbon environmental impact.
In 2010, we were responsible for approximately emissions 34% from 1990 levels by 2020 and 80% by 2050.
10.3 million tonnes of carbon dioxide CO2 emissions from the gas Schemes are in place that include requirements for energy and oil we produced, the electricity we generated and the energy suppliers to achieve improvements in customer energy efficiency.
we used in our operations and company vehicles.
We are taking We have used these as a platform for building a business in steps to reduce both the carbon emissions from the energy and energy efficiency and going beyond the minimum required under services we provide and the overall environmental impact of our the regulations.
British Gas is particularly well positioned to own operations.
take advantage of these opportunities through our network of The biggest positive environmental contribution we can make is by 10,000 engineers and six engineering academies across the UK.
helping our customers to be more energy efficient in their homes We have the skills and capacity needed to install energy efficiency and businesses and to use lower carbon energy.
Our size means measures on a significant scale.
we can drive significant change in energy markets and we are In the UK, we continue to deliver against our Carbon Emissions vigorously pursuing the move towards a low carbon economy.
Reduction Target CERT, providing energy efficiency measures We are investing in innovative technologies and developing to customers that cover insulation, energy efficient light bulbs, employees skills so that we are well positioned to sell our home appliances and energy saving devices.
We set ourselves customers low carbon and energy efficiency products and annual targets under the scheme and have consistently exceeded services.
In a keynote speech, delivered in September 2010, these, providing household energy efficiency products with Sam Laidlaw outlined how we are aiming to cut the average equivalent lifetime carbon savings of 15.6 million tonnes in 2010, carbon footprint of Britains homes by 35% within 10 years, compared to our target of 14.6 million tonnes.
by using lower carbon energy and improving energy efficiency.
British Gas also has targets within the Community Energy Saving In the geographies in which we operate, the strongest public Programme CESP, a Government scheme to provide energy and political focus on carbon reduction, and the main commercial efficiency measures to some of the most deprived communities in opportunities, are in the UK.
We are also positioning ourselves to the UK, delivering lower bills and carbon savings.
In order to meet take advantage of any changes in the political and regulatory climate our CESP obligations British Gas growing energy services business in North America.
Direct Energy is building partnerships with is working in a new partnership with facilities management technology providers to develop products such as a home energy company Mears.
management system which controls energy use remotely.
Our acquisition of Clockwork is helping us to build our capabilities During the year, the UK Government announced plans for a and expertise in energy services and we plan to share knowledge new Green Deal that will enable homeowners to install energy between our British Gas and Direct Energy businesses.
efficiency measures without having to make an upfront investment.
Repayments from customers will be made via savings in their energy bill over time, up to 15 years depending on the measures installed, enabling them to benefit immediately from warmer Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 25 Business Review Corporate Responsibility Review continued Aim What we said wed do in 2010 2010 performance 2009 performance What we aim to do next Install two million smart meters by end 195,228 installed 62,897 installed Continue to work to install of 2012 two million by 2012 Implement the CERT scheme by 15.6 million tonnes 17.5 million tonnes of Provide energy efficiency products Lead the UK providing energy efficiency products of CO2 saved CO2 saved in 2011 with total lifetime carbon consumer market for i with total lifetime carbon savings of 14.6 savings of 16.3 million tonnes low carbon products million tonnes of CO2 of CO2 and services Implement the Governments 0.45 million tonnes of n a Deliver 3.5 million tonnes of CO2 CESP scheme CO2 saved in 2011 Reduce our UK power generation 275g CO2 kWh 371g CO2 kWh in the Reduce our UK power generation ii carbon intensity to 270g CO2 kWh in the UK : UK: 348g CO2 kWh carbon intensity to 270g CO2 kWh by 2012 and 260g CO2 kWh by 2020 275g CO2 kWh Group-wide by 2012 and aim to bring our Decarbonise Group-wide global carbon intensity down to power generation that level in the same period: reduce our UK carbon intensity to 260g CO2 kWh by 2020 Internal carbon Reduce the carbon footprint of our 11.2% reduction 7% reduction Meet our 20% reduction target footprint existing offices, company vehicles from base year from base year by 2015 iv and travel by 20% by 2015 homes and energy savings.
British Gas welcomed this to bring our global carbon intensity down to that level in the same announcement and has decided to go early on the Green Deal period.
Our 2020 target for the average carbon intensity of our UK by installing up to 30 million of energy efficiency measures in power generation is 260g CO2 kWh.
our customers homes before new legislation comes into force in The Groups overall responsibility is to secure energy for its 2012.
We intend to share the lessons we learn for the benefit of all.
Energy security is enhanced by diversity British Gas has launched an insulation business and continued in the technologies and geographic regions that supply us.
to build our capacity with the acquisitions of heat pump installation company Cool Planet and solid wall insulation company ECL.
Our Proportion of power generation by source new smart metering business is enabling us to lead in rolling out this technology, installing 195,000 in 2010 and over 258,000 since 13% Centrica UK and North America 2009.
We will be substantially accelerating this work so that by the end of 2012 we aim to have installed two million smart meters.
Gas Smart meters provide energy usage information directly to both 17% Nuclear the energy supplier and the customer.
We plan to help our customers use this information to help them consume less energy, thereby Renewables cutting carbon emissions and saving energy.
This activity is not just essential to meet the UKs climate change commitment, it also benefits the economy helping residential Figures based on output from our own customers and businesses save money and creating employment.
70% generation and from site-specic offtake contracts, Centrica is creating 3,700 new jobs in energy efficiency, smart as used to calculate our carbon intensity meters and renewable microgeneration by the end of 2012.
These new green jobs contribute to the development of the UKs capabilities in a rapidly growing economic sector.
Reducing our internal carbon impact offices and travel Lower carbon power generation Although the biggest environmental benefit we can have as an For the UK to achieve its 80% greenhouse gas reduction target energy company is helping customers reduce their carbon by 2050, the power sector needs to be largely decarbonised, emissions and in decarbonising electricity generation, we are also with minimal output of emissions within the next three decades.
seeking to reduce the overall environmental impact of energy and This is achievable through investment in nuclear and wind assets fuel use in our offices, company cars, operational vehicles and and new, cleaner gas generation that could cut emissions by business travel.
This also helps to engage our own employees in 20% in a decade.
We are working to reduce the carbon intensity the amount of In 2010 we achieved a 4.3% reduction year-on-year, which carbon emitted for each kilowatt hour of energy generated of equates to an 11.2% reduction against our baseline 2007.
Total our power generation fleet.
In 2010, the average carbon intensity carbon emissions from our office and travel operations were ii of our UK power generation was 275g CO2 kWh, a significant 104,000 tonnes over the year.
reduction on 2009 which was 371g CO2 kWh.
The reduction was primarily due to the introduction of nuclear power into our portfolio.
We have set a target to reduce the average carbon intensity of our UK power generation to 270g CO2 kWh by 2012, and we aim i This figure is an externally agreed target with Ofgem and subject to change, depending on our market share.
ii 2010 data subject to final verification.
iii Data includes all parts of the Group with the exception of Direct Energy.
iv Scope includes all assets existing during baseline year of 2007. v For details on the net promoter score NPS and the Employee Engagement Survey see page 9. vi Combination of figures calculated from London Benchmarking Group methodology and cost of voluntary programmes to support vulnerable customers in the UK.
Group cash donations during the year amounted to 21.1 million 2009: 4.8 million.
In line with Group policy, no donations were made for political purposes.
The Group, in the normal course of its business, has paid for its management to attend events at which politicians and other opinion formers have been present, but does not consider these payments to be political donations.
26 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Shareholder Information 151 Prioritising safety In line with the priority we give to health and safety, annual Following the explosion on the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig in the remuneration of the Groups Chief Executive and all Executive Gulf of Mexico, we conducted a thorough review of our systems Directors has a bonus element related to health and safety and procedures in our high hazard operations, with a particular performance.
The targets cover accurate reporting of data focus on third-party operations.
While Centrica is not engaged and success in leading the drive to continual improvement.
in any deepwater drilling, we have looked hard at the causes of the incident and subsequent investigations in order to understand We are building a strong safety culture, embedding safe how we can further strengthen our own operations.
As a result, behaviours, and making sure each of our businesses has the in 2011 we will introduce improved monitoring and in some cases right systems in place to manage and address safety risks.
In control of safety performance among our contractors and 2010, we provided the necessary support and training framework continue to embed a culture where employees feel able to for our top 200 managers to help them understand the changes challenge any unsafe practices.
expected and their leadership role in achieving them.
We completed gap assessments in all businesses against the Group standard Our 20% stake in nuclear power generator British Energy, jointly for Health, Safety and Environment management.
owned with EDF Energy, involves specific safety challenges at the existing nuclear power stations.
While we do not operate Initiatives across the Group led to a reduction of 16.3% in our any of the nuclear facilities, we have a responsibility as a minority lost time injury rate per 100,000 hours to 0.41, 0.43 including shareholder and as a member of the board of British Energy Clockwork on a pro-forma basis, down from 0.49 in 2009.
We Group plc to monitor and oversee safety performance.
For more have also started reporting total recordable incidents for the detailed information on the health and safety performance of the number of injuries, whether or not a lost time injury occurred.
Our existing fleet of nuclear power stations, please see EDF Energys recordable injury rate was 2.13 per 100,000 hours worked in 2010. website www.
The majority of these incidents occur among our service and repair workforce, who face particular risks from driving and from working Lost time injury rate in the unfamiliar environment of customers homes or businesses.
In 2010, we began to track road safety incidents systematically 1.2 iii and recorded an incident rate of 11.1 per one million kilometres driven, including eight high severity incidents.
We aim to reduce 1.0 1.05 iii 1.00 this to 10 in 2011 through enhanced focus on working practices, 0.8 training and communications campaigns.
0.80 0.73 There were no fatal incidents among Centrica employees in 2010.
0.6 Tragically, two contractors working on Centrica projects were killed 0.41 0.49 0.4 in 2010.
A subcontractor working for Heerema on Centrica Energys F3-FA project was killed at their shipyard in The Netherlands, when 0.2 scaffolding collapsed.
A contractor working for Direct Energy was killed in a driving incident while doing pre-drilling survey work in 0.0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Alberta.
We are adopting a new measurement approach in 2011 which will incorporate contractor data for activities that are not directly controlled by Centrica.
Aim What we said wed do in 2010 2010 performance 2009 performance What we aim to do next Lost time injury rate: Reduce lost 0.41 per 100,000 0.49 per 100,000 hours Reduce lost time injuries to time injury rate by 12.5% to 0.43 per hours worked worked 0.20 per 100,000 hours 100,000 hours worked in 2010 worked by 2013 0 fatalities 0 fatalities Put safety iii Road safety incident rate: 11.1 per one million n a Reduce road safety incidents at the heart of iii Implement a road safety key km driven to 10 per one million km all that we do performance indicator driven Total recordable incident rate: 2.13 per 100,000 hours n a Reduce recordable incidents Develop target for 2011 after worked to 1.97 per 100,000 hours establishing baseline in 2010 worked Building customer trust We depend upon the trust of our customers to enable us to grow us, but that it will take time for our reputation to catch up with the as a business and to launch innovative new products.
We have customer service we are now delivering.
identified three areas for gaining customers trust high quality Net promoter scores NPS, which measure our customers willingness customer service, transparent and competitive pricing and support to recommend us, and therefore a key indicator of customer satisfaction, for our more vulnerable customers.
Together with a commitment have continued to improve.
In the UK, British Gas achieved a brand to listen and respond to our customers, these areas underpin our NPS score of 5, beating our target of 3 and a leading score approach to enhancing trust and building confidence in our when compared to the other top five UK energy suppliers.
proportion of complaints to the Ombudsman from British Gas Customer service residential customers remains well below market share.
This performance reflects our work to fix problems first time wherever High quality customer service has always been important to our we can and to improve customer interaction through better training business and our increasing range of energy products and services of our customer facing employees.
makes this more important than ever.
In previous reports, we have noted that our past performance has not always been of the Our net promoter scores in the UK are heavily influenced by price quality that our customers expect and has tarnished our reputation.
changes and the associated media coverage.
We worked hard in We believe that due to a concerted effort this is now firmly behind 2010 to provide clearer information about pricing to customers.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 27 Per 100,000 hours worked Business Review Corporate Responsibility Review continued Aim What we said wed do in 2010 2010 performance 2009 performance What we aim to do next v Net promoter score : Achieve 5 -2 Achieve a British Gas Earn and maintain trust British Gas brand NPS of 3 in 2010 brand NPS of 10 by 2012 by treating customers fairly and providing the Improve Direct Energys brand NPS score 21 9.5 Achieve a Direct Energy best value in the brand NPS of 28 in 2011 marketplace Continued focus on targeting the most 1.6 million 2.2 million Implement the appropriate support and resources to households helped households helped Governments Warm Home individual vulnerable customers Discount scheme Direct Energys overall brand NPS has increased to 21, Support for vulnerable customers up significantly on last years score of 9.5.
This is as a result of a Although we are a commercial organisation in a competitive much sharper focus on customer satisfaction and better training market, we accept a responsibility for our vulnerable customers for employees to recognise and understand customer needs.
For who are at risk of being unable to afford the energy they need example, in Texas, Direct Energy launched a programme to follow to live safely and in reasonable comfort.
We define vulnerable up directly with dissatisfied customers.
This was an opportunity to customers as those who are unable to safeguard their personal resolve their frustrations and also to learn from them and improve welfare or the personal welfare of other members of the future service for other customers.
While the definitions of NPS household, for reasons of age, health, disability or severe used in our different markets are the same, it is not possible to financial insecurity.
make a direct comparison between them because different nationalities are more or less likely to make a recommendation.
The 2010 UK Energy Act introduced a Mandatory Social Price NPS is used to compare our performance to direct competitors Support Scheme the Warm Home Discount scheme which in each market and to indicate trends over time.
comes into force later in 2011.
The Warm Home Discount is primarily focused on financial assistance with energy bills.
During Energy prices 2010 British Gas helped 340,000 vulnerable customers save The price that consumers pay for energy in general, and gas money through Essentials, our social discounted tariff.
British in particular, is an emotive issue in the UK.
We are working hard Gas will increase its commitment to approximately 105 million to communicate more effectively with stakeholders and dispel by 2014 15, enabling more than double this number of vulnerable common myths by creating a greater awareness of the costs customers to receive financial assistance through a rebate on contained within an energy bill, and how the energy market works.
Customers and UK industry regulator Ofgem continue to The introduction of the Warm Home Discount scheme will express concerns over the perceived disconnect between fundamentally change how we manage fuel poverty in the UK, wholesale and retail energy prices.
The link remains complex requiring us to work more closely with the Government and other because current retail energy prices reflect the prices we must pay suppliers.
The new scheme will match customers to data held by for future gas contracts, not just todays requirements.
Also, the the Department for Work and Pensions DWP in order to identify commodity cost is only about half of the customers bill, with the those eligible for the support.
British Gas supports the Governments rest relating to less volatile costs such as transport, distribution, approach to targeting the support to customers who most need Government environmental contributions and customer service.
We were involved in a pilot project over the year with DWP that successfully identified 57,000 customers in Illustrative breakdown of a typical dual fuel customer bill receipt of pension credit and enabled us to give them an 80 credit on their energy bill.
8% Wholesale electricity and gas cost We support increased assistance to vulnerable households and aim not only to respond to their immediate needs, but also VAT to address the long-term root causes of vulnerability and fuel 20% Operational costs poverty.
In 2010, we spent 80 million supporting vulnerable 43% households.
A substantial part of this was for our Essentials Environmental and social costs programme, which is the single largest support programme for Other including balancing and meter costs vulnerable customers in the energy market.
5% Network costs We will continue to help our more vulnerable customers through 8% Net margin financial support and energy efficiency to reduce costs whilst 11% 5% providing warm comfortable homes.
Source: Ofgem Report, November 2010 Investing in our employees Our business is complex and includes many highly technical themes and completed feedback and action planning process functions.
To undertake our activities safely and deliver a quality in the same way as for the main survey.
The overall engagement of service that matches and exceeds the expectations of our score from the 2010 survey dropped two points from 66% to customers requires a highly skilled, motivated and diligent team.
Given the scale of changes to the business experienced In 2010 we employed 34,969 skilled people who carry these in 2010, this was expected.
This score can be compared to an responsibilities.
Our retention rate was 89.9% compared with independent external benchmark which indicates that 92% in 2009.
Retention is slightly down on last year although organisations with engagement scores above 60% consistently the improving economy was expected to make more of an deliver better business results.
We will be moving our engagement impact on our ability to retain employees than it did.
survey to a two-year cycle to provide sufficient time to respond to the findings and allow action plans to be better implemented and Our 2010 annual employee survey, administered by an embedded.
Our next full survey will take place in 2012. independent third party, had a high response rate of 81%.
Due to specific changes occurring in British Gas Services to deliver We continue to invest in the skills and development of our greater flexibility to our customers, our British Gas engineers employees.
In 2010, we commenced a strategic review of our completed a separate survey.
However we identified common capability across the organisation aligned to our long-term 28 Directors Report Business Review 4 Directors Report Governance 37 Financial Statements 65 Shareholder Information 151 strategic priorities.
This has provided us with a picture of our future We aim to have an inclusive and diverse workplace.
We are resource and capability needs and enabled us to shape our plans committed to providing equal opportunities for all people.
We will to ensure we have the right people, leadership and capabilities in not tolerate discrimination against people with disabilities or any place at the right time to deliver our business strategy.
other group in recruitment, promotion, training, working conditions or dismissal, subject to health and safety considerations.
If For example we opened our British Gas Green Skills academy employees become disabled while in our employment we offer in Tredegar, Wales, an area of high unemployment.
The academy appropriate support, retraining, equipment and facilities to enable aims to provide over 1,300 training days each year, including their employment to continue wherever possible.
training for local long-term unemployed people and people employed by local small and medium enterprises.
We encourage greater representation of women and ethnic minorities.
For the last eight years, we have undertaken an annual We provide highly regarded opportunities for people entering equal pay audit.
As in previous years, the 2010 review found that the job market.
In 2010, opportunities for 77 summer placements, Centricas performance management and reward practices are 70 graduate recruits and 450 technical apprenticeships were not subject to gender bias and confirmed that our approach is provided across the Group.
aligned to FTSE 100 best practice.
As part of our performance cycle, employee progress is assessed Centrica continues to operate a 24 7 Speak Up programme and discussed with the employee throughout the year and in annual that provides an opportunity for any employee to raise concerns review meetings.
Employees each have their own objectives that regarding non-compliance with our business principles to an are aligned to our business strategy.
Review meetings provide an independent third party.
In the period October 2009 to September opportunity to discuss development, training needs and 2010, 16 contacts were handled via the Speak Up programme career planning.
and in a small number of cases, investigation has highlighted Employees receive regular communication and consultation areas where further action has been initiated.
We continue to through a wide variety of media.
We increasingly use the intranet promote awareness of the helpline throughout the year.
for training and communications but also invest in face-to-face Our employees are at the heart of our business.
During the events such as vision and values seminars.
Company business year, we were pleased to be recognised for a number of and financial performance is communicated to all employees employer awards, more details of which can be found at using online media, printed materials and face-to-face briefings www.
with members of the Executive Committee.
Aim What we said wed do in 2010 2010 performance 2009 performance What we aim to do next v Employee engagement : Achieve 67% 64% 66% Achieve a score of 67% employee engagement in the annual survey and remain in the high performance category in 2012 Diversity: Promote diversity and equal 29.4% female 30% female Foster a skilled, Promote diversity in opportunities 70.6% male 70% male productive, leadership roles and 16% from ethnic 15.5% from ethnic motivated and recruitment minority groups minority groups diverse workforce Attrition and retention: Retain 89% of our 89.9% retention 92% retention Retain 90% of our workforce in 2010 workforce in 2011 Absence: Reduce absence to 7.5 days per 6.8 days per FTE 7.7 days per FTE Reduce absence to 6.6 full time employee FTE days per FTE CR Report on centrica.
com Other significant CR issues managed by our businesses and and community engagement and investment.
Please reported in our corporate responsibility report include supply chain see our online CR Report for more information: risk, environmental management water, waste, biodiversity www.
Aim What we said wed do in 2010 2010 performance 2009 performance What we aim to do next vi Make a positive contribution Community contributions : 105 million 77 million Continue to invest in through the way we operate and by Invest in communities where community community communities where investing in, and engaging with, we work contributions contributions we work communities where we work in the Employee volunteering: 58,531 37,062 Promote volunteering UK, North America and other parts Provide our employees with volunteering hours volunteering hours opportunities across of the world opportunities for community the Group involvement Ensure awareness of Group Business principles: 99.1% n a Achieve 95% completion business principles Achieve 95% completion by by management of annual management of business business principles principles declaration declaration i This figure is an externally agreed target with Ofgem and subject to change, depending on our market share.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 29
