REVIEW OF THE YEAR OUR RESOURCES report, visit to the London 2012 website and millions of calls, e-mails and texts.
Our resources With just over two years to go to the Olympic and Paralympic Games, our partnership with London 2012 is already delivering real benets.
The work we are doing at the Olympic Park in Stratford, Brand and reputation East London and at event sites around the country, is helping demonstrate our capabilities to large customers.
Internally, we have seen an increase in the proportion of employees who say the People partnership makes them feel proud to work for BT, rising from 59% in 2009 to 71% in 2010.
We are measuring the impact of our services using a newly Networks and platforms developed carbon footprint methodology and will be capturing lessons learned about where savings can be made for future Games.
We are also sponsoring the BT Paralympic World Cup in Manchester Global research capability in May 2010, an event for elite international athletes.
Our support for major sporting events was reinforced in February Suppliers when we became an ofcial supporter of the England 2018 FIFA World Cup bid.
Property portfolio People One of our key resources is our people and we aim to maintain a Our resources, in particular our brand and reputation, our people, team of high-performing, engaged and motivated people who can our networks and platforms, global research capability, suppliers and make a difference for customers, shareholders, the company and property portfolio are critical to delivering our business priorities.
The quality of our leadership is vital to BTs continued transformation.
We aim to ensure leaders at all levels understand what is expected of them and have access to appropriate Brand and reputation development opportunities.
We are committed to delivering our brand vision of helping our The improvement in our efficiency has enabled us to reduce our customers thrive in a changing world.
total labour resource with the majority of this reduction in indirect We are proud to have a trusted brand that is recognised in the UK labour.
We have a successful track record of redeploying and and around the world as a leader in delivering communications retraining people by helping them learn new skills and nd jobs services.
Some BT people are being given the A strong brand is important as it helps shape our relationships with opportunity to gain valuable experience and develop their skills customers and suppliers, and between the people who work for the while seconded to another organisation.
Customers turn to suppliers they know they can rely on.
At 31 March 2010, BT employed around 78,200 full-time equivalent people in the UK, and around 17,900 outside the UK.
We also employ 32,000 people indirectly, through agencies and BT marks the 1,000 day countdown to the London 2012 Olympic contractors, giving BT a total labour resource of around 128,100.
Games and Paralympic Games This represents a reduction in total labour resource in the past year of around 20,000 people.
We continue to support an inclusive working environment in which our people can develop their careers regardless of their race, sex, religion beliefs, disability, marital or civil partnership status, age, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression or caring responsibilities and we are proud of our performance benchmarks.
Our policy is for people to be paid fairly, regardless of gender, ethnic origin or disability.
We work with specialist recruitment agencies to attract people with disabilities to work for BT and we run a retention service to ensure that talented people can stay with us even if their capabilities change.
Diversity of the BT workforce Our partnership with the London 2012 Olympic Games and Target 2011 2010 2009 2008 Paralympic Games is a powerful signal of the inspiring and BT will maintain a top 10 innovative brand we aim to be.
We are the ofcial communications position in four of five major services partner and will be providing the critical communications diversity benchmarks: four UK infrastructure which means that working together with our fellow based, and one global London 2012 technology partners we will carry every image, sports 18 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F REVIEW OF THE YEAR OUR RESOURCES We aim to give our people the skills and the tools necessary to the BT Retirement Saving Scheme BTRSS, a dened contribution ensure that every customer experience is an excellent one.
The BTPS has around 55,000 active members, 185,000 our people a wide range of learning and re-skilling opportunities.
The BTPS was closed to For example, this year more than 5,000 BT people, many of whom new members on 31 March 2001. have very few formally-recognised qualications, are undertaking As a result of a review of our UK pension arrangements in 2009, training that will lead to a  qualication there have been changes to future benefit accruals under the BTPS.
We also support federated and group To ensure the scheme remains exible, fair and sustainable in the apprenticeship schemes.
long term, benets built up from 1 April 2009 are now on a career average re-valued earnings basis, members contributions have increased, and the scheme has ceased to be contracted out of the Tidying waterways bordering the Olympic Park in Stratford is just State Second Pension.
Also, the normal pension age has risen from one of many volunteering activities carried out by BT people 60 to 65.
Benets built up before 1 April 2009 remain linked to final pensionable salary.
BT has reached agreement with the Trustee of the BTPS on the triennial funding valuation of the BTPS at 31 December 2008 and a 17-year recovery plan which is discussed in more detail in the Financial review on page 53.
The BTRSS was set up on 1 April 2009 and has more than 17,500 active members.
It is a contract-based, dened contribution arrangement, which means that what the pension members receive is linked to contributions paid, the performance of the fund and the annuity rates at retirement, rather than to their final BT salary.
Health and safety BT people are also encouraged to volunteer in their communities The health and safety of our people are of paramount importance, and about 4,000 people around the world have been involved in and we continue to seek improvements by focusing on behavioural 2010 for around 28,700 days.
The community benets from their and lifestyle change.
Details of time lost to injury and sickness involvement, while they benefit from the opportunity to enhance absence are given in the graph below along with their cost to BT.
Our lost time injury rate rose for the first time in three years, and we failed to meet our target, due to the adverse winter weather Reward and recognition conditions in the UK resulting in an increase in injuries.
We conduct a review of salaries every year.
Managers are eligible for variable, performance-related bonuses, and the long-term share Lost time injury rate lost time injury cases expressed as a rate per incentives for our most senior managers are linked to BTs total 100,000 hours worked on a 12-month rolling average shareholder return and cash generation performance measured over Non financial performance a period of three years.
For Openreach senior managers, the key Target 2011 2010 2009 2008 measure is Openreachs performance over a three-year period.
Employees outside the UK currently receive an annual award of Reduce to 0.18 cases 0.209 0.160 0.188 free BT shares or a cash equivalent depending on local legislation and or regulation.
In the UK, employees receive free broadband.
Financial performance Employees in more than 25 countries also have the opportunity to 2010 2009 2008 save to buy BT shares at a discount to the price at the start of the Cost to the business arising new savings period.
Under the BT Employee Share Investment Plan, UK from injuries resulting in time measure employees can buy BT shares from their pre-tax and pre-National off work 5.6m 7.0m in 2009 Insurance salaries.
More than 50% of eligible employees participate in one or more of these plans.
We failed to meet our target for sickness absence this year due to In relation to the 2010 pay review, the company made an offer the H1N1 swine u inuenza pandemic, causing an anomaly in to increase salaries but has not reached agreement with the the number of cases of colds and u. Communication Workers Union CWU regarding a pay settlement for the team member non manager population.
The company has Sickness absence rate - percentage of calendar days lost to sickness reached an agreement with the pay negotiating committee of absence expressed as a 12-month rolling average Prospect, the trade union representing managerial and professional staff, on the pay arrangements for 2010.
This agreement was Non financial performance recommended to the membership by the executive committee of Target 2011 2010 2009 2008 the union and it is hoped that the settlement will be accepted by Reduce to 2.21% 2.46% 2.17% 2.43% the membership of the union following a ballot which is being conducted in May 2010.
Financial performance 2010 2009 2008 Pensions Most of BTs UK employees are members of a pension scheme BT sick pay costs 95.4m 85.2m 89.8m either the BT Pension Scheme BTPS, a dened benefit scheme, or BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 19 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REVIEW OF THE YEAR OVERVIEW
