REVIEW OF THE YEAR OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY We meet the guidelines of the Association of British Insurers in reporting on social performance and have also applied the Prince of Our corporate responsibility Wales Accounting for Sustainability reporting framework.
Helping tackle climate change Helping tackle climate change We can play a significant role helping our customers in the move to a low carbon economy, and can already see the start of this Developing sustainable customer transition with growing customer demand for lower carbon solutions products and services reducing costs, improving energy efficiency and boosting productivity.
At the same time, we need to continue to minimise our own Enabling skills for an inclusive society carbon footprint, and have set ourselves one of the most aggressive corporate emissions reduction targets in the world to help transform BT into a less carbon-intensive business.
By 2020 we aim Charity support to have reduced the carbon intensity of our global business by 80% compared with our 1997 base year.
BT Operate is responsible for BTs energy policy, including Our corporate responsibility risks reducing carbon emissions see Our lines of business BT Operate on page 33.
Recognition of our contribution Developing sustainable customer Further information solutions Our work in this area has two elements: embedding sustainability, and supporting the low carbon economy.
Our sustainability We have a long track record of acting responsibly.
We have framework is now part of BTs portfolio development process, established policies on equal opportunities, fair pay and anticomprising environmental, economic and societal criteria.
Our environmental management system dates back to series of detailed standards help our product teams source products 1991, and during 2010 we celebrated the tenth anniversary of our with a lower environmental impact, and we are working with ISO14001 certication.
We have been providing solutions for our industry bodies to raise standards across the global IT supply chain.
older and less able customers since 1984.
Our centre of excellence for inclusive design helps BT product Our statement of business practice, The Way We Work, provides designers embed inclusive design principles from the beginning of the principles to which all our people are expected to comply, and is the development process, and incorporate accessibility features championed by senior executives throughout BT.
across our consumer product range.
We want to make a difference to some of the global challenges We broadened our ethical key performance indicator this year to society faces, and are focusing our activities on three key areas: help measure the impact of our ethics training and other activities climate change: developing sustainable customer solutions: and designed to raise employee awareness of our policies on issues such enabling skills for an inclusive society.
as bribery and corruption, and receiving or offering hospitality.
Our This year we invested money, time and in-kind contributions result for the first year was 3.58 out of five.
worth 26.4m supporting responsible and sustainable business We have been working to develop our market propositions activities, meeting our commitment to invest at least 1% of group supporting the low carbon economy.
The table below shows the pre-tax profits.
value of customer contract bids which include a sustainability Our target for 2011 is to maintain a minimum investment of 1% element.
of underlying pre-tax profits in our community.
Financial performance a a 2010 2009 2008 Community investment Customer bids with a m 26.5 sustainability element 2.1bn 1.5bn 2.6bn Investment time, cash a 25.5 We have improved the way we collect this data during the year and have restated 2009 and and in-kind 2008 gures.
24.5 1.05% Percentage of pre-tax 1.01% 23.5 Enabling skills for an inclusive society profit 1.02% 22.5 We want everyone to share the benets of communications technology.
Our inclusive society programme promotes inclusion by 21.5 making our products readily available, affordable and easy to use: 20.5 increasing communication and IT skills through community 2008 2009 2010 investment programmes: and creating an inclusive culture across BT.
34 BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F
