28 Business overview Corporate Responsibility Review We recognise that a key element in the continual improvement Our approach of health and safety management is sharing best practice and The Group fully acknowledges its obligation to lessons learnt from incidents across all of the Groups companies.
ensure the responsible operation of its business An alert system is in place that formally ensures key findings from incidents are quickly communicated to all operational sites at all times with due regards to the interests of and actions taken as appropriate.
All accidents, incidents and shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers near misses are investigated with actions generated to prevent recurrence.
A Health, Safety and Environment Technical Group, and the wider community.
with representatives from across the Group, supports continual The Board has overall responsibility for establishing and improvement through the development and promotion of good maintaining the Groups policies in this area, and the Chief Executive health and safety practice.
is accountable to the Board for ensuring that the Groups businesses In 2010, extensive safety compliance audits were conducted at adhere to these policies.
all Group facilities using internationally recognised, external The Board recognises that the long term success of the Group will consultancy firms.
The audits incorporated a review of process be enhanced by a positive interaction with all of our stakeholders, safety management in the USA, and addressed Seveso II and has determined that the Groups corporate responsibility requirements in Europe.
All findings were subject to corrective initiatives should be focused on the following key areas: action reviews to ensure closure and added to a findings database Health and safety which is shared across the Group.
Employee support and development We aim to have all of our businesses certified to the international health and safety management system OHSAS18001, with the Environmental protection requirement that all newly acquired businesses are certified within Ethical business conduct two years post-acquisition.
We are fully compliant with this aim, with the exception of the Chemring Ordnance facility, acquired in We intend that our corporate responsibility approach should be fully 2008, in Florida, which is scheduled to be certified by the end of embedded within our businesses, and our senior management bonus the first quarter of 2011. plan incorporates specific objectives in each of the above areas.
Newly-acquired businesses are rapidly introduced to the Groups Further details of our approach are set out below.
safety philosophy, with detailed regulatory compliance audits and In the workplace programme gap analysis.
Health and safety Safety is a major item for consideration by the Groups Risk Our policy and practices Management Committee.
All businesses are required to produce The Board recognises that the highest levels of safety are required a risk register from which the top five health and safety risks and in order to protect our employees, product end users and the improvement actions to reduce the risks to as low as reasonably general public, whilst achieving growth and maintaining leadership practicable are reviewed on a monthly basis.
in the Groups chosen markets.
The Board believes that all incidents The Group has committed to substantial investments in and injuries are preventable, and long term strategies have been manufacturing facilities that will, in addition to improving adopted to ensure that we continually improve our performance productivity, improve the safety of the workforce by reducing the and reduce risk.
We apply particular attention to those facilities that The Chief Executive has overall responsibility for health, safety compare unfavourably with their peers, and systems and processes and environmental matters across the Group.
The Group Director are in place to facilitate the sharing of information across the of Safety reports directly to the Chief Executive, and is responsible Group.
Our ongoing safety improvement activities are focused on for the effective administration and implementation of the Groups ensuring that our buildings, processes and products are as safe as health, safety and environment strategy.
The Group Director of reasonably practicable for our employees and product users.
Safety is a member of the Group Executive Committee and reports The Group has an established relationship with Cranfield University, on the performance of all businesses against agreed targets and both for the supply of employee training programmes and for the objectives.
The Chief Executive reports monthly to the Board on development of simulation modelling to evaluate blast and thermal all key health and safety issues.
effects from the ignition of pyrotechnic and other materials.
The Board requires that all businesses systematically manage their Additionally, annual training in the handling of energetic materials health and safety hazards, set objectives, monitor progress by is conducted by third party experts.
regular measurement, audit and review, and take additional action Our performance where necessary.
Each Managing Director is responsible for the Energetic events causing injury management of health and safety within their business and for Whilst we take all incidents seriously, we pay particular attention to providing adequate resources to satisfy the Boards requirements.
those where employees sustain injury due to an energetic event.
All Managing Directors have health and safety related objectives incorporated within their annual bonus plan.
Managers in our In November 2009 two contractors working at our Salisbury, UK facility suffered first degree burns during the disassembly of an businesses are required to enforce procedures, and to provide leadership and commitment to promote and embrace a positive obsolete extraction unit.
Contractor management and permit to health and safety culture.
We emphasise the importance of individual work systems have since been examined at all facilities and where potential gaps were observed, improvements were introduced.
responsibility for health and safety at all levels of the organisation, and expect employees to report potential hazards, to be involved in implementing solutions, and to adhere to rules and procedures.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 29 In September 2010 a fire at our Kilgore facility in Toone, Tennessee Employees resulted in three employees sustaining serious injury.
This incident The Board recognises the valuable contribution that the Groups remains under investigation by the regulatory authorities.
Also in employees continue to make to its success, and aims to provide a September, a small detonator initiated at our Chemring Energetics working environment that reflects and rewards this.
The Group now facility in Ardeer, Scotland, resulting in minor wounds to the hand has 4,283 2009: 3,349 employees based in eight countries.
Employment practices Energetic events not causing physical injury The Groups policy is to provide equal opportunities for all In 2010 we had unexpected energetic events at Kilgore, at Chemring employees, irrespective of race, nationality, gender, sexual Countermeasures in the UK, and at Chemring Defence in Derby, UK.
orientation, marital status, religion or political belief, disability or age.
The Group is committed to meeting, at a minimum, the labour In September 2010 a deflagration at our newly acquired Mecar facility rights and legislation requirements in each country in which it in Belgium resulted in a voluntary stop of all production.
Following operates, and in practice, often exceeds these.
Our employment this incident, an extensive step-by-step improvement programme practices policies are introduced at newly-acquired businesses at was implemented, which must be satisfactorily completed for each the earliest opportunity after they join the Group.
production process before the process is allowed to restart.
Gender diversity These events caused no physical injuries.
Other lost time events Excluding the newly acquired Mecar and Roke businesses, the Group lost time incident rate calculated using the US Occupational Male 64% Safety and Health Administration rules showed a modest Female 36% improvement from 1.13 to 1.06 incidents per 100 employees during the year.
Six of our sites reported no lost work days in the year, which is an excellent achievement.
Our historical lost time incident rate performance is shown below: Ethnic diversity Lost time incident rate performance 2.0 White 77% 1.5 1.6 1.59 Non-white 23% 1.58 1.2 1.0 1.13 1.06 Development and training 0.5 We continue to address training and development requirements for employees at all levels within the organisation.
All of our businesses 0 consider training needs for their employees at a local level, in order to ensure that they have the right skill base to deliver their five 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 year strategic plan.
The Board also undertakes a detailed review A total of thirty two lost time incidents were recorded in the year, of the future management requirements and succession plans as categorised as follows: part of the annual strategic planning process.
Specific plans have been developed in relation to sales and marketing and engineering 12 resources, in order to identify the requirements for future 10 recruitment and development of our existing employees in these areas, and to ensure that we have the right capabilities to meet our 8 future growth targets.
6 Our European businesses fully implemented a new people capability process for performance appraisal and management during the year.
4 Our undergraduate year in industry placement scheme continues 2 to be successful, and we aim to extend this programme each year.
We are developing our graduate recruitment initiatives, and 0 our acquisition of Roke, which has a well-established and highly successful graduate programme, will be of great benefit in this area.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010 Slip, trip, fall Strain, sprain Energetic event RSI Laceration graze Struck against object Stress Puncture wound Chemical burn Crush Incidents Incidents per 100 employees 30 Business overview Corporate Responsibility Review continued Benefits Incidents We aim to provide all of our employees with an attractive and An environmental incident occurred at Chemring Countermeasures competitive benefits package.
Almost all of our businesses offer in the UK in May 2009, when a corroded pipe led to the spillage of occupational pension scheme arrangements and our US employees dichloromethane.
A soil vapour extraction plant has been installed, receive health care.
A number of our businesses offer health which will continue to draw the dichloromethane from the screening services and other health-related initiatives such as sub-surface until the levels of contamination have been reduced stop-smoking clinics.
to a level acceptable to the regulator.
The Board is keen to encourage employees to join share schemes Performance in order that they can share in the future success of the Group.
Our environmental performance improved during the year in all of We currently offer savings-related share plans to our UK and our target areas: energy, emissions, waste and water.
US employees, and plan to replicate these in the other countries Energy and emissions in which we operate in the future.
During 2008 we collected detailed data on travel within the Group, Communications which revealed that this activity represented less than 3% of our The Group pursues a policy of employee communication through overall carbon footprint.
Energy utilisation is therefore our main focus meetings including team briefings and works councils and of attention.
We do not include emissions from our supply chain, nor in-house magazines by which employees are made aware of the use and disposal of products in our carbon footprint calculation.
progress of the Group and the companies in which they work.
Chemring Energetics at Ardeer in Scotland is currently the We also engage with our employees through representative only site that falls under the EU Emissions Trading Scheme.
However, all UK facilities participate in the Carbon Reduction Employee surveys are undertaken in relation to specific matters, Commitment programme.
such as health and safety, from time to time.
Our total emissions during the year, excluding those of businesses A Group magazine, The Chemring Eye, is published on a quarterly acquired during the year, in carbon dioxide equivalents were basis and distributed to all of our employees.
as follows: 2010 2009 2008 2007 In the environment Source tonnes CO tonnes CO tonnes CO tonnes CO 2 2 2 2 Our policy and practices Electricity 38,303 36,334 29,128 21,556 The Board believes that protecting the environment by minimising Gas 14,033 12,512 12,384 11,931 our environmental impact will help to secure the long term future Oil 3,111 2,008 2,351 2,878 of our businesses.
The Groups Environmental Policy states that we will control pollution, minimise the quantity of material burnt Total 55,447 50,854 43,863 36,365 at each site, consume resources efficiently, and use materials that minimise the environmental impact of our operations.
The Groups total emissions increased by 9% against a strong With the exception of the recent acquisitions, all of the Groups increase in revenue, which means that our overall carbon intensity businesses are certified to the environmental management system reduced during the year as follows: ISO14001, which requires the setting of environmental goals and 2010 2009 2008 2007 objectives focused on local aspects and impacts.
Additionally, we Total emissions tonnes 55,447 50,854 43,863 36,365 monitor key environmental data across the Group.
Group revenue million 571 504 354 254 Land quality Tonnes of CO 2 The Chemring Energetic Devices formerly Scot facility, which is per million of revenue 97 101 124 143 based in Downers Grove, Illinois, USA, is located on a site which has superfund status under the US contaminated land CERCLA Group revenue for 2010 excludes 26.5 million relating to acquisitions during the year.
The Group carries a 2.2 million provision in respect of We are increasing our efforts to address energy conservation the pre-acquisition environmental liabilities associated with the and thus indirect emissions in the future.
All UK sites have had site, which the Board considers to be adequate see Note 25 of the independent energy audits and all of our businesses have emissions financial statements.
We continue to work with external consultants reduction programmes in place.
and the regulatory authorities to ensure that the legal obligations of the business in relation to this matter are fully satisfied.
The Group participated in the 2010 Carbon Disclosure Project.
During the year, at the request of the Italian authorities, we Waste completed soil sampling at Simmel Difesas facility in Colleferro as Our total non-recycled waste generated, excluding that generated part of an overall regional characterisation exercise.
No significant by businesses acquired during the year, reduced for the second contamination was found.
year in a row: 2010 2009 2008 The newly acquired Mecar business in Belgium has been working tonnes waste tonnes waste tonnes waste with its local regulator for some time to remediate historical Non-hazardous 1,152 1,576 1,027 contamination.
It is anticipated that this will be an ongoing activity.
Hazardous 352 419 1,425 Total 1,504 1,995 2,452 Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 31 Many of our facilities are permitted to burn waste materials on site In the marketplace within closely controlled facilities.
We offer a collection service Policy on the Sale of Goods and Services in the UK for time-expired marine pyrotechnics, including those The Groups strategy is to become the leading producer of produced by other manufacturers, and these are transferred to an protection systems and energetic products for the global defence accredited third party disposal service.
market, and we continue to deliver significant growth in this area though a combination of organic development and acquisitions.
The Group is currently investing in a new demilitarisation facility The scope of the Groups activities has broadened significantly in Italy, which will allow the return of time expired and obsolete in recent years, particularly with regards to the supply of munitions for decommissioning and disassembly.
The individual components and sub-systems for various types of munitions, materials will then be recycled back into the supply chain.
and there is increasing demand for the supply to our customers Water of third party products.
Consequently, the Board has adopted a 3 We consumed a total of 1,550,374 m of water compared to Policy on the Sale of Goods and Services, which provides guidance 3 1,762,000 m last year, an absolute reduction of 13% during to all stakeholders on the products and services that the Group will a period of strong revenue growth.
supply, to which customers and to which countries, and sets out a clear definition of what we will not supply.
All Group businesses In the community are required to comply with this policy, which addresses both legal Helping others and ethical considerations with regards to certain products.
The Board recognises that each of the Groups businesses has an important role to play in its local community.
Business Conduct The Group has adopted a Code of Business Principles, which The Board operates a charitable policy, which confirms its requires our employees, our businesses and all third parties who act commitment to support selected charitable causes with a focus on our behalf to comply with our standards of acceptable business on the military and armed services, and those linked to the local conduct and applicable laws and regulations in all of the countries in communities in which the Groups businesses operate.
At a Group which we operate.
level, charitable donations are considered on a monthly basis by the Executive Committee, and each business has its own locally held The managing directors of each business are required to report charity budget.
Examples of support provided during the year include: to the Chief Executive on compliance with the Code of Business Principles on an annual basis.
Donations to a range of charities including Help for Heroes, Army Benevolent Fund, Supporting Royal Marines, Royal British Ethics and anti-corruption Legion, Queen Alexandra Hospital Home, Scottish Veterans The Group has committed to adherence with the European Garden City Association, Army Arts Society, various health Aerospace and Defence Associations Common Industry Standards and cancer charities, local hospitals and schools, and ongoing on Anti-Corruption, and we continued to work towards achieving support for the Mary Rose Appeal and SSAFA.
full compliance during the year.
Our ethics and anti-corruption programme now incorporates the following: Sponsorship of the 7 Air Assault Battalion Royal Electrical and Mechanical Engineers REME Royal Navy Field Gun Crew, Regular training for management and employees working within the Red Devils, the Combined Services Under 23 Rugby Team commercial, sales and marketing, finance and human resource and the Royal Artillery Gold Cup Day.
functions on ethics and anti-corruption.
Sponsorship of the UK Aerospace Youth Rocketry Challenge.
A Group-wide policy and procedures on the appointment of agents and other third party representatives, stipulating due diligence and In addition to making cash donations, the Group also encourages contractual requirements, approval levels and review processes.
and supports employees who undertake voluntary work in the local community, where appropriate.
During the year, our employees Policies and procedures on the giving and receiving of gifts donated their time and services on a wide range of projects, several and hospitality.
of which had an educational bias.
Our Code of Business Principles also incorporates the Common The Group is involved with a number of educational initiatives, Industry Standards.
notably including the sponsorship of various local schools.
Our US businesses have adopted an ethical compliance programme The Group has a partnership agreement with Cranfield University, to satisfy US Government requirements for ethical training for under which the Group has committed to the provision of significant employees, compliance audits, an employees hotline, and related funding for students research activities over a five year period.
With regards to the impact of our manufacturing activities on The Group has a whistleblowing policy and procedures in place the local community, at locations where our operations may which enable all employees to raise concerns, in confidence, inconvenience neighbours through product proofing, we liaise with about possible improprieties.
These arrangements now reflect the local residents to minimise any impact.
We are also cognisant of requirements of the Common Industry Standards.
the potential impact of our operations on the local environment, and we are addressing this through our environmental strategy.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2010
