2 Stores operating in Big Yellow Limited Partnership.
The Group owns a 33.3% interest in the Partnership.
3 Packing materials, insurance and other storage related fees.
4 Rent for seven short and one long leasehold property within the wholly owned stores accounted for as investment properties and finance leases under IFRS with total self storage capacity of 496,000 sq ft. 5 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation.
The direct store operating costs include all sales and marketing costs incurred centrally and the cost of our head office customer support centre.
6 Of the wholly owned stores, the seven short leasehold stores achieved an EBITDA of 4.4 million and EBITDA margin of 45%.
The 44 freehold stores achieved an EBITDA of 28.3 million and EBITDA margin of 63%.
28 Reading, December 2009 Sheffield Bramall Lane, Poole, August 2009 MLA 60,000 sq ft September 2009 MLA 60,000 sq ft MLA 53,000 sq ft Nottingham, August 2009 Edinburgh, July 2009 Twickenham, May 2009 MLA 65,000 sq ft MLA 60,000 sq ft MLA 76,000 sq ft Liverpool, March 2009 Bromley, March 2009 Birmingham, February 2009 MLA 60,000 sq ft MLA 71,000 sq ft MLA 60,000 sq ft Sheen, December 2008 Sheffield Hillsborough, Kennington, May 2008 MLA 64,000 sq ft October 2008 MLA 60,000 sq ft MLA 66,000 sq ft Merton, March 2008 Fulham, March 2008 Balham, March 2008 MLA 70,000 sq ft MLA 139,000 sq ft MLA 60,000 sq ft Barking, November 2007 Ealing Southall, November 2007 Sutton, July 2007 MLA 60,000 sq ft MLA 54,000 sq ft MLA 70,000 sq ft Gloucester, December 2006 Edmonton, October 2006 Kingston, August 2006 MLA 50,000 sq ft MLA 80,000 sq ft MLA 61,000 sq ft Bristol Ashton Gate, July 2006 Finchley East, May 2006 Tunbridge Wells, April 2006 MLA 61,000 sq ft MLA 54,000 sq ft MLA 57,000 sq ft Bristol Central, March 2006 North Kensington, Leeds, July 2005 MLA 64,000 sq ft December 2005 MLA 51,000 sq ft MLA 76,000 sq ft Beckenham, May 2005 Tolworth, November 2004 Watford, August 2004 MLA 71,000 sq ft MLA 56,000 sq ft MLA 64,000 sq ft Swindon, April 2004 Orpington, December 2003 Byfleet, November 2003 MLA 53,000 sq ft MLA 64,000 sq ft MLA 48,000 sq ft Chelmsford, April 2003 Finchley North, March 2003 West Norwood, January 2003 MLA 54,000 sq ft MLA 63,000 sq ft MLA 57,000 sq ft Colchester, December 2002 Bow, November 2002 Brighton, October 2002 MLA 55,000 sq ft MLA 132,000 sq ft MLA 59,000 sq ft Guildford, June 2002 New Malden, May 2002 Hounslow, December 2001 MLA 55,000 sq ft MLA 81,000 sq ft MLA 54,000 sq ft Battersea, December 2001 Ilford, November 2001 Cardiff, October 2001 MLA 34,000 sq ft MLA 58,000 sq ft MLA 75,000 sq ft Portsmouth, October 2001 Norwich, September 2001 Dagenham, July 2001 MLA 61,000 sq ft MLA 48,000 sq ft MLA 50,000 sq ft Wandsworth, April 2001 Luton, March 2001 Southend, March 2001 MLA 57,000 sq ft MLA 41,000 sq ft MLA 57,000 sq ft Staples Corner, March 2001 Romford, November 2000 Milton Keynes, September 2000 MLA 111,000 sq ft MLA 70,000 sq ft MLA 61,000 sq ft Cheltenham, April 2000 Slough, February 2000 Hanger Lane, October 1999 MLA 50,000 sq ft MLA 67,000 sq ft MLA 65,000 sq ft Oxford, August 1999 Croydon, July 1999 Richmond, May 1999 MLA 33,000 sq ft MLA 81,000 sq ft MLA 35,000 sq ft Report on Corporate Governance Introduction The Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance that was issued in 2006 by the Financial Reporting Council the Code for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
The Board also takes account of the corporate governance guidelines of institutional shareholders and their representative bodies.
Statement of Compliance with the Combined Code Throughout the year ended 31 March 2010, the Company has been in compliance with the Code provisions set out in section 1 of the Code.
Statement about Applying the Principles of the Code The Company has applied the principles set out in section 1 of the Code, including both the main principles and the supporting principles, by complying with the Code as reported above.
Further explanation of how the principles and supporting principles have been applied is set out below and in the Directors Remuneration Report and Audit Committee Report.
The Board and its Principal Committees The Directors believe it is essential for the Group to be led and controlled by an effective Board that provides entrepreneurial leadership within a framework of sound controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board is responsible for setting the Groups strategic aims, its values and standards and ensuring the necessary financial and human resources are in place to achieve its goals.
The Board ensures that its obligations to shareholders and other stakeholders are understood and met.
The Board also regularly reviews the performance of management.
The Board currently consists of eight Directors: four Executives and four Non-Executives.
The Board considers Tim Clark and Mark Richardson to be wholly independent and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their judgement throughout the year.
The Board does not consider that Philip Burks is an independent Non-Executive, given that he was a co-founder of the Group and was an Executive Director from September 1998 until March 2007.
The Board does not consider that Jonathan Short is an independent Non-Executive, as he has served on the Board for more than nine years, exceeding the Combined Code recommended limit.
The Board however wishes to retain the services of Jonathan Short, as he continues to add significant value to the Company and provides a rigorous independent challenge to management.
Jonathan Short is proposed for re-election in accordance with the terms of the Combined Code.
Tim Clark is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Board is currently in the process of recruiting an additional independent Non-Executive Director to join the Board.
Given the size of the Company, and its ownership structure, the Board believe that following this planned appointment the proportion of independent Non-Executives will be appropriate.
All the Non-Executive Directors bring considerable knowledge, judgement and experience to Board deliberations.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the Companys share option or bonus schemes and their service is non-pensionable.
The biographical details of the Directors of the Group are set out on page 62.
Chairman and Chief Executive The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive has been agreed by the Board and encompasses the following parameters: the Chairmans role is to provide continuity, experience, governance and strategic advice, while the Chief Executive provides leadership, drives the day-to-day operations of the business, and works with the Chairman on overall strategy: the Chairman, working with the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, is viewed by investors as the ultimate steward of the business and the guardian of the interests of all the shareholders: the Board believes that the Chairman and the Chief Executive work together to provide effective and complementary stewardship: the Chairman must: take overall responsibility for the composition and capability of the Board: and consult regularly with the Chief Executive and be available on a flexible basis for providing advice, counsel and support to the Chief Executive.
the Chief Executive must: manage the Executive Directors and the Groups day-to-day activities: prepare and present to the Board strategic options for growth in shareholder value: set the operating plans and budgets required to deliver agreed strategy: and ensure that the Group has in place appropriate risk management and control mechanisms.
29 Report on Corporate Governance continued Board of Directors Details of the Board and its principal committees are set out below.
All of the Committees are authorised to obtain legal or other professional advice as necessary, to secure where appropriate the attendance of external advisers at its meetings and to seek information required from any employee of the Company in order to perform its duties.
Nicholas Vetch Executive Chairman Philip Burks Non-Executive Director Tim Clark Non-Executive Director, Senior Independent Director Mark Richardson Non-Executive Director Jonathan Short Non-Executive Director James Gibson Chief Executive Officer Adrian Lee Operations Director John Trotman Chief Financial Officer Company Secretary: Michael Cole Attendance at meetings of the individual Directors at the Board and for the members of the Committees is shown in the table below: Remuneration Nominations Board Audit Committee Committee Committee Director 6 meetings 3 meetings 5 meetings 2 meetings Philip Burks 5 Tim Clark 5352 James Gibson 6 Adrian Lee 5 Mark Richardson 6352 Jonathan Short 6352 John Trotman 6 Nicholas Vetch 6 The Board meets on a regular basis approximately once every two months to discuss a whole range of significant matters including strategic decisions, major asset acquisitions and performance.
A procedure to enable Directors to take independent professional advice if required has been agreed by the Board and formally confirmed by all Directors.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Boards attention including the approval of Group strategy and policies: major acquisitions and disposals, major capital projects and financing, Group budgets and material contracts entered into other than in the normal course of business.
The Board also considers matters of non-financial risk.
At each Board meeting the latest available financial information is produced which consists of detailed management accounts with the relevant comparisons to budget.
A current trading appraisal is given by the Executive Directors.
Each member of the Board is subject to the re-election provisions of the Articles of Association, which requires them to offer themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
In the event of a proposal to appoint a new Director, this would be discussed at a full Board meeting, with each member being given the opportunity to meet the individual concerned prior to any formal decision being taken.
Performance Evaluation Each year the Board undertakes a formal evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committee and its individual members.
During the year, the Chairman evaluated the performance of the Executive Directors, and the performance of the Chairman was evaluated by the Senior Independent NonExecutive Director.
It was considered that the individuals, the Committees and the Board as a whole were operating effectively, with appropriate procedures put in place for minor areas identified for improvement.
Jonathan Short is being proposed for election at the Annual General Meeting.
Following the performance evaluation above, the Committee has determined that his performance is effective, and that he demonstrated commitment to the role.
Information and Professional Development All Directors are provided with detailed financial information throughout the year.
On a weekly basis they receive a detailed occupancy report showing the performance of each of the Groups open stores.
Management accounts are circulated to the Board monthly, and a detailed Board pack is distributed a week prior to each Board meeting.
All Directors are kept informed of changes in relevant legislation and changing commercial risks with the assistance of the Companys legal advisers and auditors where appropriate.
During the year under review, this has included consideration of Directors responsibilities and an update on developments in International Financial Reporting Standards.
The professional development requirements of Executive Directors are identified and progressed as part of each individuals annual appraisal.
All new Directors are provided with a full induction programme on joining the Board.
Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to attend seminars and undertake external training at the Companys expense in areas they consider to be appropriate for their own professional development.
Each year, the programme of senior management meetings is tailored to enable meetings to be held at the Companys properties.
During the year, the senior management team made visits to all of the Groups open stores.
30 Report on Corporate Governance continued Remuneration Committee Tim Clark Chairman Mark Richardson Jonathan Short The Committee is responsible for determining broad policy for the remuneration of the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary.
Within the terms of the agreed policy the Committee will determine the total individual remuneration package of each Executive Director, including, where appropriate, bonuses, incentive payments, pension arrangements and share options.
The Committee will select, appoint and set the terms of reference for any remuneration consultants who advise the Committee.
The Committee will ensure that the contractual terms on termination, and any payments made, are fair to the individual and the Company, that failure is not rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is, where appropriate, fully recognised.
The fees of the Non-Executive Directors are reviewed by the Board at regular intervals.
The statement of remuneration policy and details of each Directors remuneration is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The terms of reference of the Committee are available on the Companys website bigyellow.
Nominations Committee Tim Clark Chairman Jonathan Short Mark Richardson Tim Clark took over as Chairman of the Committee from Jonathan Short during the year.
The Nominations Committee is responsible for regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition required of the Board and giving consideration to succession planning for Directors and other senior Executives.
Where changes are required, it is also responsible for the identification, selection and proposal to the Board for approval of persons suitable for appointment or reappointment to the Board, whether as Executive or Non-Executive Directors and to seek approval from the Remuneration Committee to the remuneration and terms and conditions of service of any proposed Executive Director appointment.
The Chairman of the Committee presents reports to the Board as appropriate to enable the Board as a whole to agree the appointments of new Directors.
The Committee meets at least once a year and otherwise as required and as determined by its members.
The terms and conditions of appointment for the NonExecutive Directors is available for inspection at the Companys Head Office during normal working hours.
They are also available for inspection at the Companys AGM.
Shareholder Relations The Board believes that the Annual Report and Accounts play an important part in presenting all shareholders with an assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
The Board aims to achieve clear reporting of financial performance to all shareholders.
The Board acknowledges the importance of an open dialogue by both Executive and Non-Executive Directors with its institutional shareholders and communicates regularly with them throughout the year through both formal and informal meetings.
The Executive Directors have participated in investor conferences and meetings during the year, throughout the United Kingdom, and also abroad for example in New York, Amsterdam and Frankfurt.
The Board also welcomes the interest of private investors and believes that, in addition to the Annual Report and the Companys website, the Annual General Meeting is an ideal forum at which to communicate with investors and the Board encourages their participation.
At each Board Meeting, the Board is updated on any shareholding meetings that have taken place, and any views expressed or issues raised by the shareholders in these meetings.
Any queries raised by a shareholder, either verbally or in writing, are answered immediately by whoever is best placed on the Board to do so.
Directors are introduced to shareholders at the AGM, including the identification of Non-Executive Directors and Committee Chairmen.
The number of proxy votes cast in the resolution is announced at the AGM.
Risk Management and Internal Control The Directors are responsible for the Groups system of risk management and internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The system of internal control was in place throughout the financial year and to the date of this report.
The Board regularly reviews the process, which has been in place from the start of the year to the date of approval of this report which is in accordance with revised guidance on internal control published in October 2005 the Turnbull Guidance.
Such a system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Group operates a rigorous system of internal control, which is designed to ensure that the possibility of misstatement or loss is kept to a minimum.
There is a comprehensive system in place for financial reporting and the Board receives a number of reports to enable it to carry out these functions in the most efficient manner.
These procedures include the preparation of management accounts, forecast variance analysis and other ad hoc reports.
There are clearly defined authority limits throughout the Group, including those matters which are reserved specifically for the Board.
In compliance with provision C. 2.1 of the Combined Code, the Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
The Boards monitoring covers all controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
It is based principally on reviewing reports from management to consider whether significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a need for more extensive monitoring.
The Board has also performed a specific assessment for the purpose of this annual report.
This assessment considers all significant aspects of internal control arising during the period covered by the report.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
31 Report on Corporate Governance continued Risk Management and Internal Control continued A formal risk identification and assessment exercise has been carried out resulting in a risk framework document summarising the key risks, potential impact and the mitigating factors or controls in place.
The Board have a stated policy of reviewing this risk framework at least once a year or in the event of a material change.
The risk identification process also considered significant non-financial risks.
During the reviews, the Directors: challenged the framework to ensure that the list of significant risks to business objectives is still valid and complete: considered new and emerging risks to business objectives and included them in the framework if significant: ensured that any changes in the impact or likelihood of the risks are reflected in the risk framework: and ensured that there are appropriate action plans in place to address unacceptable risks.
The results of the exercise have been communicated to the Board and the Audit Committee.
This was in the form of a summary report which included: a prioritised summary of the key risks and their significance: any changes in the list of significant risks or their impact and likelihood since the last assessment: new or emerging risks that may become significant objectives in the future: progress on action plans to address significant risks: and any actual or potential control failures or weaknesses during the period including near misses.
During the course of its review of the system of internal control, the Board has not identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
Therefore, a confirmation in respect of necessary actions has not been considered appropriate.
Internal Audit The Group does not have a formal internal audit function because the Board has concluded that the internal controls systems discussed above are sufficient for the Group at this time.
However, the Group employs a Store Compliance Manager responsible for reviewing store operational and financial controls.
He reports to the Group Financial Controller.
The Store Compliance Manager visits each operational store twice a year to carry out a detailed store audit.
These audits are unannounced and the Store Compliance Manager carries out detailed tests on financial management within the stores, administrative standards, and operational standards.
This role is supported by an Assistant Store Compliance Manager, enabling additional work and support to be carried out across the Groups store portfolio.
Part of the store staffs bonus is based on the scores they achieve in these audits.
The results of each audit are reviewed by the Chief Financial Officer and the Head of Store Operations.
A summary of the principal risks and uncertainties within the business are set out in the Risk Assessment section of the Business Review from page 19.
Going Concern A review of the Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out on pages 14 to 27 of the Business and Financial Reviews.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are shown in the balance sheet, cash flow statement and accompanying notes in the financial statements.
Further information concerning the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk can be found in the Operating and Financial Review.
After reviewing Group and Company cash balances, borrowing facilities, forecast valuation movements and projected cash flows, the Directors believe that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue operations for the foreseeable future.
In reaching this conclusion the Directors have had regard to the Groups operating plan and budget for the year ending 31 March 2011 and projections contained in the longer term business plan which covers the period to March 2016.
The Directors have considered carefully the Groups trading performance and cash flows as a result of the uncertain global economic environment, the shortage of credit available in the bank finance market in particular and the other principal risks to the Groups performance and are satisfied with the Groups positioning.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
32 Report on Corporate Governance continued Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the parent Company financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors responsibility statement We confirm to the best of our knowledge: 1. the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and 2. the management report, which is incorporated into the Directors report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board Michael Cole Secretary 14 May 2010 33 Audit Committee Report Summary of the Role of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the Non-Executive Directors of the Group.
The Audit Committees terms of reference include all matters indicated by Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.1 and the Combined Code.
The terms of reference are considered annually by the Audit Committee and are then referred to the Board for approval.
The Audit Committee is responsible for: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance and reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained therein: reviewing the Groups internal financial controls and the Groups internal control and risk management systems, including consideration of the need for an internal audit function: making recommendations to the Board for a resolution to be put to the shareholders for their approval in general meeting, on the appointment of the external auditors and the approval of the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditors: reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: and developing and implementing a policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external audit firm.
The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, identifying any matters on which it considers that action or improvement is needed, and make recommendations on the steps to be taken.
Composition of the Audit Committee The members of the Audit Committee are: Mark Richardson Chairman Tim Clark Jonathan Short Membership of the Committee is reviewed by the Chairman of the Committee and the Executive Chairman, who is not a member of the Audit Committee, at regular intervals and they recommend new appointments to the Nominations Committee for onward recommendation to the Board.
The Audit Committee structure requires the inclusion of one financially qualified member as recognised by the Consultative Committee of Accountancy Bodies.
Currently Mark Richardson, as a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales, fulfils this requirement.
All Audit Committee members are expected to be financially literate.
The Committee is normally comprised of three Non-Executive Directors, at least two of whom have to be deemed independent, with a minimum of three members at any time.
The Group provides an induction programme for new Audit Committee members and on-going training to enable all of the Committee members to carry out their duties.
The induction programme covers the role of the Audit Committee, its terms of reference and expected time commitment by members and an overview of the Groups business, including the main business and financial dynamics and risks.
New Committee members also meet some of the Groups staff.
On-going training includes attendance at formal conferences, internal company seminars and briefings by external advisers.
The Board expects the Audit Committee members to have an understanding of: the principles of, contents of, and developments in financial reporting including the applicable accounting standards and statements of recommended practice: key aspects of the Groups operations including corporate policies, Group financing, products and systems of internal control: matters that influence or distort the presentation of accounts and key figures: the principles of, and developments in, company law, sector-specific laws and other relevant corporate legislation: the role of external auditing and risk management: the regulatory framework for the Groups businesses: and environmental and social responsibility best reporting practices.
The Committee have reviewed the arrangements for whistleblowing by employees to ensure that there is a consistent policy in the Group to enable employees to voice concerns particularly in respect of possible financial reporting improprieties.
A whistleblowing policy is included in the employee handbook.
Meetings The Audit Committee is required to meet three times per year and has an agenda linked to events in the Groups financial calendar.
The agenda is predominantly cyclical and is therefore approved by the Audit Committee Chairman on behalf of his or her fellow members.
Each Audit Committee member has the right to require reports on matters of interest in addition to the cyclical items.
The Audit Committee invites the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Financial Controller, and senior representatives of the external auditors to attend all of its meetings in full, although it reserves the right to request any of these individuals to withdraw.
Other senior management are invited to present such reports as are required for the Committee to discharge its duties.
34 Audit Committee Report continued Overview of the Actions Taken by the Audit Committee to Discharge its Duties Since the beginning of the financial year the Audit Committee has: reviewed the March 2009 report and financial statements, the September 2009 half-yearly report and the trading updates issued in July and January.
As part of this review the Committee received a report from the external auditors on their audit of the annual report and financial statements and review of the half-yearly report: considered the output from the Group-wide process used to identify, evaluate and mitigate risks: reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and disclosures made in the annual report and financial statements on this matter: reviewed and agreed the scope of the audit work to be undertaken by the auditors: considered a report from the external auditors on their review of the effectiveness of controls across the Group: agreed the fees to be paid to the external auditors for their audit of the March 2010 financial statements and September half-yearly report: undertaken an assessment of the qualification, expertise and resources, and independence of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process.
This included consideration of a report on the audit firms own quality control procedures and the audit firms annual transparency report: assessed the risks associated with the possible withdrawal of the external auditor from the market: met the Groups external valuers: undertaken an evaluation of the performance of the external auditors: and reviewed its own effectiveness.
External Auditors The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, implementation and monitoring of the Groups policy on external audit.
The policy assigns oversight responsibility for monitoring the independence, objectivity and compliance with ethical and regulatory requirements to the Audit Committee, and day to day responsibility to the Chief Financial Officer.
The policy states that the external auditors are jointly responsible to the Board and the Audit Committee and that the Audit Committee is the primary contact.
The Groups policy on external audit sets out the categories of non-audit services which the external auditors will and will not be allowed to provide to the Group, subject to fide minimis levels.
To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the external auditors, the Audit Committee reviewed: the changes in key external audit staff in the external auditors plan for the current year: the arrangements for day-to-day management of the audit relationship: a report identifying the number of former external audit staff now employed by the Group and their positions within the Group: a report from the external auditors describing their arrangements to identify, report and manage any conflicts of interest: and the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditors, in addition to their case-by-case approval of the position of non-audit services by the external auditors.
To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the Audit Committee reviewed: the arrangements for ensuring the external auditors independence and objectivity: the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and variations from the plan: the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors in their handling of the key accounting and audit judgements: and the content of the external auditors comments on control improvement recommendations.
Regard is paid to the nature of, and remuneration received, for other services provided by Deloitte LLP to the Group and, inter alia, confirmation is sought from them that the fee payable for the annual audit is adequate to enable them to perform their obligations in accordance with the scope of the audit.
In respect of the year ended 31 March 2010, the auditors remuneration comprised 143,000 for audit work and 120,000 for other work, principally relating to corporation tax work.
As part of this years decision to recommend the re-appointment of the auditors, the Audit Committee has taken into account the tenure of the auditors and the audit partner and the need to consider at least every five years whether there should be a full tender process.
The auditors Deloitte LLP have been in tenure since 2000 and the current audit partner has been in place since the audit of the 2009 financial statements.
There are no contractual obligations that act to restrict the Audit Committees choice of external auditors.
As a consequence of its satisfaction with the results of the activities outlined above, the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that the external auditors are re-appointed.
Overview As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference and has ensured the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
Approved by the Audit Committee and signed on its behalf by Mark Richardson Audit Committee Chairman 14 May 2010 35 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 1.
INTRODUCTION Big Yellow is continuing to meet its CSR priority of carbon reduction through investment in long term energy efficiency programmes over its whole store portfolio.
Under the regulation of the Climate Change Act: Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC Big Yellow has gained the Carbon Trust Standard by reducing its absolute emissions between the years 2007 to 2009.
We have investment programmes in place for measuring energy efficiency through installing Smart Meters at our stores in order to benefit from energy reduction opportunities and savings.
We continue to invest in renewable energy generation in our new store development programme, which will now provide an improved return on investment through the Governments renewable energy cash back scheme launched on 1 April 2010.
These programmes add value to the store portfolio and financial savings in operations, for every kWh of renewable energy generated and grid electricity displaced, while reducing carbon emissions and operational costs.
CSR Policy Big Yellows CSR Policy commits the Group to striking the balance between its social, economic and environmental responsibilities as an operator and developer of self storage buildings.
In order to continue to develop a sustainable business the Board has once more committed significant resources to the CSR aspects of its operations.
Our CSR policy also sets overarching environmental and social objectives for the Group which are measured by key performance indicators KPIs, the most significant of which have been reported below.
CSR Management Overall responsibility for the CSR Policy is provided by the Operations Director, Adrian Lee, through regular CSR committee meetings chaired by the CSR Manager.
The Groups Board Reports communicate progress on CSR objectives to all of the Directors.
Through this structure, the CSR Manager continues to integrate social and environmental aspects of the Groups new developments and store operations into its existing management systems, balanced with its commercial objectives.
CSR Reporting and Targets This is the Groups third annual CSR report and is largely based on the social and environmental aspects of our operations and the development of our new store portfolio.
This year, we have restated our carbon emission data for the last three financial years, in line with the Department of Energy and Climate Change DECCs new guide lines.
We have also restated our health and safety data over the same period of time in order to introduce the more comparable Annual Injury Incidence Rate AIIR indicator.
Store and construction waste management performance have been measured in order to monitor these relatively lower scale, environmental impacts.
The KPIs benchmark our current CSR performance and its continued improvement over the past three years.
Based on the benchmark data for the year ended 31 March 2010 and external performance standards, the Group will set new targets, where appropriate, for the year ended 31 March 2011.
Scope of CSR Report This report focuses on the establishment of our CSR policies in the new stores that were under construction and opened in the financial year ended 31 March 2010.
These include our stores at: Twickenham: Edinburgh: Nottingham: Poole: Sheffield Bramall Lane : Reading and High Wycombe.
We also report on the continuing CSR performance of the existing self storage portfolio and their ongoing operations.
More details of CSR policies, previous reports and awards can be found on our investor relations web site at http: bigyellow.
Solar panels, Fulham Wildlife pond, Twickenham Solar display panel, Twickenham 36 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued 2.
HIGHLIGHTS Below is a summary of the CSR highlights for this financial year: 1.
The Environmental Real Estate Index In February 2010, research commissioned by the Universities Superannuation Scheme, APG Asset Management and PGGM Investments reported that out of 688 property companies surveyed Big Yellow was the leader in the pan European Environmental Real Estate Index and was ranked second globally.
The index compares property companies environmental credentials based on evidence of environmental management practices and their implementation.
The Carbon Trust Standard CTS In January 2010, Big Yellow received certification for achieving the CTS.
The certificate was awarded because of our reduction in carbon emissions across the whole store portfolio and operations with an absolute reduction of 4.8% and a relative reduction to turnover of 7.8%.
It shows that Big Yellow is at the forefront of reducing the carbon emissions that it is directly responsible for, rather than just paying others to off-set their emissions.
Store Energy Performance Certificates EPCs Our new store in Twickenham achieved Big Yellows first net zero carbon EPC.
Net zero carbon means that over a period of one year, the predicted national grid electricity demand and associated power station carbon emissions would be equal to or less than the energy saved by increased building insulation, energy efficient design and specifications, and the supply of on-site renewable energy.
Only about 3% of the whole store area required heating and cooling and the predicted EPC recorded -5 kg CO emissions per square metre.
Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Methodology BREEAM In December 2009, Big Yellows new store in Reading was the second store in the portfolio to achieve an Excellent BREEAM rating, after Sheen last year.
It is one of the highest benchmarks of environmental excellence required by planning authorities.
Ratings were highest for design and construction energy efficiency, renewable energy, sustainable materials use, waste recycling, water efficiency and landscape biodiversity.
Local Authority Awards In November 2009, Big Yellows Liverpool store was awarded the Green Business Ambassador certificate by Liverpool City Council.
The award is for commitment to reducing environmental impacts and steps taken to reduce CO emissions.
In the same month our Barking store received a 2 highly commended Green Business Award covering all East London Boroughs for its energy efficient specifications, wind turbine, rainwater harvesting system and green roof.
In February 2010, our Bromley store received a second award for Green Building of the Year covering the development of new buildings in all South-East London Boroughs.
In March 2010, Big Yellow claimed 7th position out of 964 companies in the How Green is My Company?
part of the Sunday Times Best Companies to Work For survey.
Staff feedback indicated that 80.1% were in support of Big Yellows efforts to protect the environment.
Staff are engaged in initiatives such as customer waste recycling, store energy efficiency checks, renewable energy monitoring, green travel plans and a tax free cycle to work purchase scheme.
