N O I T A N R E T N I G N I Section 2: Operating review CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT The Group recognises that a strong corporate social responsibility CSR performance represents an integral dimension of its overall business performance and, accordingly, growth in shareholder value.
CSR REVIEW Health&Safety to provide a safe working centres for emergency services: signalling on In the past year the Group initiated a major environment for all of our employees, and railway networks: trafc management systems review of its CSR performance and reporting.
safe products and services as they affect  The purpose of the review was to ensure that other stakeholders.
in challenging environments such as offshore the Groups CSR strategy and policies were drilling rigs and underground metro tunnels.
up to date with current practice and law, and Suppliers to work with professionalism that its CSR objectives supported the Groups and integrity with all of our suppliers.
Our solutions are an essential part of many overall business strategy.
The first policies renewable energy generation projects, such reviewed were the Code of Ethics, the Environment to minimise the as wind farms and solar power installations.
Anti-Corruption Policy and the Whistleblowing environmental impact of our products, We have also formed alliances with partners for Policy.
The revised policies are published on services and business practices at both the supply of fuel cells where the only waste the Groups CSR section of its website and the design and use stages.
product is water and for ywheel technology, are being formally implemented.
The Board in order to help our customers achieve their intends that policies will be reviewed on a Community to help communities where environmental goals.
We continually improve regular and dened basis going forward.
we operate through charities supported by our service offerings and LIFE.
industry-leading remote diagnostics software, Chloride considers its stakeholders, and the is an important part of our solutions offering.
basic responsibilities owed to them, as follows: Society to respect the laws and regulatory frameworks in all territories PRODUCTS Customers to provide high-quality in which we operate.
We ensure that our products meet secure power solutions and services environmental regulations in the countries at all times, and to treat customers with CUSTOMERS where we operate and that new products are professionalism and integrity at all times.
CUSTOMER SERVICE progressively more energy efficient.
In the Chlorides total power protection solutions year we launched Trinergy, an innovative Employees to attract and retain the perform an essential role in providing secure product with market-leading energy efficiency, most talented employees by providing power to a wide range of mission-critical and which reduces CO2 emissions and offers a low a merit-based environment supported by safety-critical applications.
These include data overall total cost of ownership.
Trinergy is fair and competitive employment practices, centres: ofce IT systems: hospital equipment: proving attractive in markets across the world.
passenger safety systems in airports: control 20 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 V R E S S T E K R A M L A SERVING INTERNATIONAL MARKETS: ENVIRONMENTAL PRODUCTS We ensure that our products meet environmental regulations in the countries where we operate and  more energy efficient.
This is proving attractive in markets across the world.
CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 21 N O I T A N R E T N I G N I Section 2: Operating review CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT local management.
There were three reported incidents during 2009 2010, all of which were investigated and resolved.
HEALTH AND SAFETY We recognise the primary importance of  and others affected by the Groups activities.
Chlorides policy is to manage activities so that employees and others are not exposed to unnecessary and unacceptable risks to their health and safety, and to meet or exceed the Chlorides joint venture with Phoenixtec Power The Chloride Academy provides enhanced legal and regulatory health and safety standards Company, Taiwan, has developed a high-quality, skills training, and 769 employees successfully in the territories in which we operate.
completed courses during the Academys third year of operation.
Health and safety management is embedded We are actively involved in industry bodies The Group Human Resources Director is in the organisation.
The General Manager in notably the European Committee of responsible for compliance on a global basis each business is accountable for local health Manufacturers of Electrical Machines and with human resources policies.
It is the and safety issues, and in major sites there Power Electronics CEMEP which considers practice to communicate at local level through are designated senior managers responsible the application of the EU Directive 2002 95 EC appropriate means, such as works councils, for health and safety.
Policies and procedures Restrictions of the use of certain Hazardous brieng groups, workshops and newsletters.
are documented and regularly updated in Substances in Electrical Equipment the RoHS our principal locations and employees Directive to UPS systems.
Although this The Group is committed to developing and representatives are involved in discussions directive, which requires the reduction of motivating its people, and in the UK it of health and safety issues through works substances such as lead and cadmium in participates in the Investors in People scheme.
councils or Health and Safety Committees electronic equipment, does not directly apply There is also a programme to help employees on a regular basis.
to UPS systems, we are committed to to acquire professional and technical avoiding the use of non-compliant materials qualications that are relevant to their jobs.
Where health and safety risks are identied as where this does not compromise the The Chloride Academy, established in May significant, the Risk Committee keeps under operation and reliability of the UPS system.
2007, provides enhanced skills training, and review the actions taken to address the risk.
Our low-power ranges have RoHS-compliant 769 employees 30% of the workforce 2009: These, in turn, are reported to the Audit electronics and we work with individual 640 and 27% successfully completed courses Committee, along with statistics on workplace customers to meet their compliance during the Academys third year of operation.
Evaluation of health and safety and requirements.
Although currently there is no environmental performance is also an integral equivalent standard covering the USA, our US Limits of authority are in place to restrict the part of the due diligence process on the subsidiary produces all its low-power products size and type of contracts that individuals acquisition of businesses.
may sign, ensuring that significant contracts with suppliers, as well as customers and Health and safety training is provided as EMPLOYEES intermediaries, are signed off at an appropriate necessary, particularly in relation to battery The Group operates an equal opportunity level in the organisation.
handling and working with electricity.
The policy and is committed to providing Chloride Academy includes health and safety recruitment and other opportunities regardless Chloride encourages open and honest as an integral part of its education programme.
of age, sex, sexual orientation, religion, race or communication between employees and We continue to focus on minimising risk to disability.
As at 31 March 2010 the Group had management throughout the organisation and service engineers while providing installation, 2,540 employees.
The Groups employees are provides a whistleblowing procedure which commissioning and after-sales technical spread over 23 countries and in the larger sites employees can use if they have serious service in customers premises.
there are dedicated human resource managers concerns about ethical or management issues reporting to the local General Manager.
that they feel unable to discuss directly with 22 CHLORIDE ANNUAL REPORT 2010 V R E S S T E K R A M L A We have procedures in place to minimise the ENVIRONMENT Ninety per cent of Chlorides turnover is exposure of our employees to terrorist and Chloride is committed to maintaining good generated by ISO 14001 compliant sites and other risks while working in sensitive locations.
environmental practice to minimise the impact the majority of our components are purchased All travel to areas deemed sensitive by the of its activities on the environment.
We are from ISO 14001 certied suppliers.
Foreign Ofce travel advice service is subject also a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index.
to prior approval by the Group Risk Manager.
Our policy is to comply with standards that Where requested by the customer, Chloride Business Continuity policies developed in match or exceed environmental legislation undertakes responsibility for disposing of used response to the threat of pandemics also in all countries in which we operate, and batteries at the end of their useful life, typically restrict travel to affected areas in the event to comply with ISO 14001, 2004 issue five years.
All waste batteries are handled of such an occurrence.
environmental management standards through licensed waste contractors who in our principal operational sites.
recover and recycle any hazardous content, During the year ended 31 March 2010, working and dispose of any such waste in accordance  We encourage initiatives which benefit the with applicable regulations.
0.3 days per employee 2009: 0.5 compared environment, including the continued use to the overall industry gure of 1.2 days.
of video and telephone conferencing in order For the past two years Chloride has developed Health and safety plans are in place in all to reduce air and land travel.
Our energy processes to measure the Groups CO2 Chlorides sites to manage and reduce usage at our main operating sites continues emissions and will disclose the 2009 2010 accidents in the workplace.
Accidents while to decrease due to our energy recovery and emissions to the Carbon Disclosure Report driving continue to be the biggest contributor recycling technology.
Data collection for CO2 to our accident statistics and driver training emissions from Source 1, 2 and 3 categories has now been put in place in the UK and Italy ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS continues to be rened and emissions during where the majority of Company vehicles are The Group has five principal production centres 2009 2010 were less than 3 tonnes per situated.
Over 300 Company drivers will attend in Bologna, Italy: Lyon, France: Chicago, USA: employee versus an industry average of driver awareness courses during 2010.
To Pune, India: and Shenzhen, China.
Projects continue to be developed meet new Health and Safety legislation in the activities mainly involve the assembly and to manage and reduce the CO2 emissions UK, over 200 staff will attend health and safety testing of electronic equipment: however, from all of Chlorides principal sites.
training courses, provided by Chlorides risk the consumption of energy, water and management service providers, during 2010. hazardous substances is low.
COMMUNITY & SOCIETY We aim to help the communities where SUPPLIERS The principal sales and service sites are in we operate, and in which our employees live.
Chloride believes in building long-term Southampton, Bedford and Aberdeen, UK: We encourage our employees to participate partnerships with its key suppliers.
Chlorides Erlangen, Germany: Bologna, Italy: Istanbul, in community charitable activity and match joint venture with Phoenixtec Power Company, Turkey: Madrid, Spain: and Sydney, Australia.
charitable donations generated by them.
Taiwan, has developed a high-quality, low-cost All of these production and sales and service manufacturing facility in Shenzhen, China, sites, with the exception of India, have been With respect to wider society, we respect the and continues to increase our product and accredited with ISO 14001, 2004 issue.
India laws and regulatory frameworks in all of the service offering in our developing regions.
has ISO 9001 accreditation and will work territories in which we operate.
In particular, towards ISO 14001 in due course.
As part of our Code of Ethics and our Anti-Corruption and Supplier audits are carried out regularly to ISO 14001 requirements, each site is required Whistleblowing Policies all recently revised ensure that our major suppliers remain to evaluate environmental risks and measure and updated set out our approach to these nancially viable and that they have maintained performance on the key areas of impact.
matters, and further policy review is planned their ISO 14001 accreditation.
Alternative Performance measures are specic to each for the new financial year.
suppliers for all key components have been site, enabling the focus to be maintained identied and audited.
on their particular areas of importance.
Compliance with ISO 14001 is certied by independent certication bodies.
