Financial review Corporate Other Overview Strategy and KPIs Business review and Risk responsibility Governance Accounts information Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Annual Report 2010 31 Environment Promoting the green approach Breakdown of waste disposal routes CSC has spent a very considerable amount of time and staff % of total waste have also demonstrated their own personal commitment to 80 comply with the requirements of the UK Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Ef ciency Scheme CRC.
The real estate 70 sector along with other commercial energy users is disappointed 60 that the positive and competitive aspects of the CRC have beenremoved, without consultation, by the recent Government 50 Comprehensive Spending Review, leaving us to deal with what is simply a carbon tax.
Notwithstanding these changes, CSC 40 has achieved the strongest bases available for CRC compliance 30 by successfully achieving the Carbon Trust Standard certi cation in April 2010.
20 Our centres continue to deploy relevant technology to optimise 10 ef cient energy use and to explore new ways to bear down on energy demands.
Water has been described as the new oil: and 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 CSC is working at all our centres to ensure that unnecessary % Landll % Recycled water use is minimised and the recycling of rain and other water % Energy from waste grey water is promoted.
We have set up a Carbon Alternative Review Group, drawing together different segments of our business, to explore the next generation of low carbon carbon neutral sources of energy, commission expert advice and carry Directly managed shopping centres GHGe emissions out trials as appropriate.
GHGe Tonnes 50,000 45,000 40,000 35,000 Green partnerships Braehead, The Harlequin, The Glades, Lakeside 30,000 The good of the environment is also promoted when waste, of all types, is reduced.
We continue to place great importance on driving annual improvements in the volumes of waste generated 25,000 at the centres which go to be recycled rather than disposed of by other means.
We are proud to report an increased volume 20,000 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 ofwaste sent for recycling: at 71% in 2010 up from 56% in 2009.
Useful linkages have been made between community and 2009 Restated to reect revised data reporting period.
environmental issues in our CR programme.
We have worked with BTCV for several years and support Green Gyms near Braehead and The Harlequin.
These projects promote carefor local public green spaces and give healthy outdoor volunteering opportunities to people who will directly bene t from the experience and the chance to engage with others living and working locally.
As a founder member of the new Bromley Environmental Partnership, The Glades is piloting water saving measures at the centre and, with CSC at Group level, is working with Bromley Council and BTCV to launch a new Green Gym for local people in the Penge area.
CSC supports sustainable travel options and maintains Sustainable Travel Plans for all our directlymanaged centres.
Building on from this and our work with the national cycling charity, Sustrans, Lakeside was proud to sponsor the 2010 Lakeside and West Thurrock Cycle Map published by Thurrock Council.
Watford Green Gym 32 Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Annual Report 2010 Corporate responsibility Continued Community Continuous community engagement Cadet150 Braehead th 2010 saw the celebration of the 150 Anniversary of the Armed Hours of community support Forces Cadet Movement during which the Army, Royal Navy 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 and Royal Air Force combined to showcase the aims, objectives 4,300 3,728 4,510 5,330 3,750 and achievements of all three cadet forces in Cadet150, a yearlong, nationwide series of events.
Our long-standing support of Charitable donations the Sea Cadets provided the catalyst for CSC to sponsor and 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 host one of the high-pro le national celebrations at Braehead.
The culmination of more than two years planning took place 176,000 271,000 290,000 309,000 223,000 atBraehead in April when the shopping centre welcomed participants toaweekend of activities including musical Total cash equivalent community support parades, exhibitions, demonstrations and displays of drill and 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 other skills.
Representatives from the west of Scotland community, including local government, joined families CSC runs a wide-ranging programme of projects and initiatives and friends of the young people involved and the two-day event working closely with stakeholders in the communities served was enjoyed by thousands of shoppers visiting Braehead.
byour directly managed shopping centres.
The positive impact of these locally tailored projects has helped us to gain the Create The Harlequin BitCCommunityMark.
Create is a dynamic charity that uses the creative arts to help These are just two examples of our 2010 projects.
Full coverage transform the lives of the most disadvantaged and vulnerable ofall those undertaken during the year can be found people in our society.
Using professional artists such as at:www.
co. uk cr musicians, dancers, writers and actors Create develops anddelivers an extensive, UK-wide programme of education andcommunity activities across all art forms.
Empowering young people to contribute to a fairer, safer, more tolerant, more caring society in the areas we serve is at the core of our corporate responsibility stakeholder programme.
Create designed a project speci cally to team up students from a mainstream secondary school, Parmiters School, Garston, witha special secondary school, Breakspeare School, Abbots Langley, both serving the Watford area.
The Harlequin supported the project, sound:images, designed to break down barriers, build friendships, enhance life experiences and increase self-ful lment for two sets of young people.
The project consisted of two elements, photography and music.
The preparation and hard work culminated in two joint performances by students of Parmiters and Breakspeare schools on 16 July 2010, hosted by The Harlequin in the malls.
The shows met with an emotional and rousing response from the audience which included Dorothy Thornhill, Elected Mayor ofWatford, parents of the students and shoppers.
Financial review Corporate Other Overview Strategy and KPIs Business review and Risk responsibility Governance Accounts information Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Annual Report 2010 33 Supporting business philanthropy In a completely different setting, CSCs long-term support foryoung people is shown by our continuing support for the Engaging Experience Philanthropy Network gatherings in London where younger workers in the City and a broad crosssection of those who have founded and acted as the energy centres in charitable initiatives, not only in London but across the country, can meet and discuss the problems and opportunities faced by the Third Sector.
The Network also champions charities that are developing winning approaches to very dif cult social issues and pro les case studies which could inspire and inform others.
BitC CommunityMark joining a select group of UK companies The BitC CommunityMark programme is unique.
It gives Cadet150 celebrations at Braehead specialprominence to corporate community engagement initiatives and once the award has been gained it is valid for three years and creates a stimulating partnership between the winning organisation and the BitC CommunityMark assessors.
This ensures that the best practice of the winner is further developed and supported.
Only 38 organisations have achieved the CommunityMark and CSC were proud to be announced asamongst the four 2010 winners last November.
Amongst acomplex process of submission and veri cation the CommunityMark takes con dential feedback from employees and community partners of the organisation submitting for theaward.
CSC scored very highly in these crucial areas.
We will continue to devote a great deal of energy and thought to our community engagement which not only contributes directly to the standing of our business in the eyes of those we serve and amongst all of the stakeholders who, in one way or another, invest in our future, and in the aspirations of those of us employed in the Group, but Create at The Harlequin also substantially complements the quality ofall our endeavours.
