Responsibility Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2010 Sustainability We build sustainability into all stages of the property lifecycle, Sustainability commitments including development, refurbishment and property management.
We also work to maintain strong stakeholder relations, engaging underpin Derwent Londons with the communities in which we operate and aspiring to be an business objectives.
only does this improve the We aim to refurbish rather than rebuild as far possible: this saves embedded carbon and significantly reduces transportation of environmental and social demolition and construction waste.
We also maximise the use of impact of the business but recycled materials, prioritise the use of sustainably sourced timber and install a wide range of environmental and energy-saving it also reduces costs.
features to optimise building efficiency.
In terms of building management we seek to reduce consumption and improve waste recycling, working in partnership with our tenants, suppliers and staff who increasingly recognise the importance of sustainability.
In the communities in which we operate we also participate in local partnerships and aim to maintain good relations with local residents.
The Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC Energy Efficiency Case study: Scheme in particular has emerged as a key driver for our Portfolio management sustainability efforts, underpinning our energy management strategy.
Derwent London is committed to working with tenants Arup Appraise energy reviews were carried out on three in multi-let buildings to improve energy efficiency and reduce CRC multi-let office buildings in 2010. exposure.
The majority of our sustainability initiatives are focused at a building level where we implement tailor-made programmes to A range of measures to improve building energy performance optimise building efficiency and deliver high performance business and lower carbon emissions were implemented including: space where our tenants can thrive.
automatic metering: A key indicator of our sustainability performance is our reduced base electrical loads for boilers, chillers and continued listing in the FTSE4Good, a global socially responsible air handling units: and investment index for listed companies with a strong commitment to sustainability.
We also continue to participate in the Carbon improved management of out-of-hours use of lighting Disclosure Project CDP, the worlds leading benchmark for carbon and small power.
This year we achieved a disclosure score of 72 out of 100, up 18 points from 54 in 2009, and a performance score of C. The outcome was carbon savings of 19% 1 Olivers Yard, 7% Johnson Building and 7% Davidson Building.
Further evidence of our performance can be found in our ranking Corresponding savings in costs from lower energy and gas in a recent JP Morgan survey of listed real estate companies consumption were 178,000 combined across the three buildings.
We came 10th out of the 40 companies benchmarked, scoring well above the UK and EU averages.
Previous spread: The Angel Building, EC1 56 Responsibility Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2010 Managing sustainability Progress towards our targets has been assessed by our external Our Sustainability Policy details our key sustainability commitments.
consultants and only one has not been achieved.
20 have been It is our goal to integrate sustainability across all our business fully achieved and four partially achieved.
We are committed functions so that it becomes part of the way we operate.
to addressing those areas where we did not completely reach our target.
Our approach has been in place for several years and continues to evolve.
It ensures continual monitoring of progress against For our 2011 targets, we have focused on setting specific and our targets and policy objectives, and incorporates both building measurable targets which allow more transparent and accurate and corporate considerations.
Paul Williams, an executive Director, oversees Derwent Londons 2010 performance highlights sustainability strategy, with the support of Tim Kite, Company We are pleased with our achievements in 2010 and have Secretary.
They meet with the Groups external consultants Arup outlined below some of the highlights: and Jones Lang LaSalle on a quarterly basis.
Quarterly meetings also take place with key individuals responsible for the delivery of Environment our corporate targets in five key areas of activity: 2 11% decrease in electricity consumption on a per m basis in managed buildings.
Environment 2 15% decrease in gas consumption on a per m basis Tenants in managed buildings.
Employees 49% average recycling rate across managed buildings.
Suppliers Tenants Communities A new tenant sustainability engagement programme was Our 2010 Sustainability Report provides a detailed insight into implemented including free energy audits and tenant websites all our sustainability activities.
Both this and our Sustainability for all managed buildings.
Policy can be found on the Derwent London website at Zero RIDDOR health & safety incidents in our managed buildings.
The following sections provide a high-level overview of our sustainability strategy and Employees performance for the year ended 31 December 2010.
7.7% employee turnover excluding retirees in 2010, compared Summary of progress against targets in 2010 to the national average of 13.5%.
As in previous years, we continue to set ourselves a number of targets to work towards our policy commitments.
All targets Suppliers are in areas where Derwent London has operational control 78 key suppliers engaged on supply chain management or at least the ability to influence, such as via tenant or contractor practices and other environmental issues.
References to our managed properties portfolio are to the 38 multi-let properties in our portfolio that we manage and represent 29% of the whole portfolio.
The remainder of our Communities buildings are either single-let or buildings that we do not manage.
36 out of 40 achieved in the Considerate Constructors Scheme CCS at the Angel Building, placing it in the top Performance against our 25 targets, where performance could 7.5% of sites, and earning a bronze award.
be measured, is shown in the chart below.
Our investment in the communities where we own and manage buildings continued to increase in 2010.
2010 target status % Further detail in relation to these and other achievements is provided in the following sections.
Achieved 80 Partially achieved 16 Not achieved 4 57 Responsibility Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2010 Sustainability Resource efficiency 2010 Action Energy, water and waste are growing costs for business Energy and carbon and represent approximately Monitoring and managing energy use is a key priority for our business, not least because of the Carbon Reduction 16% of our tenants service Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme which is currently being charge.
As energy and water rolled out by the UK government.
Our focus in 2010 was to develop an energy strategy to reduce energy use and related carbon supplies become more stressed, emissions in both the design of our development projects and and in response to increasing across our managed buildings.
Key 2010 highlights include: 2 11% decrease in electricity usage per m across environmental regulation, our managed portfolio.
Derwent London is committed 2 15% decrease in gas usage per m across our to managing resources in an managed portfolio.
B rated Energy Performance Certificate achieved for the efficient manner.
Charlotte Building, Arup Phase II III and the Angel Building B rating or higher is generally only awarded for exceptional air-conditioned offices.
A typical EPC rating for central London buildings is a C. Case study: Carbon Reduction Commitment Derwent London is preparing for the implementation of the At AHMM, we appreciate the importance of the Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme in social, environmental and economic issues that April 2012, adapting to the changes implemented in the scheme we can influence: they are all an integral part of in 2010.
Derwent London is registered as a participant in the scheme and, with the assistance of consultants Arup, is on great architecture.
We work with Derwent London course for submission of Annual and Footprint reporting in to actively address all sustainability issues in July 2011. a focused, committed and effective manner, promoting wherever possible an intelligent and At an operational level, Derwent Londons attention is considered approach to the way buildings are focused on reducing the likely impact of the CRC charges and designed, developed and enjoyed.
accelerating environmental improvements across the portfolio ahead of implementation in 2012.
This is being achieved by a Architects AHMM combination of initiatives, including: development and implementation of a Sustainability Framework for Asset Management: the Framework identifies sustainability and energy efficiency measures to achieve improvements: implementation of an Energy Management Strategy to deliver improvements across the portfolio in energy efficiency through smart metering, energy audits and the planned maintenance regimes: and creation of tenant engagement working groups to secure reductions in energy consumption and improvements in sustainability across the portfolio.
58 Responsibility Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2010 2010 Performance 2011 Priorities Gross carbon emissions tonnes CO Reduce total annual carbon emissions per square metre 2 by 25% against 2009 consumption at 1 Olivers Yard, Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Total Johnson Building and Davidson Building.
Energy use 3,728 2,756 225 6,709 Reduce total annual carbon emissions per square metre Travel 13 n a 9 22 by 15% against 2010 consumption at Holden House, Total 3,741 2,756 234 6,731 Greencoat House, Gordon House and Qube.
Notes: The table above has been prepared in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
Achieve B Energy Performance Certificate EPC for all new-build projects.
Energy use: Scope 1 covers gas and oil usage: Scope 2 covers electricity generation: Scope 3 covers electricity losses through transmission.
Achieve C Energy Performance Certificate EPC 2 b.
Travel: Scope 1 covers fuel used in company cars: Scope 3 covers business air travel.
for all major refurbishments over 5,000m.
Multi-let building electricity consumption and carbon emissions landlord-controlled areas Year-on-year Total change in carbon electricity Electricity Carbon intensity 2 usage intensity intensity per m 2 2 Year MWh kWh m kgCO m % 2 2008 1,772 158.84 86.03 n a 2009 4,030 168.73 91.39 6 2010 5,329 149.79 81.13 11 Notes: a.
In 2010 electricity data was provided for 37 out of 38 managed properties including Head Office, compared to 28 managed properties in 2009. b.
Historical carbon emission figures were restated using Defra carbon conversion factors.
Carbon emission intensities for 20082010 were calculated using the latest Defra carbon conversion factor for electricity.
c. 0.50076kgCO kWh for electricity generated Scope 2 and 0.04084kgCO kWh 2 2 for electricity losses Scope 3.
Total electricity carbon emissions is the sum of electricity generated emissions and electricity losses emissions.
d. Electricity use is reported for landlord controlled areas only.
Electricity use has reduced due to the implementation of our energy management strategy and the implementation of recommendations from our Phase 1 reviews, including installation of movement sensors and energy efficient lighting.
Multi-let building gas consumption and carbon emissions whole building Year-on-year Total change in carbon electricity Electricity Carbon intensity 2 usage intensity intensity per m 2 2 Year MWh kWh m kgCO m % 2 2009 15,830 116.37 21.51 n a 2010 19,561 98.65 18.23 15 Notes: a.
In 2010, gas data was provided for 30 out of 38 managed properties including Head Office compared to 18 managed properties in 2009. b.
Historical carbon emission figures were restated using revised Defra carbon conversion factors.
Carbon emissions for both 2010 and 2009 were calculated using the latest Defra carbon conversion factor for gas which is 0.18485kgCO kWh.
2 c. Gas use is reported for the whole building.
Gas use has reduced due to optimisation of plant at various buildings and implementation of recommendations as a result of the energy surveys undertaken.
59 Responsibility Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2010 Sustainability Resource efficiency 2010 Action Water Water consumption is an emerging concern, and one that we believe will increase in importance over time as regulation on supply and demand becomes tighter.
As water use is an integral part of the services used by our tenants, we aim to reduce water consumption where possible, as well as take steps to prevent water pollution.
Key 2010 results include: Average water usage in 2010 across monitored managed 3 2 properties was 0.63m m. This is a 23% increase compared to 2009, which we believe is largely a result of improved data reporting this year due to installation of sub-meters.
We will review this conclusion once two years comparable data is available.
Case study: Refurbishment Our Sustainability Framework for projects includes targets for water sub-metering for all tenancies, and design limits of no more 3 3 We are planning to regenerate our 80 Charlotte Street site from than 3.0m per person per annum for new offices and 4.5m per 2 2013 to provide 336,000 sq ft 31,200m of office residential person per annum for refurbishments.
Key sustainability features that we are designing into the building include: Waste and materials a high performance faade that will maximise natural daylight whilst minimising solar heat gains: Efficient use of resources and waste reduction lead to environmental natural ventilation in the atria with opening windows around benefits and cost savings.
We aim to reduce the amount of waste the perimeter combined with the ability to use mechanical sent to landfill by encouraging recycling at our Head Office and ventilation and extraction when required and incorporating within the managed buildings, and monitoring waste arising waste heat recovery: during construction.
capillary tube cooling with chilled water flowing through thin Our average recycling rate has decreased this year from 57% ceiling tubes using high performance coolers and 30% less in 2009 to 49% in 2010 which may be the result of an improved energy than an all-air system: waste measurement method.
reduced lighting load maximising the use of natural daylight In accordance with our Sustainability Framework for Projects, and intelligent lighting: and all our projects are required to divert from landfill at least 90% by weight of non-hazardous construction and demolition waste.
harvesting of rainwater for use in WC cisterns, cleaning bins and landscape irrigation.
Our Sustainability Framework for Projects specifies that at least 75% of softwood timber and 100% of hardwood timber must With the measures that are being put in place we expect to be certified to a third-party standard such as FSC Forest achieve an Excellent BREEAM rating and an EPC Rating B. Stewardship Council which promotes responsible forestry.
60 Responsibility Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2010 2010 Performance 2011 Priorities 3 2 Multi-let building water consumption whole building Reduce consumption to less than 0.50 m m mains metered water usage per annum for offices.
Year-on-year Water change Ensure that water supplies are metered in 90% of managed Water Water carbon water carbon properties in order to improve data quality further.
usage intensity intensity intensity 3 3 2 2 Year m m m kgCO e m % 2 Design new office projects to achieve mains water usage 2008 64,654 0.49 0.13 n a 3 of less than 3.0m person year.
In 2010, data was provided for 30 properties, compared to 19 in 2009. b.
A conversion factor for CO is not provided in the Defra guidance, therefore a 2 factor for CO e has been used.
2 c. Water use is reported for the whole building.
Multi-let building waste recycling whole building Achieve a 50% recycling rate in all properties for which Derwent London has control over waste management.
Recycling Waste rate to landfill Design new projects to include a minimum 20% recycled Year % % materials by value.
2009 57 43 Manage new projects to divert a minimum of 90% 2010 49 51 of demolition and construction waste from landfill.
In 2010, data was provided for 24 properties compared to 13 in 2009. b.
Previously waste quantities were estimated: weights are now derived from data on the type of bin used, average bin weights and the number of collections made.
61 Responsibility Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2010 Sustainability Stakeholders 2010 Action Maintaining strong stakeholder relations is a core element of Tenants our sustainability strategy.
Meeting the needs of each of the commercial tenants in our 130 buildings is a primary concern of Derwent London.
We understand Key stakeholders include our that each organisation will present its own unique set of occupation tenants, employees, suppliers requirements and we are committed to meeting these and providing excellent service in the process.
Key 2010 highlights include: and the local communities Participation in the Real Service benchmark, an external thirdwhere we regenerate and party tenant survey, which was piloted at one building.
It is our intention to run a more extensive tenant survey in 2011. manage buildings.
We work Further development of our tenant websites for each multi-let in partnership with these building we own and manage www.
stakeholders to maximise added These websites represent a unique opportunity to engage with tenants on issues such as waste and recycling, and energy and value from our development and water efficiency.
Zero RIDDORs Reportable Injuries, Diseases, and Dangerous Occurrences at assets under management.
Employees Case study: As our business grows it becomes increasingly important to offer Development first class employment opportunities for our employees.
We are committed to providing a stimulating and nurturing culture, and The Charlotte Building is a new office building, comprising rewarding them for their commitment to the business.
It was completed in 2009 and contains a highlights include: number of energy-saving and sustainability features including: Employee turnover remained low at 7.7%, 10.9% including displacement ventilation which uses the natural circulation retirees, well below the national turnover rate for the UK of air rather than fan coils and gives the opportunity to use companies which stands at 13.5% according to the Chartered outside air without the need for mechanical cooling: Institute of Personnel and Development.
exposed concrete wall and ceilings with reduced material Spending on training and development equalled approximately finishes which absorb heat better during the day and release 1,100 per employee in 2010.
Over 46 individual training needs it slowly at night, helping to reduce the energy needed to cool were addressed over the year, covering a broad range of skills offices in summer and heat them in winter: and competency areas.
thermal mass night time cooling which uses larger slabs of No near misses or RIDDOR incidents involving Derwent London concrete between the floors to absorb lower night temperatures employees in 2010. and cool the office during the day: good natural daylight via large perimeter windows: low energy, intelligent lighting which dims in stronger daylight and is motion sensitive: and dual low flush WC cisterns and water saving tap specifications.
As a result, the Charlotte Building achieved a Very Good BREEAM rating and an EPC Rating B.
62 Responsibility Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2010 2010 Performance 2011 Priorities Health and safety incidents multi-let buildings Further enhance tenant websites at all multi-let managed buildings.
Trial interactive tenant website at Tea Building through Minor incidents Near misses RIDDORs adaptation of the Teabuilding.
2008 Deliver customer service training to property management staff.
2009 7 3 2010 9 1 Develop and roll out a tenant questionnaire, either internally or through a third-party supplier.
2011 target Notes: The table above is based on categorisations of health and safety Zero RIDDOR incidents at managed buildings and Derwent incident as specified by the Health and Safety Executive.
Hold formal meetings with tenants to discuss service charge budgets.
Provide budgets in advance to improve transparency on large expenditures such as the CRC.
Employee statistics There are no formal corporate targets on employee related issues in 2011.
However, our priorities are as follows: Total number of Annual Continue to build on the development of a performance employees turnover management culture with appropriate training courses, Year at year end % coaching, reviews and personal development programmes.
2009 83 7.4 Identify, nurture and retain key members of staff.
2010 98 7.7 Notes: This table records all full-time equivalent employees.
Annual turnover Ensure fair and consistent reward and recognition throughout excludes retirees.
Further enhance the Groups reputation as an employer of choice.
63 Responsibility Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2010 Sustainability Stakeholders 2010 Action Suppliers The management of our supply chain is important to improving the sustainability performance of buildings.
It is our aim to foster an open working relationship with suppliers to ensure we are all working towards the same goal.
Key 2010 highlights include: Our average payment settlement period was 23 days, well ahead of our target of 28 days.
Case study: Local communities In a supply chain management survey 20 respondents 66% response rate, 90% of those who responded rated Derwent We continue to support, with both our time and financial Londons supply chain management as good or very good and resources, the following organisations committed to the 80% rated us as better or significantly better than comparable regeneration and enhancement of their respective areas of peers in the property sector in both cases no suppliers stated central London.
Westminster Property Association WPA aims to contribute In a supply chain risk survey 29 responses 59% response rate, to and build on Londons pre-eminent global status, to provide 96% of those who responded have a member of top-level a world class city experience for residents, businesses and management responsible for environmental legislation compliance.
visitors, and therefore to contribute to the economic success There were two contractor RIDDOR incidents at our of the UK.
David Silverman is President of the Westminster development sites.
New West End Company NWEC, a Business Improvement District for Bond Street, Oxford Street and Regent Street Communities and 12 neighbouring streets, is dedicated to driving forward Londons West End as the worlds top shopping destination.
Our visible presence in local communities where we develop and With a 34m budget until 2013 NWEC is supported and run manage property is important to maintain our licence to operate and by major retailers and property owners and strives to ensure corporate image.
We are committed to creating a positive impact the ongoing commercial success of the area by promoting the in local communities where we operate, often going beyond district, delivering street management services, and funding planning requirements.
We also strive to minimise disruption during public realm projects to improve the shopping environment.
Key 2010 highlights include: Chancery Lane Association has been designed to provide Community investment, including mandatory contributions, long-term guidance for the creation of a public realm that is totalled 1.1m.
of the highest quality within Chancery Lane and its immediate surroundings.
Nigel George is a Director of the Chancery We continued to be a major supporter of various local community Lane Association.
initiatives as detailed in the case study.
The Fitzrovia Partnership is a business-led initiative bringing 36 out of 40 achieved in the Considerate Constructors together local businesses to add value and make a tangible Scheme CCS at the Angel Building, placing it in the top difference to the management of Fitzrovia.
7.5% of sites, and earning a bronze award.
The Paddington Waterside Partnership PWP which began in 1998, involves 14 different development schemes across 80 acres.
Established initially by developers, landowners and transport interests the PWP works alongside local agencies and communities to ensure that this new location fits socially, economically and physically with its surroundings.
64 Responsibility Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2010 2010 Performance 2011 Priorities Supplier information Review key supplier contracts with a view to including formal sustainability requirements in contractual terms.
Average Number of suppliers payment period engaged on Pay invoices within an average of 28 days from receipt.
Year days sustainability issues 2008 24 2009 21 8 2010 23 78 Health and safety incidents developments Minor Incidents Near misses RIDDORs 2008 4 6 2 2009 3 2010 3 2 Notes: The table above is based on categorisations of health and safety incident as specified by the Health and Safety Executive.
Total community investment Register all developments and major refurbishments with the Considerate Constructors Scheme with a target score Community of 32 out of 40 defined as a very good site.
Recorded investment charitable commercial Mandatory Launch a pilot work experience programme in Fitzrovia giving initiatives contributions with a local school and major tenants.
Year 2008 14,466 157,500 56,397 Review community investment strategy and practices.
2009 30,102 191,950 258,695 Continue to support the Fitzrovia Partnership in the 2010 104,922 248,800 784,267 implementation of a recruitment strategy, focusing on Notes: Mandatory contributions are contributions tied to planning approval section corporate members and outreach to local communities.
