Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2010 30 Our people Achieving our strategic priorities Achievement of our strategic priorities is dependent upon our ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain talented employees.
To facilitate this, our objectives are: to create an environment where employees are well motivated and have a strong belief in the Group, its strategy and its core values: the retention and development of our people who are critical to the business: well constructed and fair reward systems which incentivise superior performance and align employees and shareholders interests: to ensure continual improvement of the skills and competency of our employees at all levels and across all disciplines: to match the right people to the right roles and take action where there are gaps: and to empower our people to maximise their potential.
Key to our achievement of these objectives is: regular and effective communication: a clear, performance orientated appraisal and remuneration process: and a structured staff development and training programme.
Our team Our team brings together specialist skills used to manage our portfolio on a building by building basis to ensure the achievement of our strategic priorities.
Investment Asset Management Management Strategic Priorities Finance Development Investment management Acquisitions case Our Investment Management team are responsible for sourcing new assets through acquisition or study P6O the creation of new joint venture arrangements.
They also generate, report on and execute strategies for existing assets within the portfolio, including hold sell decisions working closely with the Asset Managers and Development Managers in respect of the individual asset business plans.
During the year, our Head of Investment Management joined the Executive Committee as Investment Director Marcol House and an additional Investment Manager was recruited to help to seek out and evaluate suitable case study P8O investment propositions.
Annual review Governance Financials 31 Asset management High tenant retention Our Asset Managers and Head of Leasing are responsible for the net income return of our assets case study P10O and the efficient day-to-day operations of our buildings.
Actively engaging with tenants in respect of their changing needs, they ensure timely discussions in respect of new lettings, renewals and rent reviews.
In conjunction with the Development team they help to ensure that vacant possession can be achieved for the proposed timing of our developments, wherever possible relocating tenants to other buildings within our portfolio.
Our Asset Managers also involve our Head of Financial Reporting and Analysis, to review the strength of prospective tenants covenants.
With a growing number of assets under management, an additional Asset Manager was recruited during the year.
Part of the way we consider that we are best able to serve our tenants is through our in-house building management team with regular inspections of our buildings to ensure consistently high service levels and, with a dedicated help desk, enable emergency and minor repairs to be undertaken on a timely basis.
The Building Managers also liaise closely with both our Health & Safety Environmental Manager and Facilities Manager who undertake site visits with the Building Managers on a rolling basis.
Development Refreshing the fabric of our portfolio is an essential part of the life cycle of our assets, and our Development team manage this process from small scale refurbishments to large scale redevelopments.
The Development Managers primary responsibility is for the delivery of development projects in accordance with an assets business plan including negotiations with the relevant planning authorities and liasing with the Project Managers on the procurement process.
Our Health & Safety and Environmental Manager and Head of Leasing are involved early in the process to ensure health and safety issues are managed effectively and that tenant requirements are appropriately incorporated into the design with letting campaigns timed to ensure maximum impact.
In preparation for our growing development pipeline, in March 2010, we recruited an additional Development Manager.
The Groups Project Managers and Building Surveyors working Woolyard case study P12O on both new builds and the Groups rolling refurbishment programmes are responsible for the procurement process, budgetary and documentary control and monitoring requirements with statutory authorities as well as complying with legislation.
To increase the efficiency of our buildings, the Project Managers and Building Surveyors work closely with the Asset Managers and our Energy Manager to identify where improvements can be incorporated in current works or planned into future works and each development is continually reviewed throughout the project to identify ways to maximise efficiency and promote sustainable resource use.
Our Development Accountant works closely with the Development and Project Managers in the monitoring of costs and reporting on the financial performance of Groups development and major refurbishment projects.
Finance The Finance team incorporates a variety of roles from pure accounting to the provision of insurance for our tenants and it supports all aspects of the wider business.
As part of our in-house property management service, our Service Charge Accountant generates the annual service charge budget and reconciliations with input from the Asset Managers, Building Surveyors and the Health & Safety and Environmental Manager.
Our Insurance Manager ensures that our tenants benefit from the economies of scale achieved from our insurance policy buying power communicating with the Asset Managers and the Development Managers as appropriate.
Our Accounts Payable team ensure that our suppliers are paid in accordance with the terms and conditions agreed between the Company and the supplier.
Our Credit Controller carefully monitors the Groups cash collection and liaises with the Asset Managers where appropriate in respect of individual tenants.
Working closely together, our Head of Financial Reporting and Analysis, Group Financial Controller and Joint Venture Accountant ensure timely reporting and liaison on the Groups activities, both internally and externally, and liaise with our Head of Tax and Treasury in respect to the Groups funding and hedging arrangements.
Our Tax team is responsible for the Groups tax compliance and reporting requirements and play a key role in the acquisition and disposal of properties with the Investment Management team.
Our IT team provide support across the Group and are responsible for regularly reviewing the Groups business continuity plan.
Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2010 32 Our people Our Company Secretarial team has responsibility for ensuring that proper corporate governance processes are in place for the Group and its joint ventures together with the co-ordination of the Groups corporate social responsibility activities.
The team also has responsibility for all of the human 66 resources related functions of the Group working to ensure that the Groups policies and procedures and appraisal process are effective.
employees, all with clearly defined roles Number of employees 2010 Executive Directors 3 Asset management Investment management 25 Development Finance IT Cosec Admin 23 10 5 Retention, remuneration and training Average period of service years 8 8 7 7 7 6 6 6 6 5 5 5 4 4 4 4 4 4 3 3 3 2 1 0 2008 2009 2010 Executive Directors Development Finance IT Cosec Admin Investment management Asset management A significant proportion of remuneration for all employees is performance related, based on both corporate targets and personal objectives, with the intention of aligning the interests of our people with those of the Company and its shareholders.
In 2010, subject to approval from HMRC and 94% shareholders, it is proposed that all employees will be invited to participate in a Share Incentive Plan.
overall retention rate We are pleased that our overall retention rate remains high at 94% per annum, excluding redundancies and retirements, with 16% of employees enjoying some form of flexible working practices including reduced and variable hours.
Annual review Governance Financials 33 The Company is committed to equal opportunities.
Performance reviews are undertaken every six months.
For 2010 11, a formal review of training has been undertaken by the Executive Committee to ensure that a training programme of both external courses and in-house seminars is available to 1, 302 employees to help to maximise employees potential and contribution.
The Company encourages hours of training provided career development through the provision of relevant training with funding and study leave to support professional development, including formal training for professional qualifications, external degrees and vocational skills.
During the year 21,910 was invested in formal staff training providing 1,302 hours of training.
Training programmes provided during the year included business related topics, key risk areas and personal skills development.
Total number of training hours hours 599.0 600 8 500 400 353.5 307.0 287.0 300 256.0 230.0 222.9 212.0 197.5 191.0 200 148.0 137.5 122.0 95.0 82.0 100 66.0 64.5 42.0 0 Corporate Responsibility, Environmental Estate Management Finance Health and Safety IT Governance and HR 2008 2009 2010 Communication Meetings involving all employees are held on a quarterly basis to keep everyone up to date and involved in the Companys plans and activities and act as a forum for the Executive Directors to answer questions.
Weekly meetings are held both across and within departments to ensure good communication throughout the Group.
Meetings with non-office based personnel are also held weekly to ensure their involvement and to encourage the sharing of best practice.
Key personnel from the Finance, Asset Management and Development teams are invited to provide their views to the Executive Committee at its weekly meeting on areas such as credit control, marketing to tenants, investment transactions and opportunities and development appraisals.
From time to time, Senior Managers are also asked to present to the Board and Audit Committee on a variety of topics.
Employees are involved at all levels in the development of the Companys operating policies.
Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2010 34 Our people Employee remuneration, development and communication through the year January February Market review and benchmarking of employee salaries.
February Sustainability seminar for all employees to emphasise the importance of the Groups Sustainability Framework and objectives and targets.
Following input from employees the CR Working Group finalise the Groups corporate sustainability objectives and targets for the forthcoming year and communicate to all employees.
Employees are informed of the year end performance review process and the focus of objectives and targets for the forthcoming year.
Pre-performance review meeting held between Chief Executive, Company March Secretary and Line Managers.
Year end performance review held between Line Managers and employees and review of development needs and proposed training.
Employees and Line Managers discuss and set personal objectives and targets for the forthcoming year.
Executive Committee review salary levels vs. market review, performance against personal objectives and targets, proposed bonuses and proposed LTIP awards.
Quarterly Review formal presentation to all employees by the Chief Executive followed by a question and answer session.
Remuneration Committee review of remuneration for Senior Manager salary April levels, bonuses, LTIP awards and employee corporate bonus target.
Feedback from performance review from Line Managers to Executive Committee and proposed actions and review of employee training needs.
May Achievement of the Groups sustainability objectives and targets for the previous year is communicated to all employees.
September Six monthly performance review of progress against personal objectives and targets held between Line Managers and employees and review of training undertaken and development needs.
October Feedback from performance review process from Line Managers to Executive Committee and review of action plan and review of training undertaken by Executive Committee.
November Quarterly Review formal presentation to all employees by the Chief Executive followed by a question and answer session.
