Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2010 38 Corporate responsibility Great Portland Estates recognises that managing and balancing environmental, social and economic issues is key to ensuring the long-term sustainability of its business and is integral to the Groups operating approach.
During the course of the year ended 31 March 2010 the Group has: been actively involved on numerous committees within organisations serving to promote and develop the property industry: ensured employees had a clear understanding of the Groups Sustainability Framework and how the Groups corporate responsibility and sustainability objectives and targets should be incorporated into individuals personal objectives: fully achieved 24 out of 40 of its corporate responsibility and sustainability targets: continued its focus on improving the energy efficiency of its We rolled-out the Groups Sustainability Framework buildings: and to all employees in three consciously invested in the areas surrounding the Groups portfolio to interactive seminars.
maximise appeal to current and prospective tenants.
The feedback was excellent showing our Board oversight teams are engaged in this The Board has responsibility for the approval of policy relating to social, environmental and health important element of the and safety matters and is determined to apply high standards to social, environmental and ethical Groups strategy.
issues in all areas in which the Group operates including the management of the joint venture Jonathan Walker operations on behalf of the joint venture partners.
The Groups alignment of corporate responsibility Head of Projects risks with its Corporate Responsibility Value Statement, strategy, and objectives and targets together with the Groups Health & Safety and Environmental policies are approved by the Board on an annual basis.
In addition, the Board receives annual reports on the environment, health and safety and corporate responsibility and regular reports during the course of the year from Toby Courtauld and Timon Drakesmith on health and safety and environmental matters, where appropriate.
Property industry representation Directors and senior management are encouraged to represent the Groups views and contribute to the development of the property industry.
Toby Courtauld is a member of the Management Board of the Investment Property Forum and Junior Vice President and member of the Policy Committee of the British Property Federation BPF and will become President of the BPF in 2011.
Timon Drakesmith is also a member of the Finance Committee with the Groups Head of Financial Reporting and Analysis and Insurance Manager serving on the BPFs Technical Accounting Group and Insurance Committee respectively.
During the course of the year the BPF addressed a range of issues affecting the property industry including Tenants and the construction, sustainability, finance, regeneration, development, commercial and insurance matters.
In December 2009, Toby Courtauld became a member The New West End Company Strategic Board.
Community P42k Neil Thompson serves on the Operations Committee of the Westminster Property Association WPA an association of property owners and their advisers in the City of Westminster which actively lobbies Westminster City Council and the London Mayors office on a full range of planning related topics aimed at improving development within the West End.
Neil Thompson is also a member of the management Board of the British Council of Offices involved in the research, development and communication of best practice in all aspects of the office sector, and a member of the Design Review panel of the Commission for the Built Environment CABE, a government agency which aims to improve design standards on development throughout the United Kingdom.
Annual review Governance Financials 39 Business ethics We aspire to the highest standards of conduct based on honesty and transparency in everything we do and our Ethics policy sets out the Companys core values and approaches in its relations with tenants, the local community, shareholders and other investors, employees, suppliers, and the government.
All employees have a part to play in upholding our standards and we raise awareness of these responsibilities through the acceptance and sign-off of the policy by all employees.
Excellence in Reporting In October 2009, we were delighted to win  Building Public Trust Award FTSE 250 Excellence in Reporting.
Objectives and targets Progress against our 40 corporate responsibility and sustainability targets E A 90% 100% met 27 D B 70% 80% met 2 C 50% 70% 5 D Less than 50% met 5 E Energy figures still to be verified 1 C B A The Corporate Responsibility, Health & Safety and Environmental Working Groups chaired by Timon Drakesmith and including representatives from Development, Asset Management and Finance are responsible for the implementation and monitoring of progress of the Groups corporate responsibility and sustainability targets.
Great Portland Estates set a total of 40 corporate responsibility and sustainability targets at the beginning of 2009 covering the key areas of: our people: environment and the portfolio: tenants and the community: health and safety: suppliers: and investors.
Twenty-four of these were fully achieved.
If targets have not been achieved, where relevant, these have been included again for 2010 2011 to emphasise our commitment.
Details of the Groups 2009 2010 and 2010 2011 objectives and targets can be found on the Companys website at www.
To ensure the highest level of achievement, where appropriate, elements of the Groups objectives and targets are also included within individual employees objectives and targets.
The Groups achievement against its corporate responsibility and sustainability targets together with the corporate responsibility activities contained within this report, is independently verified by Bureau Veritas.
Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2010 40 Corporate responsibility How we performed against our key corporate responsibility objectives To ensure employee personal development An average of 2.5 days training per employee through relevant training.
148 hours of environmental and sustainability training.
256 hours of health and safety training.
To raise employee awareness of the Sustainability objectives and targets circulated importance of sustainability throughout the to all employees.
organisation and how it can assist in All employees asked to incorporate achieving our long-term business objectives.
sustainability objectives and targets into their personal objectives.
Training provided to all employees on the Groups Sustainability Framework.
To monitor and seek to reduce resource consumption: a ensure existing EPC ratings improved on Our only refurbishment affecting an EPC rating all refurbishments: was the refurbishment of Percy House where we improved our rating from a D to a C compared to the benchmark F rating.
b to reuse or recycle 70% of waste Our refurbishment of Kent House was the only produced for projects covered by Site project covered by a Site Waste Management Waste Management Plans.
Plan with over 85% of waste recycled.
To encourage all employees and consultants All contractors and consultants appointed to adopt similar environmental policies and during the year were required to comply with standards to the Group.
To procure timber used on developments At least 90% of timber used in projects during and refurbishments from Forest Stewardship the year was certified by the Forest Stewardship Council certified sources.
To improve and promote services to tenants.
Building Managers visit properties at least once a week.
We are reducing our reliance on landfill.
Asset Managers meet tenants at least twice per year either informally or through formal Through active waste tenant meetings.
management across our managed portfolio, in the Tenant Guide now available to tenants online.
year ended 31 March 2009 we diverted 42% of waste from landfill sites.
By actively engaging with our cleaning contractors in the year to 31 March 2010, this was increased to 52% and we aim to improve this total even further.
Samantha Keane Facilities Manager Annual review Governance Financials 41 Environment and the portfolio How we manage our environmental risks Regular review for emerging risks and best practice Environmental Management Annual review System, policies and update of and procedures Environmental and project briefs Policy ensure Framework followed Overarching Sustainability Framework provides guidance with annual targets set The Group is committed to effective environmental management ensuring that it is focused around its core business objectives.
Appropriate environmental policies are set to assist in future proofing the Groups portfolio against changes in legislation and adapting to evolving tenant demands.
The Groups Environmental Policy Statement is reviewed annually by the Board and may be viewed on the Companys website at www.
co. uk corporate responsibility sustainability During the year our proactive approach to sustainability issues was reflected by the Company being recognised as being one of the top ten environmental leaders within European listed property companies by the APG Asset Management Environmental Real Estate Survey of Maastricht University.
The Environmental Policy Committee chaired by Toby Courtauld and including Timon Drakesmith 60% and Senior Managers from across Development, Asset Management and Finance is responsible over 60% of our electricity for the strategic direction of the Groups environmental policies, monitoring changes in legislation supplies are on Green and best practice guidance.
During the year the Environmental Policy Committee: contracts with electricity considered the reporting requirements of the Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy generated from renewable Efficiency Scheme: sources such as wind farms and hydroelectric sources reviewed Energy Performance Certificate ratings achieved across the portfolio: instigated the creation of Energy Action Plans for each building: ensured green clauses were implemented into our standard leases: approved the implementation of the Groups Tenant Guide on the Company website: continued to prioritise the purchasing energy on green tariffs: and reviewed DEFRA reporting guidelines to ensure that our reporting methodology accords with best practice guidelines.
An Environmental Working Group chaired by Timon Drakesmith, the Finance Director and made up of senior representatives of each department meets on a quarterly basis and monitors the Groups compliance with environmental legislation and best practice and reports to the Environmental Policy Committee throughout the year and the Board annually.
Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2010 42 Corporate responsibility Investment management Prior to a property acquisition an environmental due diligence report is undertaken together with mechanical and electrical surveys to identify plant and equipment inefficiencies.
Information is also requested on energy capacity to assess whether current and potential future tenant needs will be met.
Asset management The Groups Environmental Management System is controlled and administered by the Health & Safety and Environmental Manager and is audited by external consultants on a regular basis.
Our Environmental Management System is designed to operate in line with ISO14001 incorporating an online task manager to ensure that statutory checks are undertaken as appropriate with a gap analysis being undertaken periodically to ensure that it is developed and updated in accordance with accepted standards.
All contractors are required to comply with the Groups environmental policy statement and external consultants also carry out environmental checks on all managed properties on an annual basis.
Energy and water consumption is monitored by our Energy Manager with the data externally verified by Bureau Veritas and disclosed on the Company website.
During the year, our reporting methodology has been reviewed in line with DEFRA reporting standards and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
As part of our goal to ensure transparent reporting we also monitor and record levels of waste We are ready for the disposed of to landfill, recycling and waste to energy recovery.
We have consistently reduced the percentage of waste sent to landfill since 2008 and continue to set stretching targets to further Carbon Reduction reduce this total.
Development Although not required to All our major developments are subject to BREEAM rating with a target to achieve a rating of participate in phase one, Very Good on major refurbishments and Excellent on new build properties with energy efficiency, we have taken steps to water conservation and waste minimisation facilities considered at the design phase.
In 2009, we ensure that appropriate achieved a Very Good rating for our Wells & More development in London, W1 and our procedures are in place to Woolyard development in Bermondsey, SE1.
prepare for our likely Obtaining energy supplies is a key risk to all developments and during the year our Head of Projects, inclusion in phase two.
Jonathan Walker, chaired a WPA working party working with EDF to establish a best practice guide Joanna Beswetherick to ensure timely connection.
Each development is continually reviewed throughout the project to Energy Manager identify ways to maximise energy efficiency and promote sustainable resource use.
We have set targets to carry out post-occupancy reviews of developments six months after occupation to ensure that design efficiencies continue to make energy savings once the building is occupied.
We aim to increase Energy Performance Certificate ratings by a minimum of one grade for refurbishments and to achieve a minimum of a B rating on all new developments.
We continue to ensure that at least 90% of timber used in development and refurbishment schemes come from FSC certified sources or equivalent.
Tenants and the community The Group recognises that local initiatives are important in enhancing various aspects which serve to improve and promote central London, and supports a number of groups including the Westminster Property Association, Westminster City Council, Transport for London and the New West End Company in their work to address issues such as planning, transport and security.
In respect of the New West End Company, the Group has made voluntary contributions to match those of the Groups tenants to support its activities to ensure Londons West End continues to be unsurpassed as a leading destination around the globe.
Key activities include new signage to help visitors find their way in and around the West End, a diagonal crossing for Oxford Circus reducing congestion and improving pedestrian traffic flow and enhancements to the environment surrounding Marble Arch and an improvement to the accessibility between Hyde Park and Oxford Street, W1.
In addition, in partnership with Westminster City Council and various retailer associations, we have provided sponsorship for activities such as West End Live and decorations at Christmas at Jermyn Street, W1 as well as contributing to the property sector charity, Land Aid.
Mindful of supporting communities local to our portfolio we have also continued to provide sponsorship to the Bermondsey Street festival.
In particular, the Group targets charities involved in health, the homeless and the community, and, where practicable, allows temporarily vacant buildings to be occupied, at no cost, by 256 charities seeking premises.
In partnership with Westminster Education Authority, through a Primary School Volunteer scheme, 18% of the Groups employees have participated for a fifth year in helping hours health and pupils at St. Vincents school in Marylebone to improve their reading.
safety training Asset management During the year, mindful of supporting local artists, we were able to relocate a young theatre group, Theatre Delicatessen from Marcol House, W1 where we wished to start work on the development to an empty building within the Groups portfolio, providing sponsorship in kind by waiving our rent.
At Piccadilly Arcade, W1 whilst units were vacant during refurbishment works we provided exhibition space for a London born artist to show his current works.
Development Principal contractors on all developments and major refurbishments continue to be required to register our sites with the Considerate Constructors Scheme and where scores fall below expected standards, immediate remedial action is taken.
Newsletters were produced for Bermondsey Street, SE1 and other major refurbishments conducted during the year with regular meetings also held with tenants to provide feedback to contractors on performance.
Health and safety Great Portland Estates is committed to managing health and safety to a consistently high standard.
The Group employs a Health & Safety and Environmental Manager who reports directly to the Finance Director, Timon Drakesmith.
The Health & Safety and Environmental Manager has responsibility for overseeing all statutory health and safety compliance matters for the Group.
To assist compliance, the Group operates policies and procedures in line with ISO18001 requirements.
During the year, the health and safety management system was upgraded to include an online task manager system, to improve monitoring and assessment of health and safety standards across the portfolio with compliance levels reported at the Health and Safety Working Group on a quarterly basis.
In addition, each managed property has its fire safety, water safety, asbestos management and disability access reviewed and audited on an annual basis by external consultants.
256 hours of health and safety training were provided during the year including seminars on corporate manslaughter, accident investigation and contractor management.
In addition induction training, which is provided to all new employees, includes information on health and safety issues.
Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2010 44 Corporate responsibility Investment management Prior to acquisition, detailed surveys are undertaken of new properties to ensure that, where possible, hazardous materials and health and safety risks are identified and are dealt with as soon as practicable on completion.
Asset management Contractor management is a key health and safety risk to the Group.
All contractors are required to be externally accredited and the Groups Permission to Work system for contractors includes the vetting of risk assessments and method statements to ensure contractors are capable of working to the high standards set by the Group.
Our key performance indicators, administered by our Facilities Manager, include a health and safety rating which is reviewed on a monthly basis.
Failure to achieve specified levels will lead to a suspension and possible termination of a contract.
All accidents and incidents occurring in areas managed by the Group are recorded and reported and appropriate action is taken.
A formal investigation of all accidents is conducted by the Health & Safety and Environmental Manager.
During the year end 31 March 2010 there were two reportable accidents arising from the Groups activities.
Health and safety statistics 2008 2009 2010 zero Number of RIDDOR reportable injuries 2 1 2 number of employee days off First aid injuries 8 6 5 work from injury Three day injuries 2 1 1 Work related fatalities 0 0 0 Number of Enforcement Agency prosecutions or fines 0 0 0 Number of prohibition notices 0 0 0 Employee accidents and incidents 1 3 0 Number of employee days off work from injury 0 0 0 Development All consultants and principal contractors are required to complete a competency review in line with Healthy and Safety Executive Guidance under the Construction Design and Management Regulations 2007.
Where building works are being carried out with tenants in situ our Health & Safety and Environmental Manager Building Managers and Project Managers liaise closely to ensure that any health and safety concerns are brought to the attention of contractors and dealt with in a timely fashion.
Upon completion of developments Project Managers ensure that Building Managers are well briefed on site specific health and safety issues prior to handover and that issues identified are included on our online task manager.
Investors The Board believes in the importance of effective communication.
The Company seeks to improve investors and potential investors understanding of its objectives, strategy and performance.
In the year to 31 March 2010, over 250 presentations were made by a combination of the Chief Executive, Portfolio and Finance Directors in order to explain the Groups business and financial performance and to answer questions.
All such meetings are conducted within the guidance provided by the UKLA Listing and Disclosure Rules on the dissemination of price sensitive information.
The Company is a member of the FTSE4Good UK index, a benchmark index of companies which meets criteria set down by EIRIS Ethical Investment Research Services on environmental, social and corporate governance performance.
The Companys approach to corporate governance is set out on pages 56 to 61.
