Corporate responsibility and sustainability Highlights The number of accidents and lost work days has reduced and voluntary staff turnover remains below the Groups target level.
Key stakeholders and issues mapped at Group level Both measures are Key Performance Indicators for Cobham.
More than 30% of senior appointments derived from the internal talent In order to execute Cobhams strategy Each year Cobham requires all new employees management programme effectively, an understanding of the Groups to take ethical awareness training.
All strategic position is needed in relation to its employees who received that training Self-assessment performance baseline operating environment and the expectations of in prior years are required to complete completed by all units against S|H|E its key stakeholders.
A stakeholder identification an annual re-certification course.
Management Standards and initial material mapping exercise was completed in the second half of 2010 As noted previously Cobham has been Number of accidents and lost work indicating, as expected, a number of priority successful in training its workforce.
To put that daysreduced issues for improvement.
The issues fall broadly in context, those employees who took the within Cobhams existing key focus areas: training in 2008 and 2009 represented 99.8% 90% of ethical awareness training completed and 99.5% respectively of the target workforce Stakeholder Engagement linking key 3,100 and 7,500 people approximately.
stakeholder issues with shareholder value through corporate strategy and operational In 2009, 99.3% of the target workforce performance: completed the re-certification.
As at the date Staff and Talent attracting, retaining and of this report, the 2010 training courses and developing the leadership and functional recertifications are being completed, with skills necessary for the workplace in an the outstanding actions being followed-up increasingly competitive talent environment: to provide a similarly high level of completion.
Safety, Health and Environment S|H|E pursuing a zero harm strategy to provide In that re-certification, employees safer, healthier and environmentally friendlier acknowledge and confirm that they have read operations, activities, products and services the Code, understand its provisions and follow that will serve to attract and retain talent, it in their business activities.
These certificates raise productivity, improve efficiency and require an additional acknowledgement that maintain community licence to operate: and employees have a responsibility to bring Business Ethics and Compliance embedding violations of the Code to the attention of their a strong business ethics culture to minimise supervisors or report them via the helpline.
liability, manage risk and protect reputation They also require a confirmation that the in a highly regulated and global marketplace.
employee has not violated the Code and that they have no knowledge of any unreported Business Ethics ethics violations.
The Group pursues and will reward the highest standards of ethical behaviour in all aspects of The ethical training programme will continue its business, considering ethical behaviour to to be developed such that business ethics be an asset to be valued, optimised and realised.
issues are communicated and training provided at every level in Cobham.
Cobhams Business Ethics programme is The Group has appointed Business Unit Ethics managed by a Business Ethics and Compliance and Compliance Officers BECOs for each Committee BE&CC staffed by senior Cobham Cobham business unit whose principal executives.
The Groups approach focuses on use responsibilities include implementing the ethics of global ethics helpline and a Code of Business awareness training programme and providing Conduct Code.
The Code sets out the required a sounding board for employees concerns.
behaviour in matters of personal integrity, The BECOs are further supported by Divisional stakeholder relationships and procedures for Ethics Officers and the BE&CC that oversee dealing with possible breaches.
The Code has the ethics programme and any issues raised been translated into French, German, Danish, through the helpline.
Status with helpline cases Finnish, Swedish and Latin American Spanish.
is reported monthly to the Group Executive It is published, in English, on the Cobham website.
and a semi-annual report on the process is presented to the audit committee.
28 Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business overview Business overview Corporate governance Group financial statements Other information Strategic objectives 1 2 3 4 5 Focus on defence, Sell technically Build sustainable Deliver operational Actively manage security and commercial differentiated products scale positions excellence the portfolio markets and services Key focus areas and Objectives 2010 2009 Target Objectives Strategic performance indictors KPIs for 2010 actual actual for 2011 objectives Stakeholder engagement 2 4 Improve stakeholder engagement Map key Completed Group Develop repeatable processes stakeholders level stakeholder and issues at engagement process Group level Staff and talent 2 3 4 Increase the 30% 30% 30% number of senior appointments sourced internally Voluntary turnover 10% 8.0% 5.8% 10% 10% Safety, health and environment 2 3 4 Fatalities Maintain zero 0 0 Zero Zero fatalities fatalities Major Accident Incidence Rate Reduction on 565 670 Zero Further reduction Number of accidents resulting previous year through all units in more than 3 days absence achieving Foundation per 100,000 employees level of Cobham S H E | | Management Standards Recordable Incidence Rate Reduction on 1.69 1.7 Zero Per Major Accident Number of accidents resulting previous year Incidence Rate above in more than first aid per 100 employees 1 Scope 1 GHG tCO e Reduction on 92,394 139,640 100,000 Undertake GHG 2 previous year assurance readiness 2 Scope 2 GHG tCO e Per Scope 1 61,171 61,395 60,000 Per Scope 1 2 GHG above GHG above 3 Scope 3 GHG tCO e Increase scope 309,908 271,879 Increase Per Scope 1 2 and improve 66% full business 93% full business scope and GHG above reporting travel disclosure travel disclosure improve by turnover by turnover reporting Energy efficiency Reduction on 953 900 Include energy 907 4 MWh M turnover previous year efficiency in management scorecard Business ethics and compliance 1 4 Appointment of Ethics Officers Coverage across Completed Substantially Maintain Coverage across in business units all units completed for coverage all units all units across all units Ethical awareness training All employees 90% 99% 100% 100% employees for all employees employees 1 Scope 1 GHG KPI comprises natural gas, heating oil and aviation fuel purchased by Cobham for use in Cobham owned aircraft or other Cobham owned equipment, Company petrol, diesel and hybrid car use.
2 Scope 2 GHG KPI comprises purchased electricity renewable and non-renewable tariffs.
3 Scope 3 GHG KPI comprises business travel non-company owned car use, train travel and flights and aviation fuel purchased by Cobham for use in leased aircraft or other leased equipment or provided by customers for use on customer operations.
4 Energy Efficiency KPI includes electricity, natural gas, heating oil and aviation fuel purchased by Cobham or provided by customers.
com Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 29 Corporate responsibility and sustainability continued Cobham has adopted and implemented 100% of Cobhams operations by turnover have two industry standards on ethical conduct.
been reviewed internally to identify omissions The first is the Aerospace and Defence and significant variations i. e. 10% from the Industries Association of Europes ASD preceding year.
Cobham has commissioned an Common Industry Standards for European external assurance provider to undertake an Aerospace and Defence.
The second is ASDs assessment of its data verification of carbon and The Aerospace Industries Association of GHG data with a view towards obtaining an Americas AIA Global Principles of Business assurance statement on its 2011 data.
Ethics for the Aerospace and Defence Industry.
Cobham has adopted The Global helpline system facilitates a Group and implemented two wide confidential case tracking system industry standards on enabling us to track cases in a variety of ways and to report on a regular basis, the results of ethical conduct.
investigations and any disciplinary action taken, to the Group Executive and Board.
The helpline is well publicised with posters advertising it at every site in local languages where relevant.
A modest number of contacts to the helpline were made in 2009 and 2010 a number of which were human resources matters.
Disciplinary action has been taken where required and in some cases proactive training delivered to individuals and leadership teams has been delivered as a result of the contact.
The Group seeks to capitalise on lessons learned and monitors for emerging trends or issues at particular units.
2011 objectives During 2011, we plan to undertake the following: Develop a repeatable stakeholder engagement process as part of our standard operating framework: Continued focus on ethical awareness training and review of contacts with the global ethics helpline: Increase the number of units at Foundation Level of the Cobham S|H|E Management Standards to 100%: Introduce leading S|H|E indicators to further reduce accident rates and improve resource efficiency: Undertake a greenhouse gas GHG assurance readiness programme: and Conduct additional work in the areas of diversity, equality, community engagement and supply chain management.
Data verification Cobham collects data annually on all key Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability CR&S KPIs from its wholly-owned operational subsidiaries.
This excludes Cobhams joint ventures, for which we do not have operational control, and any business units that have been closed or divested during the course of the year.
30 Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Business overview Business overview Corporate governance Group financial statements Other information DID YOU KNOW?
Sir Alan Cobham Award The Sir Alan Cobham Award programme is a Group wide recognition programme, highlighting those who go above and beyond their day job, through a peer nomination process.
Each nomination is assessed by merit, to the highest level, against a list of criteria which establishes the contribution each nominee makes to the continued success of Cobham.
The first winners of the Sir Alan Cobham Award scheme were recognised in the year, with 500 receiving Gold, Silver and Bronze.
Four of the Gold nominations were subsequently deemed to merit top level Platinum awards and received their prizes from Cobham CEO Andy Stevens.
Awards were presented to 139 nominations across five categories Technical Innovation, Employee Engagement, Customer Satisfaction, Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability and Team Work.
All winners received certificates, with Silver, Gold and Platinum winners also being given Award plaques and prizes ranging from paid leave to 10,000 cash.
Deepwater Horizon oil spill Cobham technology played a key part in the effort to track the Deepwater Horizon oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico by enabling real-time transmission of live full motion video from surveillance aircraft to observers on the ground.
Aircraft deployed by Sierra Nevada Corporation and equipped with Cobhams FM and COFDM Coded Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing video products flew over the Gulf to monitor the marine oil spill the largest in the history of the petroleum industry.
Typically used for border security and defence applications, the aircrafts role was to use a range of imagery and mapping capabilities to explore the spill and its overall size.
com Cobham plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2010 31
