3,000 young chefs have graduated from our Junior Chefs Academy since 2003 UK & Ireland 5.8m donated to charity Compass in the community 2010 highlights t 0.5 million raised for charity partner, Cancer Research UK UK & Ireland t Australian Mines and Metals Innovation Award Australia t London Olympics Team 2012 Appeal Donor We have a strong track record in community engagement and Working with our strategic community coffee partner, Pura Vida, investment, operating the best community-based initiatives that our business in the US has been investing in the coffee-farming encourage healthy lifestyles, tackle social exclusion, improve communities.
For every pound lb of Pura Vida coffee purchased, employment chances and promote sustainability and diversity.
a donation is made to the Create Good Foundation to help support the coffee-growing communities in Latin America and around the The World Health Organization estimates that over 33 million people world: funding small business development projects, land renovation in the world are currently living with the effects of HIV Aids.
Our and health initiatives that create strong and self-reliant communities.
business in South Africa has taken a proactive approach to tackling Through this partnership, we have raised over $92,000 to date.
this issue by introducing nutritional guidelines, specifically aimed at this section of the community, which are easily accessible via the In 2010, the Junior Chefs Academy operated by our UK & Ireland Internet.
The guidelines suggest ways in which to boost their immune business continued to go from strength to strength.
The Academy systems by educating them on the benefits of adopting a more healthy teaches vital skills about food safety, hygiene and preparation to diet and lifestyle.
school children who show an interest in cooking.
We hope to ignite a passion for cooking in these young people, who could go on to In 2010, the population of Haiti suffered a catastrophic earthquake become our chefs of the future.
Since 2003, over 3,000 teenagers which, according to reports from the Haitian Government, resulted in nationwide have graduated from the scheme.
an estimated 230,000 fatalities, 300,000 injured and over one million people made homeless.
In the weeks following the earthquake, our We value our membership of Business in the Community BITC, employees developed innovative ways to help survivors: for example a UK based organisation which seeks to inspire, engage, support by donating loose change collected from our consumers in US and challenge companies to continually improve the impact they have universities.
Recognising the importance of initiatives that will bring on society and the environment.
longer-term relief and benefits to those affected by the disaster, we have also partnered in projects supporting Haitian farmers in As a result of the combined efforts of our UK & Ireland based replanting programmes which will help to increase the availability employees, we are proud to have raised over 0.5 million for our partner Cancer Research UK.
The UK & Ireland business will continue to of fresh produce for Haitians in the coming years.
support Cancer Research UK with fundraising initiatives during 2011.
Community partnerships In Australia, our business has forged a partnership with the Australian Donations During the year ended 30 September 2010 charitable donations Indigenous Minority Supplier Council AIMSC which provides a direct business-to-business purchasing link between corporate Australia, were 5.8 million 2009: 5.6 million.
government agencies and indigenous-owned businesses.
From our work with the AIMSC, we have forged successful working relationships with several indigenous-owned businesses resulting in their listing as approved Compass suppliers in Australia, providing them with a significant opportunity for growth.
In recognition of providing employment opportunities to the local indigenous community for more than ten years, our Australian team was awarded the Innovation Award from Interested?
the Australian Mines and Metals Association for our outstanding Find out more online at: community initiatives.
com CR10 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010 43
