Corporate responsibility Over the past year, we have continued to drive further improvement across our business, particularly in the areas of environmental performance reporting and supply chain.
The Board believes that Acting the progressive integration of CR across the Group and the inclusion of broader social and environmental issues into our decision making will help us to achieve our business goals, act as a building block for growth in shareholder value and benefit the communities in which we operate.
responsibly In 2010, we undertook a detailed engagement exercise across a range of stakeholders including employees, customers, investors and Corporate Responsibility CR is central non-government organisations to capture their views regarding our sustainability strategy and practices.
They told us that they would like to the strategy of our business, and is to see greater consistency in the way in which we implement our CR integral to everything we do.
We regard activity globally, enhanced scope to our performance reporting and better communication of our longer-term CR vision.
In 2011, we intend CR as a long-term, sustainable approach to launch a global CR Framework to articulate our longer-term vision to business that seeks benefits for all our and clearly define the steps we wish our businesses to implement along their CR journey.
stakeholders, whether they are customers, employees, communities, suppliers, CR sits clearly within our overall strategy of disciplined growth, as we strive to provide the highest quality of service to all our customers.
the environment, the Company or A commitment to develop performance indicators our shareholders.
We continue to enhance the scope of our performance reporting relating to the environment including food waste reduction and additional people related metrics.
Our Key Performance Indicators Interested?
KPIs continue to be relevant to our business strategy and help drive Find out more online at: the sustainable development of our business.
com CR10 CR journey in 2007, we have seen continued improvement in our sustainability performance against our baseline data.
Through the sharing of best practice from our businesses around the world, we have been able to replicate effective initiatives across different markets and develop the scope of our KPIs.
Our latest CR performance Our values against published targets is set out on page 36 to 37. t 0QFOOFTT USVTU BOE JOUFHSJUZ t 1BTTJPO GPS RVBMJUZ t 8JO UISPVHI UFBNXPSL Corporate culture t $BO EP Governance and ethics Our structure is underpinned by the highest levels of corporate t 3FTQPOTJCJMJUZ governance.
This empowers our local management teams to manage their businesses to be competitive in their marketplace while operating within a strict corporate framework with clearly defined parameters.
Our Code of Ethics sets out our social, ethical and environmental commitment towards each of our stakeholders and the communities in which we operate.
We have a whistle-blowing programme, Speak Up, which is managed by an independent company, so that our employees globally can raise, in confidence, any concerns they may have about how we conduct our business.
Work continues throughout our business to maintain employee awareness of Speak Up and regular progress reports are provided to the Audit Committee of the Board.
Corporate Responsibility Committee As part of our overall commitment to good corporate governance, we operate a Corporate Responsibility Committee of the Board.
Established in 2007, the Corporate Responsibility Committee continues to provide direction and guidance on all aspects of business practice and responsibility, ensuring consistent application wherever we operate.
The Committees primary responsibilities include: endorsement of CR policies: overseeing occupational health and food safety performance: environmental practices: business conduct: the positive promotion of employee engagement, diversity and community investment.
A key focus of the Committee has been to improve the scope of our CR commitments and overall performance measurement.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010 35 Corporate responsibility continued Our CR commitments and progress target achieved target remains work in progress Target Performance Key Performance Indicator 2009-2010 2009-2010 Energy efficiency Reduction in energy consumption gas & electricity of our 3% corporate offices Vehicle efficiency Reduction in company vehicle fuel consumption 3% direct fuel purchased Water consumption Reduction in water consumption of our corporate offices 3% General waste reporting Compliance in waste performance reporting 100% Food waste NEW Implement Trim Trax food waste reduction programme Wellness and nutrition Improvement in the total number of operating sites providing 5% Balanced Choices or equivalent healthy eating programme to their customers Food safety Improve our global Food Safety Incident Rate FSIR % improvement Supply chain assurance Implement the new Compass Supplier Assurance Standard 100% including Corporate Responsibility elements Occupational health and safety Improve our global Lost Time Injury Rate LTIR % improvement Report number of fatalities Employee retention Measure employee retention rate for all employees % retention Diversity Measure number of women appointed to our global % increase leadership team Business ethics Measure total number of concerns reported by 100% employees globally, via Speak Up Employee survey 2011 Your Voice survey t Improvement in participation rating n a t Improvement in engagement rating n a Basis for consolidation Unless otherwise indicated, progress is reported for our Top Ten countries against 2008-2009 performance.
Top Ten countries, as at 2007-2008, representing 81% of Group revenue: Australia, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Spain, Netherlands, UK & Ireland and USA.
For 2010-2011, following consultation with key stakeholders including employees, customers, non-governmental organisations NGOs and financial analysts, we are increasing the scope of our environmental reporting to include our Top Twenty countries for greater coverage across the business.
Our ultimate goal is to be able to achieve reporting from all countries in which we operate.
36 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010 Our people Our customers Environment Interested?
For full details of our performance, including prior years, please visit our CR site online at: www.
com CR10 Review Target 2009-2010 2010-2011 The harsh winter during 2009-2010 contributed to the increase in consumption in northern European 10% reduction by 2012 countries compared to the same period last year, which has led to an overall increase compared to against 2007-2008 baseline our 2008-2009 performance.
We have met our 2009-2010 target and report a decrease in our vehicle fuel usage this year as 10% reduction by 2012 a result of promoting responsible driving behaviours and investment in low emission and electric against 2007-2008 baseline vehicles to reduce fuel emissions.
Although we have not met our 2009-2010 target, we have not increased our consumption 10% reduction by 2012 compared to last year.
against 2007-2008 baseline We have made excellent progress this year in improving the accuracy of our waste data, 100% data capture by working in partnership with our waste collection contractors.
NEW We are introducing a new KPI for 2010-2011 to reduce food waste.
Our Trim Trax 100% data capture programme enables sites to monitor and record the volume of food waste each day, promoting improved employee awareness and resulting in more efficient food management practices.
We are making good progress with our implementation of healthy eating programmes, which help 25% by 2012 our customers make informed choices towards maintaining a healthy, balanced diet.
against 2007-2008 baseline We continue to demonstrate an improved global food safety performance.
Report % improvement This standard enables us to assess a suppliers performance in areas such as the environment, 100% implementation across labour practices and social factors.
Top Twenty countries We continue to demonstrate an improved global occupational health and safety performance.
Report % improvement This is our first year of reporting employee retention.
% total employee retention % management retention % site management retention 19.2% of our global leadership team positions are held by women 18.5% in 2008-2009.
Report % increase All our countries have access to the independently operated Speak Up whistle-blowing programme Measure and report concerns which enables employees to report material concerns for review and follow up.
There is a clear escalation process in place to consider each query raised.
Where appropriate a full investigation and remedial actions are taken.
We conduct the Your Voice survey every two years.
Our next survey takes place in 2011.
74% participation rating 72% engagement rating Period of reporting Up to now we have reported our environmental performance as a stand-alone annual result.
Going forward, we have decided to report our environmental performance on a year on year basis from a 2007-2008 baseline through to 2012.
This change in reporting will help us realise the efficiency benefits from improving employee environmental behaviour and investing in energy-saving equipment in corporate offices and lower emissions vehicles, thereby demonstrating our commitment to continuous performance improvement.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010 37
