Corporate responsibility continued 13,000 employees have completed One Compass Welcome: our online induction programme UK & Ireland 19.2% of our global leadership team roles are held by women Our people 2010 highlights t 3,000 site level managers take part in our Mapping for Action programme Global t 23 countries take part in INSights: our new learning and development programme Global t Springboard Award for the Best Initiative to Attract People into Management Compass Academy: UK & Ireland We employ more than 428,000 people in 50 countries and are programme achieved an 82% satisfaction rating from users with 92% committed to developing an engaged and highly motivated workforce.
of users citing that the learning was relevant to their job.
As a service organisation, our success depends on our people providing the best possible service to our customers.
By looking after our people Country led programmes we are looking after our customers.
To complement our global programmes, many of our businesses have developed customised initiatives to address local requirements Developing our people and challenges.
For example, in line with our focus on developing We use a common management framework, People MAP, which talent and passion for quality, Australia, Canada, Denmark, North details our strategy to attract, retain, develop and engage our people.
America and the UK & Ireland have been operating their own This simple framework ensures that we have a process in place to emerging leaders programmes and sharing best practice examples manage activities in a consistent way across all of our countries and through the Global HR Forum, comprising HR leaders from around supports the sharing of best practice.
Through our talent management the world.
initiatives and various learning and development programmes, developing our people and their careers within the business has been an area of In Japan, we operate an escalator programme which supports the focus for us during 2010. career development of employees with high potential.
Individuals have the opportunity to progress through each level of their career journey, Global programmes from graduate entry up to senior global leadership positions.
To retain a productive and motivated workforce we need to harness the skills and abilities of our people and invest in their future with us.
Equal opportunities In September 2009, we launched a global leadership programme, We value the diversity of our people and strongly believe that a more INSights, to develop emerging leaders for both regional and key diverse workforce is a more creative workforce, and one better able functional roles.
Over 23 countries have already taken part in the to adapt to change.
We expect all of our employees to be treated with programme which features both personal and business leadership skills respect and dignity.
The more our employees reflect the diversity of development, as well as an in-depth overview of the world of Compass.
our clients and consumers, the better equipped we are to service their needs.
Since participating, a quarter of those who took part have been promoted or moved into a new and more challenging role within the business as We have the right policies in place to meet or exceed legal a direct result of the programme.
requirements in this area and, as an example of our ongoing commitment, women currently hold 19.2% of global leadership Following on from the success of our global learning and management development programme, Mapping for Value, in 2009, we launched team roles 2008-2009: 18.5%.
an additional initiative, Mapping for Action.
Designed to embed our Management and Performance operating framework MAP to site Reward Our remuneration policy seeks to deliver improved performance level, around 3,000 site level managers across Compass have already taken part in this highly interactive programme, with representatives throughout the business, balancing short-term success with the from more than 20 countries.
attainment of our longer-term business goals and shareholder return.
We work hard to attract and retain people of proven ability, Since its launch in December 2007, the Groups English language experience and skills.
Under our pay and reward programme, in the training programme has provided more than 1,000 people from year ended 30 September 2010, the Group paid gross salary costs over 30 countries with the opportunity to improve their English of 6,444 million for the continuing business.
Within this figure, social language skills.
A recent user satisfaction survey indicated that the security contributions, pensions and other employee costs amounted to 1,014 million, 76 million and 9 million respectively.
38 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010
