91.8m cage-free eggs purchased US 100% of beef purchased is British UK & Ireland Responsible supply chain 2010 highlights t EcoLogo Environmental Stewardship Award in recognition of our high green standards Canada t Over 1 million pounds lbs reduction in purchase of non-sustainable seafood US t FIA Food and Beverage Industry Award for Environment and Sustainability Australia The provenance and origin of the food we purchase is a key the harvesters who pick tomatoes for the use of our US business.
We require that food is purchased only from In addition, a Code of Conduct was developed which helped to authorised suppliers and we work closely with our supply partners improve their working conditions.
The agreement was hailed as a to ensure that they meet our required supply chain standards.
huge victory for harvesters by the US Secretary for the Department of Labor.
In 2010, our UK & Ireland business was awarded three more Good Egg Awards, which are given by the leading farm animal Sustainability welfare charity, Compassion in World Farming, to companies that Innovative environmental practices are also important in our supply source cage-free eggs, or are committed to do so by 2012.
Demonstrating true leadership in environmental supply chain US business, we already use 91.8 million cage-free eggs.
Although practices, our Australian business has been recognised with the FIA the move to barn or free-range eggs is a complex process, we are Food and Beverage Industry Award for Environment and Sustainability actively working to encourage more sites across Europe to use 2010 for its Origin Foods programme which reduces food packaging only cage-free eggs.
To continue our working partnership with and transportation miles.
This prestigious annual award recognises Compassion in World Farming, the UK & Ireland business will be the achievements of organisations which implement environmental supporting the newly launched Good Chicken Award in 2011, which sustainability focused strategies.
is awarded to companies that are making tangible improvements to the lives of chickens reared for consumption.
In many of our businesses across the world, we are successfully recycling used cooking oil generated by our sites.
Our UK & Ireland Partnering with suppliers business has further developed its recycling programme.
One million Further afield in Angola, our team have been partnering with their litres of cooking oil is now being used to fuel vehicles across the UK.
local communities to establish a more efficient supply chain for fresh produce between the towns of Tomboco and Soyo in the Zaire In 2010, in conjunction with key UK clients, we once again participated province, which is a difficult five hour journey by road.
Historically, in the Supply Chain module of the Carbon Disclosure Project, the fruit growers of Soyo struggled to organise efficient transportation which is designed to measure carbon risks and liabilities through the supply chain.
Feedback from this programme will be used to for their produce which restricted their primary source of income until our local business stepped in.
By sending weekly transport from refine our environmental strategy in relation to the supply chain and collaboration with our suppliers to achieve greater efficiencies in our Soyo to Tomboco to purchase produce from a number of the local producers, we have enabled more of the local community to benefit day-to-day operations.
from a fair share of the profits to compensate them for the time they spend in the fields.
Another positive example of our business partnering with local growers is that of our US teams support of the Immokalee tomato producers in Florida.
We partnered with the Coalition of Immokalee Workers to pay an additional monetary sum per pound of produce, of which one cent per pound is passed directly from the suppliers to the harvesters.
The additional money represents a 64% wage increase for Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010 41
