Corporate responsibility continued Environment 2010 highlights t Green Leadership Award Canada t Forest Footprint Disclosure Participant Global t Restaurant and Catering Associations Award for Excellence in Environmental Sustainability Australia A key driver towards our success is the degree of autonomy which Partnering with clients is afforded to local management teams, allowing them to serve local In the majority of our sites where we are not directly responsible for markets in the most appropriate manner.
To support their activities, the procurement or management of utilities, equipment, fuel etc.
we we have developed an environmental policy underpinned by a are working closely with our clients to consider how best to improve minimum operating standard and a set of behaviours that are being the environmental performance of our operations.
During the last year, introduced into all of our operations.
we have trialled web-based technology in our UK & Ireland business to enable us to track and report energy, water and waste consumption Improving data accuracy at site level.
We will share the lessons learnt from this trial with our wider 2010 represented our third year of implementing a web-based business and use it to help manage the reporting requirements of the reporting tool to consistently track and report globally on our UK Carbon Reduction Commitment for our participating sites.
greenhouse gas emissions in our Top Ten countries which account for over 81% of total Group revenue.
We are pleased that our ability Successful environmental initiatives that we have implemented in to report our environmental performance accurately, including the partnership with our clients across different markets include a Be a quality of data, continues to improve and, as a result, this year we Flexitarian campaign in different sectors of our US business, which are increasing the scope of our reporting countries from our Top Ten is designed to promote choice and encourage visibility of vegetarian to our Top Twenty countries which account for over 93% of total alternatives for vegetarians and meat eaters alike.
Based on principles Group revenue.
of moderation and balance, the Flexitarian initiative advocates choice by encouraging one meat-free meal per week, for the wellbeing of Although we have made good progress in collating data relating to people and the planet.
our own business operations, we have more work to do in terms of improving the quality of data provided by our suppliers.
To help us In Canada, over 700 sites have switched their chafing fuels to an build a greater awareness of their activities, we have refreshed our ethanol gel made from a renewable source, sugar cane, rather than a petrol derivative.
When lit, the new chafing fuel has significantly supplier assurance programme to include additional focus on environmental practices within our global supply chain.
This refreshed reduced carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide and dioxin emissions, in addition to being packaged in a recyclable container.
programme will gradually be phased in across our businesses from January 2011.
Carbon Disclosure Project As previously reported in our 2008-2009 Annual Report, our business In 2010, we were pleased to participate once again in the Carbon Disclosure Project CDP which operates in 66 countries, enabling in the US has created a sustainable waste reduction programme, Trim Trax, for building employee awareness of food waste in their companies to measure and disclose their greenhouse gas emissions and climate change strategies in order that they can set reduction workplace and educating them on measures that can be put in place to reduce food waste.
The Trim Trax programme is a great example targets and improve performance.
Last year, we were ranked in the top quartile of all 710 respondents.
We continue to use the feedback of best practice sharing and, this year, we will introduce Trim Trax in a phased roll-out across our Top Ten countries as part of our overall from the CDP to help shape our future environmental strategy and CR metrics.
This programme highlights the alignment between our build our CR Framework.
CR strategy and our corporate strategy of reducing site costs and increasing efficiencies across the business.
42 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2010
