36 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 CORPORATE Introduction Sustainability is an increasingly important factor for RESPONSIBILITY our clients in the communication of their brands values, products and services.
It is also an essential consideration for our business, employees and investors.
Thats why we work to: REPORT Clients contribute to clients sustainability objectives as well as win clients with products and services into which sustainability is integrated Employees attract and retain the best talent in the industry and to develop them professionally through engaging CR initiatives Business mitigate risks around resource exposure and reputation through effective internal management and cost control Investors ensure Aegis remains a stock for consideration by investors through transparent reporting and credible disclosure around corporate responsibility.
Embedding In 2010 we launched Future Proof.
Future Proof is our framework to address the concerns of our stakeholders around corporate sustainability responsibility and sustainability.
It builds on the solid foundations of our Social, Environmental and Economic SEE Change Strategy announced in 2008. in everything Future Proof incorporates our minimum standards around governance and reporting, sets a strategic direction with challenging we do targets and provides a suite of standard tools and initiatives for all our businesses.
This framework reflects the nature of Aegis, with operational responsibility invested in local management but guidance and support available from the centre.
Future Proof meets the demands of our stakeholders Our strategy Aegis exists to help clients understand, communicate and build relationships with their consumers around their products in a way that supports and brands.
The Future Proof framework supports this corporate Aegiss corporate strategy.
strategy by: Jerry Buhlmann Placing the consumer at the heart of our insight understanding CEO, Aegis Group plc consumer attitudes and behaviour is vital, because it is a key part of the products and services we deliver to our clients.
Integrating the role sustainability plays in brand preference is thus crucial to placing the consumer at the heart of our business.
It is the subject of several internal initiatives such as our Consumer Connection System CCS Driving collaboration and integration we work for global brands but the habits of their consumers vary from country to country.
In order to deliver the communication solution best suited to each market, we encourage internal collaboration to share knowledge and expertise.
Therefore, our CR initiatives, such as the Green Bean network, operate across brand and office boundaries to bring our people together and drive collaboration and integration Recruiting the best talent in the industry in order to deliver consistent high quality service to our clients, it is essential we attract, train and retain the best people for the job.
Our partnership with GlobalGiving see case study 05 on page 24 not only sets us apart in the market but also delivers further professional and skills development for our employees Consistently delivering innovation for clients weve made a huge investment in developing a world-class suite of tools, processes, technology and training.
Sustainability is being integrated into this suite to ensure our employees take sustainability into consideration in everything they do.
A Sustainable Brand Designer was developed in Aegis Media Italy to aid the evaluation of clients communications on sustainability in order to develop innovative insights by our employees.
37 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Turning risks Into opportunities As mentioned in Principal Risks and Uncertainties on page 32, Aegis is exposed to a Were fully focused on mitigating the potential number of risks associated with corporate responsibility and risks associated with corporate responsibility sustainability.
The top 4 risks for our organisation are reflected and sustainability, but in our opinion every in the Sustainability Risk Register below.
It has been developed well managed risk can become a valuable with input from a range of internal and external stakeholders, opportunity.
including senior management and our advisors Carbon Smart.
Our Risk Register is reviewed annually by the CR Steering Group.
Nigel Morris Chair, CR Steering Group Aegis Group plc Potential impact on Risk Risk assessment company performance Risk management Opportunity Clients Clients sustainability Many of our clients Not being able to meet The CR department is Mitigating this risk objectives have set ambitious our clients sustainability responsible for ensuring ensures we meet sustainability targets.
They strategy and objectives that progress with Future our clients expect their suppliers, puts us at risk of Proof is shared with our objectives.
including us, to contribute: reducing our capability clients from RFP to Doing it well not meeting them to grow our business in pitch to supplier delivers additional represents a real risk to size and profitability.
enhance our revenue and profitability through growth.
Employees Employee engagement As our employees are Not meeting employees CR and sustainability Mitigating this risk Recruitment & retention our biggest asset, they expectations around are part of our people enhances our ability Learning & development also represent our corporate responsibility proposition.
The CR to attract, retain and greatest risk.
puts us at risk of losing Department is develop our talent.
It also responsible for Doing it well also risks an adverse impact delivering engaging improves staff cost on client relationships, initiatives linked to control, client reputation and business learning & development.
Environment Energy Energy consumption Our expenditure on The CR Department is Mitigating this risk Travel & transport and business travel are energy and business responsible for the delivers cost our largest direct travel is one of our minimum standards savings, maintains sources of greenhouse largest costs after and reporting system cost control, and gas emissions.
They are employee costs and as for greenhouse gas meets client also the most heavily such is strongly linked emissions.
regulated and have the to our profitability.
But of CR champions has Doing it well also highest profile with it could also negatively been established to produces our stakeholders.
impact our reputation implement sustainable opportunities to with our stakeholders.
Community Financial donations There are anti-bribery Not addressing The CR Department Mitigating this risk In-kind donations and business conduct our community oversees the minimum avoids reputational Volunteering risks associated with responsibilities negatively standards and reporting damage and community involvement.
affects our ability to for community regulatory But not engaging with attract, train and retain involvement.
the community brings the best talent.
Not network has been Doing it well the risk of not meeting managing it well could established to delivers superior stakeholder expectations.
have a negative impact implement engaging brand value for all on our reputation.
stakeholders and enhances consumer insight.
BUSINESS REVIEW 38 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT continued Progress and Performance The Future Proof framework defines five distinct areas of activity.
Environment In 2008, we set a target of 20% reduction of our Community In 2008, we set ourselves a target to coordinate 2008 carbon footprint per average full-time employee by the community initiatives across Aegis Media and Synovate.
We addressed this area by developing a network of community We decided to address our two largest sources of greenhouse champions, Aegis Media and Synovate CARES Champions, gas emissions, energy consumption and business travel, first.
They are responsible for monitoring and We developed a network of environmental champions, Green reporting community data, as well as delivering engaging locally Beans, across our businesses.
The Green Beans are responsible relevant community initiatives in the form of fund raising, for monitoring and reporting our environmental performance, volunteering or pro bono projects.
In addition, we initiated a as well as identifying where savings can be made and how partnership with GlobalGiving UK to develop a global community sustainable lifestyles can be encouraged.
We were rated 64th out of 350 organisations on our carbon We achieved a very high level of employee participation in management strategy by the FTSE Carbon Disclosure Project 2010 through the Aegis Media and Synovate CARES Carbon Strategy Index.
We punch above our size in this programme with 7,246 employees involved representing respect 47% of our workforce in 2010 We continued to expand the activities, tools and guidance for We donated the equivalent of 1% of pre-tax profits in 2010 Green Beans.
For instance in 2010, for the first time, our through financial, in-kind and time donations across our offices participated in Earth Hour with local activities around businesses, representing a total value of 1.59m the theme of Give 1 Hour to the Earth reaching thousands We completed a successful pilot project around online of employees worldwide volunteering with GlobalGiving UK, which is being rolled out We achieved the environmental management accreditation globally see case study 05 on page 24. standard ISO14001 in the United Kingdom.
We do not collect sufficiently detailed information about our We do not collect sufficiently detailed evidence about our community activities to have our community data assured greenhouse gas emissions to have our environmental data independently assured independently We have not yet expanded our internal community initiatives We did not achieve our 20% reduction target.
There are to involve our clients and suppliers.
several reasons why we did not achieve our reduction target: Reflecting the successful achievement of our target, we will i the limited control we have to make changes to the continue growing our Aegis Media and Synovate CARES network.
environmental arrangements in our office locations We will provide further thematic support for our champions to organise engaging community activities.
We consider our ii the relative absence of dedicated facilities managers due GlobalGiving online volunteering platform a key part of that to our policy on leased and managed office locations strategy and are committed to rolling it out globally in 2011. iii the tight deadline on the reduction target, which is not mirrored by our peers and competitors.
Market place It is crucial our organisation offers innovative We will modify our environmental strategy to reflect our missed products and services that meet clients needs.
We will re-set our targets, base-line year and approach in this area in 2011.
We consider the Green Bean We addressed this area of Future Proof by focusing on the network and ISO14001 accreditation key aspects of this revised integration of sustainability considerations in our product and strategy and will expand their remit beyond greenhouse gas service delivery.
This required a flexible approach, reflecting the emissions from energy and business travel.
specific clients and business model of each of our businesses.
We encourage employees to think creatively in response to clients requests and their potential link with corporate responsibility and sustainability.
This can lead to interesting collaborations, such as the Synovate and Deutsche Welle Climate Change study 39 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Environment Community Total Carbon Footprint in metric tonnes CO Total Community Investment in m 2 43,637 2.70 41,721 39,623 1.59 1.46 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 We are integrating sustainability considerations into our Governance The CR Steering Group is responsible for standard client delivery tools and developing training overseeing the implementation of the Future Proof framework.
programmes to build awareness in this area.
An example is The CR Steering Group, which consists of representatives of all the Sustainable Brand Designer developed in Aegis Media functional departments across Aegis Media and Synovate, is Italy to aid the evaluation of clients communications on convened 8 times a year.
It is chaired by Nigel Morris, CEO of sustainability in order to develop innovative insights by our Aegis Media North America and its remit is to uphold the highest employees governance standards in this area, to receive progress reports on We participate actively in the Engaging Consumers work the implementation of the Future Proof framework and to direct stream of the Driving Sustainable Consumption initiative at the work of the CR Department.
Our CEO and the Chair of the Level Responsibility CR Steering Group represent Aegis at the annual meeting CR Steering Group Sets Future Proof framework in Davos.
Receives reports on progress We are committed to work with our businesses to meet clients & performance objectives around sustainability, to embed sustainability Directs the CR Department considerations in our client delivery processes and train our CR Department Implements Future Proof employees in the role sustainability plays in consumer preferences.
framework Manages day-to-day work plan Engages internal and external Work place We foster a culture of development for our people stakeholders to excel and invest in recruiting and retaining high quality talent.
Reports on progress & The Future Proof framework builds on our global standards on performance employee development by adding engaging corporate Environment Community Responsible for data monitoring responsibility initiatives to enhance our people management.
champions and reporting The CR Department worked closely with the HR function to Responsible for affecting utilise the full potential of our environment and community sustainable change locally initiatives for employee engagement and development.
We actively work to connect environment and community In 2010, we launched the first Corporate Responsibility initiatives to our HR agenda.
We learnt from a successful pilot Reporting Policy as part of the revised Group Policies & project in the United Kingdom that our corporate Procedures.
We also launched the first Corporate responsibility initiatives are only effective when closely linked Responsibility Reporting Protocol.
Both provide a robust set to employee learning and development of minimum standards, internal control measures and the We have a number of systems in place to ensure we are measurement & reporting of CR data successful in retaining and motivating our employees, We completed the first assurance health check around the including: management of CR reporting.
The report by Carbon Smart Performance and career development discussions set out a route map to improve management, reporting and disclosure of CR data.
The route map was fully implemented Annual employee surveys to understand and act upon the by the end of the reporting year.
opinions of our employees We are committed to improving the accuracy of our CR data and Exit interviews to understand and learn from our people the robustness of our internal reporting in this area.
In 2011, leaving in particular, CR assurance will be gained through internal Competitive incentive plans in place across our management reviews led by the CR department and supported businesses, dependent on the market, experience and by internal audit where appropriate.
Employee learning and development is key to the success of our corporate responsibility initiatives.
In 2011, we will continue to explore further opportunities where corporate responsibility and sustainability can make a vital contribution to the success of our people agenda.
BUSINESS REVIEW 40 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT continued Key data 2010 2009 2008 Environment Energy consumption metric tonnes CO 23,566 22,606 18,310 2 Business travel metric tonnes CO 20,072 19,115 21,312 2 Total carbon footprint metric tonnes CO 43,637 41,721 39,623 2 Intensity 2.85 2.69 2.54 Community Total community investment in m 1.59 1.46 2.70 % of total revenue 0.1% 0.1% 0.2% % of underlying PBT 1.0% 1.0% 1.6% Financial donations m 0.24 0.31 2.0 In-kind donations m 0.27 0.85 0.5 Time including pro-bono m 1.08 0.29 0.2 Employees involved 7,246 5,077 6,183 % participation 47% 33% 40% Looking ahead In addition to their commitments under the Future Proof framework, both Aegis Media and Synovate will assess and review their corporate responsibility and sustainability strategy in the light of our progress and performance between 2008 and 2010.
We will report back on the outcomes of this process in our next CR Report.
Below is a summary of our targets for 2011: Governance Market place We will continue to improve the accuracy, robustness and We will provide standard structures, useful tools and training appropriateness of our corporate responsibility governance for our people to integrate sustainability considerations in and reporting structures.
Environment Work place We will confirm a new strategy, targets and base-line year We will exploit further opportunities where corporate for carbon reduction, including an expansion of our material responsibility can make a vital contribution to the success impacts of our people agenda.
We will expand the Green Bean network and ISO14001 management accreditation across our businesses.
Community We will roll out the GlobalGiving initiative globally We will expand the Aegis Media and Synovate CARES networks across our businesses.
41 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Reporting principles, criteria and methodologies If you are interested in reviewing the principles, criteria and methodology behind the data and statements in our Corporate Responsibility Report, please visit our corporate website at www.
You will find more detailed data in our interactive data charting tool and extensive background information on our reporting processes.
In addition you can explore a sample of case studies from around our network, as well as get in touch with us if you have any questions or feedback.
Having largely achieved our objectives, we are now reviewing our CR approach and targets for the years ahead.
Gavin Pommernelle Global HR Director, Synovate RICHARD DAVIS Italy I want to encourage my colleagues to become greener, and use our expertise to help clients become greener too.
YVONNE ARIAS TRACY PEARCE Spain United States I enjoy raising awareness As regional coordinator for amongst my colleagues as a North America, I am thrilled to Green Bean.
Together every see participation rates increase step counts.
PATRICIA LAURENCE Canada Coming third out of 25 in our volunteer challenge was great.
But making a difference was even better!
