32 SEGRO plc Annual Report 2010 Directors report: PERfORmAncE REviEw sUstainability creatinG ValUe tHroUGH sUstainability wE hAvE cOnTinuEd TO mAkE GOOd PROGRESS ThiS yEAR On OuR jOuRnEy TO EmbEd SuSTAinAbiliTy inTO EvERy ASPEcT Of OuR buSinESS.
ThiS includES imPROvEmEnTS wiTh OuR dATA cOllEcTiOn SySTEmS which will hElP EnSuRE wE hAvE ThE dATA wE nEEd TO mORE EffEcTivEly mEASuRE ThE imPAcT Of OuR SuSTAinAbiliTy EffORTS.
Ian Coull, chief Executive oUr strateGy Our five-year sustainability strategy was developed in 2009 and covers six key areas: Resource efficiency To use energy, water and materials responsibly, increasing reusing and recycling Regeneration To make a positive contribution to communities where SEGRO has a presence Stakeholders To listen to our stakeholders and respond to their feedback to meet their changing needs Flexibility To construct buildings that can be used by at least two kinds of occupier without significant structural alteration Accessibility To ensure that our properties are accessible by more than one mode of transport Safety To maintain an excellent health and safety record by implementing robust management controls and careful auditing procedures we believe that Sustainability equals value and that DriVers of oUr sUstainability strateGy managing and balancing our environmental, social and Our sustainability approach is driven by the following factors: economic issues will help drive additional value today and Meeting regulatory requirements ensuring everything into the future.
we do is in compliance with legislation as a first step.
Our Our strategy focuses on our most material sustainability approach, however, goes further to look at how we can impacts and those issues that could make a major difference balance our environmental, social and economic issues to performance.
it was informed by an independent survey to maximise returns.
of our customers, discussions with our employees and major Staying close to our customers an active and wellstakeholders, and consultation with experts.
Our assessment of communicated sustainability strategy can help us to meet material issues is informed by internal and external stakeholder the needs and expectations of our customers.
dialogue and we prioritise material issues according to the level of business risk or opportunity, taking into account their Managing risk and preserving our strong balance potential effects on our financial performance, reputation, sheet having sustainable buildings can help us reduce operational performance and competitive position, as well the risk of obsolescence within our portfolio.
Our material issues were last Managing our costs and those of our customers reviewed in 2009. ensuring we use the resources we consume, in the most in order to monitor our performance and set policy, we efficient way, can help us to manage costs.
have established a Sustainability committee which consists Attracting and retaining talent our sustainability of ian coull, chief Executive, the managing directors of our credentials will help us attract and retain the talent uk and continental European businesses, the head of we need for our business.
Sustainability and various other representatives of senior management.
This committee and the board regularly review the assessment of material issues to ensure that we continue to manage risk and are well positioned for potential opportunities.
com 33 resoUrce efficiency 2014 Targets 2010 Progress improve our energy efficiency by 30 per cent.
most of the energy we purchase is used in the multi-let buildings we manage where we reduced energy intensity by 8 per cent per sq m. construct buildings with 30 per cent better energy Our current developments are forecast, when completed, to achieve 51 per cent better energy efficiency than base build.
efficiency on average than current standards in the uk, and 10 per cent better in continental Europe.
investigate the feasibility of renewable energy for every we investigated the feasibility of renewable energy sources at all of our new developments.
At our completed development at iQ winnersh one mwh will be generated from groundsource heat pumps.
Reduce water use by 20 per cent.
Reported water usage reduced to 68,680 cubic metres 2009: 93,729 cubic metres including a large amount estimated for uk water.
construct buildings with 20 per cent better water The installation of water-efficiency measures and water recycling means that our current efficiency than base build.
developments are forecast, when completed, to use 10 per cent less mains water on average than current standards.
Reuse or recycle 80 per cent of development waste.
we reused or recycled 90 per cent of all non-hazardous construction and demolition waste.
Reduce the weight of development waste to landfill we reduced the weight of non-hazardous construction and excavation waste to landfill by 70 per cent.
to 794 tonnes, from 1,005 tonnes in 2009. reGeneration 2014 Targets 2010 Progress invest in communities where we have a major presence.
we invested more than 1.2 million in good causes, through money, time and donation of business space and invested in local communities around eight of our largest business locations in the uk.
Ensure community Engagement Plans are in place we maintained community Engagement Plans at two of our largest locations in the uk where we have a major presence.
Slough Trading Estate and iQ winnersh.
staKeHolDers 2014 Targets 2010 Progress Engage with a significant number of customers to we engaged with 64 customers representing 49 million of annualised rental income improve sustainability.
with the aim of reducing energy and water costs.
accessibility 2014 Targets 2010 Progress All appropriate developments and managed estates we maintained Green Travel Plans at three of our largest locations in the uk to have a tailored travel plan.
Slough Trading Estate, iQ winnersh and heywood distribution Park.
safety 2010 Targets 2010 Progress maintain a zero fatality rate throughout Group operations.
There were no fatalities across our operations.
Ensure no health and safety prosecutions or enforcement we had zero reported instances of non-compliance with regulations concerning customer action throughout Group operations.
health and safety in connection with our operations, including penalties and fines.
update our uk health and safety management system we updated our health and safety management system.
we informed all employees about to reflect minor issues identified in 2009 audit.
make the changes and uploaded this information to our intranet, together with a suite of risk employees aware of the new system and upload assessments covering a range of common tasks.
Review provision of health and safety training in we reviewed health and safety training in the uk, prepared a training matrix and arranged the uk, preparing a training matrix and setting up tailored training sessions for directors, managers, graduates, operations managers and other training opportunities.
employees, as well as providing an asbestos briefing session.
we also continued to give computer-based training to all employees.
performance reView 34 SEGRO plc Annual Report 2010 Directors report: PERfORmAncE REviEw sUstainability cOnTinuEd by reviewing energy usage and costs across our portfolio, our At Aropark Gonesse in Paris, we are targeting haute Qualit Environnementale property teams identified opportunities to negotiate better rates for our new logistics building, with proposed features including rainwater harvesting, and improve efficiency, for instance saving over 50,000 at two photovoltaic panels and a heat recovery system.
This follows our awards received of our buildings at iQ winnersh, Reading.
for marly la ville in Paris and Portes fide france in Saint denis pictured.
resoUrce efficiency reGeneration in 2010, we significantly improved our data collection and in 2010, our employees spent some 2,000 hours on measurement systems.
This, together with the inclusion of the volunteering, fundraising and managing community first full year of the former brixton portfolio in our dataset, has initiatives, equivalent to almost one day for each employee.
led to an increase in our reported carbon footprint and energy we encourage volunteering by giving employees one work consumption.
we have restated 2009 data where appropriate day each year to dedicate to community projects or help to reflect this.
in October 2010, we published our full carbon footprint we provided free accommodation to a number of good for the first time, covering emissions from all energy we purchase causes including Age concern, East berkshire womens Aid, both for our own use and on behalf of our customers.
Our total fara Enterprises, hope and Aid direct, and Skill force.
carbon footprint for 2010 was 19,300 tonnes 2009: 13,738 tonnes.
full analysis of this increase will be included in our Community investment 2008-2010 2010 Sustainability Report to be published in April 2011. we are working with our customers to reduce energy costs by replacing traditional light bulbs with energy-efficient 174,998 199,984 alternatives, improving building insulation, and installing motion and daylight sensors.
SEGRO purchased 4.4 million 316,441 of electricity and gas in 2010 2009: 3.8 million.
939,399 921,753 we are working with our customers to reduce water costs 440,798 by installing dual-flush toilets, low-flow taps and automatic urinal 08 70,732 09 42,990 10 95,142 flushing, as well as introducing rainwater harvesting schemes.
Employee time Business space we reused or recycled 6,937 tonnes of development Cash waste 2009: 24,193 tonnes as a result of the lower level of development activity.
Total energy use kWh 672,016 1,213,507 1,718,162 12,978,042 1,512,968 6,114,148 21,404,765 19,921,325 09 10 SEGRO-managed multi-let buildings Our partnership with landAid, the property industry charity, created a new learning Vacant light industrial buildings centre to support 400 homeless and vulnerable young people each year.
we funded SEGRO-occupied ofces this extension to a supported accommodation facility provided by St basils youth agency External common areas in birmingham, near to our kings norton business centre and meteor Park.
com 35 staKeHolDers safety Customers we aim to meet or exceed minimum health and safety in 2010, we completed a uk customer survey.
in partnership with our health and safety advisers, customers surveyed, 73 per cent rated their overall we work with our employees and supply chain to improve satisfaction as good or excellent, significantly outperforming performance at our properties and developments in the uk the industry average.
in 2011, we will focus on encouraging and continental Europe.
we carry out rigorous audits and communication, working more closely with occupiers to assessments, reviewing any incidents that occur on our sites, understand their changing business needs, and responding so that, wherever possible, we can prevent accidents in the to requests quickly and efficiently, as well as providing good future.
we aim to help people to achieve their goals as safely value, particularly around service charges.
Our high standards in managing health and safety risks were recognised with a british Safety council in early 2010, we became one of the first developers to international Safety Award for the second year running.
introduce Green leases for industrial buildings in Europe, as well as Green memoranda of understanding for RIDDOR reportable accident rate existing occupiers.
To date, 68 occupiers have signed these per 100,000 hours worked commitments to improve energy efficiency, cut carbon 0.49 emissions, save water and reduce waste to landfill in the most appropriate way at each individual property.
0.34 Suppliers 0.3 we have introduced a new procurement policy to reduce our supplier base and create closer relationships with a smaller 0.17 0.15 0.15 number of suppliers who share our responsible approach to business.
in the uk, we reduced the number of suppliers we deal with directly by over two-thirds based on both commercial 08 08 09 09 10 10 and sustainability considerations.
in 2011, we will continue to Group-wide employees roll out this new partnering approach to continental Europe.
UK construction sites Investors RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations.
We continue to work with our construction teams in Continental Europe to gather we continue to be committed to the highest standards of robust and comparable data.
investor relations, encouraging open dialogue and building long term relationships with investors.
in 2010, we attended in 2011, we have set the following key targets to measure over 140 meetings with investors.
we attended roadshows our safety performance: in london, Edinburgh, Amsterdam and Paris and nine maintain a zero fatality rate and minimise serious accidents investor conferences in the uS, uk, japan and the throughout Group operations netherlands.
in addition, we arranged a number of site visits to our assets in the uk and continental Europe.
Ensure no health and safety prosecutions or enforcement action throughout Group operations fleXibility further information can be accessed through our website we design buildings that can be easily adapted and hold at www.
com sustainability clusters of properties in key locations.
This makes it easier for customers to do business with us, as we can meet their changing occupational needs.
in 2010, we worked with Rochdale borough council and local residents to create a Simplified Planning Zone SPZ at heywood distribution Park in manchester.
This is the first new SPZ in the uk since 1998. we also own the other two SPZs in the uk at kings norton business centre in birmingham and Slough Trading Estate.
accessibility Accessibility is a key selection criterion for all our assets and developments in the uk and continental Europe.
we also work with our occupiers, local authorities and transport providers to encourage people to travel more sustainably to our properties.
