36 SEGRO plc Annual Report 2010 Directors report: PERfORmAncE REviEw oUr people creatinG tHe riGHt enVironment oUr people DiVersity anD eqUality SEGRO has a diverse and talented workforce of just under We believe that diversity is good for business 300 people employed in the uk and across continental and aim to ensure that SEGRO provides equal Europe.
Our success depends on attracting, developing opportunities in how we recruit new employees and retaining the best people and we, therefore, believe and develop and promote existing employees.
passionately in creating the right environment for our people we are committed to offering equal opportunities to all to flourish.
people with disabilities, ensuring that we do not discriminate SEGRO has developed a strong, distinctive personality built in recruitment, promotion, training or working conditions.
around a core set of values which we believe set us apart if an employee becomes disabled whilst in our employment, and are integral to making SEGRO a great place to work.
we will offer appropriate support, retraining, equipment and These are: facilities to enable them to continue in their role with SEGRO.
Respect for each other and the diversity each individual enGaGement brings to SEGRO: Regular, two-way communication is key to Strong Partnership Principles which encourage the building meaningful employee engagement flow of ideas, knowledge and skills amongst our teams: through the business.
A dynamism and Energy that sets our people apart from in 2010, we conducted an independent and confidential our competitors: and employee engagement survey across the Group and achieved an excellent 89 per cent response rate.
highlights A deep sense of Responsibility and ownership for our of the survey showed that 82 per cent of our employees are work, our teams and the community, in which we work.
willing to go beyond the requirements of their role to help we are committed to supporting professional and personal SEGRO succeed and are confident SEGRO will be successful development, promoting equal opportunities and providing in the future.
A further 79 per cent of employees reported a regular opportunities for open employee engagement.
sense of personal accomplishment from their work whilst 73 per cent of employees believe that they have clearly defined The survey has also helped to shape our people agenda performance goals and objectives.
we believe that these going forward and in 2011 we will be focusing our efforts results are reflected in the high employee retention rate in those areas identified for change by our employees of 87 per cent that we achieved in 2010. which were improving career development opportunities: simplified work processes and clearer training paths.
Workforce and management gender prole % Throughout the year we communicate with employees through a variety of mediums including face-to-face briefings at weekly and monthly meetings, a weekly friday notice 25 27 26 board update, access to a Group-wide intranet and for 47 44 45 the first time in 2010 we introduced Group-wide webinar sessions.
Each year we hold a Group conference for our Senior Executives and cascade our agreed actions from 75 73 74 the conference through our management teams.
55 53 56 Employees participate in our success through our all- 08 08 09 09 10 10 employee share schemes and Group-wide employee bonus scheme which are described on pages 60-61 of this Report.
Male workforce Female workforce Male management Female management www.
com 37 SEGRO Three Peaks challenge, june 2010 bUsiness cHanGes Workforce ethnic prole % during the year we conducted a review of our continental 5 4 1 1 European portfolio and have now put in place a plan 1 1 to refocus the continental European business in key 2 1 7 6 geographies.
we managed the change successfully and in consultation with those affected.
The reorganisation resulted in some redundancies but has also created new roles and opportunities for promotion in some countries.
84 87 we also successfully restructured our business information Systems team, outsourcing our operations to a third party 09 10 supplier whilst retaining key strategic and systems White management roles in-house.
Indian Chinese employee DeVelopment Black-Caribbean In 2010, we provided more than 2,800 hours of Asian training to our employees, the equivalent of more Other unspecified than one day per individual.
As a result of the feedback from our employee survey, Workforce age prole % we undertook a strategic review of our talent processes, 1 including our development offer.
whilst our employees 24 29 believed that we were committed to training, they felt that we needed to be more focused, transparent and timely with the training we offered.
The review identified the need for a structured development offering at each level in the business, 69 64 linked to individual development plans.
A new development offer was launched at the Group conference in december 2010, and will be delivered to the business in 2011.
