Shaftes 10 AW Front Proof 6. qxp:Layout 3 22 12 10 12:11 Page 46 The Board recognises the importance To minimise any adverse impacts on the We have an objective for the current year of social, environmental and ethical environment throughout our operations: to change to suppliers of green electricity matters in the conduct of our business.
in our villages if such supplies are available To comply with and where feasible and economically justifiable.
In Berwick exceed all relevant legal and regulatory We have a well embedded corporate Street, the electricity supplier to a number requirements: responsibility process and this is our of properties was changed during the To encourage continual improvement seventh year of reporting.
Our corporate year to a company which supplies green of our environmental performance: responsibility policies are seamlessly electricity generated from sustainable integrated into our overall corporate To establish a framework for determining sources.
This will continue in Berwick strategy.
specific objectives and targets: Street during the current year.
To promote staff and principal supplier We acquire and manage properties in the Staff environmental awareness and provide West End of London, refurbish them and training where necessary: We employ eighteen staff including obtain changes of use where appropriate executive Directors.
Our employment To engage with our stakeholders to and in doing so seek to extend the useful policies have been reviewed and updated ensure that we are responsive to their life of our buildings.
Sustainability is it at during the year to reflect changes in expectations.
the core of our activities.
In a small team, every member of staff is important and their Impact on the environment Our policy, which is updated annually, is experience and contribution to the available on our website.
The full report We seek to minimise our impact on the business play a key part in the delivery on our 2009-2010 Corporate Responsibility environment through the reuse of existing of our strategy.
Training and development performance is available on our website buildings, refurbishing and prolonging the of our staff is essential and staff together with the Action Plan against useful lives and by minimising the impact development plans continue to be which we were measured.
This includes a focus on developed.
some key extracts from the report.
timber usage and construction waste management in the refurbishment projects Health and safety Corporate responsibility and throughout the portfolio as well as waste, The Board has overall responsibility for integration with the Groups strategy water and electricity in day to day health and safety.
Our responsibility for portfolio management.
Our strategy is aligned with the health and safety is identified within corporate responsibility objectives and all pre-tender documentation and is The level of carbon emissions produced targets set out below.
There are annual monitored by site and project managers.
by our portfolio from 2004, when data corporate and personal targets set by Our managing agents oversee day to day started to be collected, is set out in the the Remuneration Committee across the health and safety matters throughout chart below.
Overall, our impact is minimal Group.
Overall responsibility lies with the portfolio.
as carbon emissions generally are the Chief Executive.
confined to activities in the common parts There have been no reportable health of the portfolio.
Tenants are responsible Key achievements and safety incidents during the year.
for their own activities and emissions and We have been a constituent of the for reporting on them.
As a result, our level FTSE4Good Index since 2004, which is Community engagement of energy consumption is below the designed to measure the performance of During the year we joined the London threshold for inclusion in the Governments companies that meet globally recognised Benchmarking Group.
Our community Carbon Reduction Scheme.
corporate responsibility standards, and investment has been measured in line have been listed on the Dow Jones with their guidelines which seek to Total Carbon Emissions tonnes of Sustainability Index DJSI since 2007. ensure that companies report their carbon dioxide for Managed Portfolio We are also listed in the Kempen SNS community investment in a comparative 1,600 Smaller European Index, the first and systematic way.
We have this year 1,400 sustainable index for smaller European evaluated our investment as 345,000 1,200 companies.
equivalent to 1.5% of adjusted profit 1,000 before tax in community activities.
800 Environmental policy 600 Our policy is to minimise any adverse During the year we have supported in an 400 environmental impact of our operations advisory capacity or financially a number 200 and operate in a sustainable manner.
In of activities and organisations including 0 order to implement this commitment and the National Campaign for the Arts, the Art 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 any necessary measures, we have set the Fund, the Association of British Orchestras, following overall environmental objectives: the Royal Shakespeare Company and the The chart above, which illustrates Theatres Trust.
Local community groups carbon emissions generated as a result To operate in an environmentally which we continue to support include the of landlord consumption in the common sustainable manner throughout our Hungerford Drugs Rehabilitation Project, parts of our buildings, shows absolute activities: the Soho Family Centre, Chinatown Arts consumption in the portfolio over the Space, the Chinese Community Centre, the To address the implications of our data period which has grown by 11% Chinatown Stakeholders Group, the activities on climate change through net after allowing for sales and the London Chinatown Chinese Association, reducing energy use throughout our transfer of the joint venture property to the Yellow Earth Theatre Company and portfolio and improving drainage to Longmartin.
address localised flooding issues, particularly where there are old Victorian water mains, as effectively as possible: 46 Shaftesbury PLC annual report 2010 corporate responsibility corporate responsibility Shaftes 10 AW Front Proof 6. qxp:Layout 3 22 12 10 12:11 Page 47 Key targets and progress in the year ended 30 September 2010 Set out below is a summary of progress against targets this year.
The full report is available on our website.
Targets Progress Continue to engage with key investors and benchmarking agencies Ongoing.
Continued membership of FTSE4Good and DJSI.
Ensure all refurbishment schemes above a specified capital value 85% of schemes achieved target of 26 40 on first visit: 100% of are registered with the considerate constructors scheme and schemes achieved target on second visit and overall the average continue to achieve 26 40 above a satisfactory score.
Aim to achieve a Very Good BREEAM score for the Longmartin Ongoing.
Continue to invest only in brownfield sites.
Continue to maximise the reuse of materials, especially timber, 36% of timber against a target of 50% has been confirmed as as part of the refurbishment process.
Where new timber needs sustainably sourced and a further 8% is likely be sustainably to be sourced aim to purchase a minimum of 50% from certified sourced though full chain of custody was not provided.
17% of timber against a target of 10% has been confirmed from FSC source.
Continue to monitor water use in Carnaby and Seven Dials and Ongoing.
investigate opportunities for installing water meters in the Berwick Street part of the portfolio.
Continue to monitor the waste management strategy for Carnaby 37% of tenants waste was diverted from landfill in Carnaby and and Seven Dials in order to encourage recycling by tenants.
Investigate options within Berwick Street for a central Under investigation.
Improve biodiversity through use of bird nesting boxes at Boxes installed in three locations which was our target for the year.
Promote initiatives in Chinatown to promote recycling.
Continue to support local community groups and be proactive Membership of the London Benchmarking Group and adoption of in mentoring charitable and other organisations and measuring their methodology for reporting community involvement this year.
Achieve zero reportable health and safety accidents incidents Zero reportable health and safety accidents incidents recorded throughout the portfolio.
within refurbishment projects and the managed portfolio.
47 Shaftesbury PLC annual report 2010 corporate responsibility Shaftes 10 AW Front Proof 6. qxp:Layout 3 22 12 10 12:11 Page 48 Objectives and targets for year ending 30 September 2011 Set out below is a summary of the key objectives and targets for the year ahead.
A full list of objectives is contained within the 2010-2011 Action Plan which is available on the Groups website.
Objectives Specific Targets Engage with stakeholders.
Continue to engage with investors and key benchmarking agencies as appropriate and maintain membership in the FTSE4Good and DJSI.
Engage and raise corporate responsibility awareness and Replace Tenants leaflet with a more detailed Sustainability Guide engagement with tenants.
for commercial tenants and develop a Sustainability Leaflet for residential tenants.
Continue to achieve 100% use and regeneration of 'brownfield' sites as our portfolio expands.
Monitor and where possible reduce energy consumption and Purchase green electricity where costs are within 5% of brown investigate opportunities for the use of renewable energy.
Aim for common parts normalised data to not exceed 0.1 tonnes 2 2 C0 m. Monitor and where possible minimise water consumption.
Continue to monitor water use in Seven Dials and Carnaby and 3 2 maintain current low usage of 0.05m m. Monitor and reduce waste from our managed properties.
Divert from landfill 80% of tenant generated waste at Carnaby, Seven Dials and Longmartin 70% of the portfolio.
Operate in an environmentally sustainable manner throughout Maintain BREEAM criteria for reuse of structure and facade in our activities.
100% of refurbishment i. e. a minimum of 50% of the facade and 80% of the primary structure reused.
Aim for BREEAM Very Good for the Longmartin development on completion.
Extend the useful life of buildings and improve their sustainability by raising the EPC rating of properties on refurbishment.
Timber to be sourced where possible from well managed sources Continue to maximise proportion of timber that is reused.
certified by third party certification bodies.
Source a minimum of 50% of all timber from certified sources and ensure all timber is legal.
Ensure all refurbishment schemes above a specified capital value Continue to achieve 26 40 above a satisfactory score.
are registered in the Considerate Constructors Scheme.
Improve biodiversity appropriate to the Groups urban location.
Design and install where feasible features to encourage appropriate urban wildlife.
Minimise adverse impacts on the environment during construction Continue to issue specification questionnaires to our teams.
through working with our project managers.
Ensure that a minimum of 80% water based paints are used to minimise air pollution.
Fully comply with all requirements of Health & Safety at Work Act Achieve zero reportable accident and incidents throughout 100% of 1974 for employees and those that may be affected by these the portfolio.
Continue to support local community groups and be proactive in Ongoing financial support to key charities and community support mentoring charitable and other organisations.
Continue membership of London Benchmarking Group and further develop benchmarking measurements for reporting.
The Group is measured against its objectives and targets and independently assessed by RPS.
Jonathan Lane Chief Executive 30 November 2010 48 Shaftesbury PLC annual report 2010 corporate responsibility Shaftes 10 AW Front Proof 6. qxp:Layout 3 22 12 10 12:11 Page 49 Laird 23 New Row Coliseum 49 Shaftesbury PLC annual report 2010 Shaftes 10 AW Front Proof 6. qxp:Layout 3 22 12 10 12:12 Page 50 Beijing Tong Ren Tang Shaftesbury Avenue 50 Shaftesbury PLC annual report 2010 Shaftes 10 AW Front Proof 6. qxp:Layout 3 22 12 10 12:13 Page 51 51 Shaftesbury PLC annual report 2010 Shaftes 10 AW Front Proof 6. qxp:Layout 3 22 12 10 12:13 Page 52 Orla Kiely Monmouth Street Seven Dials 52 Shaftesbury PLC annual report 2010
