34 CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Performance: Corporate Social Responsibility LOOKING AFTER CUSTOMERS, EMPLOYEES AND OUR COMMUNITIES The Group recognises the importance of managing In York, home to our international headquarters, the impact of its activities on the community and we have helped finance York City Football Club's the environment, and in doing so seeks to conduct Community Programme for the last four seasons.
its business in a professional, ethical and fair Elsewhere our Tamworth contact centre has manner with all stakeholders, including employees, supported Tamworth Athletic Club and other customers, Business Partners and suppliers.
sporting groups in the local community such as Our Corporate Social Responsibility framework cricket, football and rowing clubs.
The Group has is based on four key principles: more recently pledged its commitment to grass roots sporting clubs in the Chestereld and We are committed to supporting the community Altrincham areas.
and the environment in which we operate The Group supports the running, in the UK, of We will always seek to employ and train the competitions such as Young Sports Photographer best people for the job, ensuring that they of the Year and Young Sports Writer of the Year.
understand that we demand the upmost In addition, the Group and its employees have integrity in all internal and external dealings committed their time to supporting the North We endeavour to meet our customers, Business Yorkshire Business Education Partnership, which Partners and stakeholder expectations in a aims to foster closer links between business and responsible manner education, through a number of initiatives such as Green Grifns Nest, an inter-school competition We are committed to ensuring that the for students to devise a new way of enabling Supporting young business and its employees operate in a schools to make an ecological difference to their socially conscious way.
people in our local The community Help has been given to youth initiatives such as the CPP plays an active role in sponsoring initiatives Takeover Festival supported by the Arts Council communities is in the local communities in which it operates at Yorks Theatre Royal.
The Group has continued where possible.
Central to this is the support of its fundraising activities by the use of its contact important to us.
young people in the community via education centre in York for Children in Need.
Furthermore we programmes and sporting clubs.
have provided help to employees to give them the opportunity to fundraise and support local charities Eric Rhys Woolley where appropriate.
Chief Executive officer CPP and the community Three local sporting club members pictured with CPP employees getting ready to take calls on the Jon Hine, Chesterelds head of operations.
night for BBC Children In Need.
pdf 36 01 04 2011 14:17 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements CPPGroup Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 35 Operating review: Northern Europe Operating review: Southern Europe Operating review: North America Operating review: Asia Pacic Corporate Social Responsibility Financial review Overseas initiatives include support for Fraser, a The Group is committed to supporting the career Employees charitable organisation supporting special needs in planning for all of its employees and the annual The Group has placed an increasing amount of North America and support in Southern Europe for review process provides an opportunity for every focus on ensuring that engagement and motivation fundraising and donations to the earthquake appeal employee to discuss their personal aspirations and levels of our employees are sustained at a high in Haiti and other local causes.
what skills they would like to develop.
We also believe that strong business performance is built on the integrity and openness Environment Equal opportunities of our employees with customers, Business During the year, the Group has worked to develop The Group believes in equal opportunities for all Partners and suppliers.
an ethos of environmental responsibility.
Applications for employment are To achieve this we carry out a biannual Group our largest operation, initiatives have included: treated fairly and are based on merit, irrespective Employee Engagement survey that takes place of race, gender, religious belief, disability, age, Energy efficiency across the entire Group in local languages.
marital status and sexual orientation.
Year-on-year energy usage is falling in spite of The survey provides us with an insight into how business growth.
This is through working to ensure The Groups policy is to give full and fair people feel about working for the Group, their that our buildings, energy-management and consideration to applications for employment made relationship with their manager and, in the UK, monitoring systems are effective and efficient.
by disabled persons, taking into account their with valuable data on our employees attitudes particular aptitudes and abilities and the nature towards Treating Customers Fairly.
Action plans Minimising the use of paper of work involved.
Should an employee become are created at organisational, departmental and We continue to encourage customers, Business disabled, arrangements would be made, wherever manager levels to ensure that employee feedback Partners and suppliers to use on-line services as practicable, to enable them to continue their is central to improving performance.
employment within the Group, including the Paper represents a considerable area of provision of appropriate training where relevant.
Customers consumption for the Group and whilst there is a The fair treatment of our customers lies at need for the business to continue to use paper Health, safety and welfare the heart of what we do.
We have clearly for its communications, it has a policy for use The Group is committed to ensuring that communicated promises and through the Group's of recycled paper and double-sided printing in employees have a safe, healthy and pleasant Values this inuences key areas of our business.
In the UK, the Health 'Treating Customers Fairly' is critical for the UK, and Safety Committee, with the assistance of not only because we are regulated, but because Waste reduction and recycling external consultants, manages and monitors the it makes good business sense, helping to retain The UK operation recycles its general paper, effectiveness of its established Health and Safety satisfied customers for longer.
It also ensures cardboard and non-condential waste.
Health and Safety training that we deliver positive results for our Business Condential waste paper is shredded and, where initiatives have been in operation for some time.
Partners through incremental revenue generation possible, recycled.
We continue to aim to help employees to balance Redundant IT equipment is disposed of in line with their work and personal lives.
Flexible working is Training and development the UK Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment accommodated and in some instances is supported The Group is committed to the continual Directive 2007.
Printer cartridges and mobile through the use of remote technology.
Other development of its employees and offers a range phones are sent to recycling organisations at initiatives such as the Flexible Benets scheme of development courses that support employees the end of their useful lives.
allow employees to make choices on the provision throughout their career.
These range from initial of such items as pension provision, life assurance, Carbon footprint induction support, through to a range of core skills medical and dental cover and childcare vouchers.
The Group endeavours to reduce its own carbon modules and development programmes.
footprint whilst also encouraging its employees to reduce their own carbon footprint.
In the UK, we are encouraging employees to use public transport, cycle, walk or car-share instead of using their own vehicles.
