Employee benefits i Pensions the group operates a defined benefit pension scheme for certain employees which requires contributions to be made to a separate trustee administered fund.
the scheme was closed to new members on 30 June 2004. the liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the defined benefit pension scheme is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments for unrecognised past-service costs.
the defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit method.
the present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds that are denominated in sterling, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension liability.
the amounts charged to operating profit are any gains and losses on settlements and curtailments, and these are included as part of staff costs.
Past-service costs are recognised immediately in income, unless the changes to the pension scheme are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time the vesting period.
in this case, the past-service costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
the difference between the interest cost on plan liabilities and the expected return on plan assets is recognised in the income statement as other finance revenue or costs.
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to equity in the statement of comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.
the Group also operates a number of defined contribution schemes for employees under which contributions are paid into schemes managed by major insurance companies.
Contributions are calculated as a percentage of employees earnings and obligations for contributions to the schemes are recognised as cost of sales or operating expenses in the income statement in the period in which they arise.
ii Equity settled share based payments the Group operates a savings related share option scheme under which options have been granted to Group employees sAYe scheme.
in addition, the Group operates an executive share option scheme and a Long term incentive Plan LtiP for senior executives.
share options issued are exercisable subject to the attainment of certain market based and non-market based performance criteria.
the cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date on which they are granted and is recognised as an expense over the vesting period, which ends on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award.
Fair value is determined using the Black-scholes option pricing model.
in valuing equity-settled transactions, no account is taken of any service and performance vesting conditions, other than performance conditions linked to the price of the shares of the Company market conditions.
Any other conditions which are required to be met in order for an employee to become fully entitled to an award are considered to be non-vesting conditions.
Like market performance conditions, non-vesting conditions are taken into account in determining the grant date fair value.
no expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance or service conditions are satisfied.
At each balance sheet date before vesting, the cumulative expense is calculated: representing the extent to which the vesting period has expired and managements best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest.
the movement in cumulative expense since the previous balance sheet date is recognised in the income statement, with a corresponding entry in equity.
PAGe 60 | CRANSWICK plc RePoRt & ACCoUnts 2010
