Co R P o R At e s o C i A L ResPonsiBiLitY stAtement Cranswick take its responsibilities to employees, customers, shareholders and the environment very seriously.
the Company increasingly recognises that a balanced and committed approach to all aspects of Corporate social Responsibility will bring benefits to each of the Companys stakeholders and will strengthen its business position and credentials to facilitate future sustainable growth and development.
Workplace the Group aims to recruit, train and retain employees who are the business takes the health and safety of its employees valued for their contribution and able to fulfil their potential in very seriously and is committed to high levels of training meeting the business objectives of the Company.
the Group to ensure that all factories and processes remain safe and companies each have their own strategies for retaining staff, fulfilling places in which to work.
overall accident rates have including the provision of competitive terms and conditions, shown a decrease over the past five years.
An industry leading share options and a challenging and stimulating working web based accident recording system allows the Company environment.
to be reactive to all incidents, monitoring and implementing actions to prevent recurrence.
the Company employs 4,138 permanent members of staff compared with 3,349 the previous year excluding the Total Accidents per 100,000 employees discontinued pet division : the increase reflecting the acquisition 20,000 of CCF norfolk, in addition to the natural growth of the 18,000 other sites as production levels increase.
Agency personnel 16,000 are used to supplement these levels at an average of around 14,000 40 per cent of permanent manning levels.
Careful auditing 12,000 of the supplying agencies is carried out to ensure adherence 10,000 to best practice and to see that they are registered under 8,000 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 the Gangmasters Licensing Act 2004.
PAGe 41 | CRANSWICK plc RePoRt & ACCoUnts 2010 training is provided both to all full time employees and any Environment temporary or agency workers.
All undertake a full health and environmental progress at site and Group level is measured safety induction course, together with training in manual and reported to the Board against performance benchmarks handling, Fire, and First Aid regulations.
the Company for energy efficiency, water usage, and landfill, relative to provides in-house courses including Accident investigation, production tonnage.
Risk Assessment, and manual handling and source other nine of the sites are covered by Climate Change Agreements, training requirements externally.
in 2010 11, the Company and they have consistently achieved the target reductions will focus on Behavioural safety management training for in carbon emissions per tonne of product since the scheme supervisors and managers.
was introduced in 2001. the impending Carbon Reduction health and safety is reviewed regularly at Board level, with Commitment may have a small impact on the parts of the the Group health & safety manager attending quarterly Group not caught by the existing Climate Change Levy.
Board meetings to present his report to Directors.
this report Progress in reducing the carbon footprint has continued since includes accident statistics, and pro-active and re-active the initial benchmarking in 2007. the overall reduction in ongoing projects to further enhance the standards of health the Groups defined footprint remains at 11 per cent over and safety in the business.
two years against a three year target of 15 per cent, falling each site has a dedicated full time health & safety Co-ordinator, from just over 0.36 tonnes of carbon per tonne of product who is trained to neBoshh standards with staff appropriate to below 0.33 tonnes.
they take local responsibility for health Further reductions in the Companys carbon footprint are & safety, carrying out such tasks as accident investigation, risk anticipated through the replacement of older refrigeration assessments, training, and safety tours under the guidance systems, with more environmentally friendly systems, to of two Group health & safety Co-ordinators who report to increase efficiencies and reduce the potential for leakage.
the Group health and safety manager.
the Group is fully compliant with legislative constraints of sites are internally audited to ensure that standards are the f-Gas Regulations and the phase out of older hCFC maintained and improved and the Groups insurers carry out gases such as R22.
their own external health and safety audits across all sites Landfill waste reduction has continued, and is down over and confirm that there are excellent standards of health & 20 per cent since 2007 with recycling and the increased safety in the Group.
availability of waste to energy outlets.
one site now has the Group has committed to accredit all operating sites local access to an anaerobic digestion plant which will to meet the British standard 18001 occupational health potentially reduce its landfill by between 70 and 80 per and safety management systems and the Company is one cent in the coming year.
year into this three year project, and on course to complete the Groups process water usage continues to be reported in 2011. under the FhC2020 agreement, with individual site initiatives the Company is currently co-ordinating the business approach to reduce usage.
A reverse osmosis unit installed at the to socially Responsible trading in order to provide a forum milton Keynes site has reduced boiler water usage by 6 per to share ethical knowledge and learning across the Group.
cent with the further benefit of reducing corrosion in the All manufacturing sites are registered on the seDeX scheme cooker installation.
Work to improve effluent quality through database to enable customers and suppliers to view the microbiological pre-treatment is ongoing at several sites to ethical standards and two of Cranswicks largest sites are ensure that consent limits are met and to reduce treatment already subject to independent ethical audit.
it is the aim to costs from water companies.
extend this initiative to all sites.
PAGe 42 | CRANSWICK plc RePoRt & ACCoUnts 2010 Four of the ten operating sites are now of sufficient size to Companys satisfaction.
the approval of raw material suppliers require permits under the integrated Pollution and Prevention is centrally controlled and involves independent third party Control regulation.
two of these sites are also fully certified audit or approval by the Group technical services team.
under the international standard for environmental management, Cranswick is committed to clear informative labelling which iso14001.
the Groups participation in the Carbon Disclosure allows consumers to make informed purchasing decisions.
net and the Forest Footprint Disclosure Cranswicks development has been focussed on the British Project continues.
pig market and the Group has always been a staunch the Cranswick plc website www.
co. uk has been supporter of British farming.
the acquisition of CCF norfolk expanded to cover the environmental initiatives that have has strengthened the Companys position in the British pig been introduced under the Greenthinking banner.
Producer groups and development initiatives with Company encourages an open approach to these issues, retailers, farmers and agricultural colleges are all aimed and a question and answer element and contact facilities at improving business relationships throughout the pig are provided to help interested parties find the appropriate production chain to bolster the market against increasing detail at the desired level.
some 70 per cent of contracted pigs are sourced from within Yorkshire, Lincolnshire & Market place norfolk which are recognised as being some of the best pig As a food company Cranswick recognises its responsibilities breeding areas in the UK.
of these, approximately 40 per to create and produce products which are safe, legal and cent will be sourced from within 25 miles, 60 per cent within wholesome.
the food production sites are of modern design 40 miles, and 70 per cent within 50 miles of Cranswicks and well invested and operate to a high standard of food pork processing units in hull and norfolk.
As a result of safety, process control, hygiene and housekeeping.
All the sites the acquisition of CCF norfolk food miles are significantly are independently audited against the BRC Global standard reduced.
Pigs which are transported from further afield are for Food safety and have a consistent record of achieving done so using transporters equipped with drinkers and air Grade A compliance against this exacting standard which ventilators.
All hauliers are members of independently audited is recognised as a performance benchmark for the industry.
and certified welfare assurance schemes.
the customer base is heavily focused on the major UK Grocery the Group does not have a formal policy with regard to Retailers, Restaurant Groups and Food service Companies.
payment of suppliers, but it does agree individual payment in addition products for further processing are supplied to terms appropriate to the supplier market sector and makes other food producers.
the sites and their food safety and every endeavour to meet those agreements.
sites are separately quality management systems are constantly assessed by managed and encouraged to source locally where it serves customers for compliance with their own specific policies.
the Company also has in place a robust system of internal Business continuity depends on the effective management audits to ensure that sites continue to operate in compliance of crisis situations.
each of the sites has a crisis management with the standards expected by customers, third party auditing team in place which is centrally coordinated and guided by bodies and enforcement authorities, and this system is a key the Groups crisis management procedures.
to ensure that driver in maintaining the excellent record of compliance.
these procedures remain robust, a simulated crisis event is Key to all food claims is ensuring that the raw materials used staged annually utilising the expertise of a specialist crisis meat, ingredients and packaging are traceable to source management company, with all outcomes and learning and where raw materials are identity preserved, the supplier shared across the Group.
will be challenged to prove their traceability systems to the PAGe 43 | CRANSWICK plc RePoRt & ACCoUnts 2010 Food safety will always be of paramount importance, and Summary well qualified and experienced technical teams are in place at the Group has made real progress towards all targets during site level which are centrally co-ordinated across the Group to the year.
the Greenthinking programme and other Group share best practice and ensure that all products and processes wide initiatives are delivering tangible reductions in energy, meet the increasing demands of customers.
water and waste usage which will benefit the environment Community and the local communities in which the Group operates.
the Company will continue to focus on employee welfare All sites are encouraged to participate in charitable activities through training programmes, health and safety initiatives including sponsored marathons, cycle rides and other fund and by ensuring that the facilities in which they operate are raising activities.
overall, some 75 per cent of employees live maintained to the highest standards.
within 10 miles of their place of work, so local involvement, particularly in rural locations, can be very beneficial.
By order of the Board When sites undergo development and expansion there is always a consideration of environmental and community impact.
the redevelopment of the hull pork processing Malcolm Windeatt facility has been designed to reduce odour and noise, and Company Secretary incorporates systems for additional heat recovery and reduced 24 may 2010 water usage.
new roads have been put in to relieve traffic flow into the outskirts of the village and acres of trees have been planted to reduce the visual impact of the site.
improvements to the drainage systems at the norfolk site have been made to reduce the danger of contamination to local water courses.
PAGe 4 4 | CRANSWICK plc RePoRt & ACCoUnts 2010
