Directors report | Business review Corporate Social Responsibility Introduction Our corporate mission statement, the 2010 has been another successful year Croda Vision, describes our culture and for Croda and we have sustained year on underpins our approach to CSR.
In 2010, year growth in both market capitalisation we have continued our commitment to and profit.
Our long term strategy has excellent and constant communication been both informed by, and enabled with Our Partners in supplier, NGO and further investment in, all aspects of our customer collaborations that secure the Corporate Social Responsibility CSR sustainability and safety of our products.
programme which is central to our We have continued to be an ethical and business.
responsible company by reducing the In previous years we have used this impact of our operations on Our World section of our Annual Report to describe with a focus on energy efficiency and a our approach to Safety, Health and the new emphasis on the use of non-fossil Environment SHE and the targets we energy.
We have continued to improve set ourselves to measure our progress our commitment to Our Neighbours by in these areas.
However, we recognise rolling out our community investment that being an ethical and responsible programme, the 1% Club, to cover each business encompasses a wider range of our 17 manufacturing sites worldwide.
Accordingly, we are including We have also shown that all functions this expanded CSR section in our Annual and individuals are valued, investing in Report for the first time in addition to Our People by developing a university publishing our fourth full CSR Report.
By accredited new manager training including CSR in our Annual Report we programme and a global HR system that hope to meet the growing demand for will ensure all of our global team have transparency and social reporting from access to an annual appraisal.
a wider range of stakeholders than ever Throughout this section you will read before.
more about our progress against the CSR CSR in Croda is organised around the four targets we set ourselves for 2010 and Pillars of Corporate Social Responsibility details of the targets we have set forOur Partners, Our People, Our Neighbours 2011, along with case studies highlighting and Our World.
Our approach to the four how CSR and our Vision are embedded in Pillars is managed by a cross-functional our business.
For more information on the Steering Committee, comprising of senior issues discussed, please read our 2010 managers from a range of functions CSR Report or visit www.
across all of the regions in which we operate.
13 Group Chief Executive Statement However, today a broader assessment Croda was founded 86 years ago and needs to be made of the overall a responsible and ethical approach to sustainability of our products.
This business has always been part of its includes the incorporation of intelligent ethos.
design, water usage and carbon footprint.
We develop, manufacture and sell Energy usage is another challenging speciality chemicals and it is essential that area as the Company continues to grow.
our customers, investors, employees and 2010 saw the continuing trend for Croda neighbours are confident that we operate to move away from large volume, high responsibly.
This has Crodas business strategy is to develop reduced our overall energy consumption.
speciality chemical products to supply However, our Vision states that we will market sectors which need innovation, continually improve and in response show strong long term growth and to this challenge Croda is developing are global in nature.
This strategy has new chemistries to achieve the effects consistently delivered strong financial our customers seek with reduced results.
The challenge for Croda is to achieve These improvements have been achieved this growth while operating responsibly by Crodas skilled and dedicated global with regard to the environment and our team working in collaboration with our many stakeholders.
One element of our customers and suppliers.
In 2010 we CSR policy states that we will minimise have also continued to develop close any negative impact on the environment relationships with Our Neighbours that might be associated with our and I am particularly pleased with the operations or our products, searching out science outreach programme, involving new ways to conserve natural resources educational institutions close to our and innovating to improve our products manufacturing sites around the world, and processes.
A number of specific that will hopefully create the next challenges have emerged over recent generation of Croda employees.
Meeting the challenges of Corporate Safety personal, product and process Social Responsibility is fundamental to has always been Crodas highest priority.
Croda achieving its business objectives.
I We are an established leader in process am confident Croda is heading in the right safety and are fully compliant with the direction.
European Unions Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation & restriction of Chemicals REACh legislation, which ensures product safety.
However, I am disappointed in Mike Humphrey our personal safety performance in 2010, Group Chief Executive which will be an area for focus in 2011.
We seek to develop products that are as natural as possible but need to balance this with product efficacy.
In 2010, 68% of Crodas raw materials came from renewable resources.
14 Directors report | Business review Corporate Social Responsibility Our Partners As consumers become ever more Every day, consumers benefit from the environmentally aware, the demand for thousands of day-to-day products in responsibly sourced products increases.
which Croda ingredients are used.
We We help our customers satisfy this achieve this through interaction with demand by constantly innovating new In 2010, 68% of many partners.
Our suppliers help to products with proven efficacy and with a ensure that we source renewable raw the raw materials strong basis in renewable raw materials.
Our we purchased came customers work with us to develop Climate Change from renewable products that consumers want.
Official Concern for climate change is part of bodies provide guidance on the sources Croda being an ethical and responsible regulations that allow our business to company in the modern world.
NGOs help us to understand and constantly seeking ways to minimise continually improve the environmental the negative impact of our operations performance and inherent safety of our by investing in improvements to our products.
We are also In 2010, we set two objectives that a continuing member of the Carbon encapsulated the key issues addressed in Disclosure Project.
These were In 2010, we have worked with partners Responsible Sourcing and Climate Change.
from the School of Analytical Chemistry at the University of Manchester, UK, in Responsible Sourcing developing a Product Carbon Footprinting Being able to responsibly and securely PCF tool, C-CaLC.
The tool is free to UK source the raw materials we require to industry and will enable cradle-to-gate make our products is key to the long PCF assessment at more than half of our term sustainability of our business.
In global manufacturing sites by 2012.
Fully 2010, we have continued to work with understanding the carbon footprint of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm our processes and our contribution to the Oil RSPO in developing guidelines for life cycle of individual products will help quantifying palm oil derivative usage in us to address the analysis needs of our order to support sustainable palm oil.
We customers and support our own process have also worked towards the certification optimisation and energy reduction plans.
TM TM of our Incromega and Omelife fish oil derivatives to the International Fishmeal and Fish Oil Organisations IFFO Responsible Sourcing audit standard, which is the first to cover the entire supply chain.
We expect to receive full accreditation in 2011.
In 2011, we will implement Product Carbon Footprinting of key technologies in the majority of our manufacturing sites 15... all leaders will have as their primary objective Our People to build other In 2010, we also had a target of Our business success depends on our leaders delivering an average of 21 hours training ability to attract and retain individuals per employee.
Through a combination who are passionate about personal and of internal and external training courses, business growth and want to make a webinars, one-to-one coaching, significant contribution to the future of sponsored further education and distance Croda.
We recognise our employees learning we have exceeded this target.
want to make a difference and through We have increased this target to 22 hours open and honest dialogue we are In 2010, Croda per employee for 2011. able to design reward strategies and provided over development opportunities that meet the Openness of Communication individual needs of our global workforce.
93,000 hours of The objectives we set with Our People training to our We have continued to monitor our could not be achieved without excellent commitment to Our People with a and constant communication with our global number of objectives, two of which are employees.
We utilise many forms workforce discussed below.
You can read more of communication in engaging with about these and our other Our People our employees and in 2010, all of our objectives in our full 2010 CSR Report.
manufacturing sites and large commercial offices have held communication sessions Employee Development with more than six sessions on average.
We value all the individuals that make up These sessions have enabled senior our global team and in 2010 extensive leaders to keep employees informed, work was undertaken in the area of engaged and focused on business performance appraisals.
Croda Aspire, goals, whilst also providing a forum for a Company wide performance appraisal employee feedback.
system which has personal and career In 2011, we will continue to monitor development at its core, was launched engagement, targeting to hold at least this year and it is envisaged that by 2013 two employee communications sessions all employees will be appraised through at each of our manufacturing sites and the new process.
Our intention is to focus on sharing best practice around the Group before extending our targets further.... all functions and individuals are valued Crodas operation in Thane, India, is an example of Group best practice in occupational health checks, having provided checks for over 95% of employees and 154 contractors in 2010.
The company also provided first aid training to 100 employees, members of their families and teachers at a local school.
16 We will continue to be an ethical and responsible company After refurbishment of Crodas sales office in South Africa and the closure of the offices at the Wilton Centre, UK, some of the sites furniture was no longer required.
Employees at each of the sites identified charities Waste to Wonder, Little Eden and Abraham Kriel and donated the furniture to them.
Employees at Crodas offices in Argentina have worked with customers and a local recycling company in 2010 to start a programme of packaging recycling.
Through the initiative, over US $6,000 has been raised and used to fund a number of projects with a neighbouring charity, Fundacin Nordelta.
17 Directors report | Business review Corporate Social Responsibility Community Involvement Our Neighbours Community involvement provides value Community engagement is recognised to our employees, our business and to the as an important activity and one that is local communities in which we operate.
valued at all levels of our Company.
Not only does the business see the value that Our involvement in the community not formal community engagement plans can only highlights the commitment we deliver, but our global team also takes make to Our Neighbours but also acts pride in the communities in which Croda to generate significant goodwill that can operates and looks for the business to be advantageous to our business.
This support them in community activities.
It commitment is most clearly illustrated is this balance between the satisfaction through the employee volunteering of community and business needs that initiative that we started in 2003, the 1% ensures our approach is both relevant for Club.
our local communities and a sustainable part of our business now and in the During 2010 we completed the future.
implementation of the 1% Club at all of our global manufacturing sites, enabling Our commitment to the community is every one of our 3,200 employees around focused around three objectives.
the world to spend time actively involved in their communities.
We completed Openness of Communication 4,157 hours of community activity, a Formal and informal communication nine-fold increase on 2009.
This with Our Neighbours has always been impressive first year saw 295 individuals, an important activity for Croda.
It is not or over 9% of our global workforce, always easy to undertake but it does accessing the scheme.
allow for the identification of issues and opportunities on which both the business Community Education and the local community can act.
As a business with established expertise In 2010, we carried out a survey at our in the areas of science, engineering manufacturing sites and sales offices to and technology, our activities with local identify the stakeholders that matter to schools, colleges and universities have our business in the communities with always been an important element of our whom we interact.
In 2011, using the engagement with local communities.
results of the survey, we will continue to In 2011, we will further our commitment engage with Our Neighbours, focusing to community education by developing our efforts on the stakeholder groups regional science-led programmes where common to our sites and offices around we have significant R&D activity, namely the world.
the UK, Holland, USA, France, Brazil, Singapore, India and Japan.
The aim of this project will be to deliver enhanced and coordinated training to junior managers and graduate trainees who will implement regional STEM projects with In 2010, Croda local educational facilities.
employees gave more than 4,150 hours of their working time to help good causes in their local area 18 Directors report | Business review Corporate Social Responsibility Energy Consumption Our World Energy consumption is a crucial issue The challenge that any business faces for businesses as the cost of energy in addressing environmental issues is continues to rise and concerns for climate balancing the changing needs of the change remain in the public eye.
We business as it grows with the efficient use cannot power our business without of resources and minimising its impact on energy and so it is important that we the environment.
By 2015 we aim remain committed to reducing the energy Following the acquisition of Uniqema consumption of our operations, a goal to source at least in 2006, we set a number of targets that will be achieved by setting clear 25% of the Groups to measure our Safety, Health and objectives for energy efficiency.
2010 energy requirements Our manufacturing sites have made marks the end of the post acquisition from non-fossil fuel considerable reductions in their total target period.
As such, this year is energy usage, with a 7.5% decrease sources a pertinent time to reflect on our against 2006 levels.
However, the total performance in SHE areas and contrast product output volumes at the end them against our financial results.
of 2010 were 16.6% lower than the Consumption of energy, water and 2006 baseline.
As a result, we did not disposal of waste to landfill are issues meet the four year target we set for that are of material significance to our energy reduction per tonne of product business and the wider environment.
manufactured, largely due to the By contrasting the yearly progress in changing nature of our product mix as we these metrics from operations at the integrated the Uniqema business.
end of each respective year against our annual profits over the target period, it In the future we intend to maintain our can clearly be seen that as our business focus on energy consumption and in has become significantly more profitable, 2011 we will begin to measure total we have also successfully reduced our energy consumption as well as energy environmental impact.
We believe that these metrics, taken together, Contrasting Annual Group Profit against Environmental Performance will better reflect our energy usage and 200 8000 will target a further 5% reduction of total 180 7000 energy consumption by 2015.
The following examples illustrate the our total CO 2 efforts Croda is making to minimise its emissions by over environmental impact.
20,000 tonnes and our water consumption by 3 over 800,000 m by 2015 19 Profit million 3 Total Energy TJ Total Water x10,000m Total Waste tonnes Water Our personal safety performance in 2010 Water scarcity is an important issue was disappointing and as a starting point to address when considering the we would like to reduce the injury rate environmental impact of our operations.
to be at least better than the average By continually developing our processes for the countries and industry in which and investing in new technologies that we operate.
We believe that a target minimise the amount of water we use, injury rate of 0.2 accidents per 100,000 we play our part in ensuring that water hours worked can be achieved by our is available for agricultural and domestic employees and is a level we have purposes.
We recognise Despite reducing our consumption of that this target will not be easy to achieve potable water by 12.6% based on 2006 and considerable effort will be required levels, we have not achieved our four on the part of management and the year target for consumption of potable workforce to improve safety awareness water per manufactured tonne.
Again, Since 2006 we have and culture.
the changing nature of our product mix reduced our waste Waste Disposal and the reduction in tonnage output has to landfill by 22.7%.
had a significant impact on our ability to In 2006, we committed to reduce the do so.
Although we are disappointed to quantities of waste we disposed to In 2010, five of our have missed our target, we are pleased landfill.
We recognised that landfill manufacturing sites to have decreased the total volume of is an unsustainable form of waste generated zero water we use.
Overall, our consumption management and so set a target to of water has reduced by 2.9% since 2006 reduce waste to landfill kg tonne waste to landfill and we intend to continue this trend manufactured by 5% per year 20% through further recycling and process overall by the end of 2010. modifications at our manufacturing sites, At the end of the 2006 to 2010 with a target of a further 10% reduction improvement period, our manufacturing by 2015. sites had surpassed the target we set, Personal Safety having reduced waste to landfill per tonne by 22.7%.
We were also particularly Our commitment in 2010 was to achieve pleased that over this period five of our a reduction in the frequency of injuries at manufacturing sites sent absolutely no our manufacturing sites and commercial waste to landfill.
From 2011, we have set a Group target of At the end of 2010 we did not manage a further 20% reduction over the next five to achieve the reduction in accident rates years, based on the performance in 2010. that we targeted and actually saw a slight We will also begin to measure absolute increase to 0.32 2009: 0.25 accidents waste in addition to waste per tonne per 100,000 hours.
Although we have in order to give a more comprehensive missed our target, it is worth noting that picture of our performance.
very few of the accidents sustained in 2010 were of a serious nature or related to chemical handling.
Most injuries recorded in the last year were due to manual handling, slips, trips, falls or collisions with objects.
However, we believe that all accidents are preventable and are encouraged that accidents continue to be properly reported so that their causes may be identified and appropriately addressed.
