8 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 Our people WE RESPECT WE VALUE OUR PEOPLE AND ARE STRONGER TOGETHER People development Employee survey Our aim is to attract and retain the We conducted two employee surveys in 2007 and 2009 to get best staff, treat everyone fairly and with respect and to help all our the views of all our staff on a range of areas including: strategy people develop their potential.
and leadership: values and corporate responsibility: customers We have introduced a talent and quality: learning, development and teamwork: well being and scheme that helps us identify staff recognition: and workplace environment.
Within this framework who have the potential to do a bigger or different job.
We give these we are particularly interested in measuring employee engagement people a range of support including through questions around satisfaction, pride, referral and mentoring from senior colleagues.
commitment and this comprises a key performance indicator for As well as developing our leaders of tomorrow we recognise us as we measure our We Respect value see page 4 the importance of continuing to develop our leaders of today.
To help We are pleased that the 2009 survey resulted in a 10% increase us achieve this we ran a series of in the response rate to 77%.
The overall employee engagement bespoke three-day value leadership courses for our top 150 senior score improved by 6% and was 7% better than the UK average.
Over the course of the Furthermore, the percentage of overall favourable responses last year we have also introduced increased by 10%.
We Respect is a core value for us and we are competency-based frameworks for committed to further improving results in the next survey, which staff working as part of our marketing, commercial and supply chain teams.
is planned for October 2010 This year, as part of our drive to find better and more practical ways of learning we will be putting new and more courses online as part of our Staff at our Yeovil depot successfully completed a e-learning programme.
This initiative Health and Safety NVQ follows in the footsteps of our online induction programme which is already available to all staff.
Across many of our sites we have also organised English lessons for staff where English is their second language.
As well as providing staff with the opportunity to take part in shorter training courses, a growing number of staff are studying for a foundation degree in dairy processing and manufacturing at Reaseheath, Shropshire which takes three years to complete.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 9 Rewarding success Communications As the UKs leading dairy foods Communication is crucial to the company we want all of our staff to success of any company, and Dairy benefit from our success.
To help Crest is no exception.
To help improve us realise this we have extended our our communication channels we have bonus schemes to a greater number introduced a new intranet that all staff of staff and we aim to include all staff can access at work or from home.
in a bonus scheme in the future.
In The intranet, called the gardens, 2009 we also invited all UK staff to complements the bespoke staff participate in our three-year sharesave briefings, a senior manager roadshow scheme.
conference, newsletters, face-toBeing valued and recognised at face surgeries, table talkers, posters work is important at Dairy Crest.
To and monthly Mark Lunches where ensure we do this to the best of our members of staff can meet and pose ability we launched a brand new reward questions to Mark Allen, the Groups and recognition scheme in January Chief Executive.
Staff can also email 2009, which gives staff the opportunity Mark directly with ideas or queries via of nominating colleagues for an award.
As well as celebrating individual We will be carrying out our third achievements we also introduced a employee survey in October 2010 to team of the year award, which was get the views of our staff on the group Jason Edney was this years gold award winner won by staff from our factory at Chard and how it has moved over the last for developing and launching a retailer two years.
powder pouch to replace existing packaging, which saved hundreds of tonnes of cardboard.
Diversity and inclusion Pension scheme At Dairy Crest we are committed At times companies have to make very to providing an inclusive working tough decisions and over the course environment where everyone of last year we closed the Groups feels valued and respected.
We final salary pension scheme to future recognise that people from different accrual and invited the schemes backgrounds, experiences and members to join our very competitive abilities can bring fresh ideas and defined contribution stakeholder innovations to improve our working pension scheme.
This decision practices and business, delivering affected 3,000 staff and was done commercial benefit and ultimately following a full and open consultation shareholder value.
To help us achieve with staff and trade unions.
Clear, this we have set up a staff diversity straightforward communication and steering group which will be charged a willingness to change following with taking a leading role in shaping feedback helped ensure that this was the future of our company.
implemented with little adverse effect on our relationship with our people.
