Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 31 Business review | Corporate Responsibility CR WE CARE WE ACT RESPONSIBLY WITH A PASSION TO DO THE RIGHT THING An integrated approach to Corporate Responsibility Dairy Crest is a responsible business.
During the past year, the work we have done in developing our corporate Vision and Values has helped us demonstrate our commitment to doing the right thing.
Corporate responsibility is integrated within our business model and increasingly affects the way we do business.
Along with many other businesses we have adopted the CR model set out by Business in the Community BITC and have broken down our strategy into four key areas: environment, community, workplace and marketplace.
These relate directly to our corporate values, we listen, we respect, we care, we create and we lead.
Business review 32 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 Business review | Corporate Responsibility continued This section sets out some of our key commitments, targets and progress for the year Commitments 2009 10 Targets Progress on 2009 10 Targets Workplace Develop inspiring leaders 10% improvement in 10% improvement achieved Employee Engagement Index Increase the safety of Accident Incident Rate below Accident Incident Rate 2015 per 100,000 our employees 1,775 per 100,000 employees Below target but 36% reduction Community Our employees to support 300,000 to be raised Over 450,000 raised and raise money for by employees Macmillan Cancer Support Marketplace Offer quality low fat choices: Country Life Spreadable Lighter 15% of total brand volume Overall 13% of brand volume achieved Clover Lighter Cathedral City Lighter 1% Milk 12.2 million litres Achieved target Engagement with partners Sign up our top On-going discussions with suppliers within the supply chain 10 suppliers to an with view to applying the policy to to drive continuous environmental ethical significantly more suppliers improvement to health and supply policy environmental credentials Environment Reduce CO2 emissions 3% reduction 8% reduction achieved Reduce water usage 3% reduction 9% over 3 years A further 1% achieved in year 2 following an 8% reduction last year Reduce waste to landfill 10% reduction 14% reduction in landfill achieved More information will be available on our online Corporate Responsibility report including our targets for 2010 11 to be published in summer 2010 http: investor.
co. uk  Workplace for example we have established an Communications The safety and wellbeing of our staff is our NVQ Carrying and Delivering Goods To help improve communication across top priority.
programme in our Household division.
our business we have introduced a new We are also pleased to have achieved the intranet called the gardens that all staff Safety status of being a recognised driver-training can access at work and from home.
This In 2009 10 we continued to work towards provider, which means we are able to innovative development complements the our three-year target set in 2007 to train staff who drive for our company on a other traditional communication methods reduce our Accident Incident Rate AIR professional basis.
we use including, face-to-face meetings, to below the food and drink industry Finally, to ensure that safety doesnt our staff magazine and monthly Mark average and reduce the number of days just stop with our staff we have signed Lunches where staff can ask Mark Allen lost from accidents by 10%.
We came up to the safer contractor scheme any questions they like.
Staff can also close to the AIR target of less than 1775 which is a leading UK contractor safety email Mark directly with ideas or queries achieving 2015, which still represents a accreditation scheme.
36% reduction over the last 12 months and we reduced the number of days Wellbeing We will be carrying out our third employee we lost through accidents by 54%.
Our As the wellbeing of our staff is important survey in October 2010 to get the views success was based on introducing a we have launched a three-year of our staff and we will be responding to comprehensive think safe, act safe, be occupational health strategy that includes: what they tell us.
Running regular health and well-being Next year we will be introducing a promotions across the business Our people new online health and safety learning Giving all staff over the age of 40 the We employ approximately 7,000 people induction programme and we will begin opportunity to have a free health check across the business.
We aim to attract and the next phase of our behavioural safety Completing health surveillance checks retain the best people, treat everyone with programme.
appropriate to job roles respect and help all our people develop With hundreds of commercial Creating a wellbeing section on our their potential.
We discuss our people and vehicles and professional drivers we have intranet developments further in pages 8 to 9. introduced a number of initiatives aimed at Helping our employees get back into reducing the number of vehicle accidents, work sooner following illness or injury Dairy Crest Annual Report 2010 33 Community Reducing waste to landfill impact in Sainsburys, Morrisons, and As we grow we are committed to looking Our overall aim is to have zero waste going Waitrose with the combined volume after our people and the communities to landfill by 2015 where this is proven to exceeding 18 million litres.
This year we where we work.
have started to roll out 1% milk across our Household business.
Our staff charity Macmillan We continue to focus on reducing the solid As we are committed to seeking out Thanks to the superb fundraising efforts wastes that result from our operations and and implementing the best and most of our staff since April 2009, we have so where waste is unavoidable we will look for hygenic manufacturing practices possible far raised over 450,000 for Macmillan ways of diverting it from landfill by reusing we have given ourselves the target of Cancer Support, greatly exceeding and recycling it.
Within our household having all of our sites accredited to the our 2009 target of 300,000.
Through depot operations we now recycle plastic Quality Management System ISO 9001 by joint marketing and helping with their and cardboard at all depots.
2011. awareness campaigns the charity valued At our manufacturing sites we have We continue to have dialogue with the our partnership in the first twelve months appointed a new waste management Food Standards Agency regarding their at over 500,000. company to remove our wastes and targets for nutritional dietary improvement are working closely with them to ensure and we were happy to play a leading role Our community plan that landfill is minimised.
In 2009 10 we in their recent healthy eating campaign.
In So that we make a real and positive recycled in excess of 3,500 tonnes of particular, we have agreed to reduce salt impact in the local communities where we waste material.
We achieved an overall in our cheese where this can be achieved operate we have introduced a new local average recycle rate of 48% and aim to without adverse impact on product quality.
community plan that focuses on improving increase this to 70% in 2010 11.
In the last During the course of the year we have also health and education and supports quarter of 2009 10 three production sites completed the removal of trans fatty acids farming-related good causes through paid achieved a recycling rate of over 90%.
from our range of branded spreads.
We are a signatory of the Courtauld We have supported both the IGD and The plan is run by 24 local community agreement and this year we also signed Dairy UK proposals for declaring Guideline committees representing each of our up to Courtauld 2.
Our Courtauld targets Daily Amounts on packs as the most places of work and we have given each of and our work with WRAPs Love Food sensible means of providing consumers them responsibility for their own budget Hate Waste campaign are outlined in with meaningful information on nutritional and for the decisions they make.
our online CR report to be published in status.
Environment Finally we now include 10% recycled Ethical sourcing We recognise that all of the decisions material in all of our plastic milk bottles Over the course of 2009 10 we introduced we take have an impact on the wider and JUGIT uses 75% less packaging than a bespoke ethical supply policy and gave environment we all share.
As an organisation a standard 2 pint bottle.
ourselves the initial target of signing up it is essential that we act responsibly and 10 of our key suppliers.
Although we are to the highest standards possible.
Minimising milk losses during slightly behind schedule with achieving processing this over the course of next year we will be Reducing CO2 Chemical Oxygen Demand COD is a looking at extending our policy to a further Over the past year we have continued to measure of concentration of waste organic 50 suppliers.
work with the Carbon Trust on a Carbon materials in effluent.
We measure COD We are aiming to source our palm oil Management plan which takes our carbon as an indicator of milk loss during our from environmentally sustainable sources.
reduction targets out to 2020. processing activities.
Some loss during To help us achieve this we have joined the Since 2002 03 we have reduced our cleaning is unavoidable but we aim at Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil.
CO2 emissions per tonne of raw milk minimising this.
Improvements of over 40% processed by 34% with an 8% reduction have been seen since 2002 03 although Improving relationships with our dairy in the last year and aim to save a further the last year has been slightly adverse farmers 3% in 2010 11. due, in part, to improved sampling of high We have around 1,350 direct suppliers Over the course of this year we will fat effluents.
We aim to focus on reversing providing us with 70% of our total milk be installing two biomass boilers at our this trend in 2010 11 with a year-on-year requirements.
A strong relationship with creamery in Davidstow which, once up improvement target of 3%.
our farmers is fundamental to our business and running, will deliver a 12% reduction in as we work to capture new market our carbon emissions by 2012.
Marketplace opportunities and improve efficiencies.
Making our products healthier Our aim is to continue to develop and Reducing water usage Our vision includes a commitment enhance this relationship with our Following last years 8% saving in water to providing consumers with healthy, suppliers and to find new ways of working used per tonne of milk processed this year enjoyable, convenient products.
The progress we have made we achieved a further 1% reduction this commitment we have developed against this objective is set out in the Milk we have, therefore, achieved our target Country Life Spreadable Lighter, Cathedral Procurement report on pages 29 and 30. of a 9% saving over three years, a year City Lighter, Clover Lighter and 1% milk.
early, leading to an annual saving of more We are pleased to report significant sales than 300,000 cubic metres.
We aim to growth in all of them.
make a further 3% saving this year.
Clover Lighter now accounts for The reduction in usage means we 14% of the brands volume, Country Life are well on track to meet the Federation Spreadable Lighter 13% and Cathedral House Commitment target of a 20% City Lighter 11%.
Over the course of reduction from 2007 usage levels by 2020. the year our 1% fat milk has made a big Business review
