daily mail and general trust plC annual report 2010 dmgt and Corporate responsibility all these activities underpin our Key DevelOpMenTS commitment to reduce our Carbon Group carbon footprint for 2010 was 102,700 tonnes of CO. 2 footprint by 10% in the five financial years to 2012. this year our footprint was This represents a 5% reduction on last years results and a 13% 102,700 tonnes of Co 2009 107,700 # 2 reduction when compared to the 2007 baseline.
tCo, a decrease of about 16,000 2 tonnes 13% compared to the baseline DMGT donated 860,000 to charity during the year.
118,600 tCo in 2007, as energy 2 Key environmental milestones achieved.
efficiency measures, particularly in printing facilities, and new travel policies took effect across the group.
at dmgt, we know that to be successful this year both harmsworth Quays, our having achieved our targeted 10% in todays world, we need to respond largest printing plant, and northcliffe reduction in under five years, we are appropriately to global challenges such house, dmgts headquarters, and the now considering what commitment we as climate change, environmental london base of associated should make for the next five years to damage and social and ethical issues.
newspapers, northcliffe media and 2014 15. to us corporate responsibility Cr and dmg events, achieved the key sustainability require that we manage international environmental standard Waste our businesses and brands responsibly iso 14001.
With these buildings for the long-term success of our group recognised as having a world class newsprint production waste, the most and the communities we serve.
standard of managing their significant element of waste arising from environmental impact, our focus has our activities, has been reduced again reported here is a summary of our now moved to the facilities in other this year.
there is a parts of our business.
dedicated section on the group With the direct environmental impact website, www.
co. uk, with euromoney institutional investor has from our office-based divisions already further information available that is reduced the total operational hours of low, the existing paper recycling updated regularly.
main plant systems in all of its buildings, schemes at our offices across the world saving the equivalent of over 94 days of are being complemented by other responsibility for this area lies with the continual running per year at its four recycling initiatives.
plastic, glass, toner Corporate social responsibility main london sites alone.
cartridges, mobile phones and it Committee, a sub-committee of the equipment are now being covered board which is the forum at which the use of energy, newsprint, ink and and, at hobsons, also aluminium corporate responsibility is discussed.
the plates have cost implications and are, and metal.
Committees remit is to oversee dmgts therefore, intensively managed across environmental, waste, sustainability, the group for reasons of good business the rms offices in newark and london employee, customer, supplier and sense, as well as to reduce their order all office supplies from local community practices.
the board has environmental impact.
suppliers that purchase recycled policies in place on equal opportunities, stationery and practise recycling dmg informations landmark has whistle-blowing, health and safety, the themselves.
they have an open plan developed Carbon Counter, an online environment and a group Code of office environment designed to take full service to prepare businesses for the Conduct.
overall responsibility for Cr advantage of natural light as well as governmental Carbon reduction at board level lies with the Chairman using only low energy, low wattage Commitment energy efficiency scheme.
of the Committee, david dutton.
compact fluorescent light fixtures also dmgt qualified for this climate all of these policies are set out on and bulbs.
change and energy saving programme, the dmgt intranet.
central to the uKs strategy for reducing a&n media was praised by the green carbon dioxide Co emissions.
standards trust for participating in the 2 environment registered charity Waste to Wonders at dmg events, big 5 won the green at the end of the year, dmgt achieved initiative, recycling and redistributing award at the middle east event awards, Carbon trust standard certification for over 11 tonnes of redundant office an event where 200 nominations are all uK operations, including all furniture: this initiative is now being made and decided by a panel of subsidiaries.
the standard, which is promoted across the group.
internationally and regionally internationally recognised, was recognised and respected judges.
dmg events is working with its suppliers developed in 2007 to encourage good to recycle as much carpet as possible practice in carbon measurement, the largest waste by-product of any management and reduction by event as venue halls are carpeted in full businesses and public sector for each event, with recycling ranging organisations.
# this is based on restated figures resulting from the consideration of structural changes that took place in 2010 in particular dmg radios emissions were excluded for all periods as the division has become a Joint venture and it is no longer under dmgts operational control.
34 Chairmans statement direCtors report finanCial statements business revieW Corporate governanCe shareholder information Corporate responsibility remuneration report the international Contemporary Customers, suppliers, Community Community furniture fair, part of dmg events, Community involvement is integral to remaining in touch with the diverse coordinates the donation of surplus our core value of enriching lives and groups who make up our stakeholders, exhibitor product to furnish a future, the personal motivation of our so as to reflect their interests and providing formerly homeless families employees.
this includes community champion their causes, is critical to leaving city shelters with furniture and partnerships, supporting local projects, dmgts continued success.
We promote household goods, and in the tradition of staff volunteering their time and and monitor the spread of best practice the daily mails banish the bags, the charitable giving.
across our companies and make folkestone heralds pack it in recommendations to achieve an our long-term perspective on our campaign has encouraged local honest, reliable and trusted relationship businesses and encouraging their businesses to recycle plastic waste, with both our customers and suppliers.
active involvement in their communities including shrink wrap and polythene.
are key to our corporate responsibility Customers approach.
both genscape and employees across the group customer satisfaction hobsons support the independent is monitored and analysed in a number as an equal opportunities employer we development organisation plan, and of ways, including considered responses believe, it is important for our staff to their staff have been raising money for, to complaints, readership surveys, feel a connection between their values visiting and helping communities in customer interviews and other and their work, so we strive to create an nicaragua and ghana.
processes to ensure we receive timely inspiring, healthy and inclusive work rmss company-wide helping hands and relevant feedback from our environment.
initiative has continued to grow in each autonomous business has its participation and reach since its start as there are also a number of standardown policies and employee initiatives, a single, one-department event five setting bodies that have established such as landmarks travel plan which years ago.
codes to which dmgts consumer has already seen a significant rise in media division adheres including that all our newspapers promote significant car-sharing and cycling among staff.
of the press Complaints Commission Cr community activities.
at rms in london all staff travel to work and the Code of practice of at northcliffe media, an ambitious local by public transport, cycle or on foot: newspaper and magazine publishing.
campaign Cots for tots shows that and dmg events in its san francisco local activity remains at the heart of suppliers office has introduced transportation aware of the responsibilities we have its regional publishing responsibility.
credits for employees using public the campaign aims to raise 1 million along the supply chain, we aim to work transport and a six month trial to allow with organisations that share our for the neonatal intensive care unit staff to work from home up to two days for premature babies in bristols principles and aspirations.
in particular a week to reduce the time, cost and for newsprint, our largest purchase, we st michaels hospital.
the unit serves impact of commuting.
the whole of the south West which continually review the environmental group-wide we carried out our first credentials of our suppliers and the means that every month, up to 10 employment survey during the year, babies are turned away because there sourcing of their products.
We source which will help us improve employment our paper mainly from european mills, is no room for them.
We launched a fully pay for more intensive care cots, create all of which hold the environmental interactive global intranet, dmgt management standard iso14001.
more space on the ward and provide Connect, with a specific section more accommodation for families.
Where virgin fibres are used in paper devoted to our Cr activities.
We also manufacture, we require that the forests Working with the hospital, the campaign invest heavily in training and helping encourages readers to donate and to are certified either by the forest our staff develop fulfilled careers with stewardship Council or the pan organise fund-raising events.
a variety of approaches to staff evening post is running daily stories european forestry Commission, which communications exist within the group: run schemes that provide credible about the work of the unit, its medical in addition to dmgt Connect, we have staff and the children and parents it has guarantees that the product comes numerous intranets within each from well managed forests.
in its first month the campaign business: our Chief executive writes a has already raised 50,000. our non-print businesses also have monthly blog: there are regular supplier policies.
a&n media aims to communication events and briefings, as acquire goods and services from well as face-to-face meetings and reputable companies with a sound programmes related to specific key financial and ethical background, events such as major changes in ensuring where possible goods are operations or equipment.
landmarks policy states its belief in sourcing goods and services from suppliers which operate in an ethical way.
35 daily mail and general trust plC annual report 2010 dmgt and Corporate responsibility Continued northcliffes bristol news and media encouragement to families wanting to raised 17,000 topped up by dmgt to make a positive change to their lives.
in 20,000, double the target for the its 15 years, family friends has assisted princes trusts enterprise project with a over 400 families.
team of 10 volunteers from the dmgt is also committed to helping newspaper, while the publishers initiatives around the group, donating flagship paper, the bristol evening post money to charities where its businesses was praised in parliament after it are involved.
by the end of the current secured 100 apprenticeships with 100 year, awards had been committed to local businesses.
build Change through rms, the water euromoney, following its successful and sanitation project in Kechene, establishment of an eye hospital in ethiopia described above through orissa, india, has a new charity project euromoney and two charities through selected from employee suggestions a&n media, the Journalism diversity and ultimately voted on by them a fund and Catch 22. water and sanitation project in Kechene, ethiopia.
some 250,000- sustainability 300,000 will be contributed from the at the heart of our corporate companys charity budget, clients and responsibility approach is staff fundraising.
We know that to be a in January, dmgt s head office staff successful business requires not only chose three charities to support through achieving on the conventional focus : Kensington & Chelsea.
the measures, but doing so while charities were nova new operating in a wholly socially opportunities, full of life and family responsible way.
these charities all support the issues surrounding sustainability disadvantaged young people in the offer our businesses opportunities, borough of Kensington and Chelsea aligning our interests with those of where our head office is based.
We are nova concentrates on training those continually investigating how to who have missed out on learning new employ more sustainable practices.
technologies and helps them into work our objective is to contribute more and further training.
it runs classes in to society, take less from the numeracy, literacy and english environment and still improve our language, as well as helping with Cvs prospects as a business.
We are and preparing for job applications.
determined to make a positive many of novas clients are mothers social impact with our various returning to work and over 22% are stakeholders as well as the lone parents.
full of life was set up by parents of disabled children in Kensington and Chelsea, to provide after-school and holiday activities for their children, as well as support and advice to families and to lobby for improved services for them.
family friends befriends and supports families in crisis.
volunteer mentors, working for at least a year with each family, offer guidance, support and 36
