SECTION 3 ManageMent and governance employment policies creditor payment At 30 April 2010 the average number of employees working for the For all trade creditors, it is Group policy to: Group throughout Europe was 26,569.
Kesa Electricals consists of a number of businesses operating in different countries.
While employment l Agree and confirm the terms of supply at the commencement practices may vary between these businesses, the Group is, of business with that supplier.
nevertheless, committed to ensuring that: l Pay in accordance with contractual and other legal obligations.
l Continually review the payment procedures and liaise with suppliers l All employees receive fair and equal treatment irrespective of as a means of eliminating difficulties and maintaining a good gender, ethnic origin, age, nationality, marital status, religion, working relationship.
l The working environment is conducive to achievement and free Trade creditors of the Group at 30 April 2010 were 38.9 2009: 37.4 from harassment and intimidation.
days based on the ratio of Group trade creditors at the end of the l Disabled persons, whether registered or not, have equal period to the amounts invoiced during the period by trade creditors.
opportunities when applying for vacancies, with due regard to their The trade creditors for the Company were nil 2009: nil.
In addition to complying with legislative requirements, procedures ensure that disabled employees are fairly directors disclosure of information to auditors treated and that their training and career development needs are The Directors believe that there is no relevant audit information of carefully managed.
which the auditors are unaware and each Director has taken all steps l The assessment of training needs and the provision of appropriate that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any training is delivered to its employees.
relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
Health and safety Group companies have a responsibility to ensure that all reasonable auditors precautions are taken to provide and maintain working conditions, for Resolutions concerning the re-appointment of the auditors and employees and visitors alike, which are safe, healthy and in compliance authorising the Directors to set their remuneration will be proposed with statutory requirements and appropriate codes of practice.
at the Annual General Meeting.
The Groups companies pursue the objective of minimising the  LLP have been the Companys auditors instances of occupational accidents and illnesses.
Examples of this since it listed on the London Stock Exchange in July 2003.
The Audit are to be seen in the employment of health and safety advisers and Committee considers that the relationship with the auditors is working in the establishment of detailed policies and statements of intent and well and remains satisfied with their effectiveness.
Accordingly, it has training programmes for employees.
The Company Secretary has not considered it necessary to date to require the firm to tender for the responsibility to ensure that the Board is presented with a review the audit work.
The external auditors are required to rotate the audit detailing how the Group overall complies with the statutory partners responsible for the Group and subsidiary audits every five requirements and appropriate codes of practice.
years and the current lead audit partner has been in place for two years.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys employee involvement choice of external auditor.
Group companies actively consult their staff on matters of concern to them in the context of their employment.
In Europe, where the largest By Order of the Board numbers of employees are, there is a formal consultation process through workers councils.
Consultation also takes place through joint Simon enoch Secretary consultation committees.
23 June 2010 Information on matters of concern to employees including the financial Registered Office: and economic factors affecting the performance of the Group is also 22-24 Ely Place disseminated through conferences, meetings, publications and London EC1N 6TE electronic media.
An all employee savings plan exists for employees in the UK.
Kesa Electricals plc | Annual report 2009 10 25
