SECTION 2 Business Review Corporate responsibility As a specialist retailer committed to customer service, one of our key A well trained workforce is key to our success and we put great emphasis differentiators and strengths is our people.
The dedicated team has been strengthened during the year with We also realise that a well-trained workforce is a key differentiator the appointment of an additional senior manager so that it can also and we therefore put a great emphasis on our training programmes.
carry out random inspections of goods before shipments are made In the UK we developed a market-leading e-learning programme to ensure that quality standards are being maintained.
They also under which 5,500 colleagues have completed over 500,000 modules.
co-ordinate new product development which includes working between The scheme has also been adopted and tailored in Holland.
quality engineers in Shenzhen and our quality assurance laboratory based in the UK.
We are closely monitoring the number of training days we provide to ensure that we are meeting our goals and we are pleased to report that In addition, as a further environmental measure we are consciously again these have increased over the past year.
trying to minimise the emissions from our transport operations.
We have modified our logistics operation to achieve a more efficient We have platforms for our employees opinions to be heard and we use of the transport fleet.
We also make use of satellite navigation value their input on how the business is being run.
Our communication systems to improve our delivery schedules.
This not only reduces the channels include regular workers councils where issues are discussed distance our vans travel but also provides our customers with more with representatives from across the organisation.
We also have many predictable arrival times.
other forums for discussion and we regularly conduct employee surveys which allow management to take a wide range of viewpoints The Group also constantly explores new initiatives that make good into account.
CR sense while benefiting the businesses financially.
At Comet in the UK, by improving warehouse utilisation, pallet use and reverse logistics, We promote health, safety and welfare for both colleagues and we saved over 4,000 tonnes of CO, and generated an additional customers across all our sites and we have a team of advisors who 2 500,000 of revenue.
monitor and report to our Company Secretary on these issues.
In the last year we relocated two of our major warehouses in Belgium and People the Czech Republic with much improved working environments.
As a specialist retailer committed to the best customer service, one of our key differentiators and strengths is our people.
We have We have established a written Code of Conduct which outlines the over 26,000 employees across Europe and we want them all to have ethical standards we expect from all employees of companies within satisfying and rewarding careers within the Group.
By respecting and the Group.
This includes both permanent and contract staff and any valuing our employees we engage their talents and abilities to the external consultants or suppliers we retain.
18 Kesa Electricals plc | Annual report 2009 10
