SECTION 2 Business Review Corporate responsibility As a specialist electrical retailer Kesa is well placed to manage As the European market leader in large White goods, we concentrate an effective approach to corporate responsibility CR that pursues on offering our customers specific advice on the energy efficiency of profitable growth while enhancing brand equity.
It has long been our ranges.
This enables them to make informed buying decisions in our belief that good CR practice makes sound financial sense.
terms of power and water consumption.
We also offer practical advice However, as a pan-European Group represented in 10 countries, on how to use the products in the most efficient way and help dispose a one size fits all approach is not appropriate because of the of them at end of life.
different sizes and maturity of our businesses.
This programme is tailored to each of our markets and is currently Therefore the majority of our activities are locally driven, reflecting in its most advanced stages of implementation at our major operations customer demands and market sensitivities.
However, there is a in France and the UK and will be quickly adopted across the Group.
corporate responsibility team comprising senior managers from each of the businesses.
Chaired by the Company Secretary, the team meets In addition, we were the first retailer in the UK to test the energy regularly to share best practices and develop practical performance efficiency of all the televisions, DVD players and computers we sell measures that could be adopted across the Group.
and then promote the better performing products.
Our initiatives fall into four key areas: Another Group strength is in the recycling of large White goods, helped by our efficient reverse logistics capability.
Last year we l Environment recycled 60,000 tonnes of products, representing over 50 per cent Improving the Groups use of energy, the impact of our transport of products sold.
We believe this makes us the leading MDA recycler fleet and our use of bulk materials such as paper and packaging, in Europe and we still have further opportunities to improve as our by minimising waste, increasing energy efficiency and reducing Developing businesses gain scale in their markets and grow their our consumption of materials.
l Supply chain We also aim to reduce the amount of packaging we use and ensure Improving labour, environmental and social practices in the Groups that it can be recycled.
We collect all waste packaging when delivering supply chain, by ensuring that our suppliers and business partners a household appliance unless the customer requests otherwise.
are made aware of our requirements and take all reasonable steps At Darty France, BCC and Vanden Borre we have specialised to ensure they are met.
equipment that compresses all polystyrene packaging collected from customers homes for recycling and re-use as garden furniture.
l People Providing a working environment that is conducive to the At Darty France, packaging waste is also collected from the recruitment and retention of the widest possible range of talented warehouses and after sales service centres and last year alone staff.
Offering them a safe and healthy place of work.
We wish it recycled a total of nearly 50,000 tonnes of packaging waste.
to be recognised as a good employer aiming to reward people fairly and to provide equality of opportunity, personal development The ongoing rapid development of new technology creates increasing and training.
high levels of hazardous electronic and electrical waste which is the background for the WEEE Directive.
Its aim is to minimise the impact l Communities of electrical and electronic equipment on the environment when those Working for our customers and local communities, contributing products eventually become waste.
In order to sell products within to community activities in the areas we serve.
Supporting and the EU manufacturers must demonstrate compliance with the new encouraging staff fundraising for appropriate charitable organisations.
This means that electrical retailers must extend their take back facilities to cover all categories including smaller appliances such Environment as kettles and microwaves.
We also have in-store collection points.
As an electrical retailer we have a relatively low direct environmental At Darty France this is so successful that it now collects and recycles impact, but we still wish to minimise the environmental impact of all more batteries than it actually sells.
our operations throughout the Group.
We also want to ensure that neither our products nor our operations adversely affect the health of our customers, our employees or the community at large.
16 Kesa Electricals plc | Annual report 2009 10
