Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders Information CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY fide La Rue is committed to ensuring that its business is managed in a responsible and sustainable way by incorporating sound Corporate Responsibility CR policies and practices as part of its business strategy and day to day business activities.
fide La Rue is a member of the FTSE4Good Index.
The CR section of the website www.
com contains more information about CR in fide La Rue.
The case studies in this section illustrate a number of CR initiatives from around the Group.
The theme of the tenth Interlock Health, Safety and Environmental HSE Conference held in November 2009 was Back to Basics Driving Good Practice.
Topics included travel and personal safety, slips, trips and falls, fire safety and machinery safety.
Eighty delegates from sites around the world attended, including all members of the Operating Board.
Delegates voted for the best health and safety initiatives, with awards being presented by the Chief Executive.
The winner was fide La Rue Security Threads for excellent work on reducing manual handling risks.
Our employees are instrumental in driving the ongoing improvement of HSE processes all those attending were invited to make one personal commitment to improving health and safety at their site.
These pledges were recorded centrally and are being followed up personally by the Chief Executive.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2010 31 Whistleblowing CORPORATE The Groups Whistleblowing policy and procedures enable employees who have concerns about the application of the Code RESPONSIBILITY of Conduct or business practices within the Group to raise them internally or anonymously through an independently run telephone continued helpline.
The Board and Audit Committee receive details about any issue raised and how it has been followed up.
Each year the Audit Committee reviews the policy and procedures.
Third Party Partners The Group Third Party Partner Team was established during the year to provide a central, neutral hub for ensuring that partners such as distributors, sales agents and consultants comply with the Groups policies and expectations in relation to ethical business conduct.
The team reports directly to the General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Further information is given in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 45.
Health and Safety fide La Rue recognises its responsibility to safeguard the health and safety of all stakeholders affected by our operations and is Accountability and management processes committed to keeping its employees safe and secure when they The Board receives monthly reports on CR issues and is ultimately are at work and travelling for work.
This is achieved through clearly responsible for assessing the impact of these on fide La Rues defined responsibilities, good communications and training, hazard business, and for setting appropriate policies for the Group.
The spotting, risk assessments and by implementing appropriate Chief Executive is the Board member with designated responsibility controls at all of our facilities.
for CR, supported by: None of our operations has been prosecuted for infringing any The Operating Board, which is responsible for the day to day health and safety laws or regulations during 2009 2010. management of CR and receives monthly reports The Board receives confirmation that the business units comply The Risk Committee, which discusses CR at its meetings in the with Group policy and applicable laws through external and internal context of monitoring the effectiveness of internal control systems audits, reports and measurement against action plans and The Health, Safety and Environment Committee, whose benchmarking processes.
These reports are used to develop responsibilities include making recommendations on HSE strategy effective improvement programmes.
Thirteen of our fifteen and identifying areas for improvement operational sites have achieved OHSAS18001:2007 certification for their health and safety management system.
The Charity and Community Affairs Committee, established during the year, which will make recommendations to the Board and We also work with our main suppliers and main contractors to monitor and report on charitable giving and community activities ensure their health and safety processes are robust.
This year in Sri Lanka we have conducted safety training for over 1,000 contractors Workplace working on the large extension of our facility.
This has resulted in a Code of Conduct zero reportable injury rate on this project.
The Code of Conduct defines fide La Rues core values and principles for doing business and deals with: The health and safety KPIs opposite show continued improvements in reportable injury rate, days lost and total lost time accident figures.
Share dealing procedures Our health and safety objectives for 2009 2010 were to implement Competition law updated road risk management and travel risk management Legal compliance programmes, both of which were achieved.
During the year over 300 UK employees who may drive for work have taken part in an Ethical dealings with governments, customers, suppliers online individual driver risk assessment process and have completed and third parties follow up training where required.
Travel risk assessments are now Protecting the Groups assets completed as appropriate for international travel.
Other significant activities during 2009 2010 included manual handling and fire safety Avoiding conflicts of interest training.
We have also reviewed all areas that store and handle Health and safety and the environment chemicals and flammable solvents and have upgraded these where necessary.
It is supplemented by more detailed policies and procedures and relevant training.
All employees receive a copy of, and are required to comply with, the Code of Conduct.
The best examples of ideas which have supported the Our Contribution initiative are showcased at the Spotlight event which is designed to reward those who have helped us achieve success.
Spotlight awards play an integral role in celebrating the efforts of our people in devising ways in which we can do things better.
Following on from events held in Spain, Switzerland and France in previous years, the 2009 awards were held in Malta.
The winning projects were: an initiative by CPS site engineers: a machinery improvement project at Overton mill: and the more efficient use of materials in Sri Lanka.
The projects delivered environmental savings and increased customer satisfaction as well as process and quality improvements.
32 fide La Rue Annual Report 2010 Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders Information Our health and safety objectives for 2010 2011 are: Total days lost For all employees to have some level of health and safety training 599 592 and all operational line managers and supervisors to have a certified level of health and safety training 530 To review and update all fire procedures at our facilities and monitor test evacuations 424 For one smaller printing facility to achieve OHSAS18001:2007 Employees The Group employs approximately 4,000 staff in 24 countries.
209 The benefits and synergies of greater collaboration and process sharing across the businesses continue to be harnessed via the One fide La Rue programme.
As mentioned in the Chief Executives Review, cross-business teams are focusing on initiatives in six key areas: Our Customers, Our People, Our Innovation, Our 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Performance, Our Communication and Our Contribution.
The results from our 2009 Your Say staff survey demonstrate the progress made in engaging our employees.
Across the Group the Total lost time accidents results suggest that many managers are getting the fundamentals Including 3 days right.
The vast majority of people more than 80 per cent agree 73 70 that they: Know what is expected of them at work 59 Have the equipment they need to do their job 48 Feel safe Understand why innovation is important 32 Understand how they contribute to their site and fide La Rue It is encouraging to see that 79 per cent of people agree they would rather work for fide La Rue than any other company and 77 per cent say they would recommend working at fide La Rue to a friend.
This survey shows an improving trend over the 2005 and 2007 surveys.
For example, we see much higher proportions of staff stating they 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 know what is expected of them and receive appropriate praise than we did in 2005 and 2007.
We recognise that engaging all employees is critical to our Annualised reportable performance and so engagement is becoming a key aim for our injury rate per 100,000 managers.
Each has been given a report on how their team scored in employees the latest survey, guidance on creating engagement and an objective UK manufacturing average to improve it.
Over the first few months of 2010 each manager has 849 800 spent time with their team discussing what can be done.
During the rest of the year we will take actions to improve engagement.
715 The fide La Rue Academy was set up during the year to co-ordinate and deliver core cross-business unit training including leadership 526 and management, project and process management and a range of business skills.
The Academy provides personal development and 378 promotes shared knowledge and better understanding between the businesses.
The Academy is set up to meet business needs and is closely aligned to Group talent reviews a process designed to identify and review new and existing talent within the Group so that succession planning is managed in a structured way, personal 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 development reviews and culture change programmes.
fide La Rue Security Papers carried out a project replacing many of their fan and pump motors with variable speed inverter drives.
The most important benefit is better process control and in turn lower energy demand.
The use of inverter controlled pumps means that only sufficient energy to produce the flows required for the process at that time is consumed and the production of over capacity and the resulting waste of energy is avoided.
A reduction to 90 per cent of the original speed reduces the power required to approximately 73 per cent of the original, a 27 per cent energy saving.
With the reduction in energy requirement comes an associated reduction in costs and CO2 production.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2010 33 Environment CORPORATE fide La Rue aims to operate in a manner that protects the environment and prevents pollution, as well as considering the RESPONSIBILITY environmental effects of any new projects, when changing business activities and business processes and when developing new continued products.
We operate a formal environmental management system, and our objective is for all manufacturing sites to be certificated to ISO 14001:2004.
Thirteen of our fifteen operational sites have received this certification to date.
None of our operations has been prosecuted for infringing any environmental laws or regulations during 2009 2010.
We continue to measure our greenhouse gas emissions, shown in the graph below, following the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, the most widely used international accounting tool for government and businesses.
This data includes the combustion of fuels, ie natural gas, fuel oils and purchased grid electricity, and owned transport energy consumption.
Over 50 per cent of our carbon footprint Additionally, the Academy provides improved savings through Greenhouse gas emissions centralising spend and coordinating training programme delivery 000 tonnes as CO 2 across fide La Rue.
10.7 7.9 12.3 Transport emissions 97.1 11.7 9.6 The effectiveness of communication processes at Group and local 94.0 92.1 Energy and production site level are regularly reviewed to encourage employee engagement 86.2 84.2 emissions and broaden business understanding.
To complement the employee magazine and the Chief Executives electronic articles on key business issues, new initiatives this year included the relaunch of the intranet and regular conference calls hosted by the Chief Executive, in which all employees have the opportunity to participate and ask questions directly on matters of current importance.
Our Contribution, fide La Rues productivity programme, continues to be well supported by our employees.
The best initiatives were recognised at the fourth Spotlight event which was held in Malta in September 2009 see case study on page 32.
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 fide La Rue is committed to the fair and equitable treatment of all its employees in recruitment, training, promotion and in terms and conditions of employment irrespective of gender, sexual orientation, religious beliefs, age, colour, ethnic or racial origin, nationality, Water used per gross tonne disability or trade union membership.
If an employee becomes of banknote paper 3 310.0 disabled when in the Groups employment, full support is given m 300.0 287.0 through the provision of special training, equipment or other 283.0 281.0 Note: Total water used abstraction resources to facilitate continued employment wherever possible.
plus recycled per production tonne All managers are required to ensure that employees understand of banknote paper produced at their responsibility for the active implementation of the Groups Overton for 2009 2010.
Details of fide La Rues Human Rights, Equal Opportunities, tonne definition here means Anti-Harassment and Stress Management policies are available production tonnes at standard weight including spoil less any on the Groups website.
The Groups web based HR management system is now a well established tool for streamlining core HR management processes and enhancing the HR management reporting capability.
To the extent permitted by relevant local laws, the Group monitors data on staff diversity to help it review policies and improve best practice.
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Recycled and recovered solid waste as a % of 73.0 72.0 solid waste 71.0 70.0 69.0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 34 fide La Rue Annual Report 2010 Business Review Corporate Governance Report Group Financial Statements Company Financial Statements Shareholders Information relates to the gas and electricity used at Overton mill.
The graph Community and Charitable Donations shows an increase in greenhouse gas emissions which is related Around the Group our facilities and factories are widely engaged to increasing volumes, new processes and product complexity.
with local communities, for example the Shoebox Appeal in Kenya Our main sites have energy reduction committees and we have see case study below, sponsorship of a local child safety scheme implemented energy reduction initiatives such as swapping in in the UK and the maintenance and decoration of a childrens home energy efficient motors and installing energy efficient lighting in Malta.
Overton mill has a combined heat fide La Rue is proud to support a variety of charitable causes on and power plant producing electricity and steam requirements a local and international level.
In 2009 2010 Group donations for from a natural gas turbine.
charitable purposes amounted to 96,000 2008 2009: 166,000, Water used per gross tonne of banknote paper produced is partly excluding donations made by the fide La Rue Charitable Trust dependent on the volume, mix and complexity of the paper detailed below.
During the year employees also participated in a produced.
We have increased our use of recycled water this year wide range of internal fundraising activities for local charities in the up to 9 per cent of all water used at the Overton mill.
UK and abroad, including the Haiti Disaster Appeal following the earthquake in January 2010.
Recycled and recovered solid waste as a percentage of all solid waste is dependent on the waste markets and we look for any The Group operates a Give As You Earn scheme in the UK which opportunities for recycling and recovery.
One challenge for our enables employees to make regular donations to charity from their business is the advance of the anti-counterfeiting features in our pre-tax monthly salary.
Donations are matched by fide La Rue.
products which by their nature are complex to produce and can During the year a Charity and Community Affairs Committee was affect waste volumes and energy use.
established, chaired by the General Counsel and Company Our objective for 2009 2010 was to continue with our carbon Secretary, whose remit includes making Group policy measurement and aim to reduce our impact.
At the Gateshead recommendations to the Board on charitable giving and activities plant, an energy management system is utilised to control the use and monitoring and reporting to the Board at least annually.
of energy consumption from high to low periods of activity across The fide La Rue Charitable Trust aims to direct funds to appropriate production environments.
All significant new building work carried causes in countries where fide La Rue operates, emphasising out across the site during the year maximises use of energy saving educational projects promoting relevant skills, international materials to reduce energy needs.
Transport usage is targeted to understanding or relieving suffering.
The Trust also matches funds minimise journey length and frequency.
As part of the UK raised by employees for charitable causes.
During 2009 2010, the Confederation of Paper Industries, Overton mill operates in Trust distributed 45,000 2008 2009: 61,000. accordance with an agreed energy policy, setting and implementing internal energy targets and measures.
These targets relate to both Marketplace the efficient operation of the combined heat and power plant and Customers general energy efficiency through the mill.
When electricity generation The customer survey programme, Net Promoter, is a valuable is in excess of demand, electricity is sold to the UK National Grid.
customer feedback tool for all four business units.
The survey is conducted annually and data collected and analysed externally.
Over the last few years we have implemented environmental Results are reported to the Operating Board.
initiatives on a local level, such as the installation of variable speed inverter drives at fide La Rue Security Papers see case study on Suppliers page 33, as well as achieving improvements in key areas across fide La Rue continues to apply a consistent set of procurement the Group.
In the last 5 years the volume of solid waste going to policies and processes to deliver accountability, sustainable value landfill sites has reduced by 9 per cent and the percentage of waste for money and continuous improvement while enabling the Group recycled and recovered has increased by c4 per cent.
There has to fulfil its legal and financial obligations and effectively manage risk.
also been a downward trend in solid waste generated per tonne In particular, we expect our suppliers to share our CR values and of production, despite the increased product portfolio and product commitment to ISO standards for HSE performance.
During 2010 2011 we will register for the UK Carbon Overton mill sources cotton waste for use in banknote papermaking Reduction Commitment energy efficiency scheme and the IDS from a few key international suppliers and we continue to audit business is seeking to achieve ISO14001:2004. to ensure our suppliers comply with our terms and conditions relating to the United Nations Convention on Rights of the Child and child labour.
fide La Rue Security Print at Dunstable has been accredited with the FSC Chain of Custody status by the Forest Stewardship Council.
In autumn 2009 a UK-wide appeal was launched inviting employees to fill shoeboxes with Christmas gifts for 350 children at the Good Samaritan Childrens Home in Nairobi, an orphanage sponsored by fide La Rue Kenya.
The childrens names, ages and hobbies were published on the Groups intranet and employees chose a child to send their gift box to.
The response from our employees was overwhelming, with all 350 boxes being pledged within a few days.
The shipping of the boxes to Nairobi in time for Christmas was coordinated by staff at Bathford mill and gifts were distributed by colleagues at fide La Rue Kenya.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2010 35
