Section 2 The Business Corporate Responsibility Review Introduction 2009 2010 As a retail business, Debenhams activities can Footprint impact the lives of millions of people: our customers, Total tonnes COe 210,505 213,847 2 our employees, the communities in which we Tonnes CO e 2 operate, those who work in the supply chain and excluding Magasin their own communities.
We have a responsibility to and overseas freight 190,273 192,988 all these people and to our planet to try to have Intensity ratios a positive impact upon them and to take their Tonnes CO e per m 87.0 83.0 2 needs into account when we make decisions about Tonnes CO per m 2 ourbusiness.
An exclusive Ben fide Lisi excluding Magasin scarf sold in aid of Breast and overseas freight 81.3 81.3 Cancer Care.
A cross-functional steering committee meets Tonnes CO e per m 2 regularly and as a measure of the importance of excluding Magasin 0.11 0.11 sustainability issues to Debenhams it has now become a committee of the board, chaired by As we continue our annual footprinting process, Martina King, non-executive director.
we will endeavour to expand the boundaries and improve data accuracy in order to gain a more Our corporate responsibility work falls into three complete picture of our global impact.
First, Environmental which covers energy usage, including Debenhams carbon footprint A notable new addition to our footprint scope is reporting, waste management and recycling.
Air, sea and road Secondly, the Supply Chain which includes our freight are critical links in our supply chain and factory approval and audit process, our purchasing understanding their relative footprint is important practices and our involvement with the Ethical for managing our global environmental impact.
The third category is Workplace Another important addition to the footprint is the and Community which covers employment Magasin stores in Denmark.
Magasin was acquired practices, learning and development, health and in 2010 and as our operational procedures safety, charitable work and customer engagement.
become embedded, emissions reduction within these stores will become core to our overall carbon Environmental efficiency goals.
Debenhams Carbon Footprint 2010 At Debenhams we recognise the importance of The results of our 2010 footprint analysis are shown documenting our emissions sources and in the following table.
This also documents the understanding our ongoing impact on the percentage changes from our 2009 footprint, environment.
The environmental consultancy AEA providing an indication of year-on-year emissions continues to engage with key stakeholders within performance.
the business to provide an accurate and robust footprint that places the environmental impact of To ensure a consistent approach, our 2009 footprint our key business operations in context.
has been recalculated not only to account for the inclusion of additional emissions sources but also The table below summarises our headline carbon due to the availability of more accurate energy data footprint gures for 2009 and 2010.
Figures are provided and relevant carbon conversion factors.
Magasin for both the activities included within the 2009 footprint store emissions have also been retrospectively scope and the footprint scope in 2010, which now included in our 2009 base year following the includes Magasin stores and overseas freight acquisition of this business.
Although emissions have increased since In 2010 our personal shoppers footprint now provides the best reference for future helped people on the 2009, our carbon efficiency has remained stable.
This comparison because emissions are the lowest since Life Skills Programme, run by is determined by the intensity ratios.
However, with the we began reporting, the footprint boundary is more Quintessentially and the acquisition of Magasin, our emissions performance inclusive than in previous years and the reporting House of St. Barnabas to per million of turnover has improved since2009.
period is aligned to our financial year.
2009 2010 CO e tonnes deductible for green electricity 119,030 148,936 2 How We Account For Our Emissions responsibility for emissions sources where we control We use the Greenhouse Gas Protocol methodology and inuence the operational procedures.
Emissions are dened by the following scopes: The footprint is expressed in terms of carbon dioxide equivalent CO e in order to take all greenhouse 2 Scope 1 direct emissions from emissions sources gases into account.
Although the predominant we control.
greenhouse gas is CO, traces of other gases result 2 from fuel combustion, waste disposal and refrigerant Scope 2 indirect emissions from our electricity gas leaks.
Although a number of assumptions were required Scope 3 indirect emissions from products and to complete certain datasets, statistical analysis services we use but do not control.
indicates certainty within the overall footprint calculation is high, with an error margin of only We apply these scope denitions using an operational 3percent.
This enables us to claim greater 25 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 2 The Business Corporate Responsibility Review continued With our footprint scope broadened to include the emissions using the context of annual turnover and Our emissions Magasin stores and overseas freight operations, our premises oor area.
These both enable an emissions intensity has total 2010 carbon footprint is now 213,847 tonnes performance to be gained in relation to an important improved CO e. This is an increase of 2 per cent from 210,505 aspect of business growth.
Comparison of intensity 2 tonnes since 2009.
Placing the footprint in context considerably ratios for 2009 and 2010 are given below.
of UK and Ireland alone gives a 2010 emissions total since 2009 Intensity ratio 2009 2010 of 192,988 tonnes CO e. This is an increase of 1 per 2 in line with Total tonnes COe m 87 83 cent from 190,273 tonnes since 2009.
2 our financial Total tonnes COe m 0.11 0.11 2 Scope 2 electricity emissions continue to dominate growth.
Note: Intensity ratios for 2009 have been recalculated on the basis of our carbon footprint, predominantly as a result of the updated footprint.
The turnover intensity ratio omits the Magasin footprint in 2009 and Magasin emissions are included in the 2010 operating store lighting, air conditioning and other ratio, although on a pro rata basis to account for only 42 weeks of mechanical services.
These emissions have trading under Debenhams.
The oor area intensity ratio is a total of increased by 2 per cent from 2009, largely due to UK and Ireland emissions only and Magasin emissions are omitted.
The resulting ratios demonstrate our emissions Scope 1 emissions have decreased by 6 per cent intensity has improved considerably since 2009 in since 2009, largely due to a 6 per cent reduction in line with our financial growth and has remained emissions from UK road freight and a 4 per cent stable as our buildings footprint has expanded.
reduction in UK gas consumption.
This highlights our improving carbon efficiency as we grow our business.
Documenting emissions from overseas freight for the first time allows this supply chain activity to be put Focus on Store Energy efficiency into context of our wider environmental impact.
Combined electricity emissions from the UK and When combined, these freight operations account Ireland have increased on an absolute basis by for 6 per cent of our global footprint and, at 83 per 3,641 tonnes since 2009.
Electricity in these stores cent, are the largest contributor to our scope 3 contributes 81 per cent of our overall footprint and emissions.
The overall increase in scope 3 emissions therefore is our most significant emissions source.
of 8 per cent can be largely attributed to increased However, looking in depth at Debenhams store volumes shipped in overseas freight operations but performance provides a much greater context also through increased business travel.
behind the efficiency of energy use.
Although absolute emissions have increased by The following table provides the specic electricity 2per cent from 2009, part of our environmental use kWh m in UK and Ireland stores for those strategy involves offsetting our carbon emissions that were operational for the entire year this from electricity consumption by purchasing from prevents any skewing of gures resulting from store certied renewable sources.
As a result, this year we openings.
A best practice benchmark for electricity have indirectly reduced our emissions by 148,936 consumption is also included to provide a basis for tonnes CO e, offsetting our gross carbon footprint by performance comparison.
This has subsequently reduced our net Stores fuel mix 2010 2009 Best practice footprint by 29 per cent from 2009 levels.
However, Only electricity we still recognise the requirement to reduce our kWh m 218 220 209 direct impact and will continue to focus investment Mixed fuel kWh on reducing actual electricity consumption.
This is electricity m 178 180 194 advantageous for both the environment and for reducing our operational and regulatory costs Best practice benchmark taken from CIBSE Guide F. ofenergy.
The results demonstrate that even though electricity Emissions Intensity Ratios emissions have increased, the efficiency per unit has Emissions data can be made to be more meaningful still improved since 2009.
Compared to industry when compared to a core business variable.
benchmarks, it is clear that electricity use in mixed We have developed intensity ratios for our total fuel stores is more efficient than best practice while 26 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 2 The Business the stores that only use electricity are approaching Performance Debenhams best practice.
These results provide positive Overall our electricity use increased by 2.3 per cent, energy policy reinforcement of our energy efficient approach to due to the opening of six new stores, the full year recognises store operations.
However, we will continue to effect of last years new store openings and the endeavour to focus our strategy on reducing refurbishment of a number of large stores which that energy absolute electricity emissions.
Buildings which management had been open through the year on a like-for-like plays an Conclusions basis achieved a modest energy saving.
We believe important role 2010 has seen our footprint boundary widen to this was a creditable performance given the include recently acquired Magasin stores and also colder, longer winter and the very warm weather in supporting overseas freight operations.
Although total absolute in early summer, both of which require additional business emissions have increased by 2 per cent and 3,343 energyusage.
tonnes in comparison with 2009, our emissions intensity ratios demonstrate an improvement in New Store Energy Usage our relative emissions performance.
efficiency Our target for new stores is to be 30 per cent more improvements are further highlighted through the energy efficient than the average Debenhams store.
specic electricity use in UK and Ireland stores.
As we improve our energy efficiency throughout the Furthermore, due to our increased purchasing of estate, the target for new stores gets harder in green electricity from renewable sources, we have absolute terms.
In 2009 we achieved our target.
In reduced our net carbon footprint by 29 per cent 2010, we did not do so, largely because the average and 26,563 tonnes CO e since 2009. existing Debenhams store has improved its energy 2 use.
Our new store design is being further improved Our ongoing focus will be placed on achieving to get back to ensure we meet our target for future absolute emissions reductions across all three new stores.
As part of this process, we will look to store store establish meaningful reduction targets for our Year kWh sq ft kWh sq ft Difference coreemissions.
2009 22.4 34.0 34% 2010 22.9 30.3 24% The footprint is expressed in terms of carbon dioxide equivalent CO e in order to take all greenhouse 2 gases into account.
Although the predominant Renewable Energy greenhouse gas is CO, traces of other gases result Since October 2008, our UK stores have been 2 from fuel combustion, waste disposal and refrigerant supplied with 100 per cent renewable electricity gas leaks.
from a wind farm in Scotland.
Stores in the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland are supplied with Although a number of assumptions were required grid supply electricity that includes a small element to complete certain datasets, statistical analysis of renewable sourcing.
indicates certainty within the overall footprint calculation is high, with an error margin of only In the UK, DECCs guidance on reporting green 3percent.
sources and the methodology of reporting under the mandatory CRCEES has diminished the Energy Usage benefit of buying from truly renewable sources.
Debenhams energy policy recognises that energy Consequently, from October 2010, most of our management plays an important role in supporting supplies will switch to good quality combined heat business objectives, is aware of the link between and power electricity as their source.
energy use and environmental stress and is conscious of the need to control the use of nite Raising Awareness of Energy efficiency resources.
We have recently updated this policy forEmployees to reect our wider corporate responsibility remit We have continued to run awareness campaigns and our participation in Carbon Reduction with individual store targets and rewards.
Energy Display Certicate has been used to convey information.
27 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 2 The Business Corporate Responsibility Review continued Under the banner of Do the Right Thing, store to backhauling waste to the DC, all stores also action targets have been published and regular feedback some form of recycling using multi-stream recovery on performance with ideas on how to minimise units.
In 2010 we narrowly missed our target for waste have been published.
98 per cent of DC waste to be recycled, achieving a 97.7 per cent recycling rate 2009: 98.4 per cent.
Carbon Reduction Commitment We are confident that we have the systems and Energy efficiency Scheme CRCEES processes in place to meet the target next year.
As we use more than 6,000 MWh year of electricity, we are included in this mandatory league table Transport and Logistics scheme.
Our registration was completed in May Debenhams logistics eet within the UK and Ireland 2010.
Our first footprint and annual report will be is operated by DHL.
produced to meet the Schemes timetable in June2011.
In 2010, the fuel usage for delivering products from our DC network to our stores decreased by During the first year of the Scheme, success in the 6.3 per cent, despite increases in both miles driven league table depends on two early action metrics.
up 1.6 per cent and volume of product delivered The first is gaining the Carbon Trust Standard CTS up 0.7 per cent.
This was achieved through the use an externally moderated assessment of our energy of Isotrak vehicle tracking and engine management efficiency progress and the second relates to monitoring to assess the performance of every progress in installing voluntary smart meters to our vehicle and driver in the eet.
minor electricity and gas supplies.
Work is in progress to achieve the CTS and install as many smart Print Operations meters as is possible within the limits of present The Debenhams print department is registered to technology and cost effectiveness.
use FSC and PEFC paper to produce certied printed material.
These standards provide assurance that 2011 Energy Reduction Projects the timber content of the paper is sourced from a It is our intention to increase our investment in costlegal and sustainable source.
Since 2008, the print effective energy reduction projects.
Our plan is to department which trades as Magenta Print & concentrate on upgraded lighting and temperature Display has been certied to ISO14001: 2004 controls to ensure a comfortable shopping and environmental management system certication.
working environment for our customers and staff This demanding, internationally recognised standard whilst reducing our energy bills and pollution.
ensures that we can be confident that all the work undertaken by the department is produced in such Waste Recycling a way that the environmental impact of production Debenhams is committed to reducing the amount is minimised.
of waste generated by its activities.
We seek to divert as much waste away from landll as possible A major objective has been to reduce emissions to through a number of recycling schemes.
air through a programme of solvent reduction.
In line with printing industry best practice, new working In 2010 the volume of recyclable materials handled methods have led to a total elimination of IPA at the Peterborough Distribution Centre DC from alcohol for all printing undertaken within the both stores and the DC network increased to 6,043 department, which has led to a 35 per cent tonnes, an increase of 581 tonnes or 11 per cent decrease in VOC solvent emissions.
This reects the benets of our investment in an additional cardboard baler at Supply Chain Peterborough which has allowed additional waste Ethical Sourcing volumes to be backhauled from our stores to the DC.
An important part of our sourcing strategy is the concept of right product, right country.
Through Waste studies have shown that the amount of waste this, we endeavour to source products in the passed to landll as a result of implementing appropriate countries.
Our commitment is to ensure backhauling drops by as much as 80 per cent as our products are made in factories which are both the bulk of store waste is card and plastic.
In addition socially ethical and quality assurance compliant.
28 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 2 The Business Our suppliers and manufacturers are required to with our suppliers and their factories.
The process of Our commitment adhere to our Code of Conduct and their identifying non-compliance throughout our supply is to ensure compliance is regularly monitored to ensure that all chain allows us to lter and reject as necessary.
No our products are employees involved in the manufacture of products purchase orders can be placed with a new factory for Debenhams work in a well-maintained, safe and until it has been approved by Debenhams made in factories caring environment.
We believe our customers have Compliance Team and a code reference has been which are both a right to expect every product we sell to be made live in order to activate an order.
socially ethical and produced in a safe and free environment, be quality assurance compliant with our Code of Conduct and that all As well as the ethical social compliance audit, part employees are treated with dignity, not exploited or of the factory set-up approval process also includes compliant.
discriminated against in any way.
a review of documentation and policies to verify fundamental Quality Assurance practices are in Ethical Trading Initiative place for each factory.
It is now mandatory that a Debenhams has been a member of the Ethical Debenhams-specic technical audit must be Trading Initiative ETI since 2001.
The ETI was conducted by SGS before a factory can be established in 1989 and is a tri-partite alliance of considered for approval.
The technical audit companies, non-governmental organisations such veries: the practices described by the supplier: as Oxfam, Labour Behind The Label and Fair Labour documentation of safety policies and procedures: Organisation and trade unions such as the Leather process ow: and the manufacturers suitability to and Textile Federation.
It aims to improve the lives produce the required product type.
For our existing ofworkers in global supply chains by promoting supply chain, we randomly request technical audits responsible corporate practices that support this by SGS to support documentation already held goal.
The ETI is funded by member contributions and and visits made by Debenhams supply chain a grant from the UK Department of International management team also check that due diligence Development.
As a corporate member, Debenhams is adhered to.
works with the ETI and is involved in various activities and projects.
In 2010, we rejected 86 factories from coming into the business for not meeting our compliance Factory Approval and Audit requirements and Code of Conduct.
272 factories Debenhams continues to develop and strengthen were approved as new suppliers.
its robust supplier and factory approval process by regular monitoring and assessment of its processes In addition to the review and assessment of new and functions.
The level of data collection and factories, supply chain management continues to analysis for each factory is comprehensive and review and deactivate factories that are no longer allows us to analyse the performance of our suppliers manufacturing our own bought product.
Our core hub areas account for over three-quarters As part of the approval process, it is a pre-requisite of our business.
The two largest areas are China and that an ethical social compliance audit, conducted India where 98 per cent of our factories are audited by our nominated monitoring partner, Socit with the balance work-in-progress as part of our Gnrale fide Surveillance SGS, is submitted for ongoing programme.
97 per cent of our factories in review before approval is given to a suppliers factory.
Bangladesh, the UK and Turkey are audited with the remaining 3 per cent being new factories that are We require SGS to use the specic SMETA audit currently in the auditing process.
All third-party tool which is recognised by the ETI, NGOs and other audits continue to be unannounced, within a given retail members of the ETI.
This audit tool requires a two-week window, and unannounced visits by standardised approach with set rules, therefore giving Debenhams senior management are a regular us maximum continuity within our programme.
Currently over 50% of our factory audits important to note that we do not pass or fail existing are less than a year old from the date of the actual factories: our approach is the ongoing monitoring of audit, the balance are conducting re-audits and factory compliance and supplier practices to fresh audits.
maintain the highest standards, working together 29 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 2 The Business Corporate Responsibility Review continued As a result of reviewing the audit findings, corrective Purchasing Practices action plans are tracked and monitored with our We believe that one of the best ways to ensure our suppliers and factories.
Time scales for remediation ethical sourcing goals are met is to embed them of corrective actions are agreed, working closely into the purchasing process.
Otherwise, as noted in with our suppliers to deliver the required reports by Oxfam, Cafod and Acona, purchasing improvements, which is globally supported with SGS.
practices can undermine the effectiveness and impact of ethical trading programmes by Following managements visits to overseas factories inadvertently restricting suppliers abilities to uphold to review compliance, we continue to send labour standards.
Our company process review donations of new toys to crche facilities at factories.
continues to analyse our end-to-end processes In 2010 weagain have sent toys to children in India, indepth and further changes have been made China and Bangladesh.
to our purchasing practices in 2010 as a result.
Wehave also continued our expert training sessions In 2010 we have again sent Decent Work Project on the elements of ethical auditing and pre-factory toys to crche facilities at Over the past two years we have been working with set up processes, which all employees can attend.
factories in India, China andBangladesh.
one of our major suppliers in China in a project with In addition to this, the standard Debenhams the ETI called Decent Working Practices.
This pilot induction for all new staff includes an in-depth project is proving to be successful and is the first overview of our procedures and requirements.
time any tri-partite group has successfully rolled out We are also continuing to run ourLondon College such a project.
The ETI, Wintop of China our of Fashion buying school programme.
partner manufacturer and China Womens Working Network a Hong Kong-based NGO are working Throughout the course of 2010 brieng sessions with together with union collaboration from Hong Kong all our buying teams have taken place to reiterate and academics from the Hong Kong University.
our requirements, standards and overall ethical The main aims of the project are to establish a trading position and policies.
Part of these training mechanism for sustainable employee labour and sessions specically covers the importance of management dialogue within the factory to seek purchasing practices, the impact unplanned ways to improve the work environment according to changes and or delayed decision making can the practical circumstances of the factory and the have on the employees in the factories expectations of various parties.
The process review is being driven by the supply chain management The first employee elections took place in November team, with nominated buying and merchandising 2009.
The successful candidates have been champions to drive progress throughout the representing their fellow employees throughout the business.
As part of the ETI purchasing practice year.
The next elections are due to take place in project we met with an NGO called SPYM Society November 2010.
The objectives are to seek ways to for the Promotion of Youth and Masses last June in improve the work environment, to increase the India with our Indian partner and two key suppliers employees participation and awareness of the already producing hand-embellished products for labour law and occupational health and safety and Debenhams.
We discussed our next steps for further to build their confidence and ability to solve labour development of our purchasing practices work, with management issues.
It also helps to strengthen continuing focus on handwork predominantly in the employees approval and commitment to the manufacture of womenswear and home products.
factory, reducing labour turnover, which in the This is an ongoing project with the training of women current climate is extremely important due to the in local communities providing them with an lack of skilled workers and labour shortages, opportunity to work close to home, learn a skill, earn particularly in the southern part of China.
money to help support their families and in time gain an artisan card.
The project learnings have been shared with other ETI members, NGOs and unions and will continue to evolve into 2011 with further development for continuing projects, which we hope to encourage further into our Chinese supply chain.
30 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 2 The Business Workplace and Community gender reassignment: and t We are committed Our People to supporting Debenhams had an average of 27,750 employees age.
t all our employees during 2010 2009 average: 26,800 in the UK and Republic of Ireland.
We are pleased to be able to This policy helps us to create a culture of respect to achieve continue creating new jobs around the UK as we and tolerance, a wider and more diverse talent an acceptable open new stores in cities such as Newcastle-uponpool from which we can recruit the best possible balance between Tyne which now employs nearly 250 people in the people for ourbusiness and supports our corporate their work and store.
In addition, Magasin du Nord employs some reputation by enduring we provide an excellent 1,200 people inDenmark.
recognise that few people would deliberately Labour turnover for the UK and Republic of Ireland breach the policy, it is possible to do so improved slightly from 29.7 per cent in 2009 to 28.6 unintentionally.
We therefore require everyone to per cent in 2010 as some of the positive steps we familiarise themselves with its contents.
We are have taken to increase employee retention offset an committed to ensuring equality of opportunities for improved labour market.
Through our equal opportunities policy we aim to create an environment that Gender offers all employees the chance to use their skills and talent.
Female 76% Male 24% We are committed to supporting all our employees Length of service to achieve an acceptable balance between their work and personal life.
Where appropriate, we offer a 5 years 28% number of exible contracts to suit the different 10 years 16% needs of employees.
We recognise there are times 20 years 4% when an employee may need to take time off work We are always keen to celebrate long service with due to personal situations and have a number of Debenhams.
For example, the Banbury store policies in place to support employees through celebrated its tenth birthday by holding a such events including maternity, paternity and champagne breakfast for the 20 employees who adoption leave, exible working and a career have worked at the store since its opening.
Debenhams is committed to ensuring that every Disability Awareness individual connected with the Company whether We are continuing to improve the accessibility of our employee, applicant, customer or other third party premises for employees, customers and visitors.
receives fair and equitable treatment, regardless Disability awareness is an important component of their differences.
These include but are not of the induction programme for all new store restricted to: staff and training is given on customer care for disabled people.
We provide information on gender: accessibility matters relating to our stores via t www.
This includes information race: such as: lift facilities: location of accessible toilet t facilities: availability ofpersonal shopper services: ethnic or national origin: collect-by-car arrangements: and details of t accessible customer collection points.
religious, political or philosophical beliefs: t We are also continuing to develop our website, disability: www.
com, to improve accessibility and t when considering any change to the website we go marital or civil partnership status: through a process that includes the needs and t considerations of anyone with disabilities.
sexual orientation: t 31 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 2 The Business Corporate Responsibility Review continued Debenhams welcomes applications for employment their complex roles and to identify routes to gaining from disabled people.
As part of our policy on knowledge or experience that may be missing.
equality of opportunity, decisions on recruitment, Given our extensive growth over recent years, training, promotion, pay, terms and conditions and opportunities for projects, new store openings, the leavers are based solely on objective, job-related integration of acquired businesses both in the UK criteria and personal competence and and abroad have presented many store managers performance.
We seek wherever possible to make with the chance to develop and demonstrate new reasonable adjustments to ensure that an employee skills.
Design Your Future encourages them to bring who becomes disabled during the course of his or these experiences together and reect on them, her employment is able to continue working before determining their future hopes and effectively.
This includes: providing equipment or aspirations.
Following the launch, every store altering working arrangements: providing additional manager has designed a development plan and training: reallocating on a temporary or permanent reviewed their portfolio of experiences with their basis some of the employees duties to other regional sales director.
members of staff: transferring the employee to a suitable alternative role: and adjusting working In addition, a small group of high-potential store times.
Any such adjustment will be monitored and managers and senior store managers have reviewed on a regular basis to ensure it continues embarked on an intensive Design Your Future to be effective.
training programme intended to fast track their development and support Debenhams continued Debenhams is a member of the Employers Forum organic growth.
on Disability which seeks to enable companies to become disability confident by making it easier to Nikki Zamblera, HR Director, has served for many recruit and retain disabled employees and to serve years on the board of Skillsmart Retail, the skills disabled customers.
sector for the council for the industry.
Following the formation of the Skillshop Network in April 2009, Learning and Development Debenhams was very pleased to become the first We have a long-established reputation for national retailer to begin a Retail Skills qualication developing our people and are very proud that trial with the Skillshop network.
the majority of management appointments are made from within the business.
Using competencies already mapped to the roles of sales advisor and senior sales advisor and working Skills, internal progression and opportunities for with Skillshop, the trial involved 11 stores across people to develop new capabilities and realise their England offering consistent qualications at NVQ potential have always been important to us and this Retail Skills level 2.
Seven more stores have year we have embarked on two major initiatives: subsequently been added and the qualication has been extended to supervisors wishing to gain Design Your Future a programme for Store an NVQ Retail Skills level 3 qualication.
In less than t Managers: and a year we have over 500 learners who have either earned their qualication or are in the process of a pioneering project to provide qualications gaining it.
On job coaching and assessment has t for employees in stores.
impacted positively on motivation and morale and the partnership with Skillshop means that internal Launched at the annual Store Manager Conference resources have not been stretched beyond their in April 2010, Design Your Future is a development means.
Soft measures are easy to gauge but hard programme that rmly puts the responsibility for measures are there too.
In 10 out of 11 trial stores growth and progression in the hands of the labour turnover is lower per NVQ trainee than store individual.
A diagnostic tool kit gives current store average and absence is substantially lower.
managers and future store managers the On average, absenteeism in the trial stores was opportunity to map and identify gaps in their 2.4 per cent amongst the NVQ population experiences.
It helps them to map out and value compared with 5.0 per cent for the store average the practical knowledge gained in all the aspects of and labour turnover was 4.2 per cent for NVQ 32 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 2 The Business trainees compared with 15.6 per cent for the store recognised, large or small.
Our Celebrating Success asa whole.
policy encourages managers and colleagues to acknowledge the efforts of others and each year Anne Seaman, Chief Executive of Skillsmart Retail culminates in the annual Celebrating Success Limited, said: We are delighted that Debenhams Awards where the best of the best are honoured for has taken the initiative to be the first national retailer their outstanding achievement in customer service to use the services of the National Skills Academy for or behind the scenes.
Retails network of retail skills shops which have delivered retail qualications to their employees.
This year, once again annual winners from every Already the benets of providing qualications can store and each head ofce division spent the day be seen in the reduction of labour turnover and relaxing at Alton Towers before being joined by the absenteeism.
executive directors and other senior managers for an evening of celebration and recognition.
One of our store managers commented:We have noticed a marked improvement in our staffs Health and Safety confidence and business awareness and those Information on Debenhams health and safety policies who are taking part in the qualications are offering and procedures can be found at the Corporate a more professional approach to the business.
The participants themselves are equally enthusiastic.
In 2010, a key focus for health and safety training One said: In the future I may want to progress to was the topic of slips and falls which was the subject Supervisor.
Getting a qualication has whetted my of this years annual health and safety week in appetite.
Another commented: I now feel more June.
By undertaking a comprehensive review of confident and realise my job has many facets I have incidents, we were able to determine training previously taken for granted.
Since completing my needs for all store employees, including the qualication I have taken a vital role in the store participation of our concession partners and our training team, training new starters, using my skills to contract cleaning teams.
The maintenance of safety standards and the At Debenhams we are now convinced that gaining performance of key health and safety tasks form a a Retail Skills qualication helps individuals to major part of the risk management review.
The enhance their retail skills, develop their knowledge outcome and remedial actions required after risk and understanding of the business and most management inspections are followed up by the importantly boosts the confidence and aspirations store manager, regional sales director and the risk of those who achieve them.
As a result, an management team.
The results of the risk review apprenticeship trial is now under way.
programme indicate an improving store performance on matters of health and safety as Employee Consultation Forum ECF indicated below.
The ECF is a group of elected representatives from FY 2010 all areas of the business that meets annually Score % versus Area % last year with members of the board.
The purpose of these Health and safety 83.7 5.6 meetings is to allow our employees the opportunity to receive information about Debenhams and to be consulted on certain parts of our business activities.
Debenhams records and reviews its performance in The representatives elected by stores also meet relation to the number and nature of the accidents during the year on a local basis to discuss regional reportable to the enforcement authority.
Despite the business issues and to prepare for the national increasing size of the business in terms of employee annual meeting.
numbers, trading space and customer footfall, the results set out below demonstrate an encouragingly Celebrating Success low level and an improving trend in the number of With people so critical to our success, we are reportable accidents incidents in 2010. rigorous in ensuring that contributions are 33 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 2 The Business Corporate Responsibility Review continued Reportable Accidents Incidents in 2010 Through our food services division we are a supporter of the Anaphylaxis Campaign charity.
We fully 2010 76 support the great work they do, helping people with 2010 24 severe allergens and persuading the food industry including catering of the need to provide detailed 2009 89 and accurate allergen information.
2009 31 We also encourage our employees to support 2008 111 charities and since 1999 have worked with Hands 2008 44 on Helping supporting the Give As You Earn scheme.
Employees Customers We now have around 6 per cent of Debenhams employees who participate in the scheme.
Charities and Community Work Debenhams is a strong supporter of charities at We support many other charities on a local level both a national and local level.
including medical charities, childrens charities, animal charities and a host of local and community Our key national charity is Breast Cancer Campaign groups.
Amongst those we helped in 2010 were the which we have supported for ten years, raising over Haiti earthquake appeal, Children First, Dress for 2.3 million to date through the sale of special Success, Macmillan Cancer Support and Wellbeing products and in-store events.
Our main fundraising of Women.
event for 2010 was Cycle To The Moon which saw store employees and customers aim to cycle the In 2010 Debenhams personal shoppers have been 225,622 miles distance to the moon during the helping people on the Life Skills Programme.
The month of October meaning each store had to unique partnership between Quintessentially, the cycle 47 miles every day.
This complemented worlds leading private members club and other activities including a range of exclusive concierge service, and The House of St Barnabas, T-shirts designed by Designers at Debenhams a charity supporting the homeless, is guiding those JasperConran, Betty Jackson, Julien Macdonald, affected by homelessness through the acquisition John Rocha and Matthew Williamson.
For 2011, we and development of life-changing skills.
As part of are increasing our fundraising activities for Breast their graduation week, all 14 volunteers had a Cancer Campaign and are aiming to raise personal shopping appointment at Debenhams 1million.
The theme for the year will be Step On It Oxford Street for expert advice on what to wear to Members of Debenhams which involves a series of walks 46,000 steps long an interview.
We also donated a full outt to each head ofce staff participating one for each person diagnosed with breast cancer volunteer as a graduation present to set them on in the Step On It walk in aid in the UK each year.
their way to successful careers.
Another key charity is NSPCC for whom stores raised Debenhams Retirement Association DRA over 225,000 over Christmas 2009 at events The DRA is a registered charity established to provide including those linked to the arrival of Santa Claus help and support to any of the retired employees in instore.
receipt of pension who need assistance.
There are currently over 5,000 pensioners and the charity Our clothing brand Mantaray continues to be a keeps in touch with them using a network of proud supporter of the Marine Conservation Society pensioner support ofcers who each cover specic MCS.
Our support for the MCSs work for clean areas of the UK.
Helplines are provided for those seas, sustainable sheries and protected sealife is in need and funds grants are available to not just financial.
We are also helping in more pensioners to buy essential items or in emergency practical ways by encouraging employees and circumstances.
customers to take part in voluntary beach cleans and surveys, helping to clear the UKs beaches of the The main source of funding is a donation from the tide of litter currently endangering the life of coastal Company but many stores and head ofce wildlife such as seabirds, dolphins, porpoises and departments hold fundraising events for the DRA.
34 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Section 2 The Business Getting People Back to Work family, and 75 per cent said we were better or For several years Debenhams has been involved in much better than other retailers they shop at.
local programmes which aim to offer opportunities to people who are at a disadvantage in the 76,955 customers said that a member of staff went labour market, such as lone parents or those on above and beyond their expectation, and we also incapacity benefit.
These programmes aim to raise had the opportunity to rescue 2,777 dissatisfied employment rates and reduce the number of customers.
Helping customers feel good about themselves with working people dependent on benets and operate The Style List.
in conjunction with Jobcentre Plus and the Learning 59 per cent of customers opted in to receive future and Skills Council.
email promotions adding to our marketing database.
To date, Debenhams has employed over 200 people Next financial year we will extend the customer through these programmes in a number of different experience programme to debenhams.
com and to regions, including recent new store openings in Magasin stores.
Newcastle-upon-Tyne, Carmarthen, Bury and Bath.
Our involvement has been recognised with a wealth As well as seeking their views, it is equally important of award nominations.
for us to seek ways to make our customers feel good about themselves when so much of the fashion Customers business focuses on body shapes and lifestyles Our customers are extremely important to us.
which are very different from reality for the majority of our customers.
We have been at the forefront of Customer Feedback several high-prole campaigns in 2010 which have We believe that keeping in touch with our customers really pushed the boundaries.
You can read about and understanding what they think about these on pages 18 to 19.
Another new initiative Debenhams isparamount to achieving our goals.
launched in September 2010 is The Style List, a Equally important for us is to seek ways to make our pioneering campaign featuring models in their customers feel good about themselves when so 40s, 50s and 60s.
We have teamed up with fashion much of the fashion business focuses on body commentator and inclusivity campaigner Caryn shapes and lifestyles which are very different from Franklin to provide an informative fashion destination reality for the majority of our customers.
Debenhams Design Team We have increased the size of our online research community, the Debenhams Design Team, to over 19,000 members.
In the last year Design Team members have participated in over 35 surveys and over 25 online discussions, capturing over 70,000 individual responses.
We also ran a series of customer focus groups throughout the year to gain feedback on new product ranges, including the Principles by Ben fide Lisi, H!
by Henry Holland and B by Ted Baker ranges.
Customer Experience Programme We continue to invite every customer in Debenhams stores to give us feedback on their in-store experience.
This year we received feedback from 167,868 customers, of which 60 per cent were extremely likely to recommend Debenhams to their friends or 35 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2010
