Corporate social responsibility report safety professional, and all accidents The group takes its social responsibility of injuries which require treatment 16 and incidents are fully investigated so obligations very seriously, with our by a health professional, our safety that remedial or avoidance action may intentions reflected in our group performance was broadly the same in be initiated and subsequently monitored.
Those on Health and Safety, 2010 as in 2009 which is when this new the Environment, Quality and Human Formal reporting procedures are in place at measurement began.
To each plant so that we can monitor safety achieve this in 2010, the Chief Executive performance at both group and local level.
The rate of injuries requiring treatment by a invited contributions from managers, safety health professional LWDIs plus recordable committees and trade union and employee 2010 was the first year when all factories injuries was: representatives, and the updated policies carried out behavioural safety audits.
The were then endorsed by the Board at the design of these has been adapted across LWDIs plus recordable injuries end of the year.
They are available on our the group to suit the local culture, and per million hours worked website www.
further refinement is expected during 2011.
2009 12.5 Visiting Executive Committee members 2010 12.2 Safety including the Chief Executive have We regard health and safety as a priority participated in these audits.
and see this as an essential part of our While the number of working days lost as business.
At the beginning of the year we A key decision taken at a conference a consequence of injuries showed a slight developed group safety standards covering involving the groups safety and operations increase, 68% of the time lost during 2010 15 key areas Golden Rules, and have professionals was to change the main was due to injuries which happened in started to ensure they are all applied at all measure of safety performance from previous years.
Lost Working Day Injuries LWDIs to all injuries which require treatment by a health Lost working days Safety is a regular item on every Board professional.
The reasons for this were per million hours worked Meeting agenda.
In addition, the Board two-fold: firstly the number of LWDIs is Safety Committee met four times now relatively low, and secondly we wish 2004 198 during the year to review progress and to focus on a broader range of incidents 2005 156 to hear directly from Regional Safety to maximise learning for the future.
The Committee appointed an 2006 183 experienced external auditor who visited The group carried out internal surveys 2007 143 all our manufacturing sites during the during 2010 for the third time.
He focused mainly on building and climate survey was used to understand machinery issues, and made a number the views of all our staff, while an audit 2009 134 of recommendations, which have already by safety managers looked at procedures 2010 152 been adopted or are included in 2011 and processes.
Results were better than action plans.
in previous years with progress again being made across a broad front.
Both have Key achievements from around the All group companies conduct regular reached the end of their useful life, and group were: formal safety reviews at plant level.
Managers and employees review United States policies, processes and procedures Our performance in 2010 During the year, the existing theme in order that risks may be properly The rate of LWDIs rose in 2010 after of SMART Safety Means Action assessed and appropriate action taken the significant reduction in 2009.
It was, Responsibility and Teamwork was to protect the safety of employees.
Each however, the second best performance in expanded to encompass all safety manufacturing business has at least one the last ten years.
Using the new measure activities including the behaviour based safety program.
The SMART auditors as originally titled became Safety Champions Lost working day injury rate injuries per million hours worked in keeping with them taking ownership for safety and promoting safety in their areas.
The behaviour-based safety audit process became more interactive with auditors 7.1 asking questions and discussing safe 6.3 5.8 5.6 behaviour with employees in the audit area.
4.9 3.7 Early in 2010, there was a fire during the 3.3 removal of a redundant heavy fuel oil tank 1.8 by a specialist external contractor.
No one was injured during the incident, but it led to the acceleration of plans to improve the 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 control of contractors and other visitors Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION issues due to dermatitis reported in previous to the factory.
The result is a programme we see climate change as a key concern 17 years have now been fully resolved.
that has five primary elements that apply of society.
The impact on our carbon to contractors and their subcontractors: footprint of our use of refrigerant gases An important area for 2010 has been 1 prequalification: 2 verification of scope and business travel is relatively insignificant.
of work and risk assessment: 3 safety work on improving traffic movement training: 4 on-site tracking monitoring: and segregation in the factories.
There Performance during 2010 was and 5 on-site work management are now areas which are prioritised for encouraging, as we again achieved a including a permit to work system.
vehicles, while the use of fork lift trucks reduction in emissions per kilometre has been eliminated in other areas to give equivalent product.
Absolute emissions Australia pedestrians priority.
of carbon dioxide fell slightly and The Australian plant continued to consumption of water increased slightly, in focus both on reducing the number of Business continuity planning both cases by less than 1%.
accidents and on early return to work and Business continuity plans continued to rehabilitation following injury.
be tested across the group.
At the end CO emissions 2 tes CO million metres equivalent casing produced 2 of the year we signed a contract with An accredited training programme in Risk a local provider of emergency office Water consumption 3 m water million metres equivalent casing produced Assessments was conducted in 2010 for accommodation for our headquarters staff.
key contractors and Devro individuals.
2005 100 Contractors working on Devro sites are One of the groups aims is to continue to seen as high risk, and while it is mandatory reduce the risk of business interruption due to complete risk assessments for each to fire at its major sites, and we continue to activity, this training is an attempt to be assisted in this by our property insurer, improve the thought processes and level of FM Global, who carries out annual audits detail contained in the documentation.
A Safety Observations Programme Environmental policy was introduced in 2010.
Managers and The group has always recognised that supervisors carry out safety observations environmental protection is of fundamental on a monthly basis, following a schedule to importance to a successful and ensure all departments are covered.
We take pride in our business and are committed 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Czech Republic to achieving compliance with regulations, In terms of injuries, a major milestone permits and consent limits in our various was passed when the Slavkov factory activities, avoiding pollution, and reducing During 2010 we added solid waste completed a second year without a lost our environmental impact in the countries sent to landfill or incineration as one working day injury, bringing the total to and communities in which we operate.
of our key measures, converting the over 950 days without a LWDI at the end different waste streams to a dry basis.
Group operations around the world Performance was good in 2010: there was are subject to a variety of regulatory a significant reduction in the amount of The use of behavioural audits has regimes and cultures.
As a consequence, waste produced, helped by the recycling continued in 2010 with the training environmental issues are dealt with through initiatives at our Scottish and US factories of more auditors.
a network of specialists operating within described below.
To ensure consistency The annual safety training session for all of approach, all group companies operate Waste employees was held, and covered working within an agreed corporate framework tes waste converted to a solids basis sent to landfill safely, fire safety and first aid training which promotes exchange of information or incineration and best practice.
At the end of 2010 the 2005 100 Scotland Strategic Development Director was asked The RoSPA accredited Human Focus to take on responsibility for co-ordinating safety e-learning system was introduced action on environmental issues.
at the beginning of the year: this provides over 120 training modules covering all Starting in 2008 we decided to focus on two aspects of health and safety.
All employees measures, and this has continued in 2010: have a schedule which requires them to work through a number typically 6 8 of carbon dioxide CO emissions from 2 modules throughout the year.
the use of fuels and electricity in our factories Safety performance as measured by the water consumption number of visits to a doctor for treatment was excellent with only two visits during We have chosen to focus on our fuel use the year.
In addition the occupational health and electricity-related CO emissions, as 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 100 100 100 97 98 96 94 91 93 89 91 90 86 94 88 84 87 87 Corporate social responsibility report continued fluorescent light tubes, glass, oils and The on-going programme with a major The main environmental impacts of our 18 wooden pallets.
The overall result is that fertiliser manufacturer resulted in the processes are the emission of carbon at the end of the year only 4% of the total recycling of a further 3,450 tonnes of liquid dioxide and the solid waste we send to waste stream was going to landfill.
ammonium sulphate for fertiliser feedstock landfill or incineration.
We operate our own waste water treatment plants in in 2010. three locations and meet local consents: Two other projects started during the year: for example, in the Czech Republic, we We have agreed to a higher dissolved process our liquid effluent to a level where Work started with the Carbon Trust on a oxygen limit of 2.0 mg l in the treated it can be safely discharged into a river heat pump system to return waste heat effluent we discharge to the Congaree river.
In Scotland we into the driers: trials will be carried out This follows the recent addition of sturgeon discharge into the public sewerage during 2011.
At the same time a new and mussel species to the endangered system where our waste is combined design of heat exchanger is being tested to species lists.
The South Carolina with domestic effluent and treated improve heat recovery from drier exhausts.
Department of Health and Environmental by Scottish Water.
Control has acknowledged our efforts to A project to look at the use of coal bed support green initiatives.
Targets methane has started and a planning Over the last five years we have reduced submission made to drill adjacent to one Through improved operations, we were our carbon dioxide emissions, water used, of our factories.
Gas, if present in able to reduce our total waste sent to and solid waste per million metres by 16%, reasonable volume, would be used either landfill by over 10% compared to 2009.
As 13% and 13% respectively, comfortably in the boilers or in a new combined heat an additional boost to our sustainability, we exceeding our expectations.
Some of and power installation.
have shifted the purchase of over 50% of the easier projects have been completed our wood boiler fuel to sources that would and the next stage of reductions will be United States otherwise have been destined for landfill.
more challenging our target for the next In 2010, the continued efforts to maximise five years is therefore to make further the return on the improved boiler control Australia reductions of 10% in all these measures.
systems, along with an investment this year A cogeneration project commenced in to upgrade a portion of the pollution control 2010 and will be completed during 2011: Environmental update equipment, have enabled operation at more when operating it will provide 70% of the Detailed reports from around the group are than 46% below the regulatory limits.
This is sites electrical requirements and 100% outlined below: a 5% improvement over 2009. of the heating requirements.
The system consists of a gas fired turbine generator Scotland We continued to maximise our use of set coupled with a heat recovery steam Two projects which started in 2009 have renewable fuels in 2010 and were able generator.
The project will reduce site made progress during 2010: to show a reduction of 2% in energy energy costs, replacing purchase of converted from our non-renewable electricity by gas, and reduce carbon 1 A feasibility study for a wind turbine sources along with a 1.5% reduction dioxide emissions by over 6,000 tonnes suggested that the wind speed in in carbon dioxide emissions.
This was annually a reduction of over 30%.
This Moodiesburn would be high enough brought about by an improved wood system will also enable electrical load to justify erection of a turbine, and boiler control system and by operational shedding in the event of power outages, planning permission for a test improvements at the waste treatment resulting in more consistent manufacturing.
anemometer was granted and a system that allowed us to treat over 500 mast installed.
Information has been tons of liquid waste that previously had to There has been further progress with gathered for 9 months: average wind be incinerated in the boiler.
Significant speed has been disappointing at less upgrades to both waste water treatment than 75% of the expected value.
Due to our significant use of renewable plants were completed in 2010.
These boiler fuels, the site operates at only 30% use membrane filtration units, and will 2 Following an extensive recycling study, of the Environmental Protection Agencys result in the elimination of the discharge the largest waste stream wet collagen EPAs Greenhouse Gas applicability limit, of suspended solids.
Further has been diverted from landfill to and as such will not be affected by the improvements are planned for 2011, composting.
The remaining combined EPAs current Greenhouse Gas Rules.
with a focus on water consumption and waste streams are now sent to a sulphate discharges.
recycling facility where waste is sorted In 2010, we worked with an industrial through an advanced picking line to service company to utilise a new method Czech Republic identify and segregate material which of cleaning the tubes in the wood boiler.
Work has started on a project to install can then be recycled, further reducing This resulted in some of the highest a steam turbine to generate electricity.
the amount of waste being sent sustained firing rates we have seen, while The opportunity arose as the pressure at to landfill.
operating well below the regulatory limits which steam is generated 10 bar is higher for pollution.
than required 3 bar, and the turbine will Additional reductions have been achieved be replacing a pressure let-down valve.
through careful in-house recycling Completion is expected during 2011. of cardboard, paper, scrap metals, Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION by all of our manufacturing facilities Suppliers Gas consumption reduced by over 5% 19 and routine audits by appropriate local We recognise that our corporate social mainly due to the installation of three new authorities.
responsibility also reflects in the way we high-speed lines during 2010. behave towards our suppliers.
We strive to The upgraded waste water treatment plant 2010 saw the continuation of extensive be open, honest and consistent in all our successfully passed its twelve month trial internal quality audits against ISO dealings with suppliers.
The biological treatment process had 9001:2008 supplemented by the ISO terms and conditions with suppliers before been completely redesigned to meet a 15161 Guidelines on the application of ISO business takes place.
The groups policy is lower nitrogen consent.
9001:2008 for the food and drink industry.
to pay agreed invoices in accordance with Two of our manufacturing companies had the terms of payment.
At 31 December Regulatory compliance and food safety already been audited three times, and in 2010, the amount owed to trade creditors With its worldwide trading, the group 2010 we carried out third audits on the by the group was equivalent to 30 days of is conscious of the need to ensure other two manufacturing locations.
compliance with national and international had improved significantly.
European food safety legislation group in a good position to consider Trade associations is the benchmark for the worldwide registration to the new FS 22000 standard, The Collagen Casings Trade Association, group.
As previously, we have complied which is planned for 2011. which was created in 2006, met twice with EU Regulation 2002 178 EC, which in 2010 under our chairmanship.
The lays down the general principles and During the year we had an instance of the objectives of the group are: requirements of food law.
In particular, for contamination of one of our raw materials: European markets, we have ensured full the consequences were not significant To represent the industry in its relations compliance with EU Regulation 2004 853 and our internal systems ensured that no with legislators and administrations.
EC including Section XV, which sets out contaminated product was released to To better understand the market as a specific hygiene rules and requirements the market.
However, as a result we have whole.
for collagen for human consumption.
We reviewed and tightened up on supplier To maintain and increase food safety.
also remain in full compliance with EU quality standards.
To encourage market growth and Regulation 2005 2073 EC as amended promote collagen casings.
on microbiological criteria for foodstuffs.
During the year our Australian medical Imports of products into the EU from collagen processing business Quality The main activity last year was lobbying to the US continue under an equivalence Management System was re-audited correct errors in a proposed amendment to agreement described in EU Commission against ISO 13485 from BSI for the the draft Food Information Regulation.
manufacture of bovine biomedical collagen.
There were no major non-conformances.
Our individual businesses are also members of The group takes product traceability The site was also assessed for ISO EN local associations.
For example, the Scottish seriously and has systems to ensure 22442 parts 1, 2 and 3 and found to be business is a member of the Food and Drink traceability at all stages of production, fully compliant.
Federation, and our Australian operation processing and distribution as required by participates in a Food Industry Focus Group Article 18 of EU Regulation 178 2002 EC.
Social, environmental and ethical risks established in New South Wales.
This enables us to respond should there Each year, the Board carries out a broad be a food contamination concern.
review of business risks which includes Employees social, environmental and ethical SEE The group aims to attract and retain Our Scottish plants are accredited to matters.
This review is aimed at identifying employees of high calibre in order to the 2005 BRC EFSIS Global Standard and assessing significant risks to the achieve improvements in its performance.
During the year they groups value, as well as providing the The development and motivation of implemented an enhanced traceability Board with an opportunity to manage such our employees is a high priority.
In line system in order to respond faster in the risks by way of an appropriate response.
with this the group started two new event of supplier problems.
programmes in 2010: During 2010 the Board created a Having conducted a veterinary Risk Committee to review risks more Senior managers attended a weekre-registration audit in November 2010, the frequently.
This committee will meet four long programme facilitated by the Hay Regional Veterinary Administration issued times per year.
Group to gain a better understanding a final audit report in which our Czech of how their management style affects manufacturing facility has been classified The Board believes that this system is business climate and performance.
Our American and Australian sufficiently comprehensive to effectively factories also passed audits by their national manage significant SEE risks, and to date A global programme was started authorities FDA and AQIS respectively.
has not felt it necessary to incorporate with the Open University in the UK remuneration incentives into the system.
whereby employees could register Quality and study for a Professional Certificate We aspire to achieve high levels of food in Management.
21 employees from quality and food safety, supported by around the world chose to participate general registration to ISO 9001:2008 in the first year.
Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Corporate social responsibility report continued the organisation, arranged a number of them in managing a successful work life The group provides equal opportunities for 20 other activities including bowling balance.
Employee support programmes employment, training, career development and basketball.
are available to all permanent employees.
and promotion regardless of age, sex, colour, race, religion, ethnic origin or other criteria.
We encourage the employment The training and leadership Enabling employees to derive the of disabled people whenever suitable development programme continued, maximum possible benefit from their vacancies are available.
Arrangements are with courses run for managers and employment with Devro is a key principle.
made, wherever possible, for retraining team leaders.
In line with this, channels for employee employees who become disabled, to involvement have been established, enable them to perform work identified as In Australia, a Wellness Program was including a European Works Council.
appropriate to their aptitudes and abilities.
introduced in 2010, in conjunction with Given the geographical spread of our a local university.
The programme was operations, it would be inappropriate Our different sites have their own developed using honours students in and impractical to apply uniform programmes: the School of Human Movement: 60 procedures group-wide.
Each company employees volunteered to participate.
is therefore responsible for achieving The Scottish operation has introduced The programme was used to assist and maintaining appropriate consultation a new apprenticeship scheme in in improving employees general welland communication with its employees.
the laboratory sponsored by Skills being and physical fitness.
Examples of the employee involvement Development Scotland.
The first programme during 2010 included: apprentice is studying for a four year Czech legislation requires that 4% of HND in Life Sciences.
our employees are disabled or that we Disclosure of financial information by are supplied by companies which have means of employee briefings and the We continue to offer two engineering a status of Protected Workshop distribution of the Interim and Annual apprenticeships, working in partnership at least 50% of disabled employees.
with the East Kilbride Group Training In 2010 we employed 8 full-timeAssociation.
In addition to the six equivalent disabled employees, and Communication with employees via apprentices currently being trained, purchased goods from Protected newsletters, screens and intranet.
a further thirteen former Scottish Workshops equalling the equivalent apprentices are employed by of a further 39 full-time equivalent Joint management and employee the group.
In comparison committee meetings on Health with 2009 the number of directly and Safety.
We have begun working in partnership employed disabled employees reduced with the Scottish Food and Drink due to a combination of retirement and Meetings with employees and union Federation on the Future in Food the expiration of medical certificates representatives to discuss the issues programme.
Seven staff have where the employee had not requested affecting them.
become ambassadors for Devro and an extension.
are working with a local school to promote science and engineering We also arrange a number of activities studies.
The programme was supporting employees well-being: launched in September 2010 and the these range from influenza vaccinations ambassadors were invited to the official to sports activities bowling, volleyball, launch at the Scottish Parliament.
Training initiatives this year include The trainee programme which offers a further ten employees studying a number of positions each year the Institute of Leadership and continued in 2010.
Four trainees were Management ILM Level 5 programme.
appointed in product development, The first group completed their studies finance, research and development early in 2010 with exceptional results.
There is also an As a result of this success we have apprenticeship programme also introduced an ILM Level 3 with in maintenance.
Practical training experience is In a continuing effort to encourage provided for students, working in health and well-being, our American partnership with universities and site offered mammogram screenings, secondary schools.
flu vaccines and blood pressure, glucose, iron level, cholesterol, PSA A flexible approach is adopted when and colorectal cancer screenings in considering employees individual family 2010.
The planning activity committee, requirements, offering flexible start and which includes employees from across finish times where practicable to assist Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION for work after release, thereby reducing Communities 21 reoffending rates.
To date 140 trolleys All our factories are situated in relatively have been repaired.
small communities, and we work with them where possible.
Nine local community programs were Examples of our activities are: supported with donations by our US business.
These included United Our Australian operation continues Way, March of Dimes, Breast Cancer to be a major supporter of the Try Association, Cystic Fibrosis Foundation a Trade initiative which attempts and the Harvest Hope Food Bank.
to address the skills shortage in the Other local community programs Central Western Region of New South supported were: Calhoun County High Wales.
It is a major sponsor of the School, Sandhills United Soccer Club, Bathurst Junior Sports Awards, and Sandy Run School and Sandy Run also supports local charities and other Sports Association.
independent local events such as school ftes and fund-raising actions.
Corporate ethics We are committed to working with Disabled people are actively supported customers, suppliers, communities and by using a local company specifically competitors in an ethical manner.
All created to cater for people with Devro employees are expected to behave disabilities for the laundering of uniforms.
ethically in their work and our expectations of them are set out in a detailed Business The Czech business continues to Conduct Policy, available on our website.
support the local community by Annually, senior management are required continuing to exceed its obligations for to sign a certificate confirming compliance the employment of disabled people.
of both themselves and their staff with this policy.
This has been completed for 2010.
Donations were also made to support programmes in local schools and other A whistle-blowing policy is in place in local institutions.
accordance with which staff can raise any financial concerns to the chairman Devro Scotland continued to support of the Audit Committee, in confidence.
several local institutions and charities In addition whistle-blowing clauses have with small donations.
A group of men been added to the policies referred to supported Movember, a moustache in the first paragraph.
growing month that raises funds and awareness for mens health, raising Verification over 1,500.
This report has been reviewed by the Head of Risk Assurance, whose role involves risk A process operator, Joanne Stewart, management co-ordination on a global ran a Womens 10k race in aid of a basis and regular contact with all group 6 year old local boy who suffers from locations worldwide.
In addition, a team from Scotland took part in the Great Summary Scottish Run.
They raised over As a truly global business, we are fully 1,000 for Alzheimer Scotland, aware of our global responsibilities.
and were awarded 3rd place in These responsibilities are extensive, from the Corporate Challenge.
protecting the environment throughout the continents in which we work, to The business supports the safeguarding the health and safety of rehabilitation of inmates at Glenochil our employees and to ensuring integrity prison through a process trolley and honesty in our business dealings.
Each week taking action in these and many other three trolleys are repaired at the ways, Devro largely achieves its objective prison, using parts and tools supplied of operating worldwide in a safe and by Devro.
This gives the men an responsible manner.
opportunity to have a more fulfilling daytime programme as part of their sentence, and helps them to prepare Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
