12 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Corporate and social responsibility Meeting the needs of clients, shareholders and engaging all our employees whilst considering the communities and environment in which we work is at the heart of our business.
Richard Portman, Corporate Services Director We foster a responsible culture: Introduction We make our clients feel confident in us so that they are Dignity is committed to meeting the needs of our clients, reassured they are being served by responsible individuals shareholders and engaging all our employees whilst working for a responsible company.
We give our clients considering the impact of our activities on the communities confidence that they can rely on us to understand their and environment in which we work.
We aim to achieve our needs and to take care of all the arrangements: and to business objectives in a caring and responsible manner by feel confident that we can be responsible for looking after developing business practices and procedures that reflect this.
Within Dignity, Corporate Services Director, Richard Portman, Dignity has been identified by the FTSE Group in its is accountable for corporate and social responsibility and FTSE4Good initiative as a company that is working towards under this remit identifies major issues and reports these environmental sustainability, developing positive relationships to his fellow Board members.
with stakeholders and upholding and supporting universal human rights.
Management and accountability The governing principles of Dignity are that we are here to We have created a culture of workplace safety so that our help people at one of the most difficult times of their lives staff understand and abide by legislation and guidelines and we do this with compassion, respect, openness and ensuring their own health and safety and that of their care.
Our objective is to be the company that everyone colleagues and clients.
We promote green issues and knows they can trust in their time of need.
sustainability, continually seeking new initiatives that reduce the impact of our business activities on our environment.
The flat structure of Dignity means that local management Making a positive contribution to charities and our local are empowered to make decisions that provide quick and communities is embedded into our corporate culture and effective solutions to the needs of their clients, businesses an objective enthusiastically supported by our staff.
and the communities they serve.
Only five per cent of our employees are based at our Head Office in Sutton Coldfield We enable our people to excel: where they perform such necessary business tasks as finance, We train and develop our staff to the very highest standards, customer service centre, IT, HR and purchasing.
This approach enabling them to fulfil their potential and giving them the demonstrates our commitment to providing staff in locations skills to be able to meet and exceed our clients expectations.
where they can directly help and support our clients.
We build trust and respect: Our values, which are set out in our governing principles, We build trust and respect with everyone touched by our are a fundamental part of our culture.
By living these business operations our clients, our colleagues, our values, we ensure that we operate in a responsible way suppliers, trade authorities and members of our local and that we deliver the excellent service upon which our communities.
Everyone at Dignity understands that at all business depends.
times they are an ambassador for the company and that the future success of the business depends on its reputation.
Dignity has been identified by the Our CSR commitments FTSE Group in its FTSE4Good initiative as a company that meets Our people globally recognised standards of corporate responsibility.
Dignity is committed to high standards of employment practice and aims to encourage, retain and develop successful employees.
We submit our carbon footprint data Health and safety to the Carbon Disclosure Project that Our business is conducted at all times in such a way as to ensure, as is measures disclosures from thousands reasonably practical, the health, safety and welfare of all our employees of organisations across the worlds and all persons who may be attending our premises.
Our environment We are committed to maintaining the quality of the environment in which we all live and we aim to reduce the impact of our operations so that we act in an environmentally friendly manner.
Our communities We are committed to making a difference to both our clients and to improving the welfare of all who live in the communities we serve.
13 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Key CSR highlights: Making a difference, 2 000 At the heart of what we do 2,000 delegates attended training courses Our corporate responsibility programme focuses on developing our people, creating facilitated by Dignitys Training Department a culture of workplace safety, promoting environmental sustainability and making a during the past twelve months.
positive impact on the communities we serve.
6.7% We aim to achieve our business objectives in a caring and responsible manner by The number of accidents reported per thousand developing business practices and procedures that reflect this.
By living these values, staff employed has been reduced by 6.7per cent we ensure that we operate in a responsible way and that we deliver the excellent service over the last three years.
upon which our business depends.
7 million Dignity will invest approximately 7 million to reduce mercury emissions from its crematoria by the end of 2012.
Below: Stuart Cox, Corporate Communications Manager, Sutton Coldfield.
60 000 Dignity raised 60,000 for its corporate charity, Childrens Hospices UK, in 2010.
14 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Corporate and social Code of Conduct responsibility continued literature During the year, our Code of Conduct was reinforced when the Companys Helping our clients every step of the way and Serving our local communities brochures were refreshed and distributed to staff at both our funeral locations and crematoria.
Our CSR areas of focus Code of conduct We have focused our corporate and social responsibilities In 2010, Dignity launched its Code of Conduct.
This on four key areas: document ensures that all staff are aware of the principles that govern how we operate in the business environment Our people and explains the standards of behaviour that all our Health and safety employees are expected to adhere to.
Our environment Our communities The Code of Conduct states that all clients should be supported during the funeral arrangements, at the Developing key performance indicators service or when choosing a memorial or funeral plan in Our people: a paternalistic manner.
We should be compassionate and Dignity monitors employment applications and appointments caring: pay attention to detail: spend as much time as the to ensure that we comply with all employment legislation.
client needs: be open and straightforward and keep in A record is kept of training courses attended by each regular contact with the client.
employee and this is analysed to help develop future training requirements.
Our Code of Conduct was reinforced when the Companys Helping our clients every step of the way brochure was refreshed and distributed to all staff at our funeral locations.
Health and safety: The aim of the brochure is to embed all new employees Proactively, health and safety is monitored via quarterly into the Dignity culture and to remind existing members return analysis, premises inspections, health surveillance, of staff of the standards of behaviour and attitudes that line manager observations of how tasks are performed and are expected of them.
The Serving our local communities regular reports to the Board of Directors.
Investigating brochure has also been redeveloped for staff working at accidents, collation and analysis of statistics and ill-health Dignitys crematoria.
investigation reactively monitors health and safety.
The Code of Conduct is also published on the Dignity plc Our environment: investor website www.
Dignity submits its carbon data to the Carbon Disclosure Project, a not-for-profit organisation that measures disclosures from thousands of organisations across the worlds major economies.
The results are disclosed on page 18.
Our communities: All funds raised for our corporate charity are recorded in detail and can be easily cross-referenced as deposits go into a specific Dignity Charity Account.
Therefore the amount of money being raised for charity can be compared with previous performance and this process facilitates funds being allocated to the geographical region that generated them.
Valuing our people, enabling them to excel Dignity is committed to high 53% standards of employment practice 53 per cent of people employed and aims to encourage, retain and by Dignity have 5 years or more develop successful employees.
train our staff to the very highest standards to enable them to, provide a truly excellent service 2 000 to our clients.
2,000 delegates attended training courses facilitated by Dignitys Training Department during the past twelve months.
8.6 years Left: Mark McGurk, Funeral Manager, and Julie Madsen, Funeral The average length of service for Service Arranger at John Bardgett a Dignity employee is 8.6 years.
15 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Employee service Employee ratio Male 51% Less than 1 Year 12% 1 4 Years 35% Female 49% 5 9 Years 22% 10 19 Years 22% Over 20 Years 9% Dignitys Training Department also provides a number of Our people management development courses covering more complex Dignity is committed to high standards of employment issues such as Business Planning, Financial Analysis, practice and aims to encourage, retain and develop Recruitment Skills and Presentation Skills.
As ever our success is due to the on-going commitment of our staff to deliver exceptional Our on the job training concentrates on a buddy system levels of client service excellence and staff turnover where an experienced member of the team provides new remains low within the Company.
operational staff with guidance on the responsibilities of their role, our professional practices and company procedures The average age of our employees is 46 years for both male in addition to demonstrating our commitment to being and female members of staff.
The average length of service a client focused organisation.
However, within Dignity, 44 per cent of employees have between 5 and 19 years service and External training includes both relevant job training and 9 per cent of employees have over 20 years service.
These professional qualifications include the National Association of Funeral As in previous years there continues to be an almost equal Directors NAFD Diploma and Membership of the British split of male and female staff with 51 per cent male Institute of Embalmers BIE.
In addition, Dignity has five employees and 49 per cent female.
members of staff who are accredited NAFD tutors and three BIE training specialists.
Training and development Dignity provides direct support to employees through both This year two new training films have been developed to in-house training and external training courses.
share best practice on Bringing the deceased into our care and Spending time with the deceased.
The films will be Dignitys Training Department provides a variety of role used for both group and individual development and 167 specific courses to ensure that staff continue to fulfil their delegates attended this course in 2010.
The two new films potential and meet the needs of our clients.
The provision complete our suite of training DVDs as the Making of courses such as An overview of making funeral arrangements film was completed in 2009. arrangements, which was attended by 106 delegates in 2010, and Identification of the deceased and personal Dignity provides additional support to staff development effects, which was attended by 637 delegates during the through its Welfare Trust, which provides funds for past 12 months, help to reinforce the understanding each professional training and hardship grants.
The Trust has employee has of their role and reduces the risk of errors approximately 1.6 million available for future use.
being made when performing their duties.
Recognising achievement These courses are continually assessed via feedback from Dignity has rewarded its loyal staff with long service and delegates and line managers with a view to guaranteeing retirement awards totalling approximately 220,000 in that they are relevant and add value to the contribution 2010 and we expect to spend a similar amount in 2011. made by each employee.
Recognising long service achievements As ever our success is due to, 220 000 the ongoing commitment and Dignity has rewarded its loyal staff dedication of our staff to deliver with long service and retirement exceptional levels of client awards totalling approximately service excellence.
44% 44 per cent of employees have between 5 and 19 years service and 9 per cent of employees have over 20 years service.
Left: Christine Hardy, a Funeral Manager in North Tyneside completed 35 years service in August 2010.
16 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Corporate and social Health and safety training Number responsibility continued 13 71 101 0 20 4 0 60 8 0 100 Employees with NEBOSH qualification: 13 Employees with IOSH qualification: 71 Employees with CIEH qualification: 101 Promoting diversity Health and Safety Within Dignity there is no discrimination on the grounds Effective health and safety management is critical to of gender, race, religion, age and sexual orientation in Dignity and a key priority of the Directors.
Its operations terms of recruitment or career advancement.
We encourage are conducted at all times in such a way as to ensure, as colleagues to show respect and understanding to each far as is reasonably practical, the health, safety and welfare other and prejudice of any kind will not be tolerated.
of all our employees and all persons who may be attending our premises.
Recruitment To aid recruitment needs, a detailed job description Dignity has a full-time Health and Safety Manager who is identifying key responsibilities and competencies for each dedicated to these issues and is supported by a Health role in addition to a personal specification for the ideal and Safety Officer.
These enable the interviewer to assess each candidates suitability for the role to which Regional Health and Safety Officers operate in each of they have applied.
the geographical funeral trading areas.
Dignitys crematoria and manufacturing facility also have their own manager Competency based interviews are held for all management with responsibility for Health and Safety.
All of these positions and candidates are expected to be able to clearly managers and officers have qualifications from the National Examination Board in Occupational Safety and Health demonstrate their experience and expertise during the NEBOSH qualified or are scheduled to take these selection process.
Engaging our staff Dignity has 13 managers with qualifications from NEBOSH.
Dignity publishes a quarterly in-house magazine, Dignity Within this group there are also three that possess the Express, which is supplemented by monthly news bulletins NEBOSH Fire Certificate with another nine employees sitting to keep all employees and pensioners informed of what is the exam in March 2011. happening within the organisation.
Dignity Express enables the Companys Directors and employees to share objectives, Dignity also has 71 managers or officers that have best practice and news in a cost effective manner.
News, successfully completed the Institution of Occupational useful information and background on the company is also Safety and Health IOSH course with a further 24 identified available to staff via a dedicated employee website.
as requiring this training in 2011.
Through Dignitys internal communications, and additionally via formal and informal meetings, all of the Groups employees are invited to share best practice initiatives with their colleagues and submit ideas for consideration to improve client service.
Minimising our health and safety risks Dignity is committed to the 200 prevention of accidents.
Procedures There are 200 health and safety and training are regularly reviewed co-ordinators embedded across and updated to ensure that staff the business.
minimise any risks associated with their role.
185 185 members of staff have now completed a health and safety course.
6.7% We have seen a 6.7per cent reduction Left: Ewan Henderson, Dignitys in the number of accidents reported Health and Safety Manager, during per 1,000 employees.
17 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 There are also 101 employees that have completed the Environment Chartered Institute of Environmental Health CIEH Working Maintaining the quality of the environment in which we Safely one-day course with another 62 identified as all live is an important concern for Dignity and all areas requiring this training in 2011. of the business operate in accordance with the Groups environmental policy.
We recognise the impact of our Effective health and safety management operations on local surroundings and our aim is to reduce Health and safety performance is measured in two ways.
this and operate in an environmentally friendly manner.
Proactive monitoring Our business continues to have a low environmental impact Health and safety is proactively monitored via quarterly and its activities are not expected to give rise to any return analysis, premises inspections, health surveillance, significant environmental risk over the next twelve months.
line manager observations of how tasks are performed and regular reports to the Board of Directors.
Dignity and its employees undertake to act whenever necessary to meet or exceed the standards of current Reactive monitoring environmental legislation and we continue to review the Investigating accidents, collation and analysis of statistics policies, systems and services to this end.
All waste and ill-health investigation reactively monitors health generated is properly disposed of in accordance with and safety.
current legislation and steps are taken to recycle waste wherever this is practical.
Training programmes and initiatives To achieve the NEBOSH qualifications, employees had to Minimising our impact on the local environment study current legislation and best practice over a year-long Dignity is investing approximately 7 million in its crematoria course and successfully complete a written two-hour to conform to the government directive to reduce mercury examination plus a two hour practical assessment.
emissions from crematoria by 50 per cent before the end of 2012.
18 employees have also received Fire Marshall training.
Specialist technology has been installed at Randalls Park, Over 630 Dignity employees attended the Manual Handling Rotherham, Exeter & Devon, Charnock Richard and Surrey training course during 2010.
This course is intended to & Sussex Crematoria.
During construction the same reduce the number of injuries incurred by our operatives.
technology was installed at Dignitys new crematoria in Cambridgeshire.
During construction the same technology was installed at Wear Valley, Three Counties and Sherwood Forest Crematoria.
Making progress and meeting targets We recognise the impact of our 7 million operations on local surroundings Dignity is investing 7 million in its and our aim is to reduce this and crematoria to conform to government operate in an environmentally legislation to reduce mercury emissions friendly manner.
from crematoria by 50 per cent.
5 800 Approximately 5,800 of the cremations performed by Dignity in 2010 were mercury abated.
Left: Georgina Bembridge, Crematorium Manager, and Amelia 9 crematoria Hodgetts, Crematorium Operative, discuss the mercury abatement 9 Dignity crematoria now have equipment installed at Rotherham mercury abatement equipment Crematorium.
18 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Corporate and social Reducing energy responsibility continued consumption Following a successful test during 2010, there are plans to install a further 200 smart meters at Dignity premises in 2011 to help reduce energy consumption.
Due to this investment approximately 5,800 cremations Submission to Carbon Disclosure Project at Dignity crematoria were mercury abated in the past 12 months.
2009 2008 2007 2006 Scope 1 15,005 15,875 16,048 15,992 The installation of this new equipment has been managed Scope 2 8,366 10,923 10,633 10,351 so as to ensure there is no disruption to our usual services at the crematoria.
Total 23,371 26,798 26,681 26,343 All figures are metric tonnes of CO equivalent.
Dignity does not make any 2 Following the successful installation of a water harvesting scope 3 disclosures.
system at Surrey & Sussex Crematorium last year it was decided to extend this environmental initiative to the In February 2010 Dignity launched a new website development of the new Wyre Forest Crematorium near specifically for the crematoria and cemeteries it operates.
Kidderminster and Mendip Crematorium in Shepton Mallet.
It features a profile of each crematorium that includes information on public transport links to individual locations, The system allows water to be extracted from the land with an aim to reduce the carbon footprint.
drainage network at times when the water table is high and stored for times of need, such as the summer.
This enables Waste and recycling the crematorium to save water plus maintain a watering At Dignitys new Head Office in Sutton Coldfield there are regime that keeps the Gardens of Remembrance looking facilities for recycling paper, cardboard and cans.
green and attractive throughout the year.
Sustainable sources As with the mercury abatement projects, the sensitivity All raw materials used in the manufacture of our coffins of the locations requires that all work is completed with are sourced from well-managed and sustainable sources.
deference to existing interment plots and families of 91 per cent of the coffins required by Dignitys businesses the deceased.
are now manufactured from Forest Stewardship Council FSC accredited timber at the Groups facility in East Yorkshire.
Reducing our carbon footprint As in 2009, Dignity once again submitted its data to the Reducing energy consumption Carbon Disclosure Project in 2010.
This is a not-for-profit During 2010 a successful test was conducted with smart organisation that aims to improve the environment by meters being installed at 20 premises owned by Dignity.
measuring disclosures from thousands of organisations We have committed to further reducing our energy across the worlds major economies and Dignity aims to consumption by ordering another 200 smart meters reduce its future carbon footprint.
and these will be installed during 2011.
Reducing our environmental impact All raw materials used in the 91% manufacture of our coffins are 91 per cent of the coffins required sourced from well-managed and by Dignity businesses are now made sustainable sources.
Left: Nigel Banks, Logistics Operative, and Robert Ireland, Stores Supervisor, at Dignitys manufacturing facility in Yorkshire inspect timber for the FSC kite mark.
19 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 New crematoria and cemeteries website Dignitys crematoria and cemeteries website features a profile page that provides details of public transport links to each of our sites.
The website provides added value to our clients, their families and friends and the communities we serve by including location maps and a route finder tool to help make their journey to our crematorium as easy as possible.
co. uk crematoria local hospitals, womens refuges, special needs centres, In our communities childrens hospices and Mencap.
Staff at W Kaye & Sons in Everyone within Dignity is committed to not only making Leeds also raised 400 last Easter by knitting and selling a real difference to our clients but also to improving the egg characters.
The egg decorations in football and rugby welfare of all who live within the communities we serve.
colours proved particularly popular and the donations were To demonstrate our values and principles our staff support given to the children and teenager cancer wards of their hundreds of local initiatives, good causes, clubs and events local hospital.
By listening to and understanding the needs of local communities our staff are able to respond by providing During the past year Dignity has continued to support grass help where it is most needed.
roots football by providing training equipment and kit to many youth football teams across the UK.
In 2010 Dignity For example many of Dignitys funeral locations, including has also continued its tradition of providing financial those in London, Birmingham, the West Midlands, Bristol, support to bowling clubs and has sponsored a number of Leeds, Hartlepool and Northern Ireland held memorial tournaments and events.
Both of these initiatives provide services to bring comfort and solace to those that have different sectors of the local community with a focal point lost a loved one during the past year.
for socialising and healthy exercise and in many cases these clubs may struggle to exist without our help.
Services of Remembrance were held at Rotherham Crematorium on Armistice Day and the 65th Anniversary Dignitys support for the communities it serves was of the D-Day landings to honour and pay respect to those wonderfully illustrated last summer when staff from the that sacrificed their lives protecting this country and its East Midlands area and some of their business partners interests.
Both events were well attended by the Royal spent a weekend transforming an unused piece of land at a British Legion, the Veterans Association and local residents.
primary school into a garden and wildlife area.
This initiative Dignitys funeral location on the Isle of Sheppey, G Hogben formed part of an eco-week for the children and provides & Son, also provided a limousine and chauffeur to two regular gardening lessons for the pupils.
veterans of the Burma Campaign so that they could attend the 65th Anniversary of VJ Day at the Cenotaph in London.
The heroes of our armed services were also commemorated in November with window dressings and numerous poppy appeals at branches to raise much-needed funds for the Royal British Legion.
Once again kind-hearted Dignity employees from across the UK took part in the Easter Egg Challenge and collected 1,500 chocolate gifts and soft toys to distribute to those less fortunate.
Beneficiaries included childrens wards at Making a positive difference in the communities we serve We believe in encouraging staff to communicate regularly with clubs, social groups, charities and civic and religious leaders so that we understand their needs and are able to give something back to the community.
Left: Funeral Directors, Diane Smith of F W Collins & Son in Bilston and Inderjeet Matharu of Asian Funeral Directors in Birmingham discuss the needs of their local communities with local religious leader, Dharm Dutt Vasistha, Head Minister at Shri Geeta Bhawan, Birmingham.
20 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Corporate and social Our corporate charity responsibility continued Childrens Hospices UK is Dignitys corporate charity for 2010 and 2011.
They care for approximately 20,000 children each year and the charity supports and give a national voice to 41 hospices in the UK.
In 2010 Dignity raised 60,000 for this worthwhile cause.
part in the charitys Big Boss Ride and raised over 1,900.
Supporting charities This was a two-day challenge where directors and executives In 2010, Dignity employees and clients continued to raise from companies that support Childrens Hospices UK cycled funds for the staff elected charity Childrens Hospices UK.
from the oldest hospice in Oxford to the newest in South This worthy cause is the national charity that gives voice East London.
and support to 41 childrens hospices and provides care for approximately 20,000 children each year.
All Dignity Our five charity fairground organs continued to be a vital funeral locations and crematoria have been linked with aid in fund raising activities and in 2010 almost 78,000 a local childrens hospice and during the year a total were raised for a variety of national and local charities.
Dignity employees also supported a number of cancer There were many fund raising initiatives held nationwide charities including Macmillan, Cancer Research UK, Marie during the year including tea parties, car washes, sponsored Curie, The Big C and The Pink Ribbon Ball.
For example, walks and golf tournaments.
Some of Dignitys athletic Shirley Roberts and Jennifer Yardley, two senior managers employees chose to raise funds by taking part in sponsored from our crematoria team raised 2,500 for Cancer cycling events and marathons.
Research UK by completing their debut marathon whilst Karen Russell, a funeral service arranger based at Peter Amongst the more imaginative events organised by Wilson & Sons in Ayr raised 12,000 for a local breast employees was a sponsored walk that raised 1,470 by cancer charity by organising a charity ball.
visiting each of the 11 Dignity branches in South East London, a distance of 26 miles.
Staff from Yorkshire took part in the Faster Than Light Cycle Challenge.
This novel event saw participants cycling from Pluto to the Sun and back again with the planets positioned on the 13 mile route at a scale of 575,872,239 to1.
The result is that the fundraisers are moving at approximately 10 times the speed of light at this scale.
Employees from Aldershot, Southampton and Burnley also raised funds for our corporate charity by taking part in a parachuting and skydiving event in September called The Big Jump!
The Directors and senior managers also supported Dignitys corporate charity.
Operations Director, Andrew Davies and friends, raised 2,000 for Ty Hafan Childrens Hospice by cycling the 55 miles between Brecon and Cardiff Bay, a route known as the Taff Trail.
Anthony Driver, Regional Manager for South London and Northern Ireland also took Supporting local initiatives and good causes We are committed to improving the welfare of all who live in the communities we serve and our staff support hundreds of local initiatives every year.
Left: Dignity's Area Manager, Barry McBratney left with staff and pupils from St. Malachy's Primary School in Northern Ireland.
"Our funeral location, Russells of Bangor held a Mother's Day Competition to help pupils say ""Thank you"" to their mums."
21 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010
