Business Overview Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Directors Report: Performance Review Corporate Responsibility Review DSGi takes its responsibilities to its stakeholders seriously, Risk management aiming to have policies and procedures in place which balance During 2008 09 the CR Committee carried out a review of the the expectations of our customers, shareholders, employees risks and opportunities for the Group on CR matters, which was and the wider community with our own competitive objectives.
subsequently approved by the Board.
The aim of the review was to ensure our CR focus is on the most appropriate matters to the Set out in this review is a description of how we assess and evolving business.
The review considered both short and long act upon social, environmental and ethical issues relevant to term risks and opportunities and their potential operational and our business together with details of how we measure our value impact on the business.
During 2009 10 the Committee performance in this area and examples of some of the actions reviewed the risks identified in the light of the changing economic we have taken during the period under review.
Our goal is to and business landscape and undertook this review with achieve continuous improvement over time.
reference to new and prospective legislation giving consideration as to when it comes into force.
The review confirmed that the Our approach to Corporate Responsibility agreed set of priorities developed in 2008 09 continued to be The Group has appointed a Corporate Responsibility Committee appropriate, with additions to reflect the changes over time.
CR Committee which, in consultation with the Board, sets the These priorities are: direction for the Groups CR efforts and initiatives, monitors to add to and promote the customer proposition in relation action plans to realise opportunities and mitigate risks identified to product reuse and recycling: and tracks progress on actions through an agreed set of key performance indicators KPIs.
to reduce our impact on the environment and to raise revenue and reduce costs through improved waste recycling: Throughout the period under review the Committee has reviewed to improve operational energy efficiency and forward planning: and maintained a matrix of opportunities and risks the Risk Matrix arising from the Groups operations, which has been to engage colleagues through the provision of rewarding reviewed and approved by the Board.
The aim of the Risk workplace environments and careers, whilst assisting in the Matrix is to ensure that CR focus is applied to the most ongoing improvement of customer service levels: appropriate matters, taking into consideration the potential to provide a safe and healthy environment for customers, operational and value impact.
colleagues and visitors to our stores and other locations: the provision of safe and reliable own-brand products, How we deliver achieved as a result of our expert technical knowledge, Governance of CR matters with products sourced from manufacturers who are audited The Group Finance Director, Nicholas Cadbury, is the executive against our ethical requirements: and director with responsibility for CR matters.
The CR Committee, an appropriate community giving policy, which complements which is chaired by the Company Secretary and General our interaction with the communities in which we work.
Counsel, also comprises other senior executives who have responsibility for risk management, logistics, supply chain, A member of the CR Committee has been identified as UK operations, Group communications, human resources, accountable for each of the priorities together with individuals marketing and property.
outside of the CR Committee who have responsibility for the relevant area.
The Board considers CR matters, including relevant risks and opportunities, at least annually.
Minutes of meetings of the CR Our customers Committee are circulated to the Board and Executive Committee, Our primary aim as a business is to ensure that our customers so they can keep up to date with the action being taken in this are at the heart of everything we do.
We must deliver for our area and any issues which arise.
customers an unbeatable combination of value, choice and The CR Committee met four times during the period under service.
As a business we have developed a plan for the Group review and a summary of key matters discussed is listed below: which covers all aspects of our relationship with our customers ongoing evaluation of the Groups risks and opportunities and from the point at which they are thinking about choosing a identification of areas where the CR Committee needs to product to a lifelong service and technical support offer the enhance reporting or control mechanisms already in place: Customer Plan.
The Customer Plan is discussed in more detail in the Chief Executives Statement on pages 16 to 19. assessing the reporting structures in place and determining changes to be implemented when gathering information in respect of the KPIs: reviewing the Group Health and Safety Policy: and reviewing the impact of the Carbon Reduction Commitment upon the UK business and the internal reporting mechanisms to ensure compliance.
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 35 Directors Report: Corporate Responsibility Review continued Performance Review Customer satisfaction We now rate suppliers based upon a Green Amber Red status.
Monitoring customer satisfaction is not just about ensuring Green status indicates that a supplier meets or exceeds the that the customer receives excellent service.
We use customer standards expected by the policy.
Where a supplier obtains an feedback to drive our range selection and merchandising, store Amber indicator not all of the minimum standards have been layout and navigation, point of sale material, in store and after met and a Corrective Action Plan CAP is agreed and issued.
sales services and the quality of goods available.
During the This is followed up with an audit to address the issues raised, period under review a specific customer research team has which is carried out within six months of issuing the CAP.
been established with the sole remit of capturing customer A factory with a Red indicator must provide a satisfactory CAP insight.
This insight is used to drive customer focused business within 30 days.
A new supplier wishing to join the Groups decisions and to make our plans for the store operations, supplier base will provisionally be awarded a Red indicator until category, marketing, pricing and training teams.
If the supplier fails to provide the CAP it will be considered as a failure to meet our Policy and the We currently assess the level of customer satisfaction we deliver supplier will not be approved or will be fide-listed as appropriate.
in a number of ways: A full copy of our Ethical Sourcing policy is available on our mystery shopping evaluates our performance around our corporate website.
FIVES training programme in the UK: internationally store exit surveys capture customer satisfaction Performance on ethical supply chain audits with our in-store experience: and 2009 10 2008 09 2007 08 a new online programme is measuring customer experience Green meets requirements 6 14 15 across all our online brands.
Amber minor improvements required 148 73 47 The mystery shop and exit interviews are designed to focus Red major corrective action required 51 26 56 our stores on delivering a great shopping trip experience.
Total factories audited 205 113 118 FIVES training is designed to empower colleagues to understand Delisted Not approved 39 48 a customers needs better and to deliver great service.
It encourages our colleagues and gives them confidence when 2007 08 and 2008 09 have been restated to 2009 10 standards.
During the period under review each stores performance on the mystery shopping programme has Our colleagues been linked to that stores reward and recognition, so that Our 39,000 employees are our greatest asset and are a key individual colleagues understand the importance of giving enabler of delivering the Customer Plan.
We are committed to our customers great service.
high standards of employment practice and to providing equality of opportunity, training and development and a safe workplace, At each CR Committee meeting the Committee reviews the UK in addition to developing initiatives which encourage innovation.
data concerning customer satisfaction by service and by brand, We aim to reward individuals fairly and to ensure that all our and this information is also reviewed by the Board.
This data colleagues are incentivised in an appropriate way.
has been collated since the beginning of 2009 and comparative trend data is not available.
The Committee continues to monitor Training and development this KPI and will provide data externally over time.
FIVES, our bespoke customer training plan, has continued to develop.
All our UK colleagues have received initial FIVES training Ethical sourcing in previous years.
This year over 7,800 UK colleagues have The Group is both a customer and a supplier.
The Group seeks attended a FIVES course.
We have introduced FIVES to our UK to ensure that the high quality, choice and service that we Contact Centres and all store managers have been refreshed on deliver to our customers are reciprocated by our suppliers.
FIVES to ensure our continued commitment to improve customer The Committee has adopted an ethical sourcing policy based service is maintained.
In addition, the Group operates a wide upon the Social Accountability 8000 criteria which applies to range of training solutions designed to ensure our colleagues suppliers of product which will be sold under one of the Groups possess the latest product knowledge and are able to match the own brands.
In order to ensure compliance with our policy we benefits of products to the needs of our customers.
We provide audit all new factories and reassess existing factories which specialist workshops hosted by our key partner manufacturers supply own brand product at least every two years.
During the and workshops delivered by our own product trainers to ensure year under review the criteria used to determine compliance product learning is as up to date as possible.
The new group with our policy have been reviewed, changed and made more learning system The Edge has also been launched in the UK rigorous.
Due to the change in criteria, the comparative data giving complete online training plans to all colleagues providing has been restated.
With a wider supplier base weve lifelong learning in any role.
The Edge provides all store significantly increased the number of audits carried out.
managers with a complete view of the capability of their store to ensure the correct levels of customer experience.
36 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 Business Overview Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders We regularly assess our colleagues performance across the The fundamentals to enable good compliance are already in Group through a balanced scorecard review.
For example, the Group has a Health and Safety policy review is based around our key principles and the individuals across all of its operations which meets at least the minimum potential, to enable DSGi to provide talented individuals with legal requirements in the countries in which it operates and structured and rewarding career frameworks.
The review helps emphasises the principles of good safety management.
This facilitate succession planning within business units, cascading is being augmented through a strategy to standardise Health up to identify the business leaders of tomorrow within the Group.
and Safety good practice across the Group, within a centrally developed Safety Management Framework.
For example, in Human resources policies the UK & Ireland, a fully functional safety management system The Group has a comprehensive set of human resources policies, is in operation.
Risk assessments and regular Health and Safety which cover matters such as reward, health and well-being, audits are carried out in the stores, warehouses and offices promotion, development and general working policies.
The aim and each location has a nominated individual responsible for of these policies is to set out our responsibilities and obligations Health and Safety.
to our colleagues whilst demonstrating our commitment to be an employer of choice.
These policies, given the location of our Each jurisdiction has a matrix of Group Health and Safety stores and subsequently colleagues, are normally communicated Standards and related KPIs within which the Group fulfils its across the Group via our intranet site.
The policies are reviewed obligations and assists our colleagues in maintaining a healthy regularly for compliance with current regulation and legislation.
and safe workplace and shopping environment.
Diversity One of the key measures of the success of our Health and We value our colleagues and their right to be treated with Safety management is the rate of injuries and accidents to our respect.
We are committed to treating our colleagues equally customers and our colleagues.
Through data and root cause and fairly and we actively pursue a diversity policy.
The UK & analysis, focused risk assessment and proactive liaison with Irelands policy on Equal Opportunities states that no employee design and merchandising functions to design out hazards at should suffer discrimination in respect of disability, gender, sexual source, we have achieved a significant reduction in accidents orientation, age, religious belief, race, colour, nationality, marital over the past three financial years.
This has been particularly status or any other reason.
This policy applies to the recruitment, evident in our Renewal and Transformation stores, which makes training and career development of all colleagues.
The policy is the customer journey better and the working environment for communicated to all colleagues via the HR intranet site and is our colleagues safer.
reviewed regularly to ensure its effectiveness.
Additionally, the The key measures are reported each quarter to the CR Group keeps records of the ethnic origins of new and existing Committee, together with updates on ongoing initiatives and employees and recruitment and promotion decisions.
the actions proposed for the following quarter.
A number of initiatives are scheduled for 2010 11 which cover areas such Staff diversity: age, gender and ethnicity of employees as training, design, merchandising, audit and awareness.
1 Data for those countries within the Group that are either required by law or voluntarily record this information.
Communication 2 Excluding employees related to discontinued operations.
DSGi places considerable value on internal communications in order to create a universal understanding of the Groups aims Health and Safety and agenda.
During the period under review the Group also Taking all reasonably practicable steps to ensure the health, developed the Customer Plan, which focused the priorities for safety and welfare of all customers, colleagues, visitors and 2009 10 and which is now being implemented across the UK.
members of the public who are or may be affected by our Regular communications in the form of blogs across the Group activities is very important to us.
As a demonstration of this, cover matters which may affect our colleagues, including the a member of the Board has overall responsibility for Health development and performance of the business.
and Safety and reports at least annually to the Board on the Groups compliance with Health and Safety policies.
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 37 Directors Report: Corporate Responsibility Review continued Performance Review The Chief Executive regularly visits stores both in the UK and Energy and transport efficiency overseas and discusses strategy with local management.
The Reviewing the way in which we operate our stores and transport Group also encourages local initiatives for communicating within our products not only lowers our carbon emissions but also individual businesses, including updates from business directors reduces our cost base.
During the period under review the as well as daily store meetings.
Company implemented a cross business working group to ensure that the regulatory requirements of the CRC Energy In the Nordics, the senior management team, including the Efficiency Scheme are identified, understood and proactively Managing Director, lead and participate in training sessions for managed in the UK.
We are currently collecting data in the store teams.
This ensures that the management team have compliance with the regulations and have made considerable an opportunity to discuss strategy and customer focus with progress in our preparations to report externally next year on the colleagues in-store and receive in return an insight into how this matter.
The Group views this as a significant opportunity to that strategy is being received by the customer.
reduce both the emissions of our buildings and also our energy costs.
We hope to develop the lessons learnt from compliance Our stores and operations with the regulations and implement these across the Group.
Environment The information relating to carbon emissions from buildings has As a business we are seeking to minimise the environmental only been collated since the beginning of 2009 and as a result impact and carbon footprint associated with our operations comparative data is not available.
The CR Committee will and stores.
To do this we look at initiatives to improve continue to monitor this KPI during the coming year and the energy efficiency of the products we sell: would aim to provide data externally over time.
our energy and transport efficiency: The Group has an ongoing programme to look at ways of the reduction of both our and our customers waste: and reducing the environmental impact and associated cost of the recycling of products and packaging where possible.
delivering our products to our customers.
During the period under review the Group logistics team have reviewed the cubic Products metre delivery load of each delivery and determined ways to One of the principal ways in which the EU and the UK intend optimise the space used, thereby increasing the volume of to meet their targets for the reduction of CO emissions is by 2 product transported in each vehicle.
This has led to fewer increasing energy efficiency across all sectors, including that deliveries being required to deliver the same or greater volume of products and appliances.
The aim is to improve the of product to our customers.
This methodology has been environmental performance of products throughout their lifeapplied to the entire Group supply chain starting from the cycle by systematic integration of environmental aspects at an container ships used to bring the product to country, the trains early stage in the product design.
The Energy Using Products used to deliver the product to distribution centre and the lorries Regulations are being phased in for a number of product used to transport the product to store or customer.
categories over a number of years.
We have been in touch with all of our suppliers regarding their compliance with these The Group has also increased the number of rail deliveries regulations to ensure the products that we stock meet the used in moving our goods from port to distribution centre and requirements of the legislation.
We also work hard to ensure has utilised over 1,200 train movements in the UK, saving our own brand products comply with applicable legislation.
approximately 230,000 had the same volume of product been moved by road.
During the period under review we moved 670 In the UK, we have voluntarily joined a new initiative launched containers by rail in Sweden which enabled us to reduce our by the Energy Saving Trust and Department for Environment, road mileage by 150,000 miles, saving 190 tonnes in CO. 2 Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA to remove the least energy efficient TVs from our stock, and educate shoppers about the The Group also utilises reverse logistics to transport electrical benefit of buying energy efficient products.
This commitment products for recycling.
This aims to efficiently use trucks means that we will endeavour to stock TVs which meet new returning to the warehouse to transport these products in minimum efficiency standards at least one year in advance vehicles that would otherwise be empty.
of the EU introducing the Energy Using Products Regulations In the UK the Committee has reviewed the KPI data reported which will apply to all retailers from July 2012. in prior years relating to carbon emissions from the delivery fleet and has widened the remit to include all road usage.
For 2009 10 our UK delivery fleet has been split into two areas.
This consists of our home delivery fleet and our retail delivery fleet.
The CO emissions for the home delivery fleet in 2009 10 were 2 8,250 tonnes and for the retail delivery fleet 15,750 tonnes.
38 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 Business Overview Strategic Summary Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Fleet carbon emissions While colleagues can support a charity of their choice, the Group has selected two national charities that colleagues can 2009 10 2008 09 2007 08 choose to support Lifelites and the e-Learning Foundation, Tonnes of CO produced 2 which are working locally with colleagues to support their UK home delivery fleet 8,250 13,844 17,364 fundraising efforts.
UK retail fleet 15,750 13,706 18,008 Under the new programme our colleagues have participated Nordics delivery fleet 8,942 in many local and national activities, including raising money Total 32,942 27,550 35,372 for the two selected charities, the DEC Haiti appeal, operating Data for 2007 08 and 2008 09 not available for Nordics region.
telephones for Comic Relief and collecting T-shirts as part of the Blue Peter Send a Smile campaign, where we collected Waste recycled over 30,000 T-shirts and saved Operation Smile over 90,000.
Reducing the impact of packaging waste and increasing Colleagues are also invited to apply for a grant from the DSGi the volume of material recycled is a key opportunity for the Foundation to support their fundraising activities.
business as well as good for the environment and something our customers appreciate and are responding to.
Our ongoing Given the continued difficult economic environment, fundraising commitment to the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment activity by colleagues has been lower than in previous years Directive WEEE has led to the Group developing its various which enabled the DSGi Foundation to satisfy grants from its routes for the collection of end of life electrical goods.
We cash reserves rather than calling on the Group to make a cash continue to offer in the UK the only free in-store and home contribution for the reported financial year.
collection recycling service as part of our standard customer In the Nordics the Elkjp Group has raised a total of service.
This scheme, together with our cartridge recycling NOK 1.25 million in support of the Norwegian Red Cross process, is operated within our existing carbon footprint.
for their Water for Life campaign and for their Haiti appeal.
During the period under review the Waste Batteries and This was through a combination of fundraising activities by Accumulators Regulations were introduced to the UK.
In colleagues and donations by the Elkjp Group.
response to this, all DSGi UK stores have battery collection Looking ahead to 2010 11, the Group plans to continue the points within which our customers can place spent batteries above programme of engaging with local communities around its for recycling.
Our battery recycling target in the first year is stores and to support activities that improve access to technology.
The Committee will continue to monitor this data.
KPIs 2 Data for Denmark, Sweden and Norway only.
Data for 2007 08 and 2008 09 not The Groups largest business is in the UK & Ireland representing available for Nordics region.
47% of Group sales in 2009 10: and the Group commenced collecting all of the KPIs in respect of the UK business in Our community 2008 09.
In 2009 10 we commenced collecting data for other The successful Switched on Communities programme put countries where available.
Our data for 2009 10 includes the in place by the DSGi Foundation, a charitable trust which Nordics, which together with the UK & Ireland, represents 72% administers donations from the Company for charitable of Group sales.
activities, came to the end of its three year programme in 2009, during which time 1.5 million was donated to the three supported charities.
Given the difficult economic environment experienced across Europe the charitable activities in the UK were refocused to reflect likely lower levels of fundraising activity.
The new Nicholas Cadbury programme continues the Switched on Communities theme Executive Director with responsibility for CR of improving access to technology for disadvantaged and disabled children, while encouraging colleagues to engage with their local communities by supporting local charities.
DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2009 10 39
