Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 21 Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Domino has received national recognition for its responsible business practice and been accepted into the FTSE4Good Index.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENvIRONmENTAL the completion of a full energy consumption encourage all employees to undertake career survey of our main administrative office and development training.
Employees have the We aim to conduct every aspect of our manufacturing facility: and opportunity to share in the success of the activities in accordance with sound practices.
the start of an all-encompassing group-wide company through bonus schemes.
We believe We will achieve this by: sustainable procurement project.
it is a measure of the success of the way we minimising the consumption of natural treat our staff that we have so many employees resources: The Green Team movement has generated real with long service.
In the UK, 33% of our reducing the creation of waste and safely momentum and we have many important employees have worked for Domino for more disposing of it: and environmental programmes running.
investing in new products and processes to not yet completed our programme to reduce our environmental impact.
standardise data collection so that we can HumAN RIGHTS formally report on our achievements and we We are committed to human rights and ethical Our Green Teams continue to operate will concentrate on this task in the coming year.
trading in all business activities.
We have with commitment and great enthusiasm.
adopted a supplier standard under which all These are teams of volunteers from each COmmuNITY our suppliers are required to ensure that no Group company who devise and implement We aim to make a positive contribution to the goods or services supplied to any member of environmental protection initiatives.
I chair communities in which we operate.
In the UK the Domino Group are produced using forced, a Steering Group which is responsible for we remain closely involved with local schools indentured or convict labour or the labour of promoting and monitoring compliance with and colleges and provide training and work persons in violation of the laws in the country our environmental policy.
We encourage our of manufacture concerning minimum working staff to become involved in helping local age, minimum wage, hours of service or Dominos key achievement during the year charities to the benefit of both the employees overtime.
Suppliers are required to establish an has been the launch of a new product range and the charities and we match money raised effective programme to ensure all suppliers with real environmental benefits.
The new by employees for worthy causes.
In Bar Hill, used by them to provide any goods or services Domino A320i CIJ printer uses 90% less system where our head office is located, we are to any member of the Domino Group will ink and 50% less ink solvent than its working with the local parish council to comply with this standard.
This printer is also 40% lighter and improve amenities.
The new Domino V120i TTO printer system is capable EmPLOYEES of using up to 60% less ink ribbon than its We believe our employees should be treated predecessor and also weighs 50% less.
Both openly, fairly and courteously.
They should products have been designed to facilitate safe always have a safe working environment and disposal and are fully RoHS compliant.
NIGEL R BOND BSC ACA equal opportunities for promotion and advancement.
We try to keep employees Group Managing Director Other important steps during the year have been: closely involved by ensuring that there are open 24 January 2011 communications and plenty of opportunities to the adoption of group-wide guidelines to discuss and question business issues.
We reduce CO emissions by our vehicle fleets: 2
