Operating and financial review Corporate social responsibility report Corporate social responsibility report 26 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Dominos has supported Special Olympics Great Britain for several years.
This fantastic charity provides a year-round sports programme for people with learning disabilities.
This programme includes unified football, which brings Special Olympics athletes and volunteers together in the same team, such as this one in Folkestone, Kent.
For 25 years we have been caring about our communities Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 27 Operating and financial review Corporate social responsibility report continued This section recognises our responsibilities Community Delivering more to support those we serve and provides an insight into our Corporate As a company, we are very conscious of the role we play in our Social Responsibility CSR activity.
Our franchisees are all charged with Delivering More Our commitment to CSR means that we in their local area.
There are a number of ways to do this consider our impact on the environment, supporting local charities, getting involved in local groups and events, and running tours and pizza making workshops for local our employees, the communities in which schools are just some examples.
we operate and all other stakeholders in everything we do.
We operate our Activities undertaken this year by franchisees include selling pizzas at school fetes to raise money for school equipment, supporting business responsibly from the way we run local competitions and charitable activities, feeding fire brigades our head office and commissaries and how on Bonfire night, digging ambulances out of the snow when they we stipulate our franchisees run their stores, are on their way to maternity units and even feeding stranded to how we support our local communities passengers at UK airports and train stations!
Moving forward, as part of the CREATE programme, BITC has suggested that we and the products we source.
embed these strategies into franchisees business plans and make them part of a wider staff development programme.
We are striving to raise awareness across the business of the importance of these values in order to create a more cohesive The Delivering More programme includes a quarterly prize for the CSR programme and have been working with Business in the store that we feel has gone the furthest in making a difference to Community BITC to achieve this.
BITC has undertaken the first their community as well as an annual prize for the overall winner.
stages of a programme aimed at identifying areas of good CSR In addition, we actively promote those stores that make a real practice within our business and those areas where there is room contribution through our in-house magazine, Slice.
Having assessed our position, we are therefore moving forward with the implementation of this programme On a wider front, we are very anxious to make sure that we are during 2011. seen as good neighbours wherever we do business.
This culture of responsible growth sees Dominos working hard with planners The BITC programme looks at CSR in four key areas community, and local residents to ensure we minimise our impact on the social environment, workplace and marketplace.
environment in terms of noise, litter, odours and traffic by using a high specification of ventilation, encouraging our customers not to generate litter and by only cooking our products in an oven, thereby creating odours similar to a bakery.
Electronic charity box Alison Hutchinson, CEO of The Pennies Foundation said Dominos has been a great launch partner, leading the way and giving Pennies national reach from day one.
Our aim in launching the electronic charity box is simple: to give the public an opportunity to easily and privately give a few pennies to charity whenever they want to.
Its the modern equivalent of the charity box on the shop counter, but reflects the fact that we use cards more and more to pay.
Customer donations through Pennies, combined with Dominos corporate contributions and staff fundraising, are allowing Special Olympics Great Britain to help thousands more people with learning disabilities develop their skills and confidence through sport.
28 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 www.
ie Dominos undertakes a programme of charitable giving both Environment Caring for the future of at a corporate level and through its franchisees and stores.
our planet Our main corporate charities are Special Olympics Great Britain in We recognise that reducing energy consumption makes sound the UK and Barretstown, a charity for children with serious illnesses business sense, because it saves us money and enables us to help in the Republic of Ireland.
We have supported Special Olympics in our own small way to tackle the effects of climate change.
We Great Britain for five years and have an agreement in place to therefore continue to look at ways to improve energy efficiency in support it for at least another year.
Special Olympics provides year our business to reduce both consumption and energy costs.
Reducing round, local-level sports training for people with learning disabilities our total carbon footprint continues to provide challenges for the as well as local, national and international competitions.
Company as we not only have a dual site operation in Milton Keynes while building continues on our new head office, but also as we As well as the two main charities, we support a number of charities continue to expand our business through the addition of new stores.
local to our headquarters in Milton Keynes, including the Milton However, we are committed to working to reduce our relative carbon Keynes Community Foundation and Ride High, a riding programme emissions per commissary and per store.
The total amount donated to charity by the Company in 2010 was over 39,000.
Unfortunately, we are not able to measure the amount donated by our franchisees and their store teams but we believe this to be at least a matching amount.
Delivering More In November 2010, we were delighted to become the launch In 2010, the following people received Delivering More partner for a new way of fundraising The Pennies Foundation.
We Awards: developed our online ordering system to allow customers the choice to round up online orders to the nearest full pound.
The change is Asif Ishaq and Pervaiz Akhtar, Maidenhead.
given to the Pennies Foundation and distributed to UK registered In the snow in early 2010, the Maidenhead store received charities.
Of the money raised from Dominos customers, 75% is a call from an elderly lady who was trapped inside due to donated to Special Olympics Great Britain and the remainder sickness and the snow.
In need of some basic essentials, goes to UK people charities chosen by the trustees of the Asif and Pervaiz took it upon themselves to deliver her pizza Pennies Foundation.
The response from Dominos customers has been phenomenal.
In the Melanie Tanner, Waterlooville.
Melanie received first eight weeks, over 100,000 customers donated, raising over a call from a local school who were in trouble.
The initiative has received widespread support, and other having a school production but the school chef was stranded retailers are now joining this very worthwhile initiative.
in Spain due to the volcanic ash cloud.
Melanie sprung into action, delivering enough piping hot pizzas at very short notice to a very grateful local school.
Vision Ten run stores across Essex and Suffolk and are famed locally for their incredible charitable exploits.
Events during 2010 raised in excess of 6,000 and included attending school fairs, selling pizza at carnivals, building floats, donating a percentage of each pizza sold and a whole host of other fundraising activities.
While on a delivery in the snow during December 2010, Muhaneds car became stuck and he had to start shovelling.
However, he soon stopped when he saw an ambulance also become stuck while on its way to the maternity unit of the local hospital.
Muhaned stopped digging his own car out and rushed to help the ambulance.
He would have been an unsung hero had the store manager not received a call from a very grateful new mum!
Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 29 Operating and financial review Corporate social responsibility report continued Working with a local company called TEAM, we calculated our Workplace Treating people fairly and carbon emissions in September 2008 and again in 2010 and with respect identified areas where they could be reduced.
Comparison Dominos is an equal opportunities employer and is committed to between the two figures has not been possible as we opened our investing in team member advancement through a broad range new commissary in the summer of 2010 but have been running both of learning and development initiatives for corporate employees, the old and the new site for much of 2010.
In 2010, we reported our franchisees and in-store teams.
carbon emission and climate change data for the first time through the Carbon Disclosure Project.
We will continue to monitor and During 2010, we had a significant focus on promoting the four key report our emissions going forward.
values of Dominos that, when combined together, make us Driven to Deliver.
Work in this area has included an employee survey for Our distribution fleet is compliant with Euro V emissions standard and head office and commissary staff, which has been used to improve we use route planning software to minimise mileage, an on-board communication, and the publication of a new quarterly newsletter system that encourages drivers to drive in a manner that minimises just for head office and commissary staff.
We have a code of fuel consumption, and Saltron to improve diesel quality and reduce conduct which describes the standards of behaviour expected from emissions.
Many of our franchisees have switched their delivery those who work for us and an independently administrated whistlevehicles to low emission cars and a few stores use bicycles.
We aim to keep our food waste to a minimum and our three We regularly communicate with our staff, franchisees and store deliveries per week allow our franchisees to quickly adapt to teams through our intranet and portal systems and our quarterly changes in demand.
We constantly review our packaging to see magazine, Slice.
We encourage two-way communication and there where potential improvements can be made.
Our boxes are already is a Team Member Care Line for store employees who may have made from 80% recycled cardboard and are 100% recyclable and issues with their franchisees that they cannot resolve directly.
we continue to look for new ways to improve the sustainability and recyclability of our boxes.
We require all our franchisees to have appropriate people management policies, procedures and documentation in place and Where we build new stores, they include energy saving devices to follow best practice in human resource management.
To support such as light detectors and we are currently working on a number this we have preferred outsource providers for HR and health of further energy saving initiatives including the introduction of the and safety.
next generation pizza ovens, which can deliver gas savings of between 25% and 50% on average.
We installed 40 of these We actively participate with local schools to encourage the new ovens in 2010. development and skills of young people.
Activities this year have included work experience placements, school tours within a number In addition, our new commissary is built to the BREEAM Buildings of our stores, and providing judges and advisors for a Dragons Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method Excellent Den style initiative in Milton Keynes for the second year running.
In rating the highest attainable standard.
It includes features such as addition, we also run a Donate a Day programme where employees rainwater recycling and is an environmental flagship for Dominos.
are encouraged to take a day of the Companys time and use it to Our adjoining new head office, which is currently under construction, support a local charity.
will be built to the same rating.
In addition, at our new site, we have also ensured there are numerous trees planted around the area as part of our continued focus on sustainability.
Edinburgh recycling scheme As a company, we are aware that there is more we could be doing In November 2010, staff at Dominos Pizza in Gilmerton, and our new procurement director of Dominos Pizza Group Limited, Edinburgh, launched an eco-friendly initiative to recycle by Ian Douglas, will be responsible for leading the sustainability agenda offering customers the opportunity to get rid of their used going forward.
The recycling initiative was the brainchild of Dominos store manager Adam Grigg, who encourages customers to bring into the store ANY used pizza box, be it Dominos or another takeaway brand, to be recycled.
In return, customers are offered any pizza any size for a discounted price of 8.99.
The scheme is beginning to pick up and the store is currently recycling around 50 boxes per month.
The recyclables are collected on a weekly basis from the Dominos store and additional provision for pick-ups has been made should the initiative prove to be very popular.
30 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 www.
ie Marketplace Good food at the heart of our operation School tours We are proud of the food that our stores produce for our customers.
During 2010, we revamped our school tours brochure to help During the year, we updated our commitments to the Food Standards franchisees work with local schools and teach children about Agency, particular with regards to the salt and fat content of our the food they eat.
As a result, we are working with our suppliers to reduce the amount of both salt and fat in the coming years and we are Store teams focus on how children can make pizzas healthier committed to reporting on our progress.
We have a reduced fat by substituting processed meats for vegetables, ordering mozzarella option for our customers, which is promoted on our menu smaller sizes or larger sizes to share and through replacing and we are, to the best of our knowledge, still the only major pizza traditional cheese with reduced fat mozzarella.
delivery company to offer a reduced fat option.
During the year, through minor product reformulation, we have also made a material The events are well received by teachers and pupils and all reduction in the amount of salt on our menu.
We have no added those who attend receive a pizza makers certificate.
hydrogenated fats, no GM foods and no artificial colours or flavours on our menu.
During the year, we continued to develop our Take a Fresh Look website, www.
co. uk, to communicate to our customers improved information about the food we offer, its composition and origins.
A large part of the site is dedicated to our Food Guide this includes extensive nutritional calories, fat, saturated fat, salt, sodium, protein, fibre, carbohydrate and sugars and allergen information on our pizzas and side orders and we add all new products to the Food Guide.
As part of our work on allergens, we are still investigating the possibilities of a gluten-free base suitable for coeliacs.
We are members of Sedex, the supplier ethical data exchange, to Going Forward allow us to better vet the suppliers we use or may use and ensure that We will continue to work with BITC to improve and measure our CSR they operate to a code of conduct in line with our own high ethical activity and we look forward to further reducing our relative carbon standards.
We now have over 80% of our food suppliers signed up footprint and creating an even more cohesive CSR strategy that will to Sedex in their own right and, during 2011, we will be working underpin all our business activities.
with our remaining food suppliers and our non-food suppliers to ensure they also become members.
In addition, we ensure that our suppliers work closely with their chosen farmers to ensure animal welfare is to the required EU or international equivalent standard.
This is an area we continue to monitor tightly.
Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 31
