Drax Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2010 30 business review CORPORATE AnD sOCiAl REsPOnsiBiliTY Our approach to corporate and social responsibility we operate our business within a framework of increasingly stringent and challenging legislative and regulatory requirements.
we are, however, mindful of the still tougher expectations held by our wider stakeholder group.
For us, corporate and social responsibility is about achieving a balance between the commercial and regulatory rigours of the competitive sector within which we operate and our commitment to our stakeholders as a whole.
The board has ultimate control of policies in respect of both the wider corporate BusinEss COnDuCT responsibility, such as our Code of business ethics see panel opposite, and our environmental and health and safety Our commitment to integrity programmes.
The boards policies are implemented by dedicated specialists Drax has a commitment to high ethical standards and to conduct our business who make sure effective processes with honesty, integrity and in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
and procedures are in place to assure Our reputation for acting with integrity plays a critical role in our success.
integrity not compliance and to identify and to report only underpins how we do business, but how we expect our suppliers, agents, partners, on risks and opportunities.
contractors and consultants to do business whether in the uK or beyond.
Compliance As in previous years we have continued with the laws and regulations of the countries in which we do business is a must to invest, not only to comply with for us.
Drax is committed to preventing bribery and corruption and takes responsibility environmental and health and safety for maintaining a culture within the Group in which bribery is never acceptable.
requirements, but, where practicable, to go As a business we refuse to offer, give or receive bribes or any other form of improper further.
in 2010, we retained our presence payments and we will never knowingly participate in any form of corrupt activity.
in the FTse4Good index series, which is Consideration should always be given by our employees when offering or receiving designed to measure the performance of gifts or hospitality.
Drax has a policy whereby gifts and hospitality offered or received companies that meet globally recognised may only be of minimal value.
corporate responsibility standards and facilitate investment in those companies.
if faced with a situation of compromising our integrity or losing the associated business, we would forego the business.
During the year, we took the decision to improve the measurement and reporting of our economic, environmental and Code of business ethics social performance.
The Global reporting The Groups Code of business ethics establishes the rules and framework under initiative Gri Framework provides which employees should base their decision making.
employees are expected to principles and performance indicators follow not only the letter of the code, but the spirit.
which can usefully be used to demonstrate our commitment to sustainable development, compare our performance what is expected of our employees over time, and to measure our performance ensuring that the reputation and good standing of the Group continues to be against other standards and norms.
maintained requires our employees to act with the highest standards of behaviour Although only at the level of partial and to be accountable for upholding the requirements of Draxs Code of business disclosure against the Gri Framework for ethics, wherever they are in the world.
2010, we commit to improve on this over time as we move towards full disclosure.
Poor choices can have potentially damaging consequences, not only to Draxs reputation, but financial penalties and imprisonment are also a reality for getting it wrong.
whilst it is often obvious what is right and wrong, our employees may, on occasion, face an ethical dilemma.
if it feels wrong, it often is.
by encouraging our employees to apply good judgement and common sense within the framework of the Code of business ethics they can contribute to maintaining our reputation.
whistleblowing The Groups whistleblowing policy provides a confidential means for our employees to speak up with confidence.
The policy provides guidance on how to make a disclosure of information in good faith relating to some danger, fraud or other illegal or unethical conduct they may have witnessed or are concerned about.
Business review Drax Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2010 31 Drax and shareholders: k road shows k Face-to-face meetings k reports and announcements Drax and local community: k website k sponsorship Drax and employees: k visit programmes k Fund raising events k Open Forum k Themed campaigns k briefing sessions k visitor programme k staff newsletter k exhibitions k newsletters Drax and media: k Press releases k Face-to-face meetings Drax and Parliament: k visit programme k briefing papers k Face-to-face meetings k written and oral evidence k visit programmes Drax and Government Drax and Government agents regulators: departments: k Face-to-face k Face-to-face meetings meetings engaging with k Correspondence k Consultation our stakeholders and data responses submission k visit programmes k via trade k via trade associations associations Drax and Drax and nGOs and European union: opinion formers: k briefing papers k Face-to-face meetings k Face-to-face meetings k briefing papers k via trade associations Drax and suppliers Drax and local and customers: government: k Face-to-face meetings k Liaison meetings Drax and trading k Contractor briefings k Annual consultative counterparties: committee meeting k Contractor safety k Face-to-face meetings conference k exhibitions k industry events k newsletters Drax Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2010 32 business review CORPORATE AnD sOCiAl REsPOnsiBiliTY we manage our environmental compliance under an environmental Management system, which in 2010 was recertified to isO 14001. burning 907,000 tonnes of biomass in 2010 was a record for Drax, and saved 1.5 million tonnes of CO2 emissions during O ur new biomass co-firing the year.
facility, the largest of its kind in the world, was commissioned in the summer.
biomass co-firing is a recognised renewable Our focus on all aspects of biomass, from Climate change and technology.
Through displacing coal and the upstream supply chain to combustion the environment taking into account the carbon neutral performance, makes us well placed to Tackling climate change status of biomass emissions at the point pursue a biomass future for the Group, we believe we have an important part to of combustion, emissions of CO2 can be whether through increasing the level of play in managing the transition of the uK significantly reduced.
Our new 400Mw biomass burnt at the power station or towards a low carbon economy.
The single biomass co-firing facility, the largest of its through progressing our intention to biggest challenge facing coal-fired kind in the world, was commissioned in the develop dedicated biomass power plants.
generators today is environmental, and in summer of 2010.
Alongside our existing However, regulatory certainty and particular, carbon.
Against that backdrop 100Mw co-firing capacity, we now have the appropriate support are critical to realising and with an eye on future-proofing the capability to produce 12.5% of our output our ambitions and we continue to further business, Drax identified biomass co-firing from renewable and sustainable biomass.
our research and development work and increased thermal efficiency as the This is equivalent to the output of over on biomass ahead of receiving the major strategic carbon abatement 700 wind turbines, and has the potential Governments pronouncements on initiatives to undertake.
to save over 2.5 million tonnes of CO2 the regulatory and market framework.
The new facility At the centre of our thermal efficiency Environmental performance considerably aided our ability to burn improvement programme is the and compliance biomass and 2010 saw the highest level yet 100 million upgrade of the high and we recognise our responsibilities to society of biomass burned at the power station.
low pressure turbines of each of our six and the environment and are committed with a record burn of 907,000 tonnes of generating units.
During the major planned to furthering the environmental leadership biomass, our coal throughput was reduced outage of 2010 we installed one high position we hold in the coal-fired sector.
and we saved 1.5 million tonnes of CO2 pressure and three low pressure turbine we have environmental policies in emissions during the year.
Together with the operation at both Drax Power station installation of similar modules during 2007, we fully recognise the challenge that we and Haven Power Limited Haven Power.
2008 and 2009, this means that we are and other fossil fuel-fired power stations At Drax Power station, we manage our now more than two-thirds of the way face in tackling carbon emissions and these environmental compliance under an through the upgrade project.
As a result two projects are giving us the capability environmental Management system we are comfortably operating at above to reduce our emissions of CO2 by over eMs.
During 2010, our eMs was 39% overall efficiency at full load and 3.5 million tonnes a year, or 17.5% by externally audited and we were successful we are already saving over half a million the end of 2011. in being recertified to the international tonnes of carbon dioxide CO2 emissions standard isO 14001: 2004. a year.
On completion of the upgrade in 2012 we will see an improvement in our overall baseload efficiency at full load of 5%, taking it to 40%, and an annual saving of one million tonnes of CO2 emissions.
Business review Drax Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2010 33 we freely discuss our environmental when ash is unable to be sold it is sent performance and activities with our to the power stations ash disposal site.
stakeholders and are sensitive to their The site is managed responsibly with views and concerns.
Amongst our staff, completed areas restored to use as business partners and contractors we farmland and high biodiversity woodland, promote environmental awareness, which is home to over a hundred species ensuring that they understand the of wildlife in total.
The careful planting and environmental aspects of their activities, management of the restored areas has we tightly manage the that they act responsibly and are seen the number of un red list species wastes produced on site to maximise recycling competent to undertake their duties.
on the site increase from seven in 2007 and minimise landfill.
to the nine found at the last survey.
we are pleased to report that there were no major breaches of our environmental we pay landfill tax on the ash disposed consents during the year.
of to the ash disposal site.
Through the Landfill Communities Fund, we are able Emissions to air to claim a tax credit against our donations we maintain investment in our emissions to recognised environmental bodies.
abatement equipment and consider this to we have worked with Groundwork north be a high priority.
Our current equipment, Yorkshire since 2001 on projects designed namely the flue gas desulphurisation to help mitigate the effects of landfill facility and combustion systems to reduce upon our local community.
During 2010, emissions of nitrogen oxides nOX, we contributed 80,500 towards local ensure compliance with environmental community-based projects designed to limits to 2016. we have a programme bring about sustainable environmental in place to identify the optimum means benefits and contribute to the social and of compliance beyond that date.
economic regeneration of the area.
This Discharges to water brings the total amount provided by Drax The availability of water is key to the to the Fund since 2001 to over 1 million.
operations of the power station and it is Other wastes generated as part of the important that it is managed sustainably.
operation and maintenance of the power There are three sources of water supplying station are managed to maximise recycling the station river, aquifer and mains.
and minimise the use of landfill in their Procedures are in place to ensure that all disposal.
This has resulted in 84% of discharges and drainage to water are the 4,306 tonnes of waste generated monitored and treated where necessary on site being diverted from landfill, to meet our discharge consent limits.
with 3,531 tonnes of the diversion coming Approximately half of the water is returned from recycling or composting.
to the river Ouse a few degrees warmer Alternative fuels than the river at the discharge point.
To help maintain our vital role in the uK in 2010, 0.83 tonnes of water per Gwh of economy and safeguard cost effective electricity generated was used by the power production, our fuel strategy power station, continuing the year-on-year recognises the need to sustain a ready reduction since 2005. supply of traditional quality coal and how best to incorporate alternative Disposals to land fuels, including different fossil fuels and The Group has invested in infrastructure, renewable biomass materials.
The choice including rail loading facilities, to maximise of fuels has to be balanced with availability sales of the ash products to avoid the use and flexibility of supply.
This has enabled 66% of the 1.5 million tonnes of ash produced in 2010 A considerable amount of environmental to be sold to the construction industry data on the combustion of petcoke, a fuel as a replacement for virgin aggregates, derived from the petroleum industry, has fillers and cement.
been collected and analysed, where possible using independent specialists.
in line with our policy on openness and transparency all data are discussed with the environment Agency and local councils.
The combustion of petcoke is now an integral part of our strategy of developing and utilising alternative fuels and during the year we burnt 210,000 tonnes.
Drax Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2010 34 business review CORPORATE AnD sOCiAl REsPOnsiBiliTY Although we encourage local and national These criteria were designed in the supply chain companies to bid for contracts to supply absence of national or international non-fuel procurement the many goods and services required by legislation, to meet or exceed any likely we have in place a rigorous set of checks the Group, we recognise that meeting some emerging standards across the whole and measures to ensure that our suppliers of our business needs demands specialist sustainability spectrum of life cycle, social meet certain pre-determined standards.
skills and these are sought accordingly.
we note that As part of our tender process, information the sector is continually changing and our Biomass sustainability and procurement is sought from prospective suppliers on management systems and procurement we regard biomass use as a high priority health and safety, environmental and policies will have to be structured to not only to reduce the carbon footprint quality standards, which is taken into address legislation which is emerging of the Group, but to reduce the carbon account during the assessment and as biomass production attracts an even footprint of uK electricity generation selection process.
At times, this may higher profile amongst Government and increase the proportion of the prompt further requests for information.
uKs energy coming from renewable Financial reviews of supply companies and sustainable sources.
we believe it is Although the anticipated development are also undertaken.
a prerequisite that any biomass used for of credible international sustainability Compliance with current and foreseeable energy should be sustainable.
This makes schemes for bioliquids and biomass has legislation is mandatory.
in making sense from a business perspective, been slow, our initiative has been extremely purchases we are mindful that some providing longevity of feedstock.
it is also valuable since our policy stands up well companies or indeed countries may have essential for environmental, economic against the legislative proposals from poor ethical standards or human rights and social reasons.
the Department of energy and Climate issues.
Covering, as we do, a varied Change.
These require that, from April 2011, we have implemented comprehensive marketplace with a number of indirect generators will have to report on sustainability criteria into our biomass manufacturers supporting the end product, greenhouse gas savings and whether procurement activities with the aim it is impossible for us to be certain that they meet certain criteria on land use.
of assuring both the availability and we do not indirectly trade with companies From April 2013, generators over 1Mw sustainability of biomass supplies.
or countries whose standards are poor.
capacity will have to comply with those These include a high level set of principles However, we do not knowingly support or standards in order to receive renewables committing the Group to progressively trade with such companies or countries and Obligation Certificates.
improving the sustainability performance we remain alert to changing circumstances.
recognising that formal, mandatory we work hard to develop and maintain international standards will, in time, be Our procurement process is designed to an open dialogue with suppliers.
we have derived it is evident that the experience ensure that the production and delivery found site visits to key suppliers and gained by our suppliers through of biomass will: prospective key suppliers to be useful implementing our policy will be beneficial in encouraging that dialogue and also k significantly reduce greenhouse to them as clarity in the eventual definition as part of the assessment and selection gas emissions compared to coal-fired of sustainability standards and associated process.
During 2010, ten such visits generation and, where possible, methodologies is developed.
To aid this were completed.
give preference to biomass sources process, and to ensure compliance with that maximise this benefit: future legislation, we have engaged in 2010, we initiated performance meetings qualified third parties to develop and with suppliers.
seven key suppliers were k not result in a net release of carbon from implement a rigorous audit of our biomass targeted and we were able to undertake the vegetation and soil of either forests supply chains to ensure compliance with a thorough review of their overall or agricultural lands: our principles.
performance, covering aspects such as k not endanger food supply or spend, safety, environmental and quality we have adopted the target of a minimum communities where the use of biomass performance, productivity and areas for annual saving of 70% in greenhouse gas is essential for subsistence for example improvement or innovation.
emissions for the biomass materials burnt heat, medicines, building materials : at Drax Power station.
Our calculations k not adversely affect protected or show that substantial benefits of the we have implemented comprehensive vulnerable biodiversity and where order of 70%90% savings were generally sustainability criteria possible will give preference to biomass achieved across the range of biomass within our biomass production that strengthens biodiversity: materials burnt in 2010.
This provides good procurement activities.
reassurance that the current suppliers and k deploy good practices to protect and or procurement practices are robust.
improve soil, water both ground and surface and air quality: k contribute to local prosperity in the area of supply chain management and biomass production: and k contribute to the social wellbeing of employees and the local population in the area of the biomass production.
Business review Drax Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2010 35 we are committed to developing and maintaining a positive health and safety culture.
Personal safety statistics During 2010, we met with five key Processes underpinning performance non-governmental organisations in 2010 2009 2008 2007 The Production integrity Management order to discuss our biomass sustainability Fatality 0 0 0 1 system PiMs continues to provide work.
The meetings allowed open and the platform the business needs to deliver Time Losing injuries 4 3 4 10 honest discussion about our policy and continuous improvement of business restricted work injuries 0 3 1 2 practice, and were generally positive, critical systems which are fundamental Medical Treatment injuries 5 0 7 3 with our sustainability and life cycle to the safe and effective operation of the First Aid injuries 148 154 273 267 1 analysis model and our industry-leading power station.
notes: spotlight on safety sOs is our 1 reporting of injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Coal procurement regulations.
implementation of the internationally we purchase around 8-9 million tonnes of proven DuPont sTOP programme.
This Attaining leading performance steam coal each year.
we buy from a range behavioural safety programme is coupled The lost time injury rate and total of sources with the objective of managing with the Drax Four Pillars of safety: recordable injury rate for 2010 at 0.13 and our commercial exposures and 0.26 respectively remain industry-leading.
1 Task risk Assessment TrA environmental obligations.
Around half of Maintaining this level of performance 2 safety Kick-Off start of shift safety briefing the coal we purchase is from uK deep and is commendable given the significant 3 Dynamic point of work risk assessment POwrA surface mines and the remainder from construction work that took place during 4 weekly safety Meeting mines around the world, including usA, the year and number of man-hours worked, Colombia and russia.
The Four Pillars and sOs give us the which at the Drax Power station site framework we need for open engagement totalled some 3.2 million.
Our safety record As responsible procurers we work within a between operatives and supervisors.
continues to compare very favourably with strong corporate compliance framework.
Together these tools allow us to develop that of our sector peers and international The suitability of each of our suppliers the defensive behaviours which are a benchmarks.
Amongst global comparator is checked through our counterparty fundamental component of the robust coal-fired power stations we are ahead approval and know your customer world-class safety culture we aspire to of the european and world Pacesetter processes.
in addition, when buying from create and maintain.
group for total recordable injury rate, overseas we have introduced a process which is a clear indication that the safety of documenting, in our contracts, the specific processes and procedures management system implemented in the minimum standards we expect from our are also in place to clarify the general last few years is now delivering sustained suppliers in respect of compliance with health and safety responsibilities for levels of performance.
legislation, human rights, labour relations, the effective supervision, control and health and safety arrangements and monitoring of contractors in accordance The Group has been successful in retaining business ethics.
with current legislation and regulations.
certification of its Health and safety The arrangements are built around an Management system to the internationally understanding that the Group and its recognised Occupational Health and safety Health and safety contractors have a responsibility to protect standard, OHsAs 18001, at the Drax Power Health and safety is at the heart of our each other, their respective workforces and station site and has recently attained corporate responsibility.
Protecting our others, such as visitors.
An internal audit certification for the Groups straw pellet employees, contractors and all visitors process is used to ensure compliance.
plant, based at Goole in the east riding from injury is fundamental to our business of Yorkshire.
Drax is proud to be one of More generally, compulsory health and philosophy.
we are committed to a select group of large coal-fired power safety induction courses are tailored to developing and maintaining a positive stations in the country to hold this suit a range of individuals and their on-site health and safety culture in which statutory standard, which is approved by Lloyds activities.
in total, six courses have been requirements are viewed as a minimum register Quality Assurance.
in addition to introduced covering, at one end of the standard and leading performance as this, the Group was delighted, once again, spectrum, accompanied visitors, right our goal.
to be awarded the rosPA Gold Medal through to those employees or contractors Award having achieved Gold Award working on large scale operational projects.
standards for six consecutive years.
Drax Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2010 36 business review CORPORATE AnD sOCiAl REsPOnsiBiliTY safety leadership and recognition Employee relations employees The Group is constantly striving to improve At Drax Power station, 530 people Employment the critical safety leadership contribution 70% of the workforce are covered The Group employed 1,080 people at the required from first line supervisors.
Most of our employees work The expectations of both management Formal negotiation and consultation takes full-time and are on permanent contracts.
and supervisors continue to be reaffirmed place through the Company Committee in the safety Leadership Charter.
a joint management and union body that Our quarterly employee Opinion survey, meets regularly to discuss working practices conducted at Drax Power station and Goole The annual safety Conference for and terms and conditions of employment straw Pellet Plant, shows that 80% of our contractors and staff continues to be a for production employees, and to receive employees are proud to work for Drax, and focal point.
updates on the Groups strategy.
other measures of engagement are also Held early in the year, the conference high.
For example, the annual resignation sets expectations for the coming years in 2010, we agreed a long-term pay deal rate at Drax Power station is only 1%, and performance.
for all employees in the collective bargaining over 40% of the workforce has been with unit, that is, all production employees Our weekly safety bulletin briefing the Group for 20 years or more.
This high up to and including technical grades.
process provides a fast-track level of retention is positive for Drax, as our The pay deal extends to 31 December 2012, communication vehicle to reach all those power generation business requires levels providing a platform for continuing stable working on the site.
we use the process to of skill and experience which are difficult to employee relations ahead.
draw attention to specific safety issues and source externally.
Absence rates are also our performance record, and to recognise All employees in corporate functions, very low at around 2%.
Active engagement in the Haven Power and senior production staff turnover at Haven Power is higher, safety briefing process is a job requirement.
staff are employed on personal contracts, reflecting the nature of the business, which are not covered by collective A Health and safety Advisory Committee averaging 27% in the sales team and bargaining.
Formal information and HesAC, which brings together a range 11% in other areas of the business.
consultation arrangements are in place for of employees, including trade union these groups of staff, so that any proposals we work to achieve high standards in representatives, safety representatives, for change can be discussed openly and employment practices, for example, occupational health and management team with sufficient time to build in revisions through the avoidance of discriminatory members, continues to play a vital role arising out of the consultation.
practices, and the speedy and clear in facilitating staff consultation on health resolution of queries and grievances.
and safety issues, and driving standards learning and development we review our policies and procedures on upwards.
During 2010, the Corporate Our personal and career development a regular basis to ensure legal compliance HesAC Group was launched.
Focusing processes are designed to ensure that and improved service levels.
on engagement with corporate staff, all our people have the technical skills, the group has a unique set of targets management and leadership competencies, and a reporting line back to HesAC and personal behaviours needed to achieve on a quarterly basis.
every employee has a personal appraisal and development plan, People working on the site at all levels The apprenticeship including targets which are reviewed and who have demonstrated safety leadership is a four year assessed formally through interim and final have been given recognition awards.
programme, with the appraisal discussions with their manager.
time split between Our active involvement with the Personal development plans include Drax Power station and engineering academy programmes of our trade body, both technical training and behavioural training centres.
the Association of electricity Producers development, which are delivered through and the Coal Generators Forum, GensiP, a rolling programme of internal and continues to provide new ideas and a external learning events.
stimulus to drive our health and safety For approved external training improvement efforts forward.
programmes, our employees receive financial support, for example, course fees and expenses.
each year we recruit up to six new employees for a fully sponsored four year advanced modern apprenticeship in power station operations and engineering maintenance.
we currently have 18 apprentices at different stages of the programme.
Business review Drax Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2010 37 we accommodate work experience Performance and reward Health and wellbeing requests and support local schools Pay and benefits at Drax are attractive we are committed to promoting the health and colleges with their career events, and match or exceed the best in the and wellbeing of all our staff and ensuring as well as supporting Drax employees industry sector and the local area.
a professional response to all first aid and to be school governors.
we benchmark our salaries and benefits At Haven Power, our new team leaders at every level against the industry sector Our occupational health team undertakes completed a development programme and the market as a whole.
we also regular programmes to screen colleagues entitled Light, Power and energy.
participate in specialist industry meetings who are in contact with high noise levels All team managers undertake training to exchange information and developments and sensitive respiratory conditions.
to assist them in their role in respect in employment policy.
everyone working in operational of staff induction, conduct and capability, areas has a medical every three years.
Through a range of share plans we encourage and absence management.
Health surveillance, such as hearing tests, all employees to build a personal stake in lung function tests and eyesight tests Throughout the Group we have a rolling the ownership of the business.
are completed in accordance with risk, programme of health and safety and Recognition exposure and Health and safety executive first aid refresher training, to underpin The achievements of our staff have been requirements.
the safety culture which is central to rightly recognised through a number of all operations.
Pension provision and retired employees awards from external bodies during 2010.
Many of our employees are members of internal communications Our biomass co-firing project was awarded the Drax Power Group of the electricity we use a variety of communication first place in the environment category of supply Pension scheme, which was channels to ensure that all colleagues the utility industry Achievement Awards.
closed to new entrants in 2002. since then, are kept fully informed of developments These prestigious awards recognise the Drax employees have joined the Group in the Groups operations and have an outstanding achievements of the utility Personal Pension Plan or the Haven opportunity to provide feedback.
and energy industry and reflect innovation, Power Personal Pension Plan, which are outstanding service, efficiency and quality.
Our flagship communication channel both actively promoted to new recruits.
we also received highly commended at Drax Power station is Open Forum, in the supply Chain excellence category, we offer paid pre-retirement leave and a series of face-to-face meetings where the for success in introducing sustainability pre-retirement courses to help people Chief executive and executive Committee standards to the biomass supply chain.
transition smoothly from working life present business updates to small groups, to their new life.
followed by an open question and answer The Forest Footprint Disclosure Project is session.
The Open Forums, which are an innovative initiative assisting businesses each year we invite over 350 Drax scheduled to accommodate the power in assessing their impact on the worlds pensioners to a celebratory event at stations operational resource forests.
For the second year running, Christmas.
The retired employees requirements, cover every shift pattern Drax was ranked as the leader in the Association organise trips and other events so that all employees have an opportunity utilities sector based on the comprehensive during the course of the year for people to attend.
This year we have used a variety sustainability criteria in our business who have retired from the Group.
of media at the Open Forum, including procurement activities.
sports and social Club DvDs featuring colleagues across the Our straw pellet plant won the east riding employees can join the Drax sports business.
Feedback about the Open Forums of Yorkshire Council Chairmans business and social Club for a nominal monthly is very positive, as reflected in our opinion Award for businesses with under 50 subscription through the payroll.
The awards are presented The sports and social Club, which in addition, our all-employee communication annually by the Council to individuals, is also open to public subscription, methods include monthly team briefs, companies and organisations within the offers an extensive range of facilities.
a twice yearly in-house magazine, east riding of Yorkshire in recognition and e-mail and intranet communications.
of their achievements towards enhancing we use a variety of communication the area in which they work and live.
At Haven Power there is a well-established channels to keep colleagues informed framework of individual one-to-one in addition to receiving recognition for of developments and to discussions and team meetings.
This year our project work, we were also delighted provide an opportunity the operations team introduced Did you to be acknowledged for upholding good for feedback.
know?, a fortnightly brief designed to governance and professional standards at provide useful information on team, system the iCsA institute of Chartered secretaries and process development.
and Administrators Hermes Transparency in Governance Awards, where we received each month following the Haven Power the best sustainability and stakeholder board meeting, members of the senior disclosure FTse250 award for our 2009 management team conduct briefing Annual report and accounts.
sessions that all staff are invited to attend.
These sessions update staff on the progress of the business and provide an opportunity to raise questions and to discuss any concerns.
Drax Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2010 38 business review CORPORATE AnD sOCiAl REsPOnsiBiliTY External relations Community relations stakeholder engagement As in previous years, we maintained our we are committed to being a good neighbour and community relations engagement with public affairs audiences to our local community and our caring for Engaging with our stakeholders on issues with implications for our business.
the community philosophy involves being Like many businesses, our stakeholders with a General election during the year part of local and regional communities.
are many and diverse, including our and energy policy still high on the political Our involvement takes the form of shareholders, employees, customers, agenda, we had significant engagement sponsoring a variety of local charities and suppliers, the local community, with Parliamentarians and officials at all fund raising events, promoting our own Government, non-governmental levels on issues including forthcoming campaigns which focus on the three themes organisations, regulators, opinion formers environmental legislation, renewables of youth sport, education and the environment, and the media.
Communication with all policy, and market reform issues.
and maintaining open communication our stakeholders is considered to be an channels and good working relationships The form of engagement was varied and essential part of our business and we aim with the regions key opinion formers.
included both face-to-face and written to be open and transparent in all that we briefings, participation in public sponsorship and fundraising do.
reference has been already made to consultations, written evidence to inquiries, During 2010, we gave financial support specific stakeholder engagement practice and visits by Parliamentarians and officials of 131,450 2009: 138,930 in total and exercises throughout the Corporate to Drax Power station.
As in the past, across a range of charitable and and social responsibility review: below we trade association membership proved non-charitable community causes.
touch on other aspects of our stakeholder useful during the year.
The ability to meet Of that total, charitable donations engagement commitments, from investor with and discuss issues of the day with amounted to 87,384 2009: 88,041. relations to community relations.
other interested parties has facilitated some 18,000 of the total donations investor relations representation of collective positions on were made under the direction of our Drax is committed to delivering shareholder energy policy matters.
sponsorship team, across a range of value.
we communicate our results and Locally, we have continued to engage with activities within a 20-mile radius of the prospects to our shareholders in an parish, town, district and county councillors power station.
each month the team meets accurate and timely manner using a variety and officers, with the intention of keeping to consider requests received for charitable of channels.
in addition to the Annual them up to date with our business issues donations and community sponsorship General Meeting, we communicate and developments.
Our regular and makes awards against our criteria of through our Annual report and accounts, communication channel with these and furthering community, environmental and Half year report, interim Management other local opinion formers takes the form sporting interests.
examples of the good statements and Trading updates.
All of of an annual consultative meeting, and causes supported through the sponsorship these documents are made available three meetings each year with our local team in 2010 are donations to Camblesforth on our website at www.
Community Primary school to enhance significant matters relating to trading their existing music lessons through the and the development of the business we maintained a programme of provision of tuition to develop instrumental are disseminated to the market by engagement with local stakeholders within skills and to vixen radio to soundproof the way of announcements via a regulatory the vicinities of the planned developments radio stations new studio.
information service and those of dedicated biomass power stations.
announcements appear as soon Through the use of exhibitions, newsletters, Drax also operates a for and Give As as practicable on our website.
press releases, information on our website You earn matching scheme, under which and a freephone line we aimed to ensure we match any monies raised for, or donated Announcements are frequently followed that local people had the opportunity to, charity by employees.
During 2010, up with either conference calls or to study our proposals and discuss issues approximately 46,700 of the total donations presentations to provide further detail with members of the project team.
made were through this scheme.
in addition, face-to-face meetings are held with our no political donations were made in the we communicate our major institutional shareholders, again to results and prospects uK or elsewhere during 2010, and the to our shareholders in assist them in their understanding of the Groups contact with those active in the an accurate and timely announcements, but also to ensure that political arena has been and will continue manner using a variety the board is aware of their views and of channels.
to be aimed solely at the promotion of concerns.
in 2010, a formal meeting the Groups business interests.
programme was conducted in the uK after each of the Preliminary and Half year results announcements and we undertook investor visits to the united states and mainland europe during the During the year we had year.
To aid our communication with significant engagement private investors, the investor section of with Parliamentarians our website has been developed to be a and officials at all levels.
readily accessible and transparent source of information to enhance understanding of the business.
Business review Drax Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2010 39 each month the sponsorship team meets to consider requests received for donations and sponsorship.
Combined with a tour of the power under the Art in the Community banner, now in its sixth year, the outage charity station students can learn about the basic we held our fourth art competition for scheme raised 4,500 during the years principles and development of electricity primary and secondary schools.
Through the scheme 500 generation, the role of different fuels in schools participated and the winners and is donated for every seven days that goes electricity generation, trading of electricity, their schools shared in prize money by without an injury requiring more than environmental issues related to burning totalling over 2,500. first aid treatment.
As in previous years fossil fuels, the recycling of by-products the money was divided equally between we also held a two-day art masterclass run and the role of a large industrial complex charities chosen by Drax staff and our by David Anderson, a designer, illustrator in the local economy and community.
Candlelighters, a Yorkshireand watercolourist, and a Fellow of the based charity providing services and Another visitor opportunity exists at our royal society of Arts.
David provided support to children with cancer and their skylark Centre that lies at the heart of our expert advice and guidance to the young families, and Goole Drop-in, a drop-in centre ash disposal site.
A nature reserve has been artists, all aged seven to 13, who were able for young people between the age of established there to provide a haven for to try out various techniques and explore 16 and 25 were the nominated charities.
it is specially the world of art and illustration, from Through two schemes focused on safety designed to help schoolchildren understand caricature and collage to watercolour performance, the Yorkshire Air Ambulance, more about the natural habitat and ecology and mixed media.
Over the two days, the which provides a crucial emergency service of the area.
aspiring artists each produced a segment for the region, received a total donation of of a panoramic image of the power station, educational visits are complemented by 5,000.
Of the total, 4,000 was raised using a variety of media which, when classroom and laboratory facilities where through staff and contractors delivering pieced together, will measure 3m x 1.5m teachers and students can discuss and zero recordable injuries during part of the and be on display at Drax Power station.
investigate the results of pond dipping, construction of the new biomass co-firing a bugs and grubs hunt, or a nature trail Visitors to Drax facility.
This was boosted with a further walk through woodland areas.
Thousands of visitors are welcomed to 1,000 from a similar scheme applied to the power station every year.
The appeal the whole Drax site.
Our Cricket in the Community initiative of discovering more about how power launched in May 2006 has continued For the fourth year running we held a is produced and the sheer scale of the to prove popular with local schools.
charity corporate golf tournament at the site and its associated activities attracts The england and wales Cricket board championship course at Fulford, York.
schools and colleges as well as business qualified coaches on our staff, together The event raised a further 9,205 for organisations and associations.
During 2010, with england ladies cricketer, Katherine the Yorkshire Air Ambulance.
we played host to some 7,500 visitors.
brunt, took cricket coaching to schools Education in the community in the local area as part of our support for For three sundays in the run-up to we provide a choice of educational education and to promote sports learning Christmas, we converted the skylark experiences hosted by our team of power as part of the national Curriculum.
The attraction station guides and, at times, technical proved popular with local residents, some strengthening our links with the game of experts.
A state-of-the-art visitor centre is 900 people came to visit the grotto and cricket, for the fourth year we ran the Drax of particular interest to students of all ages through their generosity 500 was raised Cup, a cricket competition for teams of girls allowing them to explore the properties of for selby Hands of Hope, a charity helping and boys under the age of nine.
Over 300 electricity, discover how a power station to fund groups and activities in the local primary schools across Yorkshire took part works and consider the environmental area.
we donated an additional 1,000 to in the knock-out tournament organised issues related to electricity generation.
the charity in lieu of purchasing corporate by the Yorkshire County Cricket Club Christmas cards.
Yorkshire CCC in conjunction with the Yorkshire Cricket board and the Yorkshire schools Cricket Association.
The semifinals and final were played at Headingley Carnegie stadium, the home of Yorkshire CCC and a long-standing venue for test matches and one-day internationals.
This year the winning school was Alwoodley Primary school, Leeds.
