BUSINESS REVIEW Corporate Responsibility Review Safety performance has improved signicantly over the past year.
The safety of our employees is our principal concern and the Group is committed to achieving further improvements.
OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY APPROACH AIMS 2009 10 ACTIONS AND PROGRESS HEALTH AND Ensure the safety of Group-wide Think Safe, Be Safe campaign and local SAFETY our staff and others initiatives targeted at key safety issues achieved substantial affected by our reduction in accidents operations our Lost-time accidents down 35% top priority Accident frequency rate down 30% Reduce the number of accidents Accident severity rate down 28% Businesses use audits and benchmarking processes to measure performance and highlight areas for improvement Extensive training programmes undertaken aimed at analysing and reducing risks and changing attitudes and behaviour Developed further our services to provide the optimum ENVIRONMENT Reduce the impact packaging solutions for the end-use of our operations on the environment Life-cycle analysis of bag-in-box format confirmed green credentials Contribute to optimising resource Reduced environmental impact due to improved usage and waste performance as activity levels began to increase throughout our Own energy usage up 0.5%, offset by fall in energy supply chains bought in CO emissions down 1.5% 2 Water usage down 4.5% Waste sent to landfill down 1.4% New Management Development programme initiated EMPLOYEES Attract, retain and in partnership with Warwick Business School motivate good people Increased level of communication to ensure awareness Enable our employees of business plans and objectives to fulfil their potential Employee surveys in parts of the Group Training and development programmes to meet businesses and employees specific needs COMMUNITY Develop and maintain Businesses work closely with local schools and colleges INVOLVEMENT good relations with our Involvement in a range of community activities local communities Participate in liaison groups and hold open days Support good causes in local communities 34 www.
com B BU US SIIN NE ES SS S R RE EV VIIE EW W G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM ME EN NT TS S N NO OT TIIC CE E O OF F M ME EE ET TIIN NG G OUR PRINCIPLES AND APPROACH TO respect, to work safely and to protect the working practices are not only legal and ethical CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY environment.
Our Key Corporate Values responsibilities for the Group but are also essential DS Smith is committed to providing good statement is reinforced by more detailed elements for achieving our aims of attracting and sustainable returns for its investors while policies on health and safety, the environment retaining a high-quality and well motivated maintaining high standards in the way we and other relevant topics: these documents workforce and in carrying out our operations conduct our business.
The safety of our 10,500 may be viewed on the Groups website at: productively and cost-effectively.
Responsibility for employees, working at over 100 locations www.
the safety of our people is regarded as a key worldwide, is our principal concern.
We also The Group has a Workplace Malpractice Policy, aspect of the role of management at all levels.
pay close attention to the fulfilment of our under which employees may report in confidence Managers are provided with training to assist responsibilities towards the environment and to any perceived wrongdoing within the Group them in fulfilling this responsibility.
how we interact with our employees and local on matters relating to safety, the environment, The Groups safety record continues to improve.
This review presents information unethical business conduct or breaches of Our businesses benchmark their performance on these high priority aspects of corporate Group policies, the law or other regulations.
on safety against other Group businesses and responsibility CR for the Group.
This policy is reinforced by a confidential through the use of external data.
This process Employee Concern Helpline and e-mail facility The Board considers risks to the Groups shortenables them to identify areas that require further which we aim to make available to our and long-term value arising from CR matters as attention as well as areas of strength which can employees worldwide as local legal and part of its regular review of the key risks to the be spread across the Group.
Site health and regulatory issues are resolved: to date, it has Groups operations.
It ensures that the Group safety audits by internal specialists and external been extended to over 70% of our employees, has in place effective policies and systems for consultants are also used to measure performance located in nine countries.
Any concerns reported managing any significant CR risks and it receives and to highlight important issues.
All accidents are appropriately investigated.
The Group Chief and situations that might have resulted in an Executive is the Director responsible for CR matters accident are investigated to ensure that we learn DS Smith continues to be selected as a constituent and he reports to the Board on these.
It is the from these incidents and take steps to prevent a of the FTSE4Good UK Index of companies responsibility of the Divisional Chief Executives recurrence.
In addition to focusing on specific deemed to meet globally recognised corporate and General Managers of the individual risks, through techniques of risk assessment and responsibility standards.
DS Smith is also a businesses to communicate and to apply the root cause analysis, the Group also undertakes constituent of the Kempen SNS Smaller Europe policies, to ensure compliance and to review extensive safety training programmes at all levels SRI Index for smaller companies deemed to have procedures, taking account of local legislation of the organisation.
high social responsibility standards and practice.
Divisional Chief Executives The Group has a well-established safety are required annually to attest that the companies HEALTH AND SAFETY communications programme, first launched in for which they are responsible have complied DS Smith is committed to ensuring that throughout 2006 under the slogan Think Safe, Be Safe, with relevant Group and divisional policies.
the Group the safety of our staff and others which aims to raise awareness of key issues: to The Groups Key Corporate Values define the way affected by our operations receives the highest challenge unsafe attitudes and behaviour: and to in which we require our people and businesses to priority.
Accordingly, safety at work is the first promote a collective responsibility for maintaining operate.
In summary, all employees are expected fixed agenda item at all main Board, executive a safe working environment.
In the past year, at all times to act ethically and with integrity, to committee and divisional review meetings.
we have also implemented measures to help treat their colleagues fairly, equitably and with Providing a safe workplace and ensuring safe communicate best practice more effectively across the Groups management cadre.
SAFETY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Lost time accidents Accident frequency rate Accident severity rate Number of hours of lost time Working hours lost as a result Number of accidents resulting due to accidents per million of accidents as a percentage in lost time of one shift or more.
to contribute to the conservation of resources and Spicers offers its customers an increasingly large we are fulfilling this responsibility through both the selection of products which are made from provision of packaging products which enable our recycled materials, are recyclable or have other customers to meet their environmental objectives environmentally beneficial features.
We continue and the development of our recycling services.
to carry out work to evaluate not only the carbon Although packaging receives a lot of attention in footprint of our own packaging products but to the media, it plays an important part in making better understand the role of our packaging in the modern lifestyles possible and its significance total lifecycle of the product for which it is used.
should be seen in perspective.
Packaging is just one, often relatively minor, aspect of the total Recycling environmental impact of a product: ten times more The Groups operations make a major contribution energy goes into the production of the food and to the corrugated packaging recycling process.
goods that it contains than into the packaging In the UK, Severnside Recycling is the largest itself.
In the UK, packaging of all types accounts collector of waste paper and an increasingly for less than 5% of total landfill waste and significant collector of plastic and other materials 1 Our Think Safe, Be Safe campaign approximately 20% of household dustbin waste : for recycling.
It sources waste paper and other has helped us reduce the number of approximately 60% of the packaging of all types recoverable materials from major supermarkets, 2 used in the UK is recycled.
other retailers and industrial operations.
Severnsides growth into the integrated recycling Our packaging businesses work with their and waste management market has been further customers to develop packaging of the Information on safety performance, including statistics related to our key performance indicators underlined by a contract with Marks & Spencer, optimum specification for the required end-use.
in line with its Plan A principles, to deliver waste Most packaging performs the valuable functions KPIs, is reported to the Board quarterly.
The overall goal is to achieve zero accidents and and recycling services across their retail and of protecting products, reducing product wastage, distribution estate see feature on page 4. enabling more efficient and lower-cost handling our divisions set interim targets against the KPIs, which reflect the nature of their business and and transportation and, in many cases, All of the paper produced by the Group is made contributes to lowering the environmental impact their previous performance.
In 2009 10, our from recycled waste paper.
St Regis is the UKs continuing emphasis on safety was reflected in of the supply of goods.
The choice of the most leading recycler of packaging waste and largest appropriate packaging material and pack design a 35% reduction in the number of accidents producer of recycled paper, while DS Smith that resulted in one shift or more of working time for a particular product depends upon a wide Kaysersberg is a significant recycler of waste range of factors including the nature of the being lost and a 30% reduction in the accident paper in France: in total the Group recycled frequency rate, which measures all accidents product itself, how the total supply chain for the 1.5 million tonnes of paper in 2009 10.
78% product operates and the requirements of retailers in proportion to the number of hours worked.
of the paper used by the Groups corrugated There was a 28% improvement in the accident and consumers.
packaging operations in 2009 10 was 100% severity rate, which measures the hours lost as a recycled paper.
The remainder was made from Corrugated packaging, the Groups principal result of accidents as a percentage of the total virgin wood pulp, sourced from producers who packaging product, is 100% recyclable and in hours worked.
The improvements in the Groups obtain their wood pulp from sustainable forestry the UK over 80% of all corrugated packaging safety record reflect the leadership shown by the 3 sources, and is required by certain customers is recycled.
Although corrugated packaging Groups managers and the ongoing commitment for its particular strength and appearance is not generally re-used, it is a fully recyclable of our employees to working safely.
packaging material that is produced we remain resolute in our determination to realise predominantly from recycled paper in what is a zero accident culture and to continue to build The Groups paper collection and recycling essentially a loop system, which is described in on the progress we have made to date.
operations play an important role in meeting the more detail on page 23.
Used corrugated boxes EU and UK government objectives for recycling are recycled into paper: this paper is converted ENVIRONMENT of packaging waste, as prescribed in the EU into boxes which are packed with goods: retailers Packaging and Packaging Waste Directive and Protecting the environment is an important feature or consumers discard the used boxes which are of DS Smiths business.
We continually seek to the UK Packaging Waste Regulations.
Under the then collected for recycling and delivered to the Directive, the UK is required to recycle at least reduce the impact of our own operations on the paper mill to be turned into paper once again.
environment and to contribute to reducing energy 60% of all paper packaging: it is well ahead of Corrugated products are playing an increasingly this target, with over 80% of paper packaging usage, greenhouse gas emissions and waste important role in the pursuit of sustainable, throughout our supply chains.
The Groups being recycled in 2009, and DS Smith is the  packaging.
The Group largest contributor to this reprocessing.
leading UK position in recycling of paper and has been at the forefront of the trend to lower the packaging makes a major contribution to weight of corrugated packaging used through conserving resources and reducing landfill waste.
Packaging and the environment the use of lightweight paper and improved box Our Packaging products are made from recycled The conservation of resources and the lowering design.
DS Smith Packagings suite of PackRight raw materials wherever it is practicable and of the amount of waste being disposed of in our Packaging businesses use their expertise in landfill are important aspects of caring for our packaging design to assist customers and retailers environment.
As a result of this, there is increasing 1 Source: Industry Council for Packaging and the Environment in optimising the use of resources and reducing pressure from society and government to reduce INCPEN waste in their supply chains.
In corrugated the overall quantity of packaging in use and to 2 Source: Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA packaging, which is fully recyclable, we are at increase the proportion of packaging that is 3 Source: Confederation of Paper Industries CPI the forefront of the trend to use lightweight recycled.
The Group recognises its responsibility 36 www.
com B BU US SIIN NE ES SS S R RE EV VIIE EW W G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM ME EN NT TS S N NO OT TIIC CE E O OF F M ME EE ET TIIN NG G tools enables the analysis of all the factors relating working together to help large supermarket and targets.
St Regis overall compliance with its to a particular pack to ensure that it is fit for chains and other businesses to reduce the environmental permits rose to 94% in 2009 10 purpose, makes the supply chain efficient and amount of waste they send to landfill and 2008 09: 93%, restated from 94% to include reduces environmental impact.
In many instances improve their environmental performance with an additional permit principally due to better our design and technical expertise enables the regard to packaging.
performance of the effluent treatment plant at customer to reduce the weight of raw materials Higher Kings Mill.
St Regis is a key participant in used in a pack as well as to pack the goods more Environmental management and regulation the UK paper sector Climate Change Levy CCL efficiently: this reduces transport costs and thereby Agreement with the Department of Environment, The environmental performance and activities the carbon emissions per unit.
of the divisions are reviewed at the Group Food and Rural Affairs under which the industry has undertaken to achieve energy consumption Environment Committee, which meets three times a In circumstances where packaging is designed to year and is chaired by the Group Chief Executive.
St Regis met its previous targets be re-used many times, plastic returnable transit and remains on course to meet its next target for Under the terms of the Groups Environment Policy, packaging may be required by customers if the which may be viewed on the Groups website, the year to September 2010. packaging can be readily recovered, transported www.
asp and cleaned for re-use.
Plastic bag-in-box The Groups UK and French paper operations each of our sites is required to implement an packaging is increasingly being used to contain are subject to the terms of their respective environmental management system EMS which is liquids in bulk as well as for consumer use.
national schemes for implementing the EU appropriate to its activity.
Of our total operations, It has significant benefits for storing and Emissions Trading Directive.
We expect the 57 sites have been identified as having higher transporting beverages and other liquids Groups emissions to be slightly below our potential environmental impact, due to their size hygienically and securely, and can substantially emissions allocations during EU ETS Phase 2. or type of activity and all 57 are accredited under extend the storage life of products, thus reducing The effects of subsequent phases from 2013 the internationally recognised ISO 14001 EMS product wastage.
Bag-in-box packs are, in many onwards are likely to be more onerous, being standard.
The Groups other 47 sites are required instances, environmentally superior to alternative dependent upon the details of the emissions to have in place a simplified EMS, appropriate packaging formats: they use space efficiently and allocations and the market price of carbon to their lower level of potential environmental are relatively lightweight compared with bottles under future phases of the scheme.
impact, and to review and improve these systems or drums so they may reduce the overall energy regularly, often with the assistance of external usage in the supply chain because they can be Environmental performance auditors.
A single smaller site, acquired during transported and stored more efficiently.
Our businesses continue to take action and invest the year is in the process of having a simplified in order to reduce their environmental impact.
Rapak, our bag-in-box manufacturer, has launched EMS put in place.
As part of their EMS, many During the year, we again employed independent an initiative to promote the environmental benefits Group businesses have procedures in place for consultants, Bureau Veritas, to review our of the format among end consumers.
The business assessing their suppliers environmental policies environmental data collection and reporting has developed a logo which can be printed on and management systems, as appropriate.
process in order to ensure the robustness and both the bag and the box to convey the message The Group had a number of minor environmental accuracy of the Groups environmental that bag-in-box technology is green.
The logo incidents during the year, following which performance indicators.
This review concluded has been introduced to help companies who use prompt corrective action and steps to prevent any that overall there was a good level of process bag-in-box provide valuable reassurance to their recurrence were taken and, where necessary, the control and reporting at the sites but identified customer while at the same time contributing to appropriate agencies were informed.
As reported some areas for improvement, particularly in an enhanced brand image for their products.
last year, the Environment Agency has brought a relation to the conversion factors being used for The basis for the introduction of the logo is the case against St Regis Paper Company Ltd in converting energy usage into carbon emissions.
independent Life Cycle Assessment of bag-in-box relation to alleged breaches of Higher Kings The recommendations of Bureau Veritas have packaging, commissioned by Rapak from PIRA Mills Pollution Prevention and Control PPC been implemented.
The Groups overall the Paper and Board, Printing and Packaging permit that occurred between December 2005 environmental performance in 2009 10 is shown Association, which was completed last year.
The charges primarily relate in the table on page 38.
A fuller report on our The PIRA report assessed and compared the to the training of staff, record keeping and environmental performance is available in the potential life cycle environmental impacts of the operation of the plant: an independent Corporate Responsibility section of our website.
bag-in-box technology with alternative liquid investigation has indicated that these breaches packaging formats in key markets including wine, The Group consumed 0.5% more energy in did not result in any significant environmental postmix syrup, dairy, edible oils, chemicals, 2009 10 compared with the previous year.
The outcome of the case is unlikely to be industrial products, aseptic and bulk packaging.
This increase was principally due to higher known before the end of calendar year 2010.
The overall findings, which are published at activity levels at the speciality paper mills in the The circumstances surrounding all environmental www.
asp, UK and the recommissioning of a CHP plant at incidents are investigated immediately and, when confirmed that bag-in-box has excellent one of the mills.
The Groups paper mills reduced appropriate, the findings and lessons learnt are environmental credentials that are at least their energy usage per tonne of paper produced communicated throughout the Group as part of competitive with, and in many cases superior by 0.8%, partly due to the closure of a less our drive to reduce such incidents.
energy-efficient paper machine in early 2009.
The Groups paper manufacturing operations The increase in own use of energy was offset by Our Packaging businesses continue to carry out account for over 80% of the Groups a reduction in energy purchased by the Group, work to evaluate the carbon footprint of their environmental impact, particularly because their such that a reduction of 1.5% in total emissions of products.
This work is enabling us to collaborate manufacturing process uses large quantities of CO was achieved in the year.
The Groups total 2 with other companies in our supply chain on energy and water.
The UK paper mills are water usage was 4.5% lower than in 2008 09, analyses of the total environmental impact of regulated through PPC permits under which they principally as a result of the closure of the paper products that use our packaging.
DS Smith each have specific improvement programmes machine mentioned above.
The total amount of Packaging and Severnside Recycling are DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 37 BUSINESS REVIEW Corporate Responsibility Review continued 1 waste generated by our businesses increased by ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 8.9% partly due to an increase in the proportion 2009 10 2008 09 of more complex corrugated boxes which give rise 1 Energy consumption to more off-cut waste.
Waste sent to landfill was Gigawatt hours 3,264 3,247 1.4% lower and the proportion of waste sent to landfill fell to 15% compared with 16% in the Megawatt hours 000 revenue 1.58 1.54 previous year.
2 Carbon dioxide CO emissions 2 Scope 1 direct emissions 000 tonnes 277 274 Energy efficiency Scope 2 indirect emissions 000 tonnes 643 653 Our two largest paper mills, at Kemsley in the UK and Kaysersberg in France, which account Total Scopes 1 and 2 emissions 000 tonnes 920 927 for approximately 65% of the Groups energy Kilograms 000 revenue 444 440 usage, have on-site CHP plants.
These CHP Water usage facilities provide energy more efficiently, with lower carbon dioxide CO emissions and at Million cubic metres 10.9 11.4 2 significantly lower cost than if it were to be 000 cubic metres 000 revenue 5.2 5.4 sourced from the external grid.
In addition, 3 Waste management Kemsley Mill recycles, in the form of energy recovery, a substantial proportion of the reject Waste recycled 000 tonnes 158 135 material, such as plastic and polystyrene, which Waste sent to landspread 000 tonnes 144 130 enters its process mixed in with the waste paper Waste-to-Energy 000 tonnes 105 102 and is separated out during paper manufacture: Waste sent to landll 000 tonnes 70 71 the mills own waste-to-energy plant efficiently recovers the energy to produce steam for use in Total waste generated 477 438 the mills operations.
We are investigating the Kilograms 000 revenue 230 208 potential for installing a sustainable energy plant % of total waste sent to landll 15% 16% at Kemsley Mill to reduce the mills reliance on Methodology: The Group aims to collect and report its environmental data in accordance with the guidelines specified by the Global fossil fuels and applied for planning permission Reporting Initiative and the Greenhouse Gas Protocol GHGP, to the extent that this is currently practicable.
The figures reported above for this in April 2010.
The proposed fuel for this include data from all of the Groups wholly-owned or majority-owned operations and sites worldwide.
The methodology used is plant is hard-to-recycle materials, sourced and consistent for 2008 09 and 2009 10. pre-treated offsite, which might otherwise go 1 The energy figures relate to the usage of all fuels used in fixed installations on the Groups sites plus the diesel fuel used for freight transport.
2 The CO emissions have been calculated using the energy data, as defined above.
The factors used for converting gas, coal, fuel oil and 2 diesel usage into CO emissions are the latest factors for each year as published by the UK Department for the Environment and Rural Affairs 2 DEFRA in the Guidelines to DEFRAs GHG Conversion Factors: the factor used for converting gas usage changed from 0.19 tonnes of CO DS Smith Packaging, which in 2008 became 2 per megawatt hour in 2008 09 to 0.18 tonnes of CO per megawatt hour in 2009 10.
The factors used for converting electricity usage 2 the first UK corrugated packaging producer to are the national figures for each country in which the Group operates sourced from the International Energy Agency Data Services via the UK Carbon Trust: these factors therefore reflect the mix of fuels used for electricity generation in each country.
As required by the GHGP, Scope 1 be accredited under the UKs Energy Efficiency and Scope 2 CO emissions are reported separately.
Scope 1 direct emissions are those arising from combustion of fuel in installations or 2 Accreditation Scheme, lowered its energy usage vehicles owned by the Group: Scope 2 indirect emissions are those arising from bought-in energy i. e. electricity or steam where the per square metre by 1.4%.
This was achieved combustion has been carried out by another company.
The 2009 10 Scope 1 emissions included 57,000 tonnes 2008 09: 61,000 tonnes of CO which were associated with the production of electricity which was sold to the grid from one of our CHP plants.
Scope 3 2 through its division-wide energy management emissions from sources external to DS Smith but involved in the supply chains for the Groups products and services are not included.
system and a wide range of energy reduction 3 The waste figures relate to waste generated by our operations: they do not include waste that is collected from external sources for projects.
Both DS Smith Packaging and DS Smith recycling within our paper and plastic packaging operations.
The data on waste identifies separately: a the amount of waste that is conventionally recycled in the manufacture of other products, b the quantity of waste cellulose fibre, generated in the paper-making Kaysersberg have achieved substantial operations, which is recycled through agricultural use as landspread, c the quantity of waste that is used for energy recovery at our improvements in their energy efficiency through waste-to-energy plant, and d the waste that goes to landfill.
programmes of process improvements on their VERIFICATION STATEMENT FROM BUREAU VERITAS UK LTD corrugator machines see feature on page 9.
EMPLOYEES We aim to create a working environment which will attract, retain and motivate good people, and enable them to fulfil their potential.
The Group For the second year we have worked with DS Smith Plc to provide an independent opinion on the Environmental Performance Indicators presented on this page of its 2010 Annual Report.
Having completed a process incorporating site visits, document review ensures that the divisions have in place appropriate and interrogation of associated management and reporting systems, it is our opinion that the presented performance indicators provide structures, procedures and resources to implement a fair and accurate representation of DS Smith Plcs performance.
the employee-related aspects of the Groups Key DS Smith Plc should be commended on its approach to data collection, which remains consistent across the divisions with a clear Corporate Values, which include: providing fair understanding of required processes demonstrated by those with responsibilities in this regard at both divisional and site level.
It is clear that DS Smith Plc is constantly looking to improve these processes: both via internal mechanisms, and as demonstrated in the opportunities for employment to all: treating proactive manner in which the company has continued to engage Bureau Veritas on this project, as well as its consideration of everyone with dignity and respect: not tolerating recommendations arising from the previous years verification.
any form of harassment or discrimination: ensuring Bureau Veritas encourages DS Smith Plc to further define and document its environmental reporting responsibilities and data collection advancement is based on merit: and providing procedures, to continue to improve the monitoring of its performance by initiating a half-yearly review of consolidated performance data, and to explore the feasibility of extending performance data to stakeholders by increasing the scope of its reported greenhouse appropriate training and development gas emissions.
Our businesses carry out training A full verification statement including our methodology, basis for our opinion, additional recommendations, limitations and a statement and implement various initiatives aimed at of Bureau Veritas independence can be found on the DS Smith Plc website www.
reinforcing our values and policies in this area.
June 2010 Bureau Veritas UK Ltd London 38 www.
com B BU US SIIN NE ES SS S R RE EV VIIE EW W G GO OV five ER RN NA AN NC CE E F FIIN NA AN NC CIIA AL L S ST TA AT TE EM ME EN NT TS S N NO OT TIIC CE E O OF F M ME EE ET TIIN NG G The Group is committed to applying equal The principal aim of the programme is to enhance opportunities in all recruitment and employment managers understanding of the strategic issues practices.
It is also committed, as a minimum, facing the Group and to build the leadership to meeting the labour rights and legislation capabilities needed to meet these challenges.
requirements in each of the countries in which The programme also offers managers an it operates: in practice the Group often exceeds opportunity to reflect on their personal leadership the local and international requirements.
style and to consider their performance against As DS Smiths operations are almost entirely external benchmarks.
To date, 60 senior located in member countries of the OECD, managers have participated in the programme human rights matters are not perceived as a and it has been exceptionally well received.
Over the coming year, the Management Development Programme will be extended to Recruitment and retention of employees is not cover a wider range of topics and will be a significant issue for most of the Groups supported by external coaching schemes.
operations but the situation varies depending In 2010, DS Smith will also begin a development upon the alternative employment opportunities programme for the Groups high potential in any particular location and the skills required.
employees: this will be a further demonstration of the Groups commitment to developing its Our divisions and businesses communicate with, and consult, their people through newsletters, talent pool.
intranets, briefing meetings, local works councils, national employee forums and a European Works COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT Council.
Many of our businesses have increased We seek to develop and maintain good relations the level of internal communications in light of the in the local communities in which we operate: present difficult economic environment to ensure this is particularly important as in many of the that employees are aware of the businesss plans locations where we operate we are one of the and objectives.
Employee surveys have been largest employers.
As well as providing significant carried out in a number of parts of the Group.
employment opportunities, we aim to make Generally the results of these have been positive: positive contributions to our communities and build action has been taken to address any particular a reputation as a good neighbour and employer.
issues that have been highlighted.
Our businesses work closely with local schools and colleges providing training, mentoring, work Training and development programmes are experience placements and other opportunities carried out by the Groups businesses to meet their for pupils to learn about industry and business.
specific needs for raising operational performance The Group is involved in a wide range of other and career development.
The individual training local community activities including sponsorship of and development needs of employees are community projects or sports teams and provision met through a variety of schemes including: of adult skills training.
Our businesses participate management development programmes, which in liaison groups with local residents, particularly in some cases involve external accreditation: at locations where there is a need to review support for study for external vocational and ways in which we can reduce any inconvenience professional qualifications: and schemes for to neighbours from our operations as a result of coaching and mentoring managers, using traffic movements, odour or noise.
Some sites hold external and internal resources.
open days to foster relationships with their local In 2009, DS Smith initiated a three-year communities.
The Group supports charitable fundraising activities through cash contributions and development programme for its senior business leaders.
The programme has been designed and in the form of products and services or staff time.
The majority of the modest amount of money run in partnership with Warwick Business School.
This has enabled the Group to develop bespoke donated by the Group is given by individual operating units, principally to good causes in content which combines the latest academic thinking with practical application to the their local communities.
Donations by the Group headquarters are principally focused on helping Groups businesses.
young disadvantaged people become involved in business and working life.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2010 39
