Dunelm Group plc 31 Annual report and accounts 2010 Corporate social responsibility The Group recognises that it has a duty on behalf of all stakeholders to minimize its business related social, ethical and environmental impacts.
As part of this commitment the Dunelms Corporate Social Responsibility programme has focused on reducing key impacts in many significant areas such as waste management, energy reduction and carbon emissions.
The Board places particular emphasis on maintaining good relationships with its customers, employees and suppliers: on ethical sourcing: on environmental issues: and on charitable contributions.
The Chief Executive reports regularly to the Board on all of these issues.
Customers The Group is committed to delivering consistently high standards of customer service and satisfaction.
We constantly strive to provide high quality, safe products at a fair price supported by our Simply Value for Money ethos.
The Group aims to ensure that it complies fully with relevant legislation in all areas affecting its customers including marketing, product quality, the environment and customer data.
The Group has a dedicated Customer Service team that deals with customer contact whether it is by letter, e-mail, fax or phone and supports the store teams in delivering a strong customer experience.
Weekly communications are sent to all stores highlighting areas of good customer service and also opportunities for improvement.
Employees Dunelm employs over 6,000 staff engaged throughout the Groups stores, distribution and head office locations and in a range of disciplines including Buying, Marketing, Warehousing, IT, Finance, HR as well as many customer facing roles.
The Group is a growing business and offers competitive benefits as well as personal and career enhancement opportunities.
We have recently launched our Dunelm Directions programme to support the development of talented staff and management.
We also offer further support for employees to obtain relevant professional skills and qualifications.
The Group is an equal opportunities employer.
We are committed to recruit, develop, promote and retain skilled and motivated people regardless of disability, race, religion, gender, colour, nationality, sex, sexual orientation, marital status or age.
The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and continues its practice of consulting with employees on matters likely to affect their interests, through its partners council.
Information on matters of concern to employees is also given through bulletins, reports and an in-house newsletter.
The Group recognises its obligations towards disabled people and endeavours to provide employment where possible having regard to the physical demands of the Groups operations and the abilities of the disabled persons.
In the event of employees becoming disabled, every effort is made to retrain them in order that their employment with the Group may continue.
It is the policy of the Group that training, career development and promotion opportunities should be available to all employees and this is reflected in its Equal Opportunities Policy.
Health and safety Dunelm is responsible for the health and safety of our employees, contractors, customers and any other visitors to our premises.
A dedicated Health & Safety manager ensures that key operational risks are fully understood and that all mitigating action has been taken to ensure a safe environment for everyone.
A programme of risk assessments and independent audits helps us to identify areas of concern whether in workplace transport, safety during store development or a safe shopping environment.
Training programmes are key to ensuring a safe and clean environment and we adopt a number of methods for keeping these live ranging from documented SSOW safe systems of work to web based e-learning and testing modules.
During the past year the number of reportable accidents was 46 2009: 56.
The Group undertakes a full programme of self-audit through site management, health & safety representatives and the operational audit team designed to identify issues with compliance or training.
Results of these audits are escalated appropriately and communicated back to the executive committee at least monthly.
Dunelm Group plc 32 Annual report and accounts 2010 Financial statements Corporate social responsibility continued Suppliers Dunelm sources the products it sells from many countries around the world.
We work with suppliers to stress the importance of ethical trading and we encourage contractors and suppliers to manage the environmental impact of their activities and to support the Groups environmental policy.
The Group has a firm policy on ethical sourcing which all suppliers are required to sign up to.
This policy seeks to ensure that products are produced in clean and safe environments, that workers are treated with respect and earn a reasonable wage and that suppliers work within the relevant laws and legislation.
Independent audits of suppliers facilities, particularly in the Far East are carried out on a regular basis.
Payment policy and average payment period Dunelm trades with all stock suppliers on an electronic basis providing an efficient payment process.
This process ensures that all suppliers are treated on the same basis and operate to standard terms and conditions.
All new suppliers are made aware of the basis of trade with Dunelm and in particular our standard payment terms in advance of commencing trade.
The number of days purchases outstanding for payment at 3 July 2010 was 36 days 2009: 33 days.
Contractual or other arrangements The Directors consider that there are no contractual or other arrangements, with major suppliers, which are likely to influence, directly or indirectly, their performance of the business and its value.
Environment Dunelm recognises that the business has an impact on the environment both directly, through its store portfolio, head office and distribution infrastructure but also indirectly through partnerships with suppliers and through customers when it comes to buying products for their home.
Dunelm continues to be committed to achieving high standards of environmental performance in all aspects of its business activities.
The Group has in place an Environmental Committee tasked with understanding our environmental impact and to continually improve in the key areas of energy usage, waste and carbon emissions.
We have launched a Turning Dunelm Greener campaign designed to place environmental impact at the heart of what we do.
Specific objectives for the forthcoming year are outlined below: 1.
Increasing the proportion of waste which is recycled Dunelm is aiming to maximise the volume of waste which is recycled and in so doing reduce the volume going to landfill.
Over the past year we have worked to deliver more effective waste management procedures.
We have doubled the number of sites with balers to 43 2009: 21 and commenced the recycling of plastic, in addition to cardboard, in all locations.
We intend to double this again in the coming year.
We have also introduced Dry Mixed Recycling into 12 sites 2009: nil which has enabled us to recycle all plastics, paper and tin aluminium cans.
This initiative will be rolled out to many more sites in the forthcoming year.
3 Annual waste to landfill like-for-like stores 1000m 80 We have engaged with a waste management company to identify 70 further opportunities for recycling and aim to either reuse or recycle all 60 of our waste fabric and soft furnishings going forward.
50 40 These initiatives, together with enhanced reporting of site by site 30 performance has enabled Dunelm to reduce the proportion of waste to 20 landfill in like-for-like stores by 25.8%.
10 0 2008 09 2009 10 Target 2010 11 Our target for the forthcoming year is to reduce the cube volume of waste sent to landfill by a further 25%.
Dunelm Group plc 33 Annual report and accounts 2010 2.
Reducing the level of product packaging Dunelm continues to work with suppliers to reduce the level of packaging in our products.
We have completed a trial to introduce reusable delivery totes into our supply chain and we expect to launch this with a number of key suppliers in the second half of the financial year ending 2 July 2011.
This will reduce product packaging for those suppliers by up to 50%.
In the year we have audited many of our waste streams to divert materials from landfill where possible.
Most recently we have identified a particular specification of clear plastic or wrap that should be used by suppliers Low Density Polyethylene.
This product has a much greater recyclable content and will be standard for all suppliers going forward.
Eco-bags are offered in all stores to promote reusable customer packaging and plastic bags are no longer being encouraged with each transaction.
The number of plastic carrier bags used during the year ended 3 July 2010 declined by 6.8%, despite the increase in business.
Our target for the forthcoming year is to reduce the number of carrier bags used per store by a further 10%.
Reducing energy consumption across all locations Dunelm has completed the roll out of new electricity meters to all stores.
We are also halfway through implementation of a similar technology for our sites with gas meters.
We expect this to be completed by the end of December 2010.
These meters have allowed us to monitor energy consumption on a half-hourly basis and to provide a range of site by site exception reports targeted at reducing the level of consumption and eliminating waste.
Energy usage has also been added to monthly bonus targets for all stores which is encouraging store management to challenge performance.
Electricity usage like-for-like stores GWh 25 The Group has also commenced a trial of Building Management Systems BMS in 11 stores.
These systems are designed to optimise energy usage 20 across the store and cut out unnecessary wastage.
This investment will be 15 reviewed over the next few months and, if successful, we intend to roll these out in all new stores, refits and progressively to other stores in 10 the chain.
5 As a result of these actions we have reduced electricity usage by 2.4% in 0 like-for-like stores.
2008 09 2009 10 Target 2010 11 Our target for the forthcoming year is to reduce electricity and gas usage by 10% on a like-for-like basis.
Dunelm Group plc 34 Annual report and accounts 2010 Financial statements Corporate social responsibility continued 4.
Carbon Reduction CO 2 Dunelms energy carbon footprint for the period ended 3 July 2010 was 23,371 tonnes of CO.
This is a reduction year on year of 2 2.6% of CO, despite a growth of 12% in the number of superstores trading.
2 Over the year ended 3 July 2010, 80% of the power used by Dunelm was on a renewable combined heat and power GQCHP tariff, where CO emissions are 30% lower than the national average.
The remaining supplies will be transferred to these green 2 tariffs as from October 2010.
As a result of the work being undertaken, apart from those supplies picked up through our continued expansion, which take several months to transfer, all power used by Dunelm will be on either a renewable or green tariff by the end of June 2011.
Investment has also been made at our Stoke distribution centre where we have fitted the new 250,000 square feet extension with energy efficient lighting and taken the opportunity to retrofit the existing 250,000 square feet facility.
Company car fuel efficiency has also been targeted and we have reduced the maximum CO2 emissions to 155g km for all new cars.
We will reduce this further in the coming year.
In the coming year we will focus on investments in stores to reduce energy consumption.
The most significant investment is likely to be in building management systems but we will further roll out energy efficient lighting, motion detectors and climatic sensors to moderate the use of heating and cooling systems.
Over the past year Dunelm has worked with an external consultancy to drive reductions in our carbon emissions.
We have registered for the Carbon Trust Standard as part of the new Carbon Reduction Commitment legislation.
A full application will be made by the end of October 2010. levels year on year.
Our target for the forthcoming year is to reduce absolute CO 2 By order of the Board David Stead Company Secretary 16 September 2010
