CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Introduction Among the key features of Aggrekos worldwide Health and Safety Policy are: This report describes the policies and procedures that the Board has put in place to ensure that Aggreko ensuring that health and safety issues are at operates in a safe, ethical and responsible manner, the forefront of considerations when we design which protects the environment as well as safeguarding our equipment: the health and safety of its employees, its customers, and the communities in which it operates.
The process ensuring that our equipment is built and for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks that maintained to the highest standards: are considered significant is summarised under the heading of Internal Control on page 56. training and educating our staff worldwide in the safe operation of our equipment: and The nature of our business is that we work in many different countries, often in remote and difficult ensuring that health and safety issues have environments, with equipment and substances which, the appropriate level of focus throughout the if improperly handled, are potentially dangerous to management chain.
people and harmful to property and the environment.
We frequently operate in response to natural or manAggreko has created its own Global Environmental made disasters, where the infrastructure has been Health and Safety Management System GEMS badly damaged and where operating conditions are far which has been implemented throughout the business.
Over time, therefore, we have developed At the core of GEMS is a Best Operating Practice a comprehensive range of operating procedures and document that is published in 8 languages English, processes to ensure that we minimise any risk of harm French, German, Dutch, Spanish, Italian, Norwegian to people or to the environment.
The Best Operating Practice is updated in the light of experience and incidents.
Health and safety Aggreko puts health and safety at the very heart GEMS incorporates a comprehensive reporting system of its operations.
Most of our equipment is heavy, which is designed to ensure that the Company knows electro-mechanical equipment which is moved around of every incident, and can learn from it.
Compressors and generators respectively accident and incident data collection procedure is produce high-pressure compressed air and high implemented worldwide, and from this we can voltages electricity, either of which can be harmful measure our performance and benchmark our to people if mishandled.
Performance measures are reported at a business unit level on a monthly basis.
Any serious Aggrekos policy is to implement common health incident is immediately reported to the Executive and safety operating procedures worldwide.
Whether Director responsible for the business unit concerned.
operating in the Australian bush, the Saudi Arabian desert or in downtown Manhattan, our operating Meetings of the senior management of each region are procedures are the same high standard.
held regularly: at each of these an Executive Director will normally chair the meeting, and incidents reported under GEMS are discussed.
The Executive Director responsible for Health and Safety, George Walker, produces monthly reports, which are considered at each meeting of the Board.
46 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors Report Safety The Group continues to operate team briefings throughout its business to keep employees informed of Our business involves the frequent movement of heavy developments and plans, both in their own operations equipment which, in its operation, produces lethal and in the Group as a whole.
Employees have access to voltages and contains thousands of litres of fuel.
the Aggreko Resource Centre, an intranet based system, Rigorous safety processes are absolutely essential if we are which provides them with a wide range of information on to avoid accidents which could cause injury to people the activities of the Group around the world.
The annual and damage to our reputation and property.
Safety and interim results are publicised extensively throughout processes are also a basic benchmark of operational the business and are made available to all employees.
discipline and there is, in our view, a close correlation between a well-run business and a safe business.
The Group is introducing a whistleblowing hotline in 2011, which will give access for all employees to a The main KPI we use to measure safety performance confidential, multi-lingual service to report any cases is the internationally recognised Frequency Accident of ethical non-compliance, bullying or discrimination.
Rating FAR which is calculated as the number of lost time accidents multiplied by 200,000 being the The environment base for 100 employees working 40 hours per week, 50 weeks per year divided by the total hours worked.
Set out below is an explanation of the terms and A lost time accident is a work related injury illness abbreviations used in this section.
that results in an employees inability to work the day after the initial injury illness.
The Groups performance during 2010 shows a modest SCR Selective Catalytic Reduction.
improvement over 2009, and we make great efforts g kWh Emissions in grams per kilowatt hour.
to drive this number down.
However, we take some comfort from the fact that our accident rate is about a kVA A thousand volt amperes.
third of the benchmark statistic reported for US rental LWA Sound power level at source.
and leasing industries published by the US Department MW A million watts.
At 0.71, our FAR is the same as many industries whose principal NOx Oxides of Nitrogen.
activities are office bound and dealing with nothing Particulate In general this term relates to visible smoke.
Tier 1, Tier 2, Tier 3, Tier 4 US Federal Government target emission reduction levels.
FAR was as follows: Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Environmental Policy Aggrekos equipment is designed to function in all FAR 0.71 0.76 0.46 0.50 0.75 continents and all types of terrain.
By careful design and use of the most suitable technology, we also aim to Employees and equal opportunities minimise the environmental impact of that equipment.
Aggreko makes available to its customers equipment and Aggreko is committed to promoting equal opportunities solutions that are designed to comply with applicable for all, irrespective of disability, ethnic origin, gender laws, regulations and industry standards wherever we or any other considerations that do not affect a operate in the world.
In effect, this means they comply persons ability to perform their job.
with the laws, regulations and standards of some of the most stringent jurisdictions in which we operate and, The Groups policies for recruitment, training, career therefore, far exceed the levels required in many others.
development and promotion of employees are based on the suitability of the individual and give those who The two major environmental issues we deal with in are disabled equal treatment with the able bodied.
our business are emissions-to-air from our equipment Where appropriate, employees disabled after joining the vast majority of which is diesel powered, and the the Group are given suitable training for alternative safe handling and disposal of fuel and oil.
employment with the Group or elsewhere.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 47 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Our Environmental Policies are managed in a similar NOx and particulate reduction targets way to safety.
They comprise: 0.6 Tier 1 ensuring that environmental issues are at the forefront of considerations when we design our eet: 0.5 ensuring that our equipment is built and maintained to the highest standards: 0.4 training and educating our staff worldwide in the 0.3 safe operation of our equipment: and Tier 3 Tier 2 0.2 ensuring that environmental issues have the appropriate level of focus throughout the management chain.
0.1 Tier 4 final Emissions-to-air: exhaust gases and particulates Tier 4 interim 0 Emissions-to-air are an inevitable by-product of 0 2 4 6 8 10 hydrocarbon fuelled engines.
Over the years, as engines have become more efficient and legislation to NOx g kWh limit emissions around the world has become stricter, emissions have reduced sharply.
Aggreko works in As our suppliers produce engines which comply with co-operation with the manufacturers of diesel engines new emissions, we work with them to introduce the in order to meet new emission requirements in a new engines into the eet.
In 2008, we started trialling timely manner.
new Tier 2 compliant engines for our high-horsepower range, and these were introduced into production in The principal contribution we can make to reducing 2010.
We are currently investing some $120 million in emissions to air is in maintaining our equipment in upgrading our high-horsepower eet in North America good order, and introducing engines into the eet to Tier 2.
At lower horsepower sizes we have started with good emissions performance.
to deliver Tier 3 and Tier 4i machines.
In an increasing number of countries, air quality Subject to manufacturers ability to introduce the regulations stipulate emission standards with which necessary technology into volume production, we new equipment being sold must comply.
Generally expect that in 2011 the majority of engines we build countries allow equipment already operating to will be certified to at least Tier 2. continue to do so for its useful life.
The US EPA has introduced the Tier 4 emissions earliest and most stringent regulation in this area, Development is underway of diesel generators to meet introducing reduction targets for emissions of NOx up-coming Tier 4 standards for mobile generators.
and particulate in Tiers, starting with Tier 1 in In 2008 a significant project was undertaken in Chile 1996, moving to Tier 4 final around 2014.
The EPA to deliver the lowest level of NOx yet stipulated by a requirements have therefore been the main driver standard.
Seventy of Aggrekos project machines were of new generator development.
The following graph fitted with an advanced SCR that reduced NOx by illustrates the reduction targets for emissions under 90%.
Similar technology will probably be required the EPA regime.
to meet EPA Tier 4 requirements in the US and in Europe shortly after.
We are currently working closely with engine manufacturers to develop appropriate solutions for these requirements.
48 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Particulate g kWh Directors Report Aggreko natural gas generator development that the crop that derived the fuel has absorbed We are constantly exploring new ways of reducing CO2 from the atmosphere.
While we will continue emissions, and have developed a gas-fuelled temporary to support customers who wish to run our power solution, which has significantly lower levels equipment on Bio-fuels, our main concern with of emissions see below.
this energy source is sustainability of the sources of production, and the environmental impact of Tier 1 engine Gas engine Reduction certain production methods.
Consequently, we are NOx 6.9 g bhp-hr 1.0 g bhp-hr 87% not actively promoting Bio-fuel use in our business.
Particulates 0.4 g bhp-hr 0.1 g bhp-hr 75% CO2 intensity 6.4 g CO2 4.7 g CO2 13% Fuel Cells Whilst we keep a close watch on the kWh kWh development of Fuel Cell technology, we do not currently see any commercial application in our business.
This may change as technology improves Natural gas presents a competitive advantage over and costs reduce.
It is seen as economically more efficient because only about 10% of the natural gas Renewables At present, it is hard to envisage produced is wasted before it gets to final consumption.
the application of renewable energy sources to In addition, technological advances are constantly large temporary power generation projects.
While improving efficiencies in extraction, transportation we have, for example, reviewed the application of and storage techniques as well as in equipment that battery technology in combination with a diesel uses natural gas.
generator to provide hybrid power, which can improve efficiency and reduce fuel consumption, Natural gas is considered an  technology is not yet advanced enough to enable clean fuel, offering important environmental benefits us to pursue a hybrid renewable option.
We do when compared with other fossil fuels.
The superior however foresee a role for our products in environmental qualities over coal or oil are that supporting systems and grids which rely upon emissions of sulphur dioxide are negligible and that renewables, where seasonal restrictions can occur.
the level of NOx and CO2 emissions is significantly lower.
Where the gas fuel is essentially a by-product of Emissions-to-air: carbon dioxide production or is derived from a biological source, a CO2 All of Aggrekos core activities release CO2 into the and greenhouse gas reduction is realised.
This helps to atmosphere to a greater or lesser extent.
The most reduce problems of acid rain, ozone or greenhouse gases.
significant impact arises from power generation in Aggreko International owing to the intensiveness of In many of Aggrekos target markets natural gas is our activities in providing temporary power stations.
Aggrekos service Any generation of electricity using hydrocarbon allows for generation of power from this valuable fuels inevitably causes the release of CO2 and the resource on a more exible and scalable basis than performance of Aggrekos equipment is comparable existing solutions.
to other equivalent power sources.
Aggreko is actively researching the availability of alternative mobile power Alternative energy sources sources that will reduce the level of CO2 emissions: In addition to the work we have undertaken until an economically viable alternative becomes developing natural gas-powered generators, we are available, the level of emissions will mirror the level constantly reviewing product technologies, looking of our business activity.
The actual amount of CO2 for advances that we can adopt within our product released by our engines is driven by the usage our portfolio.
These include: customers make of our equipment on rent: an engine running 24 hours day will emit much more CO2 than Bio-fuels Across some of our markets we have an engine used for a few hours a day.
These patterns of seen the emergence of Bio-diesel as an alternative usage can vary widely from country to country and from energy source.
These fuels are compatible with most year to year.
We estimate that customers using Aggreko of our generator eet, either in a blended or pure engines produced an average CO2 emission rate of format.
Bio-fuel can reduce CO2 emissions, given 650 g kWh.
The CO2 intensity of UK grid power Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 49 Corporate Social Responsibility continued generation is approximately 602 g kWh: given our Our equipment has been specifically designed to mix of gas and diesel generating sets, it is therefore minimise the risk of uid spillage through features reasonable to assume that the CO2 intensity of our such as a save-all base, double-walled storage tanks customers use of Aggreko equipment is likely to be and fail-safe valves.
A PRR score of 0.61 has been similar to that of the UK National Grid.
set by the Group as a target for 2011 which is an improvement on the 3-year average experience.
Because customers operate and fuel much of our eet, we do not have visibility of fuel consumption and Another potential source of environmental damage therefore CO2 emissions, so we can only guess at what is in the disposal of consumables such as engine oil the emissions are in a year, but a reasonable estimate and filters.
In our Local business, these are normally would be between 12 and 15 million tonnes of CO2 returned to our service centres where they are safely world-wide: this compares with Drax power station disposed of.
In our International Power Projects in the UK, which has a capacity of 4,000MW and business, site-specific arrangements are made to produces about 22 million tonnes of CO2 per annum.
ensure the safe handling of these items.
The graph below illustrates the relative emissions rates Reporting of fuel spills is handled in a similar way to of Coal, Diesel and Gas for electricity production.
safety incidents, with monthly reporting at regional level, and quarterly reporting to the Board.
Noise CO2 intensity in pure electricity production Aggreko has built a competitive advantage through an equipment eet that minimises external noise.
This CO2 g kWh 1,000 is done by the use of custom-built acoustic enclosures as well as high performance isolation and attenuation 800 systems.
Aggreko continues to work closely with its suppliers and local university research departments in 600 order to develop its expertise in this field.
As a result, our equipment is able to achieve the following performance 400 standards that are well below the maximum levels 200 permitted by current European legislation.
0 Size of generator Certified noise level Sound Power LWA Coal Diesel Natural Gas Aggreko Aggreko Maximum Standard Premium Prime power EU limit Product Product Petroleum spills and the safe disposal of waste fluids 30kVA 96.47 92.0 78.0 Aggreko and its customers handle a considerable 60kVA 96.77 93.0 80.0 quantity of diesel fuel and the rare occurrence of 125kVA 97.10 94.0 83.0 accidental fuel spills is an area that the Group monitors 200kVA 97.30 94.0 91.0 very closely.
The measure used by management to 350kVA 97.55 92.0 90.0 measure the performance of the Group in handling Note: A reduction of 3 LWA in the certified noise level equates to an fuel is the Petroleum Release Rating PRR.
This audible noise level that is approximately 50% lower.
is calculated as litres released to ground, divided by the cumulative average MW on rent.
The PRR Refrigerant performance over the past three years has been: In accordance with the timelines and accords set out by the Montreal protocol Aggreko has phased out 2010 0.58 CFC plant from its temperature control rental eet and is in the process of phasing out HCFC plant: we 2009 0.49 have introduced HFC production models in all areas.
2008 0.75 50 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Directors Report Social Responsibility Business ethics Policy Ethics Policy Aggreko has a policy of encouraging local teams to Aggreko has a reputation for delivering innovation, engage with the communities in which they work, and performance and solutions.
Also at the heart of our each year they undertake innumerable initiatives to help long-term success is something less tangible and less the disadvantaged or those affected by natural disasters.
easily illustrated with figures or case studies.
This key element is integrity and honesty in our business Charitable donations dealings, a factor that contributes to our long-term relationships with customers.
All Aggreko employees, During the financial year the Group contributed as well as consultants and agents who we work with, over 300,000 in terms of cash, employees time and are expected to behave ethically in their work, and other services to a range of charitable, community our expectations of them are set out in a Corporate and disaster relief organisations.
This is an estimate, Ethics Policy.
The objective of the Policy is to make and probably an under-estimate, because it is hard Aggreko a good company to work for: to maintain to precisely value employees time and value-in-kind our reputation for exceptional customer service and donations, and it compares to around 200,000 donated ethical business dealings: to compete ethically: and in 2009.
Of this total, 43,256 2009: 48,900 was to ensure the business is managed to a consistently donated in cash to registered UK charities.
In 2011, the Board set up an Ethics Committee comprising Philip Rogerson Chairman, We have a policy of giving little donations to many David Hamill and Ken Hanna, to oversee the organisations which are involved with the communities implementation of the Groups policies and in which we work, rather than giving a lot of money procedures.
Further discussion of our policies for to a few.
Our largest single donation goes to Book handling ethical risks is set out under Principal Aid International, a charity promoting literacy in Risks and Uncertainties on page 33.
Africa, with whom we have been working since 2006.
Book Aid has provided hundreds of thousands of Employees who suspect any breaches of the Corporate books to schools and libraries.
We admire their work Ethics Policy are encouraged to speak up, and their enormously, and donations from Aggreko have enabled confidentiality and position is protected if they do so.
books to be distributed in Cameroon, Kenya, Namibia, The implementation of a Group-wide whistleblowing Tanzania and Uganda.
Books are, we feel, a good form hotline, described above, will help this process.
of donation: they do not require maintenance: they can be used by many people: they are not open to See our Corporate Responsibility website corruption: they last a long time: and they help directly in the key task of helping people to help themselves.
Further information and copies of the Environmental, Health and Safety Policy and Corporate Ethics No political donations were made during the financial Policy are available at www.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 51
