easyJet plc 28 Annual report and accounts 2010 C orporate responsibility Our long-term performance and sustainability are dependent upon their The success of our business is understanding, goodwill and active support.
Accordingly, we strive to inextricably linked to the well-being achieve excellence in safety and embrace the highest standards of environmental, social and ethical behaviour.
of our customers, our people and the Safety is our No.
1 priority and is embedded deep within the fabric of communities where we live and work.
It comes first at all times, for every person, regardless of role or seniority.
Dedicated structures and processes are in place to manage and monitor safety risk throughout the business.
At easyJet, one strength above all others marks us apart: our people.
Theirpassion, expertise and commitment is at the heart of our emphasis on customer satisfaction and therefore our ongoing success as a business.
We continue to focus on developing and improving the ways which we treat our people in order to maintain their engagement with our customers and business.
The environment is a key issue within our industry.
We work hard to identify ways to minimise our environmental impact, so that our business and the aviation industry as a whole can continue to thrive.
In particular, our investment in a young and fuel-efficient fleet, together with an ongoing review of how we deploy our aircraft, will help ensure that we minimise our impact on the environment while generating superior returns for our shareholders.
Safety The safety of our customers and people is easyJets No.
1 priority: it ispart of our DNA.
From the boardroom to the flight deck and the check-in desk to the maintenance bay, safety informs everything we doand is the starting point for every decision, at all times.
We have an open and just culture that encourages the reporting of all safety-related incidents, no matter how minor they may appear at first glance.
At easyJet, we aim to maintain structures and processes to manage and monitor safety related risk throughout our business.
OurChief Executive, Carolyn McCall OBE, and Group Operations Director, Warwick Brady, are responsible for all aspects of safety delivery, including our compliance obligations under the Air Operators Certificate AOC.
The Accountable Safety Executive is Carolyn McCall OBE and she chairs our Safety Review Board which meets monthly to assess reports from the Safety Action Groups across the business.
This review and assessment process delivers monthly reports to both the UK Civil Aviation Authority UK CAA and the easyJet Board.
Our Director of Safety, Captain Dave Prior, makes an independent safety report directly to the Board each month.
The reported safety-related incidents are assessed and categorised, with risk values assigned and aggregated to form our Composite Risk Value CRV index.
During the year, the index showed a steady improvement, continuing a long-term trend reducing risk to well within the assigned boundary level.
safety The Safety Management System SMS launched in 2009 has now been successfully embedded throughout easyJet.
The SMS is a continuous improvement process that focuses on identifying hazards, assessing therisks associated with those hazards, managing those risks and then ensuring that any changes have had the desired impact.
During 2010, we first configured a number of SMS tools and carried out a range of activities During the year, the CRV index showed a steady such as the integration of SMS derived data into the easyJet advanced improvement, continuing a long term trend to reduce pilot training system.
In doing so, easyJet has been able to target training risk to well within the assigned boundary level.
resources in a safety beneficial way whilst at the same time delivering cost efficiencies.
Overview Business review Governance Accounts Other information easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2010 29 As part of the SMS, we are continuing to study fatigue and its effects in Strategy the pursuit of operational safety.
We are working alongside industry We have developed a three-part strategy to find and retain the best organisations, including the UK CAA, to evolve our Fatigue Risk people for our organisation.
Management System FRMS, building an understanding of the Talent relationships between rostering, operational variables, crew performance During the year we added to our existing talent pool by recruiting and workload.
Our work in fatigue management is respected throughout some 1,300 cabin crew, 250 new pilots and 125 management and the industry and the FRMS developed at easyJet is now being replicated administrative staff.
As well as recruiting our customer facing roles and support roles within In 2010, our flying capabilities were significantly impacted by a number the business, this year we have seen a number of changes across our ofweather conditions, first from the heavy snow during December and leadership team.
During the last 12 months we have seen the arrival of a January and then from the ash cloud from the Eyjafjalla volcano in April new Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Commercial and May.
Following the full eruption of the volcano on 14 April, airspace Officer and IT Director.
We have seized the opportunity to refresh our across Europe was closed leading to the disruption of the entire flying top management team, recruiting high quality people who are keen to schedule.
During the period of closure and in the following weeks, we look to the future and drive the Company forward after adifficult worked with the regulators to identify ways in which the airspace could operational year.
be opened, such as flying our own test flights behind Met Office aircraft and liaising with engine manufacturers to establish sensible limits on ash To ensure that our people remain at their highest level and to support contamination.
On23April, the UK CAA, working with the engine their progression, we have provided training at the easyJet Academy in manufacturers, set out guidelines on the level of ash that was deemed the last year to ensure our crews are up to date on the latest industry safe to fly in.
The initial assessment set levels of ash between 200 and news.
We have also refreshed our induction programme, to ensure that 2,000 microgrammes per cubic metre within which flying was deemed our new joiners understand the easyJet culture and values and how they to be safe.
These levels were reviewed and revised on 18 May to extend can contribute towards our success from their first day.
the fly zones to enable flying where ash density levels did not exceed 4mg per cubic metre.
Our partnerships with Cranfield University and London City University are still in place to ensure that our managers get high quality support to During the ash cloud crisis, we continued to explore innovative solutions develop their technical and management skills.
easyJet, working alongside the Norwegian Institute for Air Research, is the first airline in the world to start trials of a Engagement new technology, invented by Dr Fred Prata, known as AVOID Airborne There are proven links between an engaged workforce and excellence Volcanic Object Identifier and Detector.
AVOID is a system which uses incustomer service.
The attitude and passion of our staff was ably infrared technology on the aircraft, similar to weather detectors currently demonstrated by their support for customers and flexibility through in use, to enable pilots and flight control to see an ash cloud up to 100km theperiods of bad weather and, most notably, the ash cloud.
ahead and at altitudes of between 5,000ft and 50,000ft, and, if necessary, to amend their course to avoid areas of ash cloud thereby opening up a larger area of airspace than might be available using Met Office data alone.
People Our business is only as good as the people working within it, across all areas, from cabin crew and pilots through to our engineering teams, management and administration teams and ground staff in Spain.
Our focus is to attract the right person regardless of level within the business, and to ensure everyone is engaged and works together.
We also look for ways to operate more efficiently across all areas of the business to provide the best returns for our shareholders whilst maintaining the level of service and employee satisfaction to provide a quality service to our customers.
In 2010, we introduced a new IT system to improve the rostering of our cabin crew, to enhance the productivity by an estimated 810%.
Unfortunately, the implementation of this system was overly aggressive and resulted in a shortage of crew during our busiest period in the summer in a year when we also experienced unprecedented natural, economic and social disruption to the industry.
Our short-term resolution to protect our customers, and to cancel as few flights as possible, was to lease additional aircraft and crew during the summer period and to increase the level of recruitment in this period.
465 Our longer term solution has been to reassess the levels of productivity we would hope to gain from this system and to make these more aligned Continually developing to the strategic requirement of the business recognising the volatility of During the year we ran over 465 pilot training courses.
the market in which we operate.
easyJet plc 30 Annual report and accounts 2010 C orporate responsibility continued Recognising that needs and circumstances are different, we have developed As with all businesses there are levels of staff attrition that will occur, and a new, more targeted survey for our employees in 2010 to gauge the in 2010 our overall unforced staff turnover was 7.6%, which increased opinions of our team in the four main communities: Pilots, Cabin Crew, slightly from the historically low level in 2009.
Management & Administration and Engineering & Maintenance.
The overall response rate for completion of the uSay survey was 60%, and Turning Europe Orange we will be reviewing the results of this in the first quarter of 2011.
Following the growth of our network, we continue to grow our presence across Europe to further strengthen our position as a truly pan-European Communication air transport network.
We understand that good communication is vital within a business, especially one which has such an extensive staff base, to ensuring that As at 30 September 2010, easyJet employed 7,359 people 2009: 6,666, keyissues and matters are discussed with people so that we can react based throughout Europe as illustrated below: quickly and to ensure that everyone remains engaged in the business.
United Kingdom 4,634 We work with our employee representatives and recognise a number Switzerland 554 of trade unions across Europe.
Over the last year there has been a significant increase in the level of union activity and we have not been France 640 immune to this, but did not lose any days through internal industrial action.
Spain 595 uSay Italy 646 As mentioned above, we have introduced a new staff survey this yearthat has been tailored to be more specific to each of our main Germany 290 communities, so that our employees comment on the areas that affect Total 7,359 them within the business.
The results of this survey were received in October 2010 and we will be working to improve our processes and Reward systems to action suggestions.
easyJet offers a competitive rewards package and reviews salaries annually in line with market rates to ensure continued alignment to the In its inaugural year, 60% of easyJet employees responded to the survey.
For most employees the rewards package includes an annual We are in the process of analysing the results across our communities performance-driven bonus, based on personal and Company sothat we are able to respond to our people in 2011. performance, which encourages all employees to contribute towards The results of the survey showed that only 35% of our people currently achieving our strategic objectives.
Employees are also eligible to feel satisfied in their jobs and environment.
Due to the differing nature participate in a Group personal pension towards which easyJet ofthe staff survey this year, we have enabled our people to give us their contributes, as well as having the option to make their own honest and open feedback on our organisation.
Whilst the result is contributionsthrough salary sacrifice arrangements.
disappointing, it is not a surprise when many of our people were Share schemes impacted by the summers operational issues.
The responses and results easyJet once again offered all employees the opportunity to join its of this survey will be reviewed and actions will be taken to improve the popular all-employee share plan, easyJet Shares 4 Me.
The plan has won working environment for our people so that their levels of engagement five major awards to date and involves three elements: Save As You Earn are improved in the future.
SAYE : Buy As You Earn BAYE and Free Shares.
Each scheme is Her Spirit Majestys Revenue & Customs HMRC approved and is open to all In 2010 we launched a new employee awards scheme: Spirit.
This employees on the UK payroll.
For employees who are on non-UK scheme rewards our people for their commitment and hard work and payrolls, international schemes have been established with similar terms recognises where our people go above and beyond to enable our and conditions to the UK scheme, albeit without the UK tax benefits.
During the course of the year, we have monthly, Participation in the scheme remains very strong, with over 80% of eligible quarterly and annual awards recognising achievement across the staff now taking part in one or more of the plans.
different communities within our business.
Your benefits Organisation UK staff continued to be entitled to select from a number of benefits To succeed in our corporate ambitions, we need to have high quality available to them through Your Benefits.
This enables employees to people with the right skills in the right place at the right time.
Our aim access programmes and savings which would not be available to them on is to ensure that our people contribute more to our business than an individual basis.
The benefit choices for 2010 were extended to also they have ever done for any other employer.
We aim to ensure that include Computers at work as well as the standard offers already we continue to recruit the best people and keep these people engaged available.
The lifestyle benefits scheme also remained in the year and in the business so that we can achieve these objectives.
we continue to offer discounts on a wide range of products and services.
Employees make further savings in tax and National Insurance for many of these benefits, through salary sacrifice.
easyJets National Insurance savings contribute to the financing of the scheme, which is fully outsourced.
Overview Business review Governance Accounts Other information easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2010 31 Equality and diversity Political donations easyJet is an equal opportunities employer.
We ensure that our employees easyJet does not make any donations to any political party.
This is and applicants do not receive less favourable treatment on the basis of notinline with our values and would be deemed as inappropriate.
their age, colour, creed, disability, full or part time status, gender, marital status, nationality or ethnic origin, race, religion or sexual orientation.
Gifts and gratuities Applications from disabled employees are always fully considered, easyJet employees are sometimes sent gifts from various companies bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
Inthe event throughout the year.
In order to provide clear guidance to employees that one of our people becomes disabled every effort is made to ensure and avoid potential conflicts of interest, we have a strict policy that that their employment at easyJet continues and training is arranged prevents any employee accepting gifts over a nominal value of 35. where appropriate.
EveryChristmas and less frequently, at various times through the year easyJet holds a staff raffle of all the gifts that are received.
Every employee Charitable donations across Europe is entered into the draw and allocated a unique reference easyJet supports a charity of the year.
The airline provides access to number.
Numbers are then drawn at random and winners have the gifts staff and customers to raise funds and promotes the charity through sent directly to their home.
Following a Europe-wide staff vote, easyJet is proud tosupport the Alzheimers Society.
easyJet and the environment The aviation industry is highly regulated, both for safety and many The partnership raises money to support people with dementia and of its wider operations, so we therefore operate within a very defined their carers.
As easyJets charity of the year, Alzheimers Society receives framework.
Similarly, our environmental impact is almost entirely from donations from summer onboard collections where passengers are aviation activity flying planes.
Fuel is our largest single cost item, so we are asked to donate their spare change to support the charity.
The Society heavily incentivised to minimise its use, and therefore CO2 emissions.
But also receives a percentage of all scratch cards sold on easyJet flights.
this also means that there are no easy ways to further reduce our emissions.
Throughout the year, our staff have also been actively involved in Unlike many companies we face a very limited set of choices in our fundraising for the charity and have undertaken a variety of fundraising efforts to reduce our environmental impact.
We are constrained by the events, including the London Marathon and the Three Peaks Challenge.
technology available to us, the development of which is a highly regulated The Society is a member of Alzheimers Europe.
Through this and lengthy process.
Our steady growth almost inevitably means that organisation the Society plays an important part in raising the profile easyJets total emissions will increase, as we are already at the front of the of dementia throughout the European Union and has recently been technology curve.
However, easyJet is one of the most efficient airlines involved in obtaining support in the European Parliament for making for short-haul European travel, an easyJet passenger is responsible for dementia a health priority throughout the Union.
There are over five 22% fewer emissions than a passenger on traditional airline to the same million people with dementia in Europe so its not surprising that staff destination and using the same plane.
So as we gain market share over across the business chose Alzheimers Society as the charity of the year.
other less efficient operators we are improving the overall efficiency ofEuropean air travel.
Significantly reducing our environmental impact requires technological change across the industry, so our environment policy focuses on these long-term gains.
easyJet is actively engaged with the major manufacturers and providing operational data to influence new technology.
Environment The aim of our business is to be as efficient as we can be this applies to our environmental impact as well.
Our environmental policy is governed by three promises: To be efficient in the air To be efficient on the ground To lead in shaping a greener future for aviation Governance Many people within easyJet help deliver our environmental aims.
2,230 Oversight of our environmental policy is carried out by a manager in our regulatory team, and the executive management team receives regular updates on environmental policy as part of the reporting Three peaks challenge on regulatory issues.
Fundraising events included a gruelling ascent of the three largest peaks in England, Scotland and Wales, where our team raised more than 2,230. easyJet plc 32 Annual report and accounts 2010 C orporate responsibility continued Environment data Aviation and the environment In total we emitted 4.51 tonnes of CO2 in the year and per passenger Aviation has three main environmental impacts: trip this was 96.9kg.
Our CO2 emissions per passenger kilometre On climate change decreased again in 2010 to 84.4 grams per kilometre.
Aviation contributes to climate change through both the direct emission g CO2 passenger Km of CO2 from fuel burn and due to other non-CO2 effects from the 2.9ppt emission of Nitrogen Oxides NOx, particles and aerosols and cloud 2010 84.40 formation.
The science surrounding the impact of aviations CO2 emissions is very well developed, while the science surrounding 2009 87.30 non-CO2 effects remains uncertain.
It is clear, however, that the 2008 90.31 long-lasting impact is from CO2 emissions.
2007 95.56 2006 95.70 On local air quality 98.80 2005 Local air quality impacts arise from NOx emissions during aircraft 2004 104.50 take-offs and landings.
We operate the latest standard CFM with the 2003 110.00 Tech Insertion upgrade engines on 40% or our fleet, and are continuing 2002 106.90 to invest in this upgrade so that it will be in place across the fleet.
This 2001 112.50 reduces emissions by about 1% but also reduces NOx emissions by 2000 116.20 20% to 30%.
These engines are the best in class and help minimise our impact on local air quality.
Progress over time On noise levels We believe the most important environmental issue facing the industry Aircraft noise clearly has an impact on residents around airports.
We have focused on ensuring the industry plays its role complies with local rules that govern noise at airports such as curfews in tackling climate change and on improving the efficiency of our flying and routeings to avoid built up areas.
Our aircraft meet the tightest interms of CO2 emissions.
international noise standards ICAO chapter 4.
Our focus on improving Over the last ten years, easyJet has successfully improved its CO2 the efficiency of our flying has also reduced our noise impact: by changing efficiency every single year.
Emissions per passenger km the standard the flap settings used for landings we have both improved fuel efficiency industry measure of efficiency has improved every year, from 116.2 g and reduced noise levels at landing.
We have continued to reduce CO2 Climate change is the dominant global environmental issue and it is emissions per passenger journey, from 97.7 kg in 2009 to 96.9 kg in 2010. alsoof long-term strategic importance to the airline industry.
We have therefore focused our reporting and public policy work on this issue.
Why the environment matters Addressing our environmental impact is clearly part of our responsibility as an airline.
However, it is also a business imperative.
Environmental concerns have a significant impact on public policy towards aviation, fromrestrictions on airport expansion to passenger taxes.
It is therefore in our own interest to ensure that both we and the wider industry properly address environmental concerns.
This is why we have focused on considering public policy solutions to the challenges the industry faces.
Long-term sustainability of the industry Aviation emissions have increased steadily over time, despite significant improvement in environmental efficiency the growth in air traffic has outweighed the efficiency gains.
Over the last ten years, global aviation traffic has grown by over 5% a year, while efficiency gains have been about 2%.
This has led to concerns that aviation emissions will continue to grow into the future and that this will be inconsistent with the overall 3.3% reductions in greenhouse gas emissions that are needed to limit the impact of climate change.
This is clearly unsustainable and needs to Environmental efficiency change going forward.
We improved our CO2 emissions per passenger kilometre by a further 3.3% in 2010.
Overview Business review Governance Accounts Other information easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2010 33 We believe that the main environmental challenge facing the industry Entry into ETS isto ensure that emissions are put on a downwards path.
There is a Aviation entered ETS in 2010, which is the monitoring year for the realrisk that if the industry does not achieve this on its own, it will have reporting of our CO2 emissions and the Revenue Tonne Kilometres growth constraints placed up on it.
We have already seen suggestions of flown by easyJet.
From 2012, we will be required to surrender permits this in the UK, where the Committee on Climate in its December 2009 tocover CO2 emissions.
We have put in place the required systems and report on aviation emissions suggested the growth of the industry would processes to ensure compliance with the monitoring and reporting plans need to be limited to 60% over the next 40 years to control UK emissions.
approved by the Environment Agency.
An external verifier, accredited for aviation will be appointed in due course.
To ensure the industry does not face any artificial constraints we need to significantly improve the efficiency of flying, through step-changes in Changing the industry framework technology and the right incentives to ensure that airlines and passengers Achieving step change in the environmental efficiency of aviation will fly as efficiently as possible.
require significant progress in the development of next-generation aircraft.
Without significant improvements in fuel efficiency it will not be Delivering our environmental promises possible to increase the rate of environmental efficiency improvement.
Our promises revolve around actions we can take in the short-term to directly improve the environmental efficiency of our business and at the We are concerned that the current effective duopoly in the production same time working to deliver a sustainable long-term outcome for the of large commercial aircraft is restricting the development of nextindustry.
The latter involves changing the framework within which the generation aircraft.
Whilst there has been some discussion around industry operates to ensure it delivers sustainable outcomes.
re-engineing current generation aircraft, this will at best deliver only half the fuel efficiency of a next-generation short-haul aircraft which appears to be a decade away.
We are continuing to press the manufacturers easyJets actions tohasten the introduction of new technology.
We are continually working to improve the environmental impact of our current operations, by improving our fuel efficiency.
These measures It is also vital that the policy framework set out by governments supports are incremental by nature, given that we operate under the constraints these objectives.
We believe there are three parts to this, only one of of defined technology.
We have a fuel efficiency programme which is which is currently in place.
While some of these measures save relatively Aviation in ETS small amounts of CO2 per flight, as we average nearly 1,000 flights a day, the total savings can be very large.
Aviation entered the EU Emissions Trading Scheme EU ETS in 2010, and airlines will have to surrender permits in 2013 to cover their 2012 In 2010, our fuel efficiency and therefore our environmental efficiency, emissions.
We were a strong supporter of aviations entry and we improved by 1.6%.
continue to believe that this is the best way to ensure aviation makes Examples of this programme are: itsfair contribution to tackling climate change.
We have instituted a policy of using ground based power where Ensuring any taxes support environmental objectives possible rather than the Auxiliary Power Unit on the aircraft : We do not support the imposition of aviation specific taxes.
However, this is considerably more efficient: where they are in place such as the UK we believe they must be We have reduced the height at which the landing lights gear are designed to provide incentives for more environmentally efficient flying.
lowered on landing reducing drag : This means the tax base must be flights, not passengers.
We now use a single engine to taxi the aircraft before departure Minimum standards for aircraft and upon arrival at airports where it is possible to do so.
International minimum standards are needed to drive the development of new technology aircraft.
