CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Introduction Health and safety Elementis has continued to run its businesses with a The Group takes the health and safety of all its employees, high level of interest in, and concern for, its corporate contractors and visitors to its premises very seriously.
The Company has Policies, practices and performance, which are reviewed developed its programme in this area over a number of routinely by senior operations management, are years and our commitment was recognised in September supported by guidance and training, and a programme Elementis joined the 2009 when Elementis was judged to have met the of health and safety compliance audits on a three FTSE4Good Index in criteria for inclusion in the FTSE4Good global responsible yearly rolling cycle.
There is a well established incident September 2009 investment index.
noti cation and reporting system in place, so that all recordable safety incidents are reported to the The Companys CSR activities are centred on four core management team and the Board.
Investigations are areas: people, community, environment and business carried out following any incidents or near misses with relationships.
Each of these areas is critical to the corrective action being taken to mitigate the risk of their operation of the business and long term success of the recurrence, and the results and improvements are shared Company, which is why the Group Chief Executive is throughout Group sites.
responsible for these areas at Board level.
A summary of the Groups policy on health, safety and People environmental matters can be found on the Groups Our employees are our most valuable asset and drive the website at: success of our Group at all levels, from product innovation www.
com  and technology leadership to business performance and customer service.
With our workforce spread across three Safety performance continents 41 per cent in North America, 27 per cent The Companys safety goal is zero recordable incidents in Europe and 32 per cent in Asia, it is essential that we and we seek to achieve this through maintaining our have one set of corporate values that all our employees strong focus on, and commitment to, safety design, can identify with and our HR policies and practices are safe behaviours and high safety standards.
designed to do exactly that.
We have one Elementis culture which is to be innovative, successful, responsible The principal measure of safety performance used and leaders in the sectors in which we operate.
To foster across the Group is recordable incidents as fide ned by this kind of culture, we have policies and guidance the US Occupational Safety & Health Administration.
that encourage and support positive behaviours.
Recordable incidents are work related injuries and Some of these policies and examples of our culture illnesses that require medical treatment beyond first aid.
An important sub-set of recordable injuries is lost time accidents LTAs, which generally re ect on the severity Business ethics of such injuries and illnesses.
The Elementis Code of Business Conduct and Ethics the Code, which is supported by anti-corruption During 2010, the number of recordable incidents and anti-harassment policies and related guidance, is increased from nine in the previous year to 14 globally.
something that all employees sign-up to and receive All incidents were investigated thoroughly to establish training on.
It helps employees understand the standards root causes and identify appropriate corrective actions.
of ethical business practices that are expected from them The primary cause of this increase was due to an unusual at work, and to be aware of ethical and legal issues that number of incidents in non-production areas, for example, they may encounter in the course of carrying out their slipping in the of ce car park while it was raining, falling duties and responsibilities.
In addition, our businesses are when carrying coffee cups while walking up stairs or required to ensure independent contractors, consultants, cutting a thumb when using glass laboratory equipment.
agents and sales representatives who represent the The number of incidents occurring within plant Group agree to the same high standards as the Groups operations was similar to last year.
None of the incidents employees while working on Group business.
is expected to have long term effects on the employees.
However, the abnormal number of of ce incidents has The following is a summary of the Codes key features: led to a signi cant increase in safety awareness training in those areas.
The Board has taken a close interest in these Knowledge of and compliance with the Code is developments and it is a priority for management that expected and all employees have a duty to report these issues are fully addressed.
violations, supported by a non-retaliation policy and whistleblowing procedures: Rules on complying with all applicable laws, rules and regulations including anti-trust, bribery and insider dealing: and Rules and guidance on: con icts of interest: political donations and outside activities interests: gifts, gratuities and loans: con dential information and privacy: fair dealing with customers, suppliers and other third parties: and anti-harassment.
18 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2010 COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION As well as the total number of recordable incidents, the Elementis recognises international standards for human Board monitors the overall trend, or the recordable rights and strives to ensure equality of opportunity incident rate, which for 2010 was 1.10 per 200,000 hours and fair rewards for expertise and knowledge at all its worked 2009: 0.69.
Notwithstanding the increase in locations globally.
Details of our employment policies recordable incidents last year, our recordable incident and information about employee communication rate based on American Chemistry Council Responsible are summarised in the Directors report on page 26.
Care statistics continues to show that our performance The Company also recognises that its employees and is comparable with companies that are generally viewed contractors, customers and suppliers where relevant, as best in class.
have a right to expect the Group to respect their wider fundamental human rights and is supportive of this Recordable incident rate view.
The Groups Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Recordable incidents per 200,000 hours worked sets standards and provides guidance to ensure that, wherever relevant or practicable, consideration is taken in business decisions of the wider fundamental 2.0 human rights of all employees, contractors, customers and suppliers.
1.0 Having policies in place is one way of showing commitment to CSR issues, but the examples that follow 0.0 demonstrate the Elementis culture in action.
During last 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 year, 150 employees out of 228 at the Delden facility in the Netherlands took part in the Elementis Cup football Elementis tournament.
In the US, 71 employees were recognised for ACC RC five year service milestones in celebratory presentations held at various locations.
Every year, the management ACC data for 2010 not available headquarters in Hightstown, New Jersey hosts a Thanksgiving event for employees.
At another family event, 337 employees and family members attended a Elementis also monitors its safety performance using the summer picnic.
At the Songjiang plant, in Shanghai, 200 UK Health & Safety Executives fide nition of LTAs greater employees took part in a rigorous team-building event, than three days lost, not including day of incident.
Using complete with obstacle courses.
this measure, four of the recordable incidents were classed as LTAs in 2010 2009: two, which equates to a These are just a few examples of our Elementis culture rate of 0.16 LTAs per 100,000 hours worked 2009: 0.08. in action and, throughout the year, employees also get together to support charities and other community To ensure comprehensive monitoring of our safety events and campaigns in a variety of different ways.
performance, Elementis also records and reports These are described below.
separately the recordable injury rate for contractors working at our sites.
Contractors are closely supervised Community and are subject to compliance with Elementis safe Elementis understands the need to work with local systems of work.
As a result, the safety performance of communities to provide information on its activities and contractors is generally comparable to that for Elementis be a responsible neighbour.
A good example of this employees.
The contractor recordable injury rate in 2010 commitment is the ongoing work of employees at our was 1.5 per 200,000 hours worked 2009: 0.63.
Newberry Springs site in California, which is situated in a desert region.
The Specialty Products business is Training, employment policies and practices a sponsoring partner of the Mojave Environmental As well as employment policies and related guidance, the Education Consortium MEEC, a partnership Group recognises the importance of providing training.
programme between businesses and state departments Web-based, modular training courses, designed in and agencies, which provides many environmental conjunction with the Integrity Interactive Corporation, education programmes and resources for teachers and are offered to employees across the Group.
As well as our involvement through the MEEC, courses are mandatory for all employees, such as training employees at Newberry Springs, where our unique on the Code, and others are only mandatory depending hectorite mine is located, also run four educational tours on the job, role or position.
These courses include topics each year, covering various aspects of the plant and mine such as Mutual respect in the workplace, Human operations, such as its history, uses of industrial minerals, rights, Environmental stewardship, Anti-trust, Privacy mining operations and maintenance of plant equipment.
and data protection and Financial integrity.
Courses are offered in multiple languages.
There is also great emphasis at sites on health and safety training.
Annual report and accounts 2010 Elementis plc 19 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT continued Another part of our wider commitment involves Environment encouraging and supporting employees to be active in Elementis seeks to operate its facilities in a way that their communities through volunteer work or fundraising.
minimises the impact on the environment.
We view Elementis takes a decentralised approach to working with compliance with all applicable legal requirements and the communities in which we operate.
The Company other codes of practice as our minimum standard.
Our sets guidelines but does not dictate any speci c areas or sustainable development strategy requires that we work priority for corporate support, since we are aware that proactively to reduce emissions, minimise waste from needs and priorities vary from community to community.
our processes, conserve valuable natural resources and This bottom up approach is designed to encourage ensure responsible product stewardship throughout the management and employees at individual sites to focus supply chain.
on local issues and to take the initiative.
In addition to complying with environmental regulatory The preference is to support the areas and causes in reporting requirements, Elementis records and which our employees participate.
The following are categorises incidents into tiers based on the severity examples of some of the causes that enjoyed corporate of the incident on the environment or actions taken by support in 2010.
Elementis and its employees in the regulatory authorities.
Tier 3 incidents are those that have US have been supporters for many years of Cape Fear an impact on the environment and require reporting to Area United Way in Wilmington, North Carolina near our an external authority, who are likely to take action.
Tier 2 Castle Hayne chromium site and United Way of Greater incidents have a minor impact and require noti cation Milwaukee where we have a smaller processing facility but are likely to result in minimal or no action by the serving a local leather tannery.
United Way is a network of authorities.
Tier 1 incidents require no external reporting volunteer-driven, non-pro t organisations that work with and are recorded internally and investigated so that many other partners and programmes, involving local continual improvements can be made to reduce the government departments and agencies and other civic likelihood of future Tier 2 and Tier 3 incidents.
and community groups, to address many different areas of need in local communities.
These include, as examples, Environmental performance homelessness, poverty, unemployment, education or Our target is to comply with all environmental regulations health related needs.
Our employees support these and permits, with zero environmental incidents classed United Way organisations because they target support as Elementis Tiers 2 and 3.
Beyond that we strive for locally at charities and causes in very broad and diversi ed continual improvement in standards to reduce our impact areas.
An example of this very local approach is providing on the environment.
after school programming for children from unstable homes or providing prescription discount cards to those In 2010 Elementis had excellent success in preventing who do not have medical insurance.
As well as financial environmental incidents: once again there were no Tier support, our employees have also served on the board of 2 or Tier 3 incidents 2009: zero Tier 2 or Tier 3.
As noted directors in these organisations.
above we do not report Tier 1 incidents externally as these are treated as operational learning opportunities rather Other examples of corporate support include: sponsoring than non-compliances.
an employee who participated in the London Marathon to raise funds for the Alzheimers Society: matching Emissions to air, discharges to water and waste disposal donations raised by a group of employees from our are regulated by external authorities and controlled Livingston plant, who participated in a fundraising carefully within Elementis.
The table overleaf shows our walk to Ben Nevis, in order to help fund home care to performance in this area as well as our water and energy a young girl who has a serious medical condition: and usage over the past three years.
sponsoring a child from Belarus, organised by the Friends of Chernobyls Children UK registered charity.
Some of the data presented in Table 1 is in uenced by production levels, so an increase or decrease does Including donations made in the UK, which are disclosed not necessarily mean our performance in these areas on page 28, the Group made charitable donations worth have improved or deteriorated.
The impact on levels of more than $56,040 in 2010 2009: $36,724 to over 40 production as a result of the economic recovery in 2010, 2009: 35 different groups or organisations supporting the recession and the closure of the Eaglescliffe facility various causes in and around the locality of our of ces in 2009, are re ected in the data for these years.
The and plants around the globe.
As well as the speci c columns showing per tonne of production are affected examples given, organisations and groups supported by changes in the product mix and plant ef ciencies.
As is last year include the global Red Cross relief effort for the standard practice in the chemical industry, some emission earthquake in Haiti, local youth and sports clubs, schools, values may be calculated from energy use or based on arts groups, hospice and other welfare related groups, samples rather than continuous monitoring.
However, a drought relief and education initiative, and medical environmental emissions, discharges and solid waste data research and health related charities.
are subject to periodic internal audits to ensure accuracy and consistency of reporting.
20 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2010 COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Table 1 Environmental performance 2010 2009 2008 Per Per Per Absolute tonne of Absolute tonne of Absolute tonne of 000s production 000s production 000s production CO emissions tonnes 261 0.99 206 1.01 408 1.06 2 3 Water consumed m 1,848 6.99 1,263 6.21 2,202 5.90 Energy consumed GJ 4,926 12.1 4,306 13.5 6,964 13.6 Per 1,000 Per 1,000 Per 1,000 Absolute tonnes of Absolute tonnes of Absolute tonnes of 000s production 000s production 000s production Hazardous waste disposed tonnes 1.20 4.54 3.02 14.86 1.23 3.18 Non-hazardous waste disposed tonnes 114 433 87 426 180 465 Emissions to air Water consumption As reported in previous annual reports, Elementis is With the exception of the hectorite mine in California, committed to reducing, wherever it can, its emissions of the Company does not operate in areas of extreme water greenhouse gases GHG, such as carbon dioxide CO, shortage.
Nevertheless, water is a valuable resource and 2 and complies with relevant national CO reduction the Company recognises the global need to conserve 2 schemes, such as the Carbon Reduction Commitment water.
Water consumption is minimised where possible energy ef ciency scheme in the UK.
In addition, a project by treatment and recycling.
is underway at our Chromium plant at Castle Hayne that will allow the substitution of natural gas for fuel oil As stated above, in addition to output levels, product in powering our production kilns.
This project has the mix and plant utilisation can in uence consumption levels potential to reduce combustion generated CO emissions at the per tonne level.
With production levels in 2010 2 at the site by up to 25 per cent.
recovering from 2009 to, and exceeding, 2008 levels, total water consumption increased in 2010, but was less The Groups operations also result in some emissions of than the 2008 gure, owing to product mix.
However, the oxides of sulphur and nitrogen, which can cause acid the consumption rate per tonne showed a small rain.
Volatile organic compounds, where emitted, can increasing trend over the three years to 2010.
This trend damage soil and ground water or combine with nitrogen re ects the utilisation levels in 2009, when plants were oxide to cause smog.
However, all these emissions are operating at less than full capacity, and changes to controlled to comply with regulatory permits and, as the product mix in 2010. volumes are not considered to be signi cant, they are not reported here.
Energy consumption The Group is committed to reducing, wherever it can, its Discharges to water consumption of energy because the use of fossil fuels in Maintaining the water quality of the areas in which we energy production can contribute to global warming in operate is a regulatory issue and vital to protect the the form of GHG.
There is also the added incentive that ecosystems and communities in which we operate.
The energy is an expensive resource and its ef cient use has a Groups production activity generates process ef uent signi cant effect on the cost of production.
As the Group with low concentrations of organic material that are uses a range of fuel sources purchased conventionally in discharged to water.
This is measured as chemical and a variety of units, we report usage in gigajoules GJ to biological oxygen demand.
These are regulated by provide consistent energy units.
Much of the decrease external authorities and managed carefully by Elementis.
in energy consumption per tonne in 2010 is directly However, the volumes of these discharges are not attributable to the smaller Chromium business.
The considered to be signi cant and are not reported here.
production of chromium chemicals accounted for 69.9 per cent of the energy consumption in the Group 2009: Any emissions to air or discharges to water above 73.5 per cent.
regulatory permitted levels will continue to be reported each year under environmental incidents.
Annual report and accounts 2010 Elementis plc 21 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT continued Solid waste In 2010, we registered the REACh Tier 1 substances and As part of our commitment to sustainable development, submitted noti cations of over 1,300 substances to ECHA Elementis seeks to minimise the quantity of all types of European Chemicals Agency for classi cation, labelling waste.
The quantity of hazardous waste resulting from our and packaging.
Elementis was compliant with all EU operations has reduced signi cantly over the last decade.
Globally Harmonised System GHS safety data sheets The increase in 2009, as explained in last years annual SDS and labels for the required non-mixture products report, was due to some speci c site remediation projects.
Our new GHS SDS and labels are The low level that remains is highly controlled and subject designed with colour HAZCOM pictographs and all to licensed disposal.
Non-hazardous waste is minimised necessary languages for the EU.
and recycled as far as possible.
Non-hazardous waste is predominantly the inert residue from the chromate kiln In addition to complying with the REACh regulatory operations, which is deposited in our own permitted requirements for its products, during 2010 Elementis impoundments and licensed land ll sites adjacent to the implemented new systems, assessments and documents manufacturing facilities.
to comply with the United Nations GHS for classi cation and labelling rules in many countries around the The Group encourages the re-use, reduction and world.
We can now publish documents in more than recycling of general of ce waste and recycling schemes 35 languages.
Many other countries are revising and are in place at various of ce locations.
The amount of authorising new chemical control legislation.
Elementis general of ce waste is not reported separately from nonis actively meeting these new regulations in our global hazardous waste, as the volumes are not considered to markets.
For example in Japan, we have prepared new be signi cant.
GHS SDS and labels for all products in Japanese for their new Chemical Substances Control Law.
In Taiwan, we Product stewardship have noti ed all substances in our global product range Elementis recognises its responsibility to ensure that its for the new Taiwan chemical inventory list.
products are safe for intended use, transport and the environment.
Safe use is guided by long experience of R&D and sustainable development many of our products in conjunction with third party Among others, our R&D projects continue to be driven studies and regulatory requirements.
Information is by the speci c objectives of: provided via technical bulletins, safety data sheets and 1. reduction in the use of materials that contribute to labelling supported by discussion with our customers greenhouse gases: and suppliers, and participation in studies by industry 2. elimination of hazardous air pollutants from our associations.
products: and 3. expanded use of bio-based materials in our products.
We continuously adopt a consistent and coordinated approach to regulatory matters concerning our products As such, we are working collaboratively with large global at global, national and regional levels which complement coatings producers to replace rheological additives that industry voluntary efforts.
Where new regulations are contain a high percentage of volatile organic compounds required, we believe they should be based on established VOC.
Our non-VOC alternatives maintain the desired scienti c risk assessment and risk management performance and enable a high quality coating.
They should be predictable, exible and project is at an advanced stage of implementation.
capable of responsibly addressing societys economic, environmental and safety requirements.
Additionally, we have pro-actively moved to replace the hazardous air pollutants HAP used in our resin binder The Group is fully engaged in the European REACh products, with non-HAP alternatives.
To date we have programme with more than 700 substances presuccessfully made this change to more than 50 per cent registered to cover products manufactured in Europe, of our portfolio of resins and will continue this initiative imported products and required raw materials.
To throughout 2011. support our global customers and markets, we implemented a structure to enable us to provide Only We are also working closely with external agencies to Representative services under REACh to cover imports speed up our development programmes that expanded into Europe by Group entities and key customers.
The our portfolio of bio-based materials.
In one effort, our Product Stewardship team is involved in many consortia collaboration with a government agency will result in our coordinating the REACh registration of our most offering to the cosmetics market, in the very near future, important product categories.
We will continue providing more products derived from renewable plant sources.
active support to consortia and organisations such as CEFIC European Chemical Industry Council and SIEF Our commitment to these and other environmentally Substance Information Exchange Forum as appropriate.
friendly initiatives remains very high.
22 Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2010 COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Biodiversity These interactions provide the opportunity for resolving Elementis takes care to ensure that its activities do not minor issues before they become signi cant.
All cause long term damage to the biodiversity in the areas customer complaints are investigated in a timely fashion, where it has operations.
In this regard, the Group has documented and a response given to the customer.
policies and systems in place to ensure full compliance Many in the workforce have been trained in statistical with environmental requirements.
techniques and these are utilised where appropriate in monitoring the processes and evaluating the final product Business relationships speci cation.
Like the Specialty Products and Surfactants Customers businesses, some of our products are customised to Each of our business strategies has as its cornerstone meet the speci cations and applications of individual superior customer service with a focus on offering customers.
competitively priced, high quality products that are supported by strong technical support.
Best in class Another area where Elementis Chromium has been customer service is a critical element in helping our working with customers closely for many years is in customers be more successful in their competitive reducing exposure to workers using our products.
To markets and in how we differentiate ourselves from meet environmental regulations on personal exposure competition.
In Specialty Products and Surfactants our limits, the business has devised an intermediate bulk customer service standards were revised and updated container system, which mechanises the way products in 2010 to improve our supply chain ef ciency and are transferred to our customers systems, and has been effectiveness and to make it easier for our customers helping customers move away from manual handling of to do business with us.
We monitor our performance small packages to our mechanised bulk transfer system.
with metrics such as OTIF on-time, in full delivery, with business processes that address customer complaints Suppliers and supply chain and in capturing the voice of the customer with Our global sourcing team recognises their role in and periodic customer satisfaction surveys.
We develop responsibility for positively in uencing our worldwide and nurture close customer relationships with our key suppliers to encourage and promote more social account business process, through our participation in responsibility and greater environmental awareness.
trade shows and industry forums as well as conducting numerous group workshops, training seminars and The extensive use of strategic sourcing specialists and hosting collaborative laboratory sessions to work with long term supply relationships have enabled us to customers one-on-one.
In China alone, we organised develop collaborative partnerships with our suppliers.
seven open and 28 in-house seminars for our customers, Our joint efforts have resulted in the expanded use of hosted four technical conferences and participated materials derived from renewable plant sources, for in World Expo 2010 in Shanghai, ChinaCoat 2010 the example, our purchase of plant-based materials, which largest coatings show in the world and Paint India Show are more sustainable on the environment than animal- 2010.
A similar level of commitment was undertaken in based materials or derivatives, have risen by over 150 per North America and Europe, for example, the business cent since 2007 to approximately $7 million in 2010.
Plantparticipated in coatings shows held in Las Vegas, based materials are used in the production of coatings Charlotte, Mexico City, So Paulo as well as in Genoa, additives castor-based materials and for use in our Dubai and Istanbul, reaching out to existing and new consumer business.
As we grow this business, we expect customers in these exciting growing markets.
our purchase of plant-based materials to increase.
In terms of quality management systems, all ten of our Our supply chain organisation has played a central global manufacturing facilities in the Specialty Products role in leveraging the bene ts of social responsibility and Surfactants businesses are certi ed to the ISO 90001 and environmental awareness across the global standard.
In addition, during 2010, the HSE and quality organisation to reach all functions and all geographies.
team implemented the 5S workplace organisation In 2010 we completed an upgrade to our ERP system methodology at all sites in Specialty Products and thus establishing the platform for future initiatives Surfactants.
The 5S methodology helps to focus the with measurable metrics.
To support our work in this organisation on effective work place organisation and area, a Groupwide employee training programme is standardised work procedures by simplifying the work in place which includes courses on Mutual Respect, environment, reducing waste and non-value activity Environmental Awareness in Manufacturing and while improving quality, ef ciency and safety.
systems also utilise statistical process control to ensure product quality and consistency, and to drive process During the year the Group implemented a supplier improvements.
finance facility for our businesses in the UK and Europe, through one of the members of our bank facility Elementis Chromium also has an effective customer syndicate.
This supplier facility helps the business to service system that supplies high quality products to manage its working capital more ef ciently and provides its customers.
The system incorporates many of the participating suppliers with greater exibility in terms of elements of ISO 9000 systems.
Since the customer base is managing their receivables.
relatively small, there are frequent interactions between the customers and the commercial services group.
Annual report and accounts 2010 Elementis plc 23
