corporate social responsibility review It has been important to underpin this Corporate responsibility is integral to the way we operate new, fast growing organisation with our business and fundamental to keeping our people safe, strong, well-articulated policies on safety, security, risk management, protecting our reputation and building a high performance integrity assurances and our ethical workforce.
We have well developed policies approved by standards to ensure these disciplines are hard wired into the business from the Board and we have set high standards that we will seek the start.
Protecting our people and our environment Maintaining the highest standards of health and safety is critical for a business working in a challenging environment and we constantly seek ways to improve our safety performance, to reduce our environmental impact and to raise standards.
We have a strong health and safety record to date and made good progress during the year in improving our Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulation RIDDOR results and reducing our High Potential Incident Occurrences HIPO.
All HIPOs are reported and reviewed at Board level, with remedial action checked and approved.
In combination with other key contractors, our lost time accident LTA frequency rate was 0.21, which is in the upper quartile of HSE performance in the industry, although we are committed to a zero Building a talented workforce significant change from the functional accident target.
The HSE group was One of our first challenges as a newly organisations of our heritage strengthened by the appointment of a formed business was to build one companies.
We firmly believe that new manager of corporate safety and company with a single culture from an asset based structure gives additional staff.
the businesses that were previously accountability and clarity of with Petrofac and Lundin.
We set up responsibility and can facilitate rapid Our environmental management a number of teams to work on key growth as new assets are added easily.
system was independently audited aspects of the process and these this year and we are seeking an projects are now essentially complete.
This structure, the strength of our ISO 14001 certification by the end Key to the success of these projects performance and our pipeline of of 2011.
On the Heather platform, was a clear vision from the leadership activity, had a positive impact on our hydrocyclones are being installed in team based on a strong shared belief ability to recruit high quality people.
2011, these will improve oil in water in EnQuests potential, underpinned During the year we were able to levels.
Management of any oil spills is by a distinctive set of EnQuest values.
augment our resources in areas of a key part of our emergency response These values were selected because strong competition for skilled people teams crisis management training and they were already integral to the including well-support and reservoir targets have been set for 2011 to drive way we work and to EnQuests engineers, geologists and standards up further in this area.
We believe it is Our CO emissions were below the 2 In addition to the formal values important to have key expertise permitted limit this year, as were launch programme, the EnQuest in-house, particularly with regard gas flares.
values are being reinforced in staff to core competencies subsurface, performance appraisals.
Whilst we aim to ensure safety is EnQuest is building a reputation as embedded in our culture and seen After flotation, we focused directly on a dynamic, innovative organisation, as everyones responsibility, we have positioning EnQuest for growth, with which can offer exciting opportunities.
clear lines of accountability with the the right structure, skills and culture Chief Operating Officer responsible to achieve our ambitious targets.
During the initial intense period to the Board for health, safety and EnQuest has a Board and an Executive of change, frequent, two-way environment HSE.
HSE training team with impressive industry communication was critical.
For is a mandatory requirement for credentials, a proven track record and example, we supplemented our everyone offshore but in 2011, the enthusiasm and drive to take the normal channels with a series of Town we intend to introduce a safety Company forward.
The Executive is Hall meetings attended by all staff, leadership programme for our supported by a flat organisation where our performance, progress, senior management.
In addition structure based around asset targets and future plans were we aim to raise competencies in management.
This has been a presented, giving staff an opportunity risk management and behavioural to question the Directors directly.
safety, improving understanding 36 EnQuest PLC Annual Report 2010 overview business review governance financial statements of why people make mistakes and promoting a proactive safety management culture across the Group.
This is part of a 10 point HSE improvement programme for 2011, that also includes improving life work balance and promoting healthy working.
Heather and Thistle achieved silver awards as part of the Scottish Governments Healthy Working Lives initiative and we intend to promote this initiative across the whole Company in 2011. contributing to our community EnQuests broader community policy is to assist in the development of local community programmes where we operate, in consultation with local government, public and other stakeholders.
These have been focused mainly on environmental and youth projects in Aberdeen.
enQuest values Projects supported include Solstice Nurseries, an organisation that respect provides work experience and training In EnQuest respect is paramount, for our people, for our environment in horticulture and garden maintenance for people who have experienced and the safety of others.
mental health problems and want to focus return to work: a local primary school and support for a local amateur EnQuest is an organisation with a relentless focus on results.
people are accountable and responsible, and entrusted to take ownership of decisions and appropriate actions.
Corporate projects have included support for Fairbridge Supporting agile Inner City Youth and for Crisis UK.
Nimble technical and commercial behaviour from a responsive and flexible team allows EnQuest to meet its growth targets and to react In addition to current EnQuest to challenges.
charitable funding for small scale environment, youth or local creative community projects in Aberdeen, Creativity and innovation to embrace new ideas and deliver solutions local charities are nominated for annual fundraising activities by staff.
will differentiate EnQuest from its peers.
They will lead to a motivated Many staff also give their time to help workforce with greater self confidence, pride and self management.
such organisations and EnQuest tries to facilitate such initiatives: in addition Passion to the benefits they provide directly EnQuest is a passionate, enthusiastic and committed organisation.
to the charities, these projects also Individuals and teams inspire others and create a catalyst with a contribute to team building and to positive impact on the organisation and projects.
As we continue to grow, we believe we can make a positive collaborative impact on the communities within In EnQuest we take on challenges and find solutions through which we operate: we aim to increase fellowship, mutual trust, knowledge sharing and teamwork at the level these activities during 2011. of the individual team and overall through Team EnQuest.
EnQuest is currently updating its empowerment Charity Committee structures and its existing policies on CSR and HSE: EnQuest recognises that an empowered workforce is fundamental to once these policies have been revised its success.
By clearly defining each role, our people are encouraged to and approved they will be available be accountable and responsible, and entrusted to take ownership of on the Companys website at decisions and appropriate actions.
In an important step, EnQuest launched its Code of Conduct during 2010: further details of which can be found in the Chairmans Statement, earlier within this report.
