Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 32 corporate responsibility company overview business review Governance financial statements Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 33 A strong track record Strong focus on health, education, and infrastructure improvements in the communities near sites Continuing investment in schools, adult education initiatives and medical facilities 2010 was declared as the Year of Safety with the Vadinar refinery achieving more than 1,000 days and over 18 million man hours without a lost time incident Determination to develop our people: 2011 declared as the Year of Internal Talent Management Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 34 corporate responsibility continued Group Chairman Shashi Ruia and Targets for 2011 Safety Champions were nominated across the business to promote the safety message, along with the improvement in safety introduction of various safety awards.
culture, benchmarking To prevent recurrence of accidents our performance and during construction activities, ongoing adopting best practice measures are being taken to identify key areas of risk and ensure that training appropriate steps are taken with Employee Health and staff and contractors to minimise accidents and reinforce the need Safety competency for a safe working environment.
and training The measures undertaken include: Increase in the number t Essar Energy, we are committed carrying out competency assessments of training hours for contractors carrying out safety A to ensuring our strategy, business per employee critical jobs, checking contractor and operations are built around a Compulsory online culture of responsible behaviour equipment for fitness, enhanced by all our employees, which in turn supervision of contractors work, training and certification carrying out safety training and briefings reflects everything we do as we seek for all employees in health, to contract workers and regular to create value for our stakeholders.
safety and environment safety meetings and discussions.
This applies to the way in which we competency assessment Essar Energys Lost Time Injury deal with colleagues internally just as Frequency Rate for operational plants of contractors involved in much as those outside the business with whom we come into contact or on for 2010 has remained flat and is a jobs where safety is critical whom our business has an impact.
constant focus area for management.
making safety training a As at the end of December 2010, Building and operating large scale prerequisite for employees power, oil and gas assets represents our operational sites had achieved being considered for a challenge.
However, our aim is to the following number of days without a lost time incident: ensure that as far as possible the promotion to higher levels impact on people, on the communities 2010 in which we operate and on the Vadinar refinery 1,004 environment is positive, and that any ISO 14001:2004 certification.
There Essar Power, Hazira 3,128 risks and consequences from our is an ongoing focus on ensuring Bhander Power, Hazira 2,463 that in future all of our other sites are operations are minimised.
Within this, a key imperative is a concern also certified to ISO 14001:2004.
Vadinar Power, Vadinar 1,519 with peoples health and safety.
The following Essar Energy Sites have The Vadinar refinery and the Bhander received the ISO 14001 certification: We are continually seeking to Power plant at Hazira have received benchmark against best practice, Essar Energy Holdings Ltd: Integrated Management Systems to embrace change and to improve Essar Oil Ltd. Vadinar refinery : IMS certification from the British our performance.
This report is Essar Power Holdings Ltd: and Standards Institution after earning both intended to summarise our approach, Essar Power Hazira Ltd. ISO 90 01 14001 and OHSAS 18001 policies and performance across the certification.
We aim to achieve OHSAS key areas of health and safety, the The ISO 14001 certification for Bhander 18001 certification for all the other environment and our communities.
Power Ltd is currently in process.
The following Essar Energy sites have received Health and safety In 2011, one priority is to step up our the OHSAS 18001 certification: Essar Energys business revolves response to climate change.
As a key Essar Energy Holdings Ltd: around constructing and operating player in the energy sector, we know Essar Oil Vadinar refinery: very large assets carrying oil, refined that our approach to tackling global Essar Power Holdings Ltd: products, natural gas, high voltage warming will be important to our Essar Power Hazira Ltd: and electricity and coal.
These are potentially business competitiveness in the future.
Bhander Power Ltd. hazardous by their nature and it is We are currently going through a carbon therefore critical that we take all steps emissions accounting process at our environment possible to protect our employees and Vadinar refinery, the associated power Essar Energy is determined to continue others in the vicinity of these assets.
station and other operations on site its focus on minimising environmental including indirect and fugitive emissions.
impacts from the construction and Such a focus on health and safety We will in due course prepare a carbon operation of its assets.
Although this is a must be built into the culture of our management action plan.
We will also major challenge, it is also an opportunity employees from the top downwards, be fully briefing employees on the to show how we can make a difference.
thus ensuring that potential problems importance of tackling climate change.
We have achieved ISO 14001 standard can be dealt with proactively before for some of our sites and our Bhander they occur.
Indeed, 2010 was Power plant at Hazira has received declared Year of Safety by the Essar company overview business review Governance financial statements Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 35 case study environmental projects Examples of the environmental projects delivered include a self sustainable, 700 acre greenbelt area around our oil refinery at Vadinar, containing over 300,000 saplings which apart from improving the visual impact also gives a carbon sink around the refinery complex.
The area housing the refinery complex borders on the Gulf of Kutch coastline and is naturally arid, with low rainfall.
It also includes areas designated by the Gujarat State Government as Marine National Park and Marine National Sanctuary, so environmental initiatives are of particular importance here.
Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 36 corporate responsibility continued its sites.
All of our corporate social This centre is of particular importance responsibility activities and projects, given that the other two nearest health and those of the wider Essar Group, centres or hospitals are 20km and are managed through the Essar Family 40km away.
The EFF focuses on clinic treated a further 19,108 patients education, health, entrepreneurship, in 2010, and a mother and child infrastructure, womens empowerment, care centre treated 1,425 patients.
child welfare, environment and community care.
It particularly infrastructure concentrates on families who have Essar Energy is actively involved in contributed their land and other providing infrastructure improvements resources to facilitate development in the villages surrounding its facilities.
of our plants and employees Initiatives include repairing roads, who live in surrounding areas.
particularly during the rainy season when roads can quickly erode, s part of our efforts to minimise the education laying of water supply pipelines At Vadinar, the Shri.
NK Ruia Madhyamik and associated sump and pump A impact of our energy production Vidalaya School, which was founded house facilities in some villages.
activities, we have been investing in Clean Development Mechanism by Essar in 1993 in Lonavala, has seen projects, two of which have also a huge increase in student enrolment.
people This school, which started with Essar Energy views its employees as been registered at the United Nations six students, now has 177. its biggest asset and is therefore highly Framework Convention on Climate Change.
These projects are: focused on developing people right 155 MW unit at the 495 MW Bhander Essar also contributes towards across the business.
Essar Energy upgrading and refurbishing other employs over 2,300 people, primarily Power gas-fired power station schools in the region around Vadinar, in India and these employees come at Hazira, registered in February 2008.
The total number of Certified for example providing new classrooms, from diverse backgrounds but every Emission Reduction units for this new toilet blocks and new computers.
effort is made to ensure they are Particularly able students are given treated fairly and with respect and given project for the year to April 2010 financial support to allow them to equality of opportunity to progress.
were approximately 70,000: and 340 MW unit at the 495 MW pursue further education.
Other Bhander Power gas-fired power support includes the organisation One priority has been to upgrade of English and Computer Studies our processes around recruiting station at Hazira, registered in classes in some village schools.
talent externally and managing talent October 2010.
The total number of CERs for this project are expected internally to ensure we have the required to be around 257,000 per year.
Assistance with vocational training for capability as the business grows adults and older students has also rapidly.
This has involved introducing been provided in some locations.
more robust recruitment processes, In addition to the above, our refinery at Vadinar has also participated in the Near Essars Mahan power plant with more of the activity conducted Clean Development Mechanism global site in Madhya Pradesh, a computer in-house.
In particular, we have a training centre has been established, series of programmes designed to programme.
Various recent technical allowing some successful students to train and develop young professionals inputs have led to further opportunities to reduce carbon emissions being find jobs.
Others have been provided entering the organisation.
We have also declared 2011 as the year of Internal identified and these are currently being with training as electricians, plumbers, welders and fitters at the Industrial Talent Management, underlining our progressed as projects with the aim of Training Institute in Pachore.
There commitment to identify and develop securing registration with the UNFCCC.
are also adult literacy classes which the high potential employees we already have.
This includes a strong Given the large requirement for water are conducted regularly at Vadinar.
as part of our energy production and Health refining processes, our management of water resources is critical to the A medical centre has been provided Our people priorities for 2011 include further building Essar Energys environment in which we operate.
by Essar at Nagwa village, near its Mahan site.
This centre provides free reputation as an Employer of Choice We have taken considerable steps medicines, medical checkups and which people aspire to work for.
This to reduce water usage and have also started collecting rain water.
is being done partly through improving relationships with our people through As a result of this, in 2010, none of In 2007, Essar established a Community higher levels of engagement, with an the water sources near our plants were significantly affected by the Health Centre in Jankhar village, near emphasis on elements including quality withdrawal of water for industrial use.
This facility treated 30,873 of life, opportunities and total rewards.
We are also improving our management patients in 2010, with the doctors on call including a paediatrician, a and motivation of people, helped by community Essar Energy has a strong focus gynaecologist and an ear, nose and linkage of reward with business results.
on the developmental needs and throat specialist.
There is also an aspirations of communities near ambulance and paramedics available.
company overview business review Governance financial statements Essar Energy plc Annual report accounts 2010 37 case study community projects At the Vadinar refinery, we supply approximately 24 million litres of water per year to the surrounding villages, which is brought in by tankers.
There were 16,500 tanker loads supplied to 12 villages in 2010, compared with 6,544 the previous year.
We have also developed watersheds, deepened village ponds and diverted two small rivulets to these ponds, resulting in village bore wells being extremely well supplied.
We now intend to build a water purification plant to supply these villages with 20,000 litres a day capacity, allowing water with high total dissolved solids levels of between 2000-2800 mg litre to be purified to the potable level of 150 mg litre.
