BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 21 Filtrona plc For more information visit: Annual Report 2010 www.
0 before intangible amortisation 22 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2010 Review of Operations Porous Technologies continued Principal 2011 initiatives - Focus new business development resources globally on higher potential growth opportunities within attractive markets - Secure diversification across multiple markets on an international scale to reduce exposure to economic and competitive threats - Drive the development of new proprietary technologies and explore further use of ecologically friendly products and components Continued investment in next generation products The strongest product category performance was delivered in printer 2010 Revenue by destination % systems, where revenue increased by 33%, making printer systems the 38% Europe second largest product category in the division.
Revenue growth was 35% North America particularly strong with the principal original equipment manufacturer 27% Rest of the World customers, and aftermarket revenues were also up in the year.
Revenue in healthcare sciences reduced by 4%, reduction in sales of surgical mask components after very strong 2009 sales due to the H1N1 flu scare and a temporary reduction in pregnancy test kit wick sales due to the relocation of a customers manufacturing site.
Household products revenue increased by an encouraging 4.9%.
Writing instrument reservoirs, which remain the divisions largest 2010 Revenue by end market % product category, saw revenue increase by 20% as consumer markets 34.1% Writing instruments improved in both the US and Europe as the year progressed.
22.6% Printer systems 20.8% Healthcare A number of longer term supply agreements were concluded in the year 13.6% Household products with important customers in each of the product categories.
8.9% Other In order to prepare the division for future growth, it added state-of-theart production equipment for its medical and printing system markets in both fibre and foam technologies, as well as adding capacity that will allow for a vertical integration of a significant in-process raw material to control cost and provide a more stable source of supply.
The three year renovation programme at the Reinbek, Germany facility was completed during 2010 on time and to budget without operational disruption.
The modernised factory infrastructure is already yielding benefits in energy efficiency, process flows and labour productivity.
At Lendell, a new foam process line was successfully commissioned delivering a significant increase in capacity and improved process capability.
In addition, a full R&D capability was established at the St. Charles, Michigan facility where ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 accreditations were also achieved.
BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 23 Filtrona plc For more information visit: Annual Report 2010 www.
com What we measure Why we measure it How we did Innovation percentage of sales Demonstrates the success of new % derived from products launched products and technologies 10.2 in the last three years Sustained IP development Continuous development of active patent intellectual property to support applications 12 future growth and strong development project pipeline Customer complaints Drives performance of quality % systems and service delivery 15 improvement Man hours per machinery hour Indicative of shop floor productivity % 7 improvement The division continued to make good progress in the development of new technologies, products and applications in existing and completely new product categories.
A new range of eco-reservoirs made entirely from recycled materials was launched with 12 patent applications remaining active.
The division is committed to dedicating a significant amount of its research and development resources on pure longrange technology development but more aimed at next generation technologies and new market exploration as opposed to any specific product application.
Our responsibility The division is focused on the delivery of the highest standards of safety, quality and performance across its international operations.
Global health & safety initiatives delivered year-on-year improvements, with the division maintaining an exceptionally low rate of reportable Inkjet printer cartridge reservoir accidents, and surpassing a two year milestone of no lost time accidents across the division.
All four Porous Technologies factories received a gold ISO 9000 ISO 14001 OHSAS 18001 award in the Filtrona Group Safety Awards in 2010.
The overall safety performance across the division resulted in the division being awarded Porous Technologies the Filtrona Chief Executives award for health & safety performance Richmond 3 3 3 again in 2010.
This was achieved due to the commitment by the Porous Technologies management team and employees to the occupational safety awareness Ningbo 3 3 3 campaign, which has been sustained over the last two years and was Porous Technologies fundamental in securing this award.
Reinbek 3 3 3 Porous Technologies Outlook St Charles 3 3 3 Looking forward to 2011, the division will sustain its revenue investments in the development of new technologies, products and applications.
ISO 9000 is the international standard for quality performance Investment in R&D remains at the core of the strategy for the division.
ISO 14001 is the international standard for environmental It is anticipated that each of the principal product categories will deliver performance growth, and that the healthcare sciences category will benefit from the OHSAS 18001 is the internationally recognised standard for absence of the influences which held back its performance in 2010. occupational health commitment and performance 24 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2010 Review of Operations Coated & Security Products How we do it The strategy of the division is to be the premier provider within its markets of choice for creative and secure packaging, identity and security solutions.
The division focuses on the delivery of value added products and services to customers over the long-term through the continuous development of production capabilities and new technologies and services.
The divisions competitive advantage is strengthened by its technical capability to provide additional functionality within its products to help customers improve their own products or to help them meet the challenges they face in conducting their business.
In many cases, the greater functionality provided by the division involves adding print to enable the customer to promote their product, communicate with their customer or identify a product, a person or a document.
The innovation offered by the division also leads to the development The acquisition of BP of security technologies which give customers, or the Government agencies with whom they work, the ability to authenticate products, Labels is an important identities and data in a more secure manner.
addition to our creative The divisions investment in its facilities and employees, securing packaging solutions ongoing innovation, manufacturing excellence and high quality offering as well as service delivery, underpin its proposition of value-added products to an international customer base.
In 2010 this included an investment providing another in refurbishing and extending the divisional technology centre at the Nottingham site and moving to improved facilities in Brazil.
platform for our growing stable of brand protection How weve performed During 2010 the division continued to pursue its strategy of technologies commercialising new security technologies and applications for its international markets whilst sustaining its world leadership position in Tony Edwards the self-adhesive tear tape market.
The division has been expanded this Managing Director, year by the acquisition of BP Labels, which significantly enhances its label Coated & Security Products capability and brings new customers and opportunity in food, drink, cosmetics, toiletries, and pharmaceuticals and healthcare.
In the year the division performed well with improvements in revenue, adjusted operating profit and adjusted operating margin.
Revenue in the division increased by 5.3% to 91.9m 2009: 87.3m and at constant exchange rates, revenues were up by 5.5% with growth in tear tape, security technologies and at Enitor, the Dutch plastic extrusion business, plus a first revenue contribution from BP Labels.
Adjusting for the impact of BP Labels, revenue growth was 2.2% at constant exchange rates.
Adjusted operating profit increased by 20.5% to 14.7m 2009: 12.2m, up 20.5% at constant exchange rates and up 19.5% after adjusting for the impact of BP Labels.
The adjusted operating margin increased by 200 basis points to 16.0% 2009: 14.0% with the benefit of an improved mix from security technologies.
Operating cash flow of 13.4m represented a 91% conversion rate of adjusted operating profit.
Revenue per employee at constant exchange rates increased from 157k to 159k.
BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 25 Filtrona plc For more information visit: Annual Report 2010 www.
com How weve performed low res Revenue million 10 91.9 09 87.3 08 86.1 07 79.2 % 91.9m 5.3 Operating profit million 10 14.7 09 12.2 08 10.0 07 9.7 % 14.7m 20.5 Operating margin % 10 16.0 09 14.0 08 11.6 07 12.2 16.0% Revenue per employee thousand 10 159.2 09 157.8 08 142.3 07 131.8 % 159.2k 0.9 before intangible amortisation and major restructuring costs The Payne Authentication System 26 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2010 Review of Operations Coated & Security Products continued Principal 2011 initiatives - Continue to develop sales from new products, capabilities, systems, applications, technologies, services and tooling - Continue to establish an international label business in our markets of choice following the BP Labels acquisition - Further investment in the development of new authentication systems Security Print development The Payne tear tape business performed well, with tear tape volume up 2010 Revenue by destination % 2% and value up 5%.
Good growth was achieved in the Asia region where 68.2% Europe revenue increased by 9% and sales development in the food and drink 24.7% Rest of World and shelf ready packaging sectors was particularly encouraging.
Product 7.1% North America mix was assisted by successful variable data promotions with tobacco industry customers in Russia and Japan.
The business position as market leader was underpinned by a very positive customer survey and also by a continued improvement in On Time In Full performance and a significant reduction in customer complaints.
Polymer price increases impacted tear tape material costs progressively during the year and a pricing programme was implemented to recover 2010 Revenue by end market % these cost increases.
The Brazilian tear tape operation moved to higher 39.8% Tobacco quality premises during the year and the divisional technology centre in 14.3% Consumer goods Nottingham was refurbished and expanded.
11.9% Point of purchase 11.7% Document & Revenue from the Payne authentication system was again strong, with a identity solutions revenue increase of 72% driven by the successful implementation of another 5.0% Transit packaging major contract with a global fast moving consumer goods company.
17.3% Other The acquisition of BP Labels, which was completed in February, provides an important new carrier medium for the divisions security technologies.
BP Labels contributed revenues of 2.8m in the year and the new project pipeline is healthy entering 2011.
At the end of the year the division announced that it was combining the established brand protection label business with BP Labels and that the enlarged operation would trade under the Payne brand, building on the pedigree of the tear tape business as a supplier of creative packaging solutions on an international basis.
As previously announced, revenue from the UK passport contract ceased, albeit later than expected, in the last quarter of 2010.
As a result, a restructuring programme was completed at the divisions Banbury facility to match the cost base to the reduced level of activity.
BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 27 Filtrona plc For more information visit: Annual Report 2010 www.
com What we measure Why we measure it How we did Innovation percentage of Demonstrates the success of % packaging sales derived from new products and technologies 22 recently developed products Innovation development of new Shows the amount of new tooling in extrusion tooling introduced to expand 81new tools production capabilities Customer satisfaction Drives performance of quality % systems and service delivery 0.8 On Time In Full Customer complaints % 33 improvement A highlight in the year was the supply of security laminates for the VIP passes for a major winter sporting event, following on from the successes with similar winter and summer events.
Fulfilled personalised card volumes grew in the year helped by the improved service performance following the relocation to Banbury of the personal ID business.
The Enitor plastic extrusion business in The Netherlands achieved a good recovery in the year with an encouraging progression in financial performance including strong cash conversion.
Production volume Labels for tamper increased by 11.7%, and efficiency improved along with significant gains evidence authentication in on time delivery.
Our responsibility BRC IOP Following a move to new premises the Brazilian sales and conversion Global Standard operation successfully recertified for ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS for 18001.
The Nottingham and Banbury operations achieved accreditation ISO ISO OHSAS Packaging SA to the Carbon Trust Standard.
Following acquisition of BP Labels, the 9000 14001 18001 Materials 8000 operation in Cardiff is making good progress towards achieving ISO Payne Nottingham 3 3 3 3 14001.
Details of the international accreditations held across the division Payne Banbury 3 3 3 are detailed opposite.
BP Labels 3 The division continued to develop sustained, long-term environmental Payne Richmond 3 3 3 programmes effecting CO emission reduction, waste reduction, waste 2 Payne Sao Paulo 3 3 3 recycling, ecological impacts and ongoing energy efficiency improvements.
Payne Bangalore 3 3 3 3 Payne Surabaya 3 3 3 3 The division seeks to monitor employee satisfaction by ensuring a high Enitor 3 3 3 degree of management engagement with employees at all locations.
During 2010 good progress was made implementing the improvement ISO 9000 is the international standard for quality performance programmes identified during the 2009 employee survey.
ISO 14001 is the international standard for environmental performance Outlook OHSAS 18001 is the internationally recognised standard for Looking forward to 2011, it is anticipated that the Coated & Security occupational health commitment and performance Products division will continue to progress well with revenue growth BRC IOP is the global standard for packaging and packaging from new products and services.
materials SA8000 is the international standard for human rights principles
