48 Unlocking Resources Sustainability Review We maintained our investment in safety Our overall approach has remained During 2010, we improvement, our social programmes consistent with prior years and is focused and environmental emissions reduction around a number of core themes that we continued to make plans.
We have taken steps to complete use to achieve progress towards our goal progress in delivering specific assessments to see how we need to be a sustainable business: to develop further, in particular in relation our goal to operate to energy efficiency and occupational health setting Group standards that provide management.
the foundation for how we work across and develop as a the Group.
18 new safety standards have responsible and External events in 2010 as well as our internal been approved by the Health, Safety, development have caused us to look at Environment and Sustainability HSES sustainable business.
how we govern our environmental and Committee for global adoption: social obligations and consider our goals.
In particular our focus has been influenced by: changing behaviours to support implementation.
The results of our integration of international assets into safety behaviours programme have been the Group, bringing new demands on assessed by a third party and reported us to extend our response in different to the Executive Committee: jurisdictions and cultures: investing in our existing assets to help major industrial accidents in the mining us to achieve best available technologies and metals industries, highlighting the with respect to environmental constant risks that the industry faces: performance.
We have completed our five year investment programme: the strengthening and maturing of our internal governance processes: taking steps ahead of the introduction of legislation in Kazakhstan to assist timely accelerated progress of the Kazakhstani compliance, for example energy and Government to introduce legislation in carbon footprinting: and new areas of environmental and social performance: and developing relationships to work in partnership with governments and completion of our pilot work on safety wider stakeholders.
in Kazchrome and our emissions improvement programme, giving us scope to reflect on the next phase of our improvement work.
During 2010 we developed the governance of our environmental and social obligations and reviewed our goals.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 49 This review includes references to our on both occasions.
The HSES Working We believe working with stakeholders international operations in Russia and Group was convened in October 2010 to is part of our governance process.
Africa and our exploration activity in review progress, share learning and discuss It provides us with insights into external Brazil.
It addresses priority areas of Group priorities.
Africa is not yet represented expectations and concerns and enables activity in 2010 namely: on the Working Group, but an integration us to draw on the knowledge and skills of visit was completed in November 2010. others and work in partnership.
We work HSES governance: closely with governments, in particular at The HSES Committee approved some a regional level in Kazakhstan, and are safety management: revisions to the HSES governance structure in the process of establishing a number in 2010 recognising the international nature of partnership programmes in Brazil with social policy, including employee benefits of the Group and the ambition for HSES different stakeholder groups.
and community social contributions: and management and reporting.
As part of this: As a Group we have continued our environmental stewardship.
A Group HSES team has been created participation in major international to provide guidance and oversight over programmes on sustainable development During 2011 we intend to review our priorities the full Group operations including Africa including the World Business Council for and areas of focus taking into account and Brazil in addition to the Kazakhstani Sustainable Development and its regional what we have learnt so far, what we need to and Russian operations.
The Group HSES partner, the Kazakhstan Business achieve and how best to realise our goals.
As part of this we plan to extend our risk Our experience of working with governments and compliance processes to provide a A divisional HSES lead role has been and sharing industry practice was reflected, more structured assessment and reporting defined and will be put in place in 2011. in 2010, in our support for the first Astana on areas of risk relating to health, safety, This will be supported through the existing Mining and Metals Congress June, and environment and social performance.
entity level HSES role, including Africa the UN ESCAP Environment Ministers and Brazil.
Conference and Business Forum Green and We continue to work on developing our Competitive.
We continue to have close key performance indicators and reporting We will continue to integrate sustainable alliances with the Government in Kazakhstan processes to improve the consistency and development considerations into wider giving us early insight and influence in the quality of our data.
corporate governance processes including development of legislation.
This is particularly our risk and compliance processes.
relevant in the context of current discussions HSES governance on the subjects of climate change and Work has continued to develop and Internal reporting processes continue to be biodiversity.
implement governance over our HSES developed.
Throughout 2010 the Board has performance.
The HSES Committee has met received reports on safety performance.
As twice during the year and the governance part of this, all individual fatality cases have structure has been a primary consideration been reported and explained, including the steps to be taken to prevent recurrence.
Safety governance structure Board of Directors CEO Corporate HSES Function Divisional Directors Divisional HSES Function Line Managers Cascading through four Business Unit HSE Function management levels Employees 50 Unlocking Resources Sustainability Review continued Safety management Our safety performance in Africa is the As a Group Safety continues to be a priority for the subject of management review.
Our aim is to achieve zero injuries.
of the reporting definitions and processes we continued We have made progress in 2010 and our across the Group, including Russia and to participate in accident rate is lower than in 2009.
However, Africa, is a key goal for 2011. we are still at an early stage in embedding major international the right safety behaviours across the Group The Corporate Safety Programme initiated in and continue to make the necessary 2008 in partnership with DuPont completed programmes investment in our assets to mitigate safety its first phase in 2010.
This first phase on sustainable hazards.
comprised a pilot safety project at Kazchrome: this has helped the Group to development.
Safety performance progress towards a stronger focus on safety Our accident rate in Kazakhstan has behaviours.
The necessary management reduced since 2009.
However, we still have a mechanisms, including instructions and high number of severe injuries in Kazakhstan, guidelines, and internal operational reporting 2010: 23 2009: 27, with one leading to a continue to be developed.
The number of fatalities to work to establish a corporate safety in Kazakhstan was lower than in 2009, but management programme across all of the seven fatal accidents 2009: 12 in the year Groups operational sites.
We have investigated each of the severe and fatal cases, working By the end of 2010, the operational sites to learn lessons and implement changes in Kazakhstan and Russia were certified to operations across the Group.
to OHSAS 18001, the international occupational, health and safety management Our primary areas of incident include standard.
We will seek to achieve this working at height, equipment isolation, standard at our operations across Africa.
We are sharing lessons learned across our network of safety representatives and on-site safety committees and determining Group-wide steps that can be taken to mitigate these risks, including consideration of these risks as part of our equipment procurement processes.
Safety statistics KZ and KZ and KZ and Russia Africa Russia Russia 12 months 2010 2010 2009 2008 Lost time injuries 45 52 64 74 1 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate 0.41 2.88 0.63 0.68 Fatal cases 7 0 12 9 1 Fatal Injury Frequency Rate 0.06 0 0.12 0.08 1 Measured per million hours worked by employees.
Contractor data not included Analysis of the causes of fatal accidents Fatal accidents 2010 2009 Moving machinery 3 4 Explosion 1 0 Falling from heights 1 2 Falling objects 2 2 Electric current 0 2 Blasting operations 0 1 Road accidents 0 1 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 51 Milestones achieved in 2010 include: Employees wellbeing.
These additional social benefits, HSES Committee approval of 18 safety Our operations depend upon our ability referred to in Kazakhstan and Russia as standards for safety risk management: to attract, retain and motivate employees social packages, include for example: who bring the necessary management and memberships to sports facilities, discount the establishment of eight site safety operational skills and are capable of working tourist packages, voluntary medical insurance, committees led by site heads and in challenging environments.
We employ and bonuses for landmark birthdays.
These five safety subcommittees led by line more than 74,000 people, of whom 70,000 benefits also include investment in health, managers: are in Kazakhstan and Russia.
sport and other recreational facilities.
We also continued our voluntary low interest rate the training of about 3,500 line managers Union membership and collective 1% housing programme for our employees in incident investigation and about 5,000 agreements in Kazakhstan.
Currently the housing line managers in safety behaviour audits: We recognise the right of all our employees programme is being implemented in to enter into a collective agreement and join 14 cities in four major industrial regions of continued development of near miss a union.
The majority of our employees in Kazakhstan.
About 2,000 employees have incident reporting: and the Republic of Kazakhstan and Russia are received new housing since 2006. members of trade unions.
Unions are not further implementation of our accident in place in Africa but labour laws prevail.
Employee training and development investigation procedure.
In 2010 we continued investment in the New industrial agreements have been signed training and development of our employees, Social policy or are in the process of being signed with and the formation of a succession pool The Group has a strong reputation in the the trade unions in Kazakhstan.
These are for management in our businesses.
Republic of Kazakhstan for being a socially agreed for a three-year period.
In addition oriented and responsible business.
We work to the social rights and benefits guaranteed An estimated 55% of the workforce in closely with the Government of the Republic by the Kazakhstani Labour Code, these Kazakhstan and Russia was involved of Kazakhstan to implement governmental industrial agreements require the provision in training programmes during the year agreements, programmes and initiatives of medical benefits, loans at favourable 2009: 40%.
Our efforts were recognised related to implementing the Law of the mortgage rates, training of employees when the ENRC programme on employee Republic of Kazakhstan On Social and their children and preferential packages development was named as the best human Partnership.
We are committed to achieving to recreational centres and childrens resource project in Kazakhstan for the the same strength of reputation and summer camps.
last five years, at an international human relationships in Africa, Russia and Brazil.
resources conference organised by the Social benefits packages for Samruk-Kazyna Fund.
The Groups social policy focuses on employees two key areas, employees and community In Kazakhstan and Russia we invest beyond In 2010 a new employee performance social investment.
our legislative obligations on employment measurement system was developed benefits as we believe this is essential to for top and mid-tier management.
retaining our workforce and assisting their Waste management in ferroalloys production Goals Approach Processing industrial waste into Kazchromes Aksu and Aktobe Ferroalloys useable products Plants, and Serov Ferroalloys Plant are processing newly generated and Resource saving accumulated slags, producing metal concentrate which is used as an input Reducing adverse environmental for the core ferroalloys production impacts of waste disposal process.
In addition, the plants are producing crushed stone, which can Scope be used in construction.
Kazchrome, Kazakhstan: Serov Ferroalloys Plant, Russia Results A small but increasing proportion of the current ferroalloys output is produced from industrial waste, which formerly was sent to slag dumps.
Kazchrome saved 45 hectares of natural landscape, which would have been required for the construction of a new slag dump.
52 Unlocking Resources Sustainability Review continued Human rights Community social investment Environmental stewardship We have established internal policies As we frequently operate in remote areas Investment to reduce emissions has been addressing human rights as well as and are often the only commercial enterprise a priority for a number of years.
By 2011 a corporate code of conduct.
We are in the region, we are committed to investing most of the planned improvements to committed to upholding the United Nations in sustainable local and regional development.
reduce emissions at our current operations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and The majority of our communities are also in Kazakhstan will have been completed.
do not tolerate any form of discrimination our employees and contractors and the In 2010 the Group made further investments or unfair treatment.
No cases of child labour, investment helps secure their wellbeing.
We on upgrades and modernisation of old harassment, forced labour, discrimination are also a major employer within Kazakhstan technologies to enable progress towards or other actions that contradict the principles and seek to contribute more generally to the best practice standards.
Across Kazakhstan of equality and human rights have been countrys social and economic development.
and Russia emissions in 2010 were within identified during 2010.
No human rights applicable statutory limits.
concerns have been raised by the unions Komek Foundation in Kazakhstan during 2010.
The Komek Foundation, established in 2008, Energy consumption is a major impact is governed through a Board of Trustees.
In 2010 ENRCs Health protection Its long-term focus is on the implementation Kazakhstani and Russian operations Investment in healthcare and medical of programmes aimed at supporting ENRCs consumed 250,000 terajoules 2009: facilities has been a major part of our own workforce, including sponsorship and 275,000 TJ of energy, of which 75% was employment packages over a number of charitable donations as well as provision sourced from coal.
In Kazakhstan 23 healthcare centres, of finance for investment in development of study was completed by management and located in the territory of ENRC operational cultural and health facilities.
The investment a greenhouse gas inventory and footprint divisions, provide medical services to to date has been directed within Kazakhstan.
were prepared for all operations in employees.
In the DRC, ENRC is the only Kazakhstan.
In 2010 total greenhouse provider of funds for the costs of hospital Our investment in the community through gas emissions in Kazakhstan and Russia and medical services to employees and the Komek Foundation is included within 2 equivalent were 31 million tonnes of CO communities in the Kakanda area, where our consolidated community social 2009: 29 milllion tonnes.
The increase Boss Mining operates.
was due primarily to an increased level of production.
During 2011 we will review In 2010 we established a new Occupational Community social investment spend the findings of this work and determine Health Department which will focus on Each year the Group signs agreements measures that can support energy efficiency health protection issues across the Group.
with regional Governors in the Republic and carbon reduction, while recognising the An initial assessment has been completed of Kazakhstan for the provision of financial nature of our business and the geographies of healthcare provisions across Kazakhstan: support for regional development.
this has identified variations in the manner in Investments are typically directed towards which healthcare provision is organised and infrastructure development, health and Other environmental impacts which we are the level of use of the facilities.
Further education programmes and cultural and working to reduce and manage to an assessments will be made during 2011. sports facilities.
In Africa, the social improved performance standard include: investment programme in 2010 continued HIV AIDS in Africa and Central Asia is a and included road maintenance for a local Water efficiency.
Work is under way major public health issue and a significant village, purchase of fertilisers for farmers, to consider alternative methods for dust risk to our workforce located in these areas.
contributions to hospital costs and support suppression and investment to develop Across all geographies in which we operate for schools.
new sources of supply: we are supporting detection and treatment programmes working in conjunction with The expenditure on community social Biodiversity.
Tree planting schemes will local governments.
investment in Kazakhstan and Russia continue in 2011 in Kazakhstan as well in 2010 amounted to US$58 million 2009: as a partnership with the United Nations US$37 million.
This increase was largely Development Programme and a result of increased funding towards Kazakhstan National Parks: cultural development through Komek.
The community investment spend in Africa Waste and hazardous materials was of the order of US$5 million in 2010. reduction.
Research continues into waste processing and chemicals handling options.
