corporate social responsibility The group is diverse and operates through a large number of businesses protocol methodology developed by the World Resource Institute and in many geographical locations.
Each separate business provides the World Business Council for Sustainable Development.
important channels of communication to different sections of society throughout the world.
The success of the groups businesses owes In addition, the company, through DMGT, is part of the Carbon much to understanding and engaging with the communities that they Disclosure Project CDP and has been submitting full responses serve.
This allows them to identify the issues relevant to their customers to them since 2007 and is included in the FTSE CDP Carbon Strategy and to campaign effectively delivering benefits to a broad range of Index Series.
The directors are committed to reducing the groups carbon emissions The group also owes much of its success to the entrepreneurial ability and managing its carbon footprint.
The company, as part of the wider of its management teams.
Each business thrives by allowing local DMGT group, committed to reducing its carbon footprint by 10% decisions in a local context, while benefiting from the global outlook from the baseline year of 2007 by the end of 2012.
This year the and financial resources of the wider group.
footprint fell by 5% compared to last year and by 13% compared to the 2007 baseline.
The company, as part of the wider DMGT group, The paragraphs below provide more detailed explanations on key having achieved the targeted 10% reduction in under five years is now impact areas of corporate responsibility: considering what carbon commitment should be made for the next five years to 2015. environmental responsibility social responsibility The group does not operate directly in industries where there is the potential for serious industrial pollution.
It does not print products Ethiopian water and sanitation project in-house or have any investments in printing works.
It takes its The company encourages its people to be active in charities, and directs environmental responsibility seriously and complies with all relevant the group charity budget exclusively to good causes that its employees environmental laws and regulations in each country in which it operates.
support, matching or more the money raised.
This is an active and Wherever economically feasible, account is taken of environmental healthy two-way process often an individual running a marathon for issues when placing contracts with suppliers of goods and services and his or her chosen cause asks the company to donate but in addition these suppliers are regularly reviewed and monitored.
For instance, the the board believes that periodically a big, company-wide project should groups two biggest print contracts are outsourced to companies who be selected that is a challenge, is very focused on results, and has a have environment management systems compliant with the ISO 14001 specific social goal of permanently changing the lives of some of the standard.
The paper used for the groups publications is produced from poorest people in the world.
The additional benefit to the company if pulp obtained from sustainable forests, manufactured under strict, the project is successful is that it brings together employees from all monitored and accountable environmental standards.
parts of the group in the common pursuit of a cause that unites them.
The group is not a heavy user of energy: however, it does manage This year, an excellent one for profits, we followed on from our its energy requirements sensibly using low-energy office equipment successful funding of the Kalinga Childrens Eye Hospital in Orissa, India, where possible and using a common sense approach to office energy by asking all group employees to suggest a list of charitable projects management.
that they are associated with.
We received a list of over 50 projects and detailed evaluations were carried out on a shortlist of seven.
The Each office within the group is encouraged to reduce waste, reuse executive committee then selected two of the charities, which were paper and only print documents and emails where necessary.
The main subjected to a company-wide vote in July.
offices across the group also recycle waste where possible.
This year the UK offices recycled 56,721 kg of paper and card, which is equivalent to The chosen charity was an African Medical and Research Foundation 664 trees or 76,276 kg of CO.
The UK offices recycling capability has sustainable water and sanitation project in Kechene, the largest slum 2 recently been extended to include plastics, glass and cans.
Dirty water is one of the most serious threats to the health of Kechenes people, transmitting a range of diseases including cholera, typhoid, trachoma and diarrhoea which despite being easily treatable in Europe is a leading killer of African children.
carbon footprint The group and the foundation will be working together throughout 2011 to fund and tackle the delivery of this project which will directly The company, as part of the wider Daily Mail and General Trust plc benefit the lives and well-being of 22,000 people.
The group, its group DMGT, participates in a DMGT group-wide carbon footprint employees, and its customers will fund the provision of more sources analysis completed by ICF International.
This exercise has been of clean water and will build sanitation kiosks small buildings, latrines undertaken every year since 2006 using the widely recognised GHG and showers to serve the local community, which establishes its own Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 28 20082.04 09 12 10 Proof 6 committees responsible for managing and maintaining them.
The Each business agrees payment terms with its suppliers on an individual group will donate 100,000 directly to this project subject to final board basis and it is group policy to make payments in accordance with these approval, in addition to its usual charity budget, and will encourage terms.
The group had 73 days of purchases in creditors at September colleagues and customers to raise the remainder.
been asked to help, and each profit centre has been invited to volunteer to raise a certain amount.
To ensure the sustainability of the project, the company will work closely with the foundation and the local community employee involvement to ensure the facilities are managed and maintained in the long term, and training and will retain a close involvement.
Equal opportunities The group is an equal opportunity employer.
It seeks to employ a The community at large workforce which reflects the diverse community at large, because the contribution of the individual is valued, irrespective of sex, age, marital status, disability, sexual preference or orientation, race, colour, religion, There is no fixed limit to the groups charity budget and the group ethnic or national origin.
It does not discriminate in recruitment, deliberately supports the same good causes that its employees support, promotion or other employee matters.
The group endeavours to matching or bettering the money raised by its people.
In addition to the provide a working environment free from unlawful discrimination, Ethiopian water and sanitation project above, some other examples of victimisation or harassment.
donations made during the year are as follows: Quality and integrity of employees Bali Sports Peace Foundation The competence of people is ensured through high recruitment standards Coaltrans gave a donation of $10,000 towards the Bali Sports Peace and a commitment to management and business skills training.
This is a foundation which provides sporting opportunities group has the advantage of running external training businesses and for underprivileged children in Bali and Papua New Guinea and other uses this expertise and resource to train cost-effectively its employees parts of Indonesia.
Employees are also encouraged actively to seek external training as necessary.
Charity dinners Consistent with prior years, a number of charity dinners were held High quality and honest personnel are an essential part of the control during the year.
EuroWeek held two charity dinners raising nearly environment.
The high ethical standards expected are communicated by 200,000 for the Hope and Homes for Children charity.
management and through the employee handbook which is provided to all employees.
The employee handbook includes specific policies Institutional Investor held a charity dinner which raised $10,000 on matters such as the use of the groups information technology for a charity called Little Kids Rock, an enterprise providing musical resources, data protection policy and disciplinary and grievance instruments and training to inner-city youth.
The group operates an internal intranet site which is used to communicate regularly with employees and provide guidance and Institutional Investor Journals also held a charity dinner raising $4,000 assistance on day-to-day matters facing employees.
The group has a for the Comp2kids programme.
This programme endeavours to provide specific whistle-blowing policy that is updated regularly and is reviewed computers to low income students in New York City middle schools by the audit committee.
for use in their homes, to empower and enrich their educational experiences through technology.
Human rights and health and safety requirements The group is committed to the health and safety and the human rights of its employees and communities in which it operates.
Health and safety issues are monitored to ensure compliance with all local health and customers and suppliers safety regulations.
External health and safety advisers are used where appropriate.
The UK businesses benefit from a regular assessment of the working environment by experienced assessors and regular training The group operates through a large number of businesses in many of all existing and new UK employees in health and safety matters.
As such, the relationships with key customers and suppliers is decentralised such that there is no overarching policy on how Disabled employees the group manages these relationships.
This enables each business to It is the groups policy to give full and fair consideration to applications tailor their approach to suit customers and suppliers specific needs and for employment from people who are disabled: to continue, wherever requirements.
Each key customer and supplier has an account manager possible, the employment of, and to arrange appropriate training for allocated to them ensuring that open communication is maintained employees who become disabled: and to provide opportunities for the throughout the contractual relationship.
Further communication is career development, training and promotion of disabled employees.
regularly provided to the groups key customers through emails and online information in order to promote respective products.
Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 29 20082.04 09 12 10 Proof 6 Corporate Social Responsibility Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance
