Corporate Social Responsibility CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY We recognise that our operations have a commercial and economic impact on the communities in which we operate, and we are committed to the sustainable development of these communities.
Equally, the way in which we relate to all of our key stakeholder groups internal and external is an important part of our social responsibility.
Below are highlights of our CSR activity in 2010, which continued to focus on: continually seeking to improve health and safety: environmental awareness: and nurturing our people.
CSR Oversight and Implementation The CSR Committee is responsible for developing, on 15 March 2010.
The Group recognises that monitoring and reporting on the Groups incidents of workplace fraud, wrongdoing or corporate social responsibility policies and mismanagement are possible in any business and it activities.
The members of the CSR committee is committed to ensuring that any such malpractice are an independent non-executive director Ezio is prevented from happening and immediately Bracco, the Chief Executive Officer, and the Chief dealt with if it does arise.
The Group encourages Operating Officer.
The CSR committee meets twice employees to raise their concerns about any a year and reports to the Board.
malpractice at the earliest possible stage and the policy sets out the correct method for raising any The Group is committed to embedding the such concerns.
The policy confers no contractual principles of sound corporate social responsibility rights on employees.
Exillon Energy adopted a revised Code of Business Practice on 15 March At the operational level, Health, Safety and 2010.
The Code describes values and ethical Environment HSE is managed at Exillon WS principles on which the Companys work is based and Exillon TP by designated members of local and determines the unified standards of corporate management who report to the General Director of behaviour in the Company.
The Code of Business their respective companies and the Groups Chief Practice is applicable to each and every worker Operating Officer.
A Whistleblower Policy was adopted Health and Safety Exillon Energy plc is subject to a wide range of safety.
We have a comprehensive Environmental Russian Federal regulations relating to health and Production Safety Programme EPSP, which and safety, notably Federal Law No.
116-FZ On includes policies related to personnel safety, Industrial Safety of Hazardous Industrial Facilities emergency control and production safety.
and various parts of the Russian Labour Code.
Exillon Energy is committed to complying with Employees receive regular mandatory training GOST standards on environmental and production and drills on emergency response, well blow-out 14 Exillon Energy Corporate Social Responsibility prevention, oil and other hazardous liquid spills Again in 2010, the Group reported no fatalities and prevention, hydrogen sulphide safety knowledge, no work-related injuries.
The Groups Lost Time first aid training, fire safety and fire fighting Injury Frequency Rate for 2010 was therefore zero equipment.
and our long-term target would be to sustain this impressive level.
Any incidents are a cause of grave The Federal Service for Ecological, Technological concern and we remain committed to providing a and Nuclear Supervision Rostekhnadzor, which safe and supportive work environment for all.
The ensures compliance with safety rules, periodically Group did not pay any compensation claims in inspects our field operations and has found them 2010. compliant to date.
In addition, the Groups Health, Safety and Environment Department carries out With the exception of those based in Moscow, quarterly safety audits of our field operations.
all Group employees in Russia are provided with Findings on these audits are presented to the medical insurance, which includes health checkGeneral Directors of Exillon TP and Exillon WS as ups.
The families of employees of Exillon Middle well as the Groups Chief Operating Officer.
There East Dubai are also provided with medical are at present no significant recommendations insurance.
Environment Exillon Energy recognises the importance of The Group regularly audits the environmental protecting the environment in all of its activities impact of all aspects of its activities.
Environmental and aims to fulfill this commitment by complying protection and hazard control measures include: with relevant environmental legislation and regulations, continuous improvement of Daily sampling of air, water and soil environmental management practices and preventing pollution.
Control of stationary sources of air pollution emission The Groups operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations in Russia, including those governing emissions: wastewater Laboratory analysis of surface water discharges: the reclamation of contaminated soil: and the use, handling and disposal of hazardous Monitoring condition of streams, water substances and wastes.
conservation zones In addition, the Group has long-term obligations Transporting sewage to treatment relating to decommissioning of operational facilities and remediation of soil or groundwater, facilities and waste disposal.
Installation of equipment for storing Exillon Energy seeks to meet high standards for dangerous refuse environmental protection.
Our commitment to the GOST standards includes specific requirements for Forsage -1 industrial waste furnace environmental protection and hazard control.
Training managers and staff in environmental protection and hazard control In 2010, a Gas Power Generator with 1MW capacity was installed at Exillon TP enabling associated gas to be used as fuel for internal purposes.
Before the installation of this equipment the gas which accompanied the extraction of oil was flared, which had a negative impact on the environment.
In addition, the Company intends to build a gas turbine plant and gas pipeline which is already included into the capital expenditure budget of Exillon TP and Exillon WS for 2011.
The Group spent a total of US$0.57 million on environmental protection in 2010 2009: US$0.1 million, of which US$0.54 was spent at Exillon TP 2009: US$0.093 million and US$0.03 was spent at Exillon WS 2009: US$0.01 million.
15 Corporate Social Responsibility Employees At the end of 2010 Exillon Energy employed employees career development and career 253 staff, of whom 22 were employed by Exillon progression, by providing stable and fair Middle East in Dubai, 16 by Regional Resources compensation and benefits, as well as extensive LLC in Moscow, 91 by Exillon WS and 124 by training.
In addition, it employed 19 contractors.
Key engineering staff receive compulsory training As identified in the Risk Factors on pages 24-25, in production safety, which is delivered by the state the companys success depends on its ability to authorities or service providers certified by the recruit, motivate and retain senior management authorities.
Staff are tested on industrial safety and and highly skilled employees in a competitive job subsoil protection once every three years.
At Exillon TP, staff receive training relevant to their The Group has addressed this in part by field of work once every three months.
Testing establishing an employee share plan to create is carried out annually and staff receive cards incentives for Executive Directors and senior confirming that they have attended training and management.
The Company supports its passed the relevant tests.
Looking Ahead As a relatively young company, we recognise of the communities in which we operate, and that there is always room for improvement in to all of our stakeholders, but its also key to developing further our overall CSR strategy the sustainable growth and development of our and policies.
We are committed to doing this.
It will continue to be a key strategic Sound corporate social responsibility is not issue for us, and a regular agenda item at our only important to the sustainable development Board and management meetings.
16 Exillon Energy Corporate Social Responsibility 17
