48 Experian Annual Report 2010 Business review Corporate responsibility Experians approach to Corporate Responsibility CR can be typified by one of the four global behaviours that drive our Group culture Doing it right.
A determination to get things right for clients, consumers, employees, shareholders and, ultimately, for society as a whole is an underpinning principle.
Experians CR strategy, together with and is a regular element of internal The CR strategy concentrates on three a set of six key responsibilities and announcements about the Groups principal activities: governance structure, were developed overall performance.
over 2007 and 2008 and can be found Embedding CR in everyday business on Experian's corporate website at Experians consistent reporting of Focusing the community programme www.
The Experian achievements against the CR strategy Innovating for social benefit Board reviews CR progress at every provides a clear picture of progress, meeting and a comprehensive CR but more detail about developments The objectives for these activities report is published in conjunction around the six responsibilities and the degree of achievement are with the annual report.
CR is also built can be found in the full CR report summarised in the table below.
into regional leadership objectives at www.
Strategy Objective Status Comment By 2011, further embed Achieved Standard Experian risk category definitions Embedding Social, Ethical and enhanced to explicitly address sustainability issues CR in Environmental SEE risks and the longer term everyday in the risk process and All business and support units required to ensure each business unit incorporate in risk registers and use in assessing business is addressing them in its risk new projects register Express SEE risks and Achieved Internal communication strategy with quarterly opportunities, challenges focus and achievements more CR achievements included alongside financials in explicitly and communicate performance updates to all employees to all employees Global communication forums include CR representatives CR video, sponsored by CEO Evolve the community Partly Increased focus on entrepreneurship in funding Focusing the focus to include community achieved application criteria community sustainability Applications and awards made to projects focused programme on entrepreneurship Spend at least 75% of Achieved Application criteria for projects reviewed and central community funds on strengthened strategic focus of financial Of US$794,000 available, 81% spent on projects with education entrepreneurship strategic focus Build SEE opportunity Partly SEE reviews built into processes for all new Innovating reviews into product achieved developments, including new products but specific for social development processes in product development processes not yet influenced benefit at least one region Continue to provide funding Achieved Big Idea funding provided consistently over three for Big Ideas and publicise years and showing impact programme internally Programme publicised through general communications, but more specific communications needed Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Business review 49 Expand our global reach Deliver innovative data and analytics Execute superior sales and operations hElping protEct conSUMErS froM idEntity thEft Each year, around ten million Americans are the victims of identity theft, one of the fastest growing crimes in recent times.
Simply checking your credit report occasionally is no longer enough to guard against the misuse of your personal information.
com PMID, a part of Experian, has been designed to protect individuals from the financial loss and emotional strain that accompanies this crime.
Members are provided with daily monitoring of their credit profile across all three US credit bureaux.
They are also alerted to address change notifications that might indicate fraudulent postal redirection and their credit and debit card details are searched for daily on the internet for fraudulent use.
Experians Fraud Resolution Agents are on hand to provide assistance in resolving identity theft issues and the service is backed by PMIDs $1 Million Product Guarantee.
John is one of the nine million people Experian helps today through its credit monitoring and identity protection products: When I joined ProtectMyID.
com I had already experienced identity theft.
Since then, Ive been alerted to additional attempts to steal my credit card.
Its like an early warning system.
I should have joined years ago.
50 Experian Annual Report 2010 Business review Corporate responsibility continued Embedding CR in 2010 2009 Community investment everyday business US$000 US$000 CR-related performance can only Funds from Experian plc 1,001 937 accelerate once it becomes second Financial donations from Experian subsidiaries 932 1,012 nature for employees to consider the Employee time volunteered 595 353 SEE needs of society in mainstream Gifts in kind 343 222 business decisions.
In 2010, Experian Management costs 179 185 concentrated on building CR into Total from Experian 3,050 2,709 standard processes and creating As % of Benchmark PBT 0.34% 0.32% a better understanding of what CR means to everyone across the Group.
By communicating the natural linkages Employee fundraising 679 466 with the business strategy, it is easier GUS Charitable Trust donations 602 423 to demonstrate the relevance of SEE Total value of all giving 4,331 3,598 considerations.
As a % of Benchmark PBT 0.48% 0.43% Building CR into processes It was a year of significant improvement: Focusing the funds.
A total of US$150,000 was all risk processes at Experian, from community programme given following each of the disasters, corporate to business unit level, now Central funds are set aside to support largely to the Red Cross, but also reference SEE considerations.
Any the regional community programme.
to organisations that were local to new data source in the US business To make sure these funds have the Experians operations in Santiago.
is assessed according to a set of most impact, Experian has developed fair information values and this a focus on financial education and There was a significant rise in employee process is being adopted across all entrepreneurship.
In the last year, the volunteering and employee fundraising geographies.
A global code of conduct target was to spend at least 75% of the during the year.
Volunteering has now has been developed and is now being allocated US$794,000 on this focus.
been built into leadership development implemented, and the business is In fact, 81% was achieved, spent on a programmes in the UK and Experian running training programmes to ensure range of projects across Experians is capturing volunteering activity in compliance with national legislation.
A major financial education EMEA, including South Africa, for the Experian takes into consideration every project in the US is reaching out first time.
aspect of information security in its specifically to minority and underserved data centre management and invests communities.
In Brazil, a project Innovating for social benefit heavily as it expands.
Data centres are involves Experians own employees in Experian has a unique set of skills and also acknowledged to make the biggest coaching community leaders, parents resources.
Applying these skills to 17 impact on Experians carbon footprint.
and teachers in financial awareness.
create a product or service that solves Energy savings in data centres have Experian Denmark has set up a a social problem is probably the best ensured this footprint has not increased partnership with the Danish Tax office, way the Group can make a positive despite a rise in capacity and data targeted at supporting vulnerable young social impact.
Seed funding is provided processed.
people as they leave home.
In the UK, to support the exploration and early Experian is focusing on younger people, development of products or services.
Better understanding reaching them before debt becomes Termed Big Ideas, these relatively small Improvements in regular internal an issue, and is working with a national amounts are invested to encourage 'big communications, through magazines, charity, Debt Doctors.
The Asia Pacific thinking across a broad spectrum of intranets, meetings, blogs and business identified suitable strategic social issues.
webcasts, are helping raise employee projects for the first time in 2010 and awareness.
A university study led Experian Singapore is beginning work The first project reported under this by an MBA student gave a thoughtto support communities in Mongolia programme has now led to a proposal provoking insight into the level of and Cambodia.
for a mainstream business development awareness in the UK audience, which in microfinance.
The original funding fuelled a programme to raise the In addition to this focused approach, supported a period of development, visibility of CR.
This programme was Experian contributed to the disaster working with the World Bank, to examine sponsored by CEO Don Robert, whose relief funds following the devastating how Experians products and services video introduction to the CR report earthquakes in Haiti and Chile.
could make the process of micro lending demonstrates his personal commitment Employees led the way, giving very more efficient and ultimately make loans to improving understanding.
generously, and the business matched cheaper for the disadvantaged.
A case their donations and gave additional study is described in the full CR report.
Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 11 12 51 52 84 85 160 Experian Annual Report 2010 Business review 51 8 Links to the core business strategy vertical markets and geographies, The central CR focus is embedded Experian is today focused on investing in new data sources and in all three aspects of this growth accelerating the growth that it has innovative analytics and making sure its strategy.
More detail describing how CR maintained throughout the global sales infrastructure and operations are supports each strand of this strategy is economic downturn.
It is doing this best-in-class.
shown in the text beneath the diagram.
by expanding global reach into new CR strategy Doing it right Embedding CR Focusing the Innovating for in everyday business community programme social benefit Supply chain links with Public Community project in slum school in Joint social project in conjunction with Sector and Telecommunications Mumbai plus financial education project utilities sector partner l organisations at point of contract l in partnership with local bank l Microfinance CR project leading to SEE part of risk considerations Open communication with EMEA mainstream business development n as expanding in new regions and developing makets regarding CR verticals l potential, for FY11 l CR investment in ethnic diversity in the workplace development leading Improving data security awareness Financial education projects involve to links with new clients partners and and global code of conduct n s staff in developing skills and leadership innovative new product n qualities s Community projects in partnership with clients improve depth of relationship s Delivering innovative data Executing superior sales Expanding global reach and analytics and operations Business strategy Taking control of growth A strong CR programme has been l Expanding global reach s Executing superior sales essential as Experian expands into Before any investment is made in and operations new vertical markets.
The right products, people or infrastructure to As Experian invests in its sales and environmental credentials and support a new geography or vertical operations, a priority is made of approach to employee diversity were market, SEE considerations are ensuring everyone is aware of data a prerequisite for obtaining supplier assessed as part of the standard compliance issues and operating to status with public sector organisations investment review process.
a strict ethical code of conduct.
Using such as Her Majestys Revenue and and protecting data properly is seen as Customs in the UK.
More proactively, central funds are one of the six key CR responsibilities made available to support community and, this year, Information Security investments in both established and and Compliance awareness training n Delivering innovative data emerging segments.
This year, as the for all employees was a priority.
Data and analytics business expanded in India, Experian compliance training for sales teams Investment on a macro scale in supported the refurbishment of a was also instigated.
new data sources and projects school for the children of Dharavi, the to strengthen the core business largest slum in Mumbai, and is now is complemented by central CR working with a local bank to develop a seed funding investments to grow programme of financial education.
innovative products that have a strong social impact.
