Corporate Responsibility Report The Fenner Group is a world leader in reinforced polymer technology with manufacturing and sales sites in 19 countries, serving customers across the globe.
We design, manufacture and distribute sophisticated reinforced plastic polymer products such as conveyor belts, seals, medical textiles, industrial textiles, hoses and bespoke critical polymer components for a broad base of customers including high technology industries and mining companies.
Our markets include industrial automation, office equipment, oil and gas, aerospace and bulk material handling.
The Group understands that its market leading position means it has social and environmental responsibilities that must be embedded within the business decision making process.
This Report describes the actions taken in the five key areas of Health and Safety, Valuing our People, Business Behaviours, Environmental Impact and Community Involvement that have been taken over the past year to ensure that the Groups commitment and approach to these responsibilities continues to contribute to its overall business success, bringing with it an enhancement to reputation, profitability and shareholder return.
The risks associated with each area are managed within the Groups risk management framework and are continuously monitored and assessed, with necessary controls put in place in order to reduce any potential impact.
The Chief Executive Officer has overall responsibility for the development and monitoring of the Groups policies related to Corporate Responsibility.
The task of ensuring that these policies are communicated and applied at a Divisional and Business Unit level is delegated through the senior Managing Directors to each Business Units senior management.
The policies and associated management systems are reviewed at least annually and at any time when significant changes in the business, legislation or industry standard demand.
Each Division is also responsible for ensuring that, as a minimum, it meets local statutory requirements and is encouraged to reflect identified best practice within the Group.
All employees are expected to take personal responsibility for their conduct and Fenner recognises the need to create a culture and behavioural environment within the Group to facilitate the successful implementation of the Groups policies.
The Groups Health & Safety Policy and Environmental Policy are available to view on the Companys website www.
com or by contacting the Company Secretary.
The Company is proud to continue to be a member of the FTSE4Good UK Index which measures the performance of companies that meet globally recognised Corporate Responsibility standards and facilitates investment into those companies.
Health and Safety Fenner promotes a strong health and safety H&S culture where it is expected that everyone who works for Fenner, regardless of location, is responsible for the safety of both themselves and their colleagues.
This individual and collective responsibility helps to ensure that the environment in which they work is safe for themselves, colleagues, customers and all those with whom we work.
It is therefore with deep regret that we have to report a Fenner employee fatality at a customer facility in Nevada, USA.
Senior management was on site within 24 hours and, in addition to organising help and support for the family, initiated a thorough and independent investigation which is ongoing.
The Group endeavours to set the highest practical H&S standards: as a minimum, each Business Unit will always comply fully with its local statutory obligations and all employees are trained to recognise that the health and safety of themselves and others is their first priority.
All Business Units have a H&S committee which meets regularly to discuss H&S topics and concerns, make recommendations and implement and monitor any improvements or initiatives.
H&S issues and key measurements are also routinely reviewed and discussed at management meetings, with accidents, serious incidents and near misses reported and escalated to the Executive Committee and Board where appropriate.
The dissemination of information on a Group-wide basis is recognised as an important tool in ensuring continual improvement in all H&S matters.
The findings of H&S investigations relevant to the wider organisation are communicated across locations and a general exchange of information and resources between operations is actively encouraged.
Group Health and Safety Management System Framework The Group Health and Safety Management System Framework, now known as The Framework, was launched in January 2009.
The Framework covers those areas key to ensuring a robust, all-encompassing and continually improving H&S culture within the Group: - Accountability and Leadership: - Risk Assessment and Management: - Training and Behaviours: - Operations and Maintenance: - Information and Documentation: - Customers and Products: - Incident Analysis and Prevention: 2 6 F E N N E R P L C A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 0 - Monitoring, Assurance and Improvement: - Crisis Management and Business Continuity Planning: - Management of Change: - Working with Third Parties: - Design and Construction of Facilities: and - Community and Stakeholder Awareness.
The response within the Group to the structure and clarity provided by The Framework has been extremely positive.
It is recognised that embedding The Framework in to Group operations will be a long-term project as it necessitates a degree of cultural change.
The process is built on individual Business Unit improvement plans that are refreshed annually: each year Business Units review what improvements have been achieved in the previous year and revise priorities based on long-term improvement goals and new input gleaned from sources including incident investigations, assurance visits and Group industry communications.
We are currently in the process of undertaking the second annual review of the Business Unit improvement plans.
Assurance programme A programme of H&S assurance audits has been initiated to monitor how The Framework is being embedded in the organisation.
This builds on the programme originally developed in North America where we retained external consultants to undertake independent assessments of the state of individual Business Unit safety management systems.
Following on from the success of the North American programme, a similar model has been developed for the Business Units based outside North America.
The aims of the assurance visits are twofold: to provide independent assurance to the Executive Committee and the Board regarding the state of local safety management systems and safety culture across the Group: and to help each location to both develop a clear understanding of areas which require improvement and identify instances of best practice.
Health and safety awards A number of the Groups Business Units have received external recognition and awards during the year for their performance in H&S.
These included: - The Fenner Advanced Sealing Technologies FAST operations in Houston, USA and Hampton, UK gained the combined accreditation for ISO 9001, ISO14001 and OHSAS 18001.
- The FAST operations in Hampton, UK secured the prestigious RoSPA Gold Award for the fourth successive year highlighting the sites continued excellence in the management and control of H&S.
- The Fenner Dunlop Americas operation in Bracebridge, Canada exceeded the 75% pass mark for their WSIB Workwell audit, thereby demonstrating their compliance with the Occupational Health & Safety Act requirements in Ontario.
Since 2008, we have awarded the Fenner Group Health and Safety Improvement Award to the Business Unit which has made the most progress towards achieving our goals of making safety the top priority in all work environments and ensuring that all those who work for Fenner can expect to return home in the same fit and healthy state in which they came to work.
There were a number of Business Units that were in contention for this years award with the conveyor belting operations in Kwinana and Revesby, Australia, the FAST operations in Houston, USA and the Prodesco operations in Perkasie, USA all receiving commendations for the improvements that they have made over the last year.
All of these Business Units have managed a full year of operation without incurring any Lost Time Incidents LTIs Perkasie achieving this for the second year running.
In addition, the conveyor belt service network across Australia received a commendation for reducing their LTIs to five for the year.
The commendation was in recognition of the improvement made in an area of Group operations that is recognised internally as having the highest H&S risk.
The 2010 Fenner Group Health and Safety Improvement Award has been awarded to James Dawson in Shanghai, China who achieved a reduction in LTIs from four in 2008 09 to nil in 2009 10.
The local management attributes this success to the effective implementation of a revitalised risk management process and near miss reporting.
Valuing our People The Groups success in consistently delivering reliable and superior solutions to customers is founded upon a stable, technically skilled, innovative and committed workforce.
The global nature of the Groups business and customers leads to a workforce which is geographically and culturally diverse.
On average during the year, the Group employed 3938 people of which 25% were located in Europe, 47% in the Americas, 4% in Africa and 24% in Asia Pacific.
The Group fully embraces its multinational dimension and is aware of, and complies with, local labour rights and employment practices.
Fenner takes its responsibilities as an employer very seriously and aims to provide a positive work environment for all employees, wherever they work.
The Group is an equal opportunities employer and believes in treating all employees with dignity and respect: it does not tolerate any form of harassment, discrimination or bullying and is committed to progression based on merit.
We recognise the importance of providing training and development opportunities to enable employees to increase their contribution to the Group and realise their full potential.
Training takes place at all levels throughout the Group, up to and including the Board of Directors.
Upon joining Fenner, all new directors receive induction training to give them an understanding of the culture of the Company, its business and the markets in which it F E N N E R P L C A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 0 2 7 Corporate Responsibility Report continued operates.
Fenner also recognises the value in the personal development of its employees and seeks to provide them with transferable life skills, a good example of this being Fenner South Africa which participates in the Adult Basic Education & Training programme to help employees develop their numeracy and literacy skills.
Alongside its focus on training and development, Fenner is keen to promote the welfare of its employees.
At the conveyor belting facility in Johannesburg, South Africa, healthcare screening is provided for all employees.
This work is especially important in a country like South Africa with over 20 per cent of the young population infected with HIV AIDS and where not everyone has access to adequate primary healthcare.
As well as offering screening for common aliments, occupational healthcare is provided for eye tests, hearing tests and lung function.
In addition to health screening, other healthcare initiatives including vaccination programmes are run across various sites worldwide.
Employees are often encouraged to participate in voluntary preventative healthcare programmes at a local level.
Prodesco promotes a healthy lifestyle awareness programme and has initiated programmes for weight loss, smoking cessation and overall general health awareness.
Fenner Dunlop Americas has also launched a fitness and weight loss programme across its operations.
Communication At Group level, the Fenner Focus magazine is produced and distributed to all employees and is an effective route to communicate matters of Group and operational significance.
The magazine informs employees of any major Group developments and also provides an opportunity to highlight and recognise Business Units and individuals for their work in the community, health and safety initiatives and long service awards.
The annual results are summarised in the publication, enabling all employees to be kept informed of the Groups performance.
At a local level, Business Units communicate regularly with their employees using a variety of methods including staff meetings, management walkabouts, newsletters, consultative councils, suggestion schemes, electronic messaging and social events.
All Business Units encourage two way communications and provide channels for feedback and comment on the Groups activities.
Recruitment and retention The recruitment and retention of a skilled workforce is essential to the Group.
Each Business Unit employs recruitment practices which identify the best available candidate for each position.
All employees are actively encouraged to apply for roles, including cross divisional opportunities where applicable.
In general, the businesses within the Group have positive histories of high employee retention and the majority of operations have a long service recognition programme in place.
Fenner is proud of the fact that the current average period of service across the Business Units of the Group stands at 9.3 years.
Training and development Annual employee appraisal processes have been locally developed in the majority of the Groups operations.
Employees take part in a formal annual appraisal to discuss performance, achievements and potential areas for development and progression.
The process also ensures that a continuing communication between management and employees takes place.
Health and safety training is an integral part of all employee induction programmes.
All operations continuously monitor and plan training to meet both the business and employees development needs.
The risks associated with inadequate succession planning are recognised at Group level.
These risks are continuously monitored and, where possible, the Group aims to identify high potential employees and, through a process of training and development, prepare them for potential senior management.
Business Behaviours The Group recognises that both its corporate conduct and relationship building are key elements to its business strategy succeeding.
By having a high standard of ethical conduct, partnerships can be formed with third parties throughout the Groups supply chain which create value on both sides of the relationship.
Business conduct The Groups culture is one of openness, integrity and accountability.
These are enshrined within the Groups Ethics Policy which is applied to all business activities and relationships and sets out the behavioural standards expected from all employees fairness, honesty and integrity.
Over the course of the next few months, Fenner will be reviewing its existing Ethics Policy alongside other conduct policies to ensure that we are well placed to meet the requirements of the Bribery Act when it comes into force in 2011.
The Group operates a confidential whistleblowing procedure which enables all employees to raise any concerns that they may have.
In the coming year, Fenner will be offering employees the opportunity to discuss any worries that they have with a third party, which we hope will further encourage employees to raise issues of concern.
Competition and anti-trust procedures are co-ordinated at Group level and training is provided for all relevant employees.
2 8 F E N N E R P L C A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 0 Third party partnerships The Group recognises that strong relationships with its suppliers and customers are crucial.
Having strong supplier relations ensures a reliable, high quality and fairly priced source of goods and services which can then be passed onto customers.
The Group seeks to identify and develop appropriate and long-term strategic partnerships with suppliers and customers to create mutual value, access to new markets and to mitigate resource and commercial risks.
These strategic partnerships are especially relevant to the number of highly technical niche markets where joint development agreements can expedite research whilst protecting intellectual property rights.
All Business Units have, or are working towards, ISO 9001 or equivalent status and each undertakes rigorous customer satisfaction assessments including senior face to face meetings and customer surveys.
Performance and the timing and handling of any complaints are routinely discussed at management meetings and are used as a key measurement in determining the success of the Business Unit.
Environmental Impact Concern for the Groups impact on the environment is a fundamental part of the Groups corporate business strategy as it endeavours to contribute towards a sustainable future.
The Group is committed to identifying and assessing the risks of pollution and other forms of environmental impairment arising out of its activities and actively seeks to reduce its impact on the environment to the lowest practical level by ensuring that all operations and activities of the Group exemplify best contemporary practice in respect of the environment.
Waste minimisation The minimisation of manufacturing waste and the maximisation of energy efficiency are both recognised as beneficial to the Group from an environmental and commercial viewpoint.
Waste minimisation is driven and managed at the Business Unit level.
All major manufacturing operations monitor their waste emissions and all Business Units comply with local environment legislation.
General waste management programmes and initiatives are encouraged and the recycling of materials takes place where practical, either internally or through external programmes with suppliers or other third parties.
Greenhouse gas emissions and energy and water usage The Group recognises the increase in public awareness of the climate change debate and the need for companies to understand the scale of their greenhouse gas emissions.
It also recognises that there is no globally accepted methodology for calculating emissions, with most countries having a portfolio of emission factors for various energy sources based upon either the average composition of primary fuels or averaged emission factors for secondary energy sources such as electricity purchased from a national grid.
Whilst these averages are inherently inaccurate, they are the generally accepted methodology for estimating the end users greenhouse gas emissions for year on year reporting.
To this end, the Group has elected to report global figures based upon emission factors published by the UK Government department responsible for climate change issues, DEFRA.
The Group uses a variety of energy sources.
The main contributors to greenhouse gas emissions are imported electricity and natural gas which combined, account for 85% of the Groups emissions.
GROUP ENERGY GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Natural Gas 25% Fuel Oil Coal 6% 2.1% Petrol 2.6% Other 9% Water 0.1% LPG 1.2% Diesel 3.0% Electricity 60% If these figures are analysed across the Group, the heavier engineering aspects of the conveyor belt manufacturing and servicing operations account for nearly 75% of the Groups greenhouse gas emissions.
F E N N E R P L C A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 0 1 0 2 9 Corporate Responsibility Report continued GROUP ENERGY USAGE 2009 10 has seen an increase in absolute energy consumption over the previous year.
This is 120 primarily due to improved operating conditions resulting in almost all Business Units operating at 100 higher volumes.
All of our Business Units manage their energy efficiency as part of their normal 80 operating cost control.
Examples include: the purchase of new equipment with consideration of lifetime energy costs: studies underway to replace older boilers with more efficient modern boilers: 60 and widespread utilisation of energy efficient lighting.
40 20 The Group does not set global targets for greenhouse gas emissions but does comply with local 0 legislative requirements.
In the UK, the Group is registered under the UK Governments Carbon 2008 09 2009 10 Reduction Commitment and is party to a voluntary Climate Change Agreement run by the British GROUP WATER USAGE Plastics Federation.
This commits the industry sector to an aggregate reduction in relative energy 120 consumption of 12% from the base calendar year 2006 to calendar year 2010.
Our Business 100 Units in the US are preparing their records in order to comply with new regulatory requirements to 80 report greenhouse gas emissions.
In Australia, the National Green House and Energy Reporting 60 Act 2007 requires a combined approach to reducing both energy and water usage.
The Act sets targets for reducing consumption of both resources and, to date, we have succeeded in driving 40 down our water usage by over 60% through investing in a combination of projects focussed on 20 usage elimination, loss reduction and greater employee awareness.
0 2008 09 2009 10 Environmental management systems Taking into account local requirements and needs, Business Units have established a number of different local environmental management systems.
These systems are in line with the Group Environmental Policy and The Framework which outline a set of Group Environmental Expectations.
Currently, 33% of the Group is either accredited or working towards accreditation under the internationally recognised ISO14001 scheme.
Community Involvement The Group recognises that good relations and long-term partnerships within the communities in which it works are fundamental to its success.
Social and environmental impacts on the community are embedded within the Groups decision making process.
The Groups support for the communities it operates in is driven at a local, rather than corporate level.
The approach, adopted across the globe, is to support and enhance employee efforts in their communities through the application of the Groups resources.
In addition to the time given to community projects and for charitable purposes by the Groups employees, charitable donations totalling over 50,000 have been made across the Group.
Employees and Business Units have given their time and helped raise funds for a variety of charities and projects over the past year.
Examples include: - Prodesco in the US sponsor an annual Red Cross Blood drive which close to half of all employees participated in this year.
Prodesco also received the Business Achievement Award from the Pennridge Chamber of Commerce in recognition of its contribution to the economic health of the local area.
- Fenner Dunlop Europe in the UK have continued to support Hull Compact, a charitable organisation that helps children develop their academic potential by providing a university bursary to a Hull student on a financial needs basis.
Fenner Dunlop Europe also gave financial sponsorship to the local primary school and made its on-site sports field available for school children to take part in the national Sport Relief Mile event.
- Conveyor Belting Indias employees once again celebrated World Environment Day this year with a mix of activities, including the planting of saplings around its site.
The prime motivation behind the event continues to be to highlight the need to protect the environment and combat climate change as well as pave the way for a cleaner and healthier future.
- Fenner Drives Manheim in the US has assembled a green team which participates in community programmes during Earth Day, a day intended to inspire awareness and appreciation for the Earth's natural environment.
Amongst other activities, the team works with local organisations to clean up streams and plant trees.
Employees also volunteered to teach classes at local schools through Junior Achievement which helps young people understand business by bringing volunteers from the business world into the classroom to help students learn and understand business in their lives and the world around them.
- Fenner Dunlop Conveyer Services in the US has been working within the local community to assist in youth activities ranging from little league sports and BMX competitions to Youth 4-H programmes.
Fenner Dunlop Conveyor Services was also recognised by Make-a-Wish, F. O. R. C. E and the Boy Scouts during the year for the support that they have given these organisations.
