Ferrexpo plc 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Review Ferrexpos commitment to corporate social responsibility The Ferrexpo Boards commitment to corporate social responsibility CSR derives from a shared belief that the Groups licence to operate will be The Boards approach to CSR underpinned by the Groups CSR The Board demonstrates its commitment to CSR through: Group policies: performance.
For many operations within Board and management focus: former CIS countries, the traditional Asset level management systems: and Performance management at all levels.
response has been to use legal requirements as the sole benchmark for The Board believes that Ferrexpo has made good progress during the year.
A Group-wide Code of Corporate CSR compliance.
By contrast, we view legal Responsibility and Business Ethics the Code, which has been translated into Ukrainian and Russian and standards for CSR as a minimum level and communicated to employees, enshrines the Companys we are committed to striving to achieve values in three main areas.
These are: the highest international standards of Business principles performance in CSR matters.
We will Ferrexpo must maintain high standards of behaviour with all those it deals with, both inside and outside the Group.
ensure that during 2011 investment in Its conduct and business dealings should be associated with honesty and integrity, making it an attractive and health, safety and the environment reliable business partner.
Community relations Ferrexpos presence should benefit those around it, and its operations will benefit if local communities are thriving.
Any member company of the Group should be considered an attractive local employer.
Stewardship Ferrexpo must develop and manage its resources and facilities in a sensible manner, having regard for the natural and social environment in which it operates.
Companies within the Group should be associated with a commitment to achieving the highest environmental and safety standards.
The Corporate Safety and Social Responsibility Committee The Group has a Corporate Safety and Social Responsibility Committee the CSR Committee which monitors the implementation of CSR policies.
Ferrexpo plc 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Health and safety The CSR Committee is chaired by Viktor Lotous Ferrexpo Ferrexpos health and safety policy Poltava Mining FPM Chief Operating Officer.
The other The prevention of injuries to employees is the highest members of the CSR Committee are Michael Abrahams priority of the Board and management.
Policies and Chairman of the Board, Kostyantin Zhevago Chief practices at all levels need to reflect this.
Executive Officer and Brian Maynard Group Chief Within Ferrexpos operating assets, accountability Operating Officer.
To assist them in the exercise of their for health and safety performance lies with senior duties, the CSR Committee will, from time to time, engage line management.
The CSR Committee met All operating assets are required to develop once during 2010.
In addition, the whole Board received a and implement health and safety management detailed presentation on safety when it visited the site systems in line with Group policy, including during the year.
Performance metrics will reflect the Groups During the year the business reviewed by the CSR commitment to strive to achieve the highest standards Committee included the following items: of health and safety performance.
Overall review of safety in mining and processing Senior line management is responsible for ensuring operations, including analysis of industrial injuries and that adequate resources are committed to health sickness, workplace conditions, and labour safety and safety.
They have an obligation to secure their audits.
resources through the Groups planning and Update on the work of DuPont Safety Resources budgeting processes.
Adequate health and safety training will be given to all CSR Reporting.
Specific focus needs to be applied to behavioural safety The CSR framework at all levels, to fatal risk prevention and to the major Management recognises that reaching the highest industrial health hazards associated with our standards will entail a continuous process of evaluation operations.
and improvement founded on a sound CSR framework.
Employees are personally responsible for their own Ferrexpo has adopted a seven point CSR framework safety and that of their colleagues.
covering values, strategy, policies, objectives, targets, monitoring and auditing, and communication.
Health and safety objectives The objective set in 2009 of achieving the best mining CSR at FPM safety record in Ukraine is supported by targets including a As it is still much the largest asset within the Group, FPM provides the main focus for development and reduction of 20% in the lost-time injury frequency rate.
In implementation of the Groups CSR procedures, based on this respect 2010 was a disappointing year see under established Group policies.
Within FPM a single Health and safety performance below, and comparisons department has responsibility for all aspects of health and with other mining companies in Ukraine on the basis of the safety, security and environmental protection.
This limited information that they publish suggest that Ferrexpo department is responsible for air and water testing still has some way to go to reach its objective.
However, laboratories, the medical centre, fire prevention service, comparisons with past performance should take account gas service, civil defence and emergency response of the likelihood that raising the profile of safety in the headquarters and workshops.
This department reports Company has made the under-reporting of accidents directly to the FPM Chief Operating Officer.
much more rare than in the past.
The particularly severe winter weather of early 2010 was also a contributing factor, CSR at FYM with least one injury caused by a fall on an icy road.
The number of staff at FYM grew steadily during the year, from under 70 to over 350, but is still only a small fraction For 2011 management is determined to do everything of the total workforce.
CSR matters form part of FYMs possible to reinforce further the safety culture at Ferrexpo, regular reporting procedures.
through an increase In safety spending as a proportion of sales revenue, through the development of the safety All Group employees are expected to take personal training programme, and through a continuing link between responsibility for their conduct, and management safety performance and staff remuneration safety KPIs recognises the need to create a cultural and behavioural now apply to all staff down to middle management level.
environment among the Groups workforce that will allow the policies agreed by the Board to be successfully implemented.
Ferrexpo plc 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Review continued Monitoring the effectiveness of health and safety policies In 2006 FPM initiated the development of a health and includes the review of health and safety performance, as safety management system consistent with the requirements of OHSAS 18001, the internationally measured by key KPIs as shown below: recognised standard for health and safety management.
This system was externally audited under the Ukrainian Health and safety performance UkrSEPRO system in March 2007 and accreditation was 2010 2009 2008 obtained in April 2007.
The system was audited again in March 2008, March 2009 and March 2010, and the Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate accreditation was confirmed by external auditors on LTIFR see note 1.43 1.11 0.95 each occasion.
Fatal accidents 1 0 3 Total accidents 20 15 17 Fatalities and reportable accidents Lost days 916 530 591 The prevention of injuries to employees is the highest priority of the Board and management who follow the Note LTIFR Number of work-related lost time injuries per million man hours.
principle that all accidents are avoidable.
Health and safety management systems In line with policy at FPM, all accidents are investigated to In accordance with Ukrainian law, FPM has developed a determine the cause and identify appropriate remedial health and safety policy applicable to its operations and action.
This analysis, which also covers minor accidents types of activity that is in line with the Group health and not involving time spent off work microtraumas is carried safety policy.
Compliance with this policy is monitored via a out according to a methodology agreed with DuPont.
Daily control is conducted by Fatalities and other serious accidents are additionally operating personnel, engineers and technicians.
investigated by the State authority.
The Board, the CSR Production managers carry out weekly inspections, and Committee and the Executive Committee require senior senior management conducts periodic inspections in management to provide full reports on the causes of fatal conjunction with government personnel.
and serious accidents, details of corrective actions to prevent these types of accident from recurring, and plans Following a restructuring of the Labour Safety Department for enhancing overall safety management based on the in 2009, there is a centralised Directorate for Industrial lessons learnt.
Senior managers are expected to present Labour Safety and Environmental Protection taking the these reports, in person, at the first Executive Committee place of the previous more localised structure.
meeting after the accident concerned.
Remuneration of safety engineers is no longer directly linked to operational output.
The purpose of setting up Tragically, there was one fatal accident at FPM in 2010, the Directorate was to develop a uniform policy and to the machinery repair man Ivan Kharchenko.
A full achieve the maximum degree of co-ordination of progress investigation was carried out by both the Company and, towards achievement of the goals set in the field of as is usual in such cases, the State authorities, which labour safety.
Procedural manuals on labour safety attributed the accident to the failure of an item of electrical and environmental protection at the operational level equipment.
All similar items of equipment were then continue to be developed.
checked and replaced if appropriate.
Also, measures have been taken for the total replacement of electrical As it updates the current procedures of the labour safety equipment on cranes in the crushing plant during management system, the FPM management continues 2011-2012. to take into account best practice both in Ukraine and abroad.
In 2010 this took the form of co-operation with In accordance with Ukrainian compulsory social insurance the labour safety consultants DuPont in the area of laws, compensation equivalent to up to five times annual labour safety training and auditing see under Safety salary is payable to the victims of accidents or their Initiatives below.
Individual workers contribute to a statutory insurance fund which is responsible for paying the compensation.
FPM is aware that it has a moral as well as a legal responsibility towards the families of employees affected by accidents at work and will also make additional voluntary payments to the family of employees on a case-by-case basis to ensure that they do not suffer hardship.
Ferrexpo plc 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 In the past three years, there have been eight recorded Safety initiatives cases of industrial disease three in 2008, two in 2009 and In 2010 FPM continued to implement safety programmes three in 2010 : most cases are associated with prolonged to improve the health and safety of its workers.
These exposure to high dust concentrations.
Other diseases included: included auditory impairment due to excessive noise and Work with DuPont under the contract entered into at two cases of cancer which whilst classified as industrial the end of 2009 on behavioural audits, with training disease in accordance with Ukrainian legislation and sessions for 150 line managers, carried out in therefore recorded, are not believed to have been directly conjunction with a DuPont consultant, on how to carry attributable to the Groups operations.
out these audits, whose purpose is to improve company safety culture and eliminate dangerous work The industrial diseases that have been recorded include practices.
some silicosis and bronchial complaints which can be Now that most of middle management has been trained caused by exposure to particular forms of dust although in safety matters, training is being provided for more there are also other possible causes for some of these junior staff additional to what they receive by law at the diseases.
Improvements to dust control systems are part state safety institutes.
of a long-term package of measures designed to improve Periodic revision of Company safety standards which the working environment.
To reduce the dust level in the are promulgated throughout the organisation, both production area in the mine and at the processing plants orally and in writing via procedure manuals.
and workshops, the pit-face and roads in and around the mine are watered each shift depending on the Evidence that these and previous initiatives are bearing weather pattern.
fruit, and that a safety culture is taking root, has been seen in the increasing readiness of staff to raise safety problems Employees with management and suggest solutions to them.
Ferrexpos employment principles include policies and practices on company standards, security, recruitment, FPM is required by Ukrainian labour protection laws to remuneration, equal opportunities and training and dedicate at least 0.5% of sales revenue to labour protection development.
These are backed up by subsidiary and safety.
This statutory payment amounted in 2010 to company employment manuals to cover local legal and approximately UAH 41.5 million US$5.2 million, or 0.7% of regulatory requirements.
As part of the restructuring process involving an FYM is starting to implement a full-time safety programme outsourcing of non-core mining activities, during 2009 25 at the pit, which includes ensuring that Health and Safety technicians have the constant use of a car in which to security staff previously employed directly were transferred patrol all areas.
to the local security company that provides services to FPM.
Additionally, the Specialised Electric Equipment and Occupational health initiatives Networks Repairs Department 212 staff was moved In accordance with the requirements of the Ministry of outside the company structure.
No further staff were Health in Ukraine and to prevent or detect occupational transferred in 2010. diseases at an early stage, FPM employees, particularly those engaged in potentially hazardous work, are given FPM continues to recruit specialist graduates from medical examinations both upon recruitment and at regular Dnepropetrovsky Mining Academy, Kyiv University, intervals during their employment.
The health of employees Krivoy-Rog Institute and Komsomolsk Polytechnical who have worked for 10 years or more under potentially School among other places to fill available technical and hazardous working conditions is assessed more rigorously.
As an integral part of the Directorate of Industrial and Ferrexpo is aware of the increasing demand for staff with Labour Safety and Environmental Protection, FPM owns an mining expertise in the CIS countries and elsewhere, and is on-site health centre.
The health centre carries out medical constantly looking for ways to motivate and retain its key examinations of staff on joining the company, as well as employees.
For an example of this, see case study on the annual medical examination of the employees aimed at social loyalty housing programme on page 39. preventing and treating occupational diseases, according to the requirements of the current labour legislation of Further information on employee numbers is set out in note Ukraine.
Additionally, on a contract basis, the health centre 36 to the accounts.
provides services for subcontractors employees.
The cost of providing medical services in 2010 was UAH 7.3 million US$0.9 million, the majority of which was spent on maintaining the health centre and ambulance, and on medical check-ups for staff.
Ferrexpo plc 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Review continued Training and development Environment The Group is committed to developing its employees.
Ferrexpos Environmental policy The Group provides technical training for all employees Our operating practices and growth plans will be consistent with their duties and responsibilities.
implemented in a manner consistent with the principles In particular, investment has been made in facilities for underlying long-term sustainable resource health and safety training.
In 2010, 103 employees were development: we will balance the long-term sponsored by Ferrexpo at institutes of higher education.
environmental consequences of our actions against Total educational spending for employees in higher short-term economic returns.
educational establishments was UAH0.4 million The mines are required to develop and implement US$0.1 million.
environmental management systems in line with Group policy.
Trade unions and industrial relations All new capital projects will include environmental risk The Group does not have individual contracts with its assessments and mitigation plans.
employees in Ukraine other than with its senior managers.
Most of FPMs workers are members of a trade union the Monitoring the effectiveness of environmental policy Poltava Trade Union.
FPM entered into a new collective includes the review of key KPIs for emissions which are bargaining agreement with the Poltava Trade Union in shown below.
A protocol of intent with the Poltava Trade Union for the period from 2008 to 2010 states that individual salaries Emissions in tonnes will be increased at least in line with inflation and that an 2008 2009 2010 annual reduction in headcount will occur, subject except for any jobs that are outsourced up to an agreed Total gas emissions 6,177 6,167 6,294 maximum.
Management believes, having conducted Of which: market research, that wages paid by the Group are higher Nitrogen dioxide 2,879 2,876 2,922 than average wages in Ukraine, although they tend to be Carbon monoxide 2,312 2,306 2,336 less than the average wages paid by other Ukrainian Sulphur dioxide 888 886 937 mining companies.
Total solid emissions 3,224 3,212 3,575 Total emissions 9,401 9,379 9,869 There has been no major industrial action or labour dispute at Poltava since its privatisation in 1995.
In the summer of In 2010 FPM spent UAH46 million US$5.8 million on the 2010, following the introduction of more modern, safe and implementation of environmental measures.
Payments comfortable dump trucks and excavators on the site and a for emissions and waste placement amounted to consequent significant improvement in the working UAH23 million US$2.9 million.
conditions of the staff operating them, there was a re-certification of workplaces.
This meant that the Environmental management systems retirement age of the staff concerned who had previously The primary responsibility of FPMs dedicated been allowed to retire early without loss of benefit because Environmental Department is to ensure that all necessary of their hard working conditions was changed from 50 to permits are in place, to undertake monitoring in 55.
Some of the staff objected to this and took unofficial accordance with the prevailing regulatory requirements industrial action in the form of a limited go-slow in the first and to supervise the implementation of an agreed week of August, after which normal working was resumed.
programme of environmental improvements based on the Most of the staff did not support the go-slow, and there Departments own assessments.
was no impact on production.
FPM then participated in a working group including representatives of the government Environmental laws in Ukraine set requirements for the authorities, which found that FPM had acted correctly in protection of the natural environment, the use of natural the re-certification of workplaces.
resources, emissions into the atmosphere and water and waste disposal.
FPM holds a number of environmental licences and permits, including permits for atmospheric emission control, solid waste disposal, tailings disposal, mine waste disposal and industrial use of fresh water.
Until 2007, the environmental monitoring and management programme was designed solely to meet the current statutory requirements.
However, in 2006, the Environmental Department started to develop a full Environmental Management System EMS in accordance with ISO 14001.
The EMS was externally audited by the Ukrainian UkrSEPRO authority and given a certificate of conformity with ISO 14001 in the second quarter of 2007.
Ferrexpo plc 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Social loyalty housing programme In view of the difficulties that individuals in Ukraine face when obtaining housing finance, FPM has recommenced its social housing programme last operated in 2006 before the IPO.
This is an arrangement, fairly common in Ukraine, under which financial assistance in the form of a housing loan at a favourable rate is provided to employees at Komsomolsk.
The loan is extended and administered by a commercial bank but guaranteed by FPM, with the aim of motivating and retaining selected employees in the face of increasing demand for their services by Ferrexpos competitors in Ukraine and elsewhere.
FPM will act as guarantor for the housing loans provided to key members of staff with high potential and a good performance record.
The total amount of the loans is expected to be around US$3.5 million: this will allow assistance to be given to up to 100 employees to buy flats in and around Komsomolsk.
The programme is expected to run for 10 to 15 years.
Ferrexpo plc 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Review continued The system was audited again in May 2010, and the During 2006 and 2007, the washing facilities of the mining accreditation was confirmed by external auditors.
transport department were rebuilt to prevent the pollution of ground water by oil products that had been carried by Project evaluation the surface water as it drained away.
This had previously The Group has endorsed the Equator Principles as a occurred due to damage of the washing area and benchmark when evaluating new projects.
As part of any dirt collector.
new project proposal, the Group will undertake an environmental impact assessment and this will be reviewed Progress in 2010 alongside other project evaluation documents presented to Protection of the local river system including advanced the Board for approval.
During 2009 Ferrexpo completed water treatment of clarified water at the sludge an independent review of the Ukrainian EIA OVOS, which depository in the biological purification plant so as to covers our regulatory environmental requirements, for the prevent excessive discharge of pollutants into the local Yeristovo mine pre-strip and the actual environmental river system spending of US$0.2 million in 2010. performance of the current Yeristovo operations against Modernisation of the bulldozer washing station in the the requirements of the International Finance Corporations Mining Transport department will prevent fuel and IFC Environmental and Social Performance Standards.
lubricants from escaping and polluting groundwater.
Ferrexpo remains committed to applying the IFC The TSF was inspected In October 2010 by experts requirements as it prepares plans for further development from the Ministry of Emergencies, who found that the of the Yeristovo project.
During 2010 FYM completed tailing ponds and the refuse pumping system were in a a study that sets out guidelines for monitoring the safe condition.
environmental and social impact of the project as Reduction of air pollution stabilising banks of dry waste it develops.
material by sowing grass on them, and intensively watering the work face in the pit after blasting and in dry Environmental initiatives weather spending of US$1.3 million in 2010.
Air quality Waste management including management of the Dust and gas emissions are two major issues that FPM depositing sites and tailings dam to allow for use of carefully monitors and controls to ensure that air quality is slurry tailings and stripping material in production, as not adversely impacted by its operations.
In recent years, well as securing continuous operation of water recycling there have been a substantial number of initiatives taken to system of water supply to the company departments meet this need.
Progress during 2010 is set out below.
spending of US$4.2 million in 2010.
Water management Waste rock management FPM uses some 491 million cubic metres of water each The currently operating  year, much of which is recycled through the tailings facility, Lavrikovskoye GPL open pit has generated some although approximately 3.5 million cubic metres is 517 million cubic metres of waste rock that is deposited in extracted from a combination of the local river and the two dumps.
Annual monitoring of the western and eastern municipal drinking water supply.
dumps indicates that run-off from the waste rock dumps has no negative effect on air quality or water basins, and The Tailings Storage Facility TSF also receives the vegetation has been successfully cultivated on the treated effluent from Komsomolsks sewage treatment inaccessible and abandoned areas of the rock dumps.
Excess water from the TSF is passed through an Waste rock from future operations, including the extensive bio-engineered treatment system commissioned Yeristovskoye pit now being excavated, is being deposited in May 2002. on these two dumps or used to back-fill part of the GPL pit.
The annual tree and bush planting project assists in the Storm water from the site is treated in a new cascade absorption of gases that would otherwise pollute the air, treatment plant with a filtering dam commissioned in late whilst also reducing noise.
The plant is designed to remove suspended solids and organic pollutants.
Other rain and melt water is pumped to the slurry pit for clarification: in the case of excess water it is directed to the bio-engineered treatment unit for additional treatment together with the remainder of TSF dam-filtered water.
Ferrexpo plc 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Local communities FPM believes that supporting local communities is one of its key social obligations.
In 2010 it allocated UAH35.0 million 2009: UAH30.3 million to the town of Komsomolsk, surrounding communities and various local organisations.
The main areas of spending were the local Centre of Culture and the Arts UAH4.3 million and a number of funds for municipal development and social activity for young people.
The Company also subsidised medical treatment for some local residents and provided financial assistance to the medical establishments in the town UAH2.1 million.
Considerable assistance was also given to the local authority in improving the living environment in and around Komsomolsk UAH2.6 million.
Ferrexpo plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Corporate Social Responsibility Review continued Community initiatives Mine closure and rehabilitation FPM FPM recognises that its activities have an impact on the FPM has been a significant investor in local community environment and communities in which it operates.
We are initiatives from the outset, investing substantial funds aware that a commitment to sustainability requires FPM to in the social infrastructure of Komsomolsk and the prepare now for the cessation of mining operations even surrounding area.
though that eventuality remains many years in the future.
In 2005, we developed a closure and rehabilitation plan for Links with the local community are strengthened by the existing GPL pit and associated waste rock dumps.
meetings of senior management with heads of schools The site will be restored primarily to forestry, with an area of and colleges, supporting local celebration days, giving open water remaining in part of the open pit.
vocational guidance and vacation work to the students of local schools including providing financial sponsorship The Company will provide fully for the costs of mine to Individual students whom FPM may subsequently closure and rehabilitation as they develop, and it is employ and organising student excursions to FPM committed to complying fully with the terms of its operating and its museum.
licences and the requirements of Ukrainian law.
Historically, FPM has employed a significant number of Communities people in providing support services to the Groups mining Ferrexpos Community policy activities.
In many cases, these services could be made Our presence should benefit those communities around available on a commercial basis to other enterprises within our operations: our operations will benefit if local the local community which in turn improves the viability communities are thriving.
and sustainability of the local economy.
To encourage this process, FPM has offered finance and other support to We strive to be recognised as an attractive local employer employees who provide these in-house services so as to and a concerned corporate citizen.
encourage them to transform internal departments into We will assist in the development of the microstand-alone businesses.
In 2010 the objects of such economic environment within the communities in which support included railcar repair operations, lift repair and we operate to ensure that their dependence on us for some cleaning services.
We aim to have a positive relationship with and enhance See also case studies on pages 41 and 43. the communities around us.
We wish to have an open dialogue with these communities and to ensure that our FYM involvement with them is cost effective and relevant to FYM strives to contribute to all spheres of the life of the their needs.
local community, believing that a healthy and flourishing community is of crucial importance for sustainable growth Community context in our operations.
As a young and expanding company, The Poltava region is located in an area of predominantly flat agricultural land close to the Dnieper River, one of the FYM has been able to provide significant employment largest European river systems and an important transport opportunities for local people.
FYM aims to have good artery for Ukraine, Belarus and Russia.
Iron ore mining in relationships with the communities adjacent to its the area dates from the 19th century, although the major operations, and 2010 saw the start of its involvement expansion of mining activity occurred in the early 20th in a programme to upgrade the medical equipment century.
The town of Komsomolsk was established at the local hospital.
adjacent to the mine to support the mining operation and ancillary industries transport, power etc.. FPM is still by far the largest employer in the town, which has a population of around 55,000 people, with approximately 24.3% of the working population of Komsomolsk being employed by the mine in one capacity or another.
Ferrexpo plc 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Supporting educational establishments Ferrexpo recognises the importance of earning the support of the local communities and encouraging the growth of the skilled workforce of the district.
It therefore pays close attention to the local schools and colleges.
In 2010 FPM allocated more than UAH1.1 million for the needs of local secondary and technical schools, as well as providing financial help to pre-school institutions in the town and region.
Managers from both FPM and FYM took part in the key school events throughout the year.
Managers and employees also participated in meetings with the students and contributed to the training process at the technical schools.
Ferrexpo devotes much effort to providing information about its activities to the students and making them aware of the career possibilities that it offers.
