cOrpOrate sOcial respOnsibility We aim to provide excellent service to our customers, Group Accident Incident Statistics to provide a safe working environment for our employees When the performance during 2010 is compared with 2009, and to create sustainable communities through long we have made significant progress in further reducing term investment.
accidents and incidents across the Group: The Company has been a member of the Kempen SNS 20% reduction in RIDDOR reportable personal Smaller Europe Index since October 2003, membership injury accidents being available only to companies with the very highest 4% reduction in all RIDDOR reportable accidents standards and practice in the three areas of business incidents personal injuries, occupational health reports ethics, human resources and the environment.
The and dangerous occurrences Company is also a constituent member of the FTSE 4 13% reduction in all personal injury accidents Good Index.
Group Year on Year Comparison % 2009 2010 change Status health and safety The health and safety of our employees and all visitors, RIDDOR contractors and members of the public who visit our places Personal Injuries 25 20 -20% of business is of the utmost importance to us.
Our safety All RIDDOR culture is underpinned by the application of five strategic Injuries Incidents 26 25 -4% health and safety drivers: All Personal Accidents 105 91 -13% Simplification of safe systems of work: E ducation in safe working techniques for every employee: Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Engineering safety into our equipment and processes: Occurrence Regulations 1995 RIDDOR E ngagement on safety issues and with all employees: and The Board of Directors set a minimum target of overall Enforcement of safe systems of work through monitoring reduction in personal accidents of 5% in 2010.
was achieved and indeed exceeded.
2010 was the fourth year in succession that we have achieved a greater than Group Health and Safety Policy 10% reduction in personal accidents on the previous year.
The Group has a single Group Health and Safety Policy Statement that applies across all of the business units.
This Trend Analysis 2003-2010 includes Nordic Policy Statement demonstrates our commitment to health from 2007 onwards and safety and outlines the organisation, resource and We are particularly proud of the trend of continued arrangements for implementation of the Policy.
The Policy significant improvement year on year and we wish to see is signed and endorsed by the Group Chief Executive, this to continue: Managing Director Port of Tilbury, Director, Scottish Ports and the Managing Director of the Property division and has 58% reduction in RIDDOR reportable personal injury been consulted on and is displayed at all business locations.
accidents 48% reduction in all RIDDOR reportable accidents Group Strategic Health and Safety Plan incidents personal injuries, occupational health reports A Group Strategic Health and Safety Plan for 2008-2010 and dangerous occurrences was originally presented to the Board in October 2007 and 58% reduction in all personal injury accidents was reviewed by the Directors and senior management at regular intervals for progress against the plan.
The plan was Group Year on Year Comparison completed at the end of 2010 with achievement of all 52 % 2003 2010 change Status plan objectives.
The success of this plan is being built on with the formulation of a new strategic health and safety RIDDOR plan for 2011-2013.
This was communicated to employees Personal Injuries 48 20 -58% during the first quarter of 2011 and will be reported on in All RIDDOR subsequent Annual Reports.
This plan includes targets Injuries Incidents 48 25 -48% and objectives for our occupational health team.
All Personal Accidents 217 91 -58% Organisation Professional support is provided to the business by Health and Safety Managers and their teams within Scottish Port 2010 was the first year that there have been less than Operations, Port of Tilbury and Nordic.
The Group Health 100 personal accidents across the entire Group.
and Safety Manager supports the business units and Health and Safety Managers with advice and guidance.
The Group Health and Safety Manager reports directly to the Group Chief Executive and reports to the Board of Directors on safety strategies, improvement and performance on a regular basis.
Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2010 21 cOrpOrate sOcial respOnsibility continued Health and Safety Awards Behavioural safety steering committees have been set up across the Group to help facilitate new and novel ideas The British Safety Council BSC carried out a combined 5 Star Safety and OHSAS 18001:2007 audit in 2010 with a being generated by the workforce in improving health and safety.
An example was the Mind Your Step door single BSC auditor auditing Scottish Operations and Port of Tilbury.
The Ports were successful in maintaining their stickers placed in major plant equipment door windows.
This links to our campaign to reduce accidents from slips, 5 Star safety status and achieving accreditation to the OHSAS 18001:2007 Safety Standard.
As a result of this achievement Scottish Operations and Port Safety Forums and Initiatives Safety Forums took place in 2010 across the Group at of Tilbury were each invited to apply for a prestigious Sword of Honour Award.
Entry to this competition is by invitation Scottish Operations and Tilbury Nordic with attendance by a cross section of the workforce including Directors, only for companies which have achieved a 5 Star Safety Award from BSC and only 40 Swords of Honour are awarded managers, supervisors, Health and Safety representatives and other members of the workforce.
The themes for this globally each year.
Both Scottish Operations and Port of Tilbury were awarded a Sword of Honour.
The swords year were accident reduction, port specific safety improvement projects, safety communication and were presented to the Company at an award ceremony in London in November 2010. engagement amongst the workforce and the objectives of the Safety First campaigns.
At each of the forums an NRL continues to be successfully audited by British award was presented to the part of the business deemed by the forum to have made a significant contribution to Standards Institute to the Integrated Management System PAS 99 that incorporates the OHSAS 18001 Safety, ISO safety improvement by a particular project or accident reduction initiative.
The 2010 safety award for Scottish 9001 Quality and ISO 14001 Environment Standards.
Operations went to the Port of Rosyth and the award in Port of Tilbury went to the Grain & Bulks asset.
Ports Group Safety First As reported last year, we have developed a Group wide Property safety programme called Safety First which is aimed at cultural and behavioural change to further promote safety.
During 2010 there were no Health and Safety incidents reportable by our principal contractor to the HSE under At the heart of the Safety First campaign is our Safety the RIDDOR 1995 Regulations on any of our property Charter developed in consultation with our employees.
The charter has five guiding principles: The total accident figure from 2005 2010 was 5 all minor We are committed to working in partnership to and non-reportable for all construction project works.
This achieve the aim of no injuries to anyone at any gave an accident frequency rate of 0.69 per 100,000 hours.
Forth Ports premises This compares with an estimated construction sector We believe that no job is more important than any average of reportable accidents of 1.9 per 100,000 hours.
persons health and safety We will never knowingly walk past an unsafe act Ocean Terminal Limited became a Group company at the or condition end of 2009 and a full review of all safety arrangements in We will demonstrate our commitment to high levels place was carried out.
A quarterly safety report has been of safety by our own behaviour developed and new safety initiatives are being progressed We will establish a culture of tolerance to further enhance safety at the centre.
The campaign is communicated across all operations in the Industry Engagement form of accident reduction workshops, poster campaigns, Forth Ports continues to be involved in all of the core toolbox talks, quarterly newsletter, specific process safety activities of Port Skills and Safety, the industry body improvement projects and safety suggestion boxes charged with promoting high standards of health and safety available to all employees.
The Managing Director, Port of Tilbury continues to be a member of the PSS management All staff in the ports operations are also asked to complete Board and the Group is represented at the Port Safety safety climate questionnaires.
The outputs from the Steering Group meetings where Health and Safety questionnaires help us plan our communications and managers from across the ports industry meet and share campaigns to target areas where improvements can be made.
The Group continues to progress the safety and training objectives detailed in the industry wide Safer Ports 2 Initiative and fully supports the regional events organised to promote the initiative throughout the industry.
22 Forth Ports contributed throughout 2010 to the Ports The must knows health and safety statutory in-house Guidance Notes developed by Port Skills and Safety and training programme covered a total of 318 employees the Health and Safety Executive.
The launch of these during 2010, a total of 47 courses were held.
These courses documents took place at an event hosted by the HSE included Appointed Person, Hazard Identification, Working at the Mersey Maritime Museum on 14th January 2011. at Heights and Risk Assessor.
This is an ongoing Senior representatives of the Ports Operators, the MCA, programme which will continue in 2011.
Two student RTA, Department of Transport and Unite the Union were placements were taken on during 2010 in Operations and present at the event.
Our Group Chief Executive and HSE Human Resources in Scotland.
Working with University of Chair Judith Hackett were amongst the guest speakers East London and University of Essex, the Port of Tilbury at the event which marked A Decade of Progress in Training Team together with Nordic Recycling organised reducing accident rates within the Ports Industry.
two funded three-month graduate intern placements with the Nordic Recycling Sales Team.
This project provided a Monitoring and Audit structured work experience for the graduates, which proved The Group continues to use a system of internal and so successful that in December 2010 the two graduates external process safety audits to measure, monitor and were invited to join the Sales Team as full time employees.
demonstrate compliance with all relevant health and safety legislation and internal safety management procedures.
During the year, one executive director completed the Oxford Strategic Leadership Programme.
The Group Chief Executive and the Managing Director Port of Tilbury along with the senior management team continue to carry out safety tours at regular intervals to promote safe envirOnment and sustainability working practices and engage with employees on safety related issues.
Our Commitment to Sustainability and the Environment The Board of Forth Ports recognises the importance of operating in a responsible manner within the generally emplOyees accepted principles of sustainable development.
This is Industrial Relations and Staffing particularly important as our assets are predominantly During the course of the year the Group headcount ports: infrastructure on the boundary between land and reduced by 10.
At the end of the year the headcount sea.
The land and estuaries that we manage are valuable figures were: natural assets socially, economically and environmentally.
Being a responsible company we continue to review our As at operations to ensure that we minimise our impact on the Division 31.12.2010 environment and operate efficiently.
In doing so, we assist Tilbury 498 the UK and Scottish Governments in their ambitious targets Nordic 138 to reduce emissions and work towards limiting human Scotland 479 induced climate change, while at the same time being a modern, essential part of the global supply chain.
TOTAL 1,115 Across the Group, our key potential environmental and sustainability risks are: We continue to work at ensuring good industrial relations are maintained.
There have been no days lost due to Climate Change regulation from the combustion of industrial disputes since 1989. fuels and the purchasing of energy Conservation all of our facilities are adjacent sites with Employee Involvement high levels of environmental protection We continue to hold a group-wide information and Water pollution operating near water, and being consultation forum.
The forum allows for matters of mutual responsible for commercial traffic travelling on the water, interest to be discussed and it is further augmented by the there is potential for an accident to result in water local communication forums and the regular meetings with pollution the recognised trade unions.
Air Quality emissions from plant and cargo handling Waste many of our activities result in materials that Training and Development require to be disposed of, ships calling at our facilities A Middle Management Development Programme MMDP are required by law to deposit their waste in our ports was implemented in 2010 and 30 Managers 16 from Local communities our activities can have the potential Scottish Operations and 14 from Tilbury completed the to have an impact on local communities, whether actual programme in 2010.
The next phase of the roll out is or perceived.
MMDP is led by senior managers and is linked with the Centre for High Performance We manage these risks and our performance through our Development objectives reported last year for our senior environmental management systems.
This training has been built upon attend regular meetings across the business units at which through the production of personal development plans.
environmental and sustainability aspects are discussed and agreed.
At a Group level the key business units are Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2010 23 cOrpOrate sOcial respOnsibility continued represented by individual senior managers on the Nordics environmental credentials impressed the judges Environment Integration Committee, the membership at the Kent Business Awards, where the Company won an of this committee includes the Group Chief Executive, who award for replacing an old and inefficient bale wrapper with in turn briefs the main board on key environmental issues a new low energy system which reduced energy costs by and progress.
The Environment Integration Committee has 66%.
Other initiatives that Nordic have implemented have a three year work plan and has issued a new Environment included reducing the hazardous waste outputs of the and Sustainability Policy for the Group, signed by the company: and saving fuel, carbon and time, by the more Directors responsible for each division and the Group Chief efficient and better use of transport, shipping and logistics.
The environmental management systems in the Port of Tilbury, Nordic and the Marine Division are Port of Tilbury won the Environmental Awareness award all certified ISO14001:2004.
Progress continues on the at the Thurrock Business Awards in 2010 in recognition Scottish Ports management system with the Port of of management and staff incentives to reduce the ports Grangemouth expected to achieve certification during carbon footprint.
During 2010 we participated in the Carbon 2011 and the Port of Dundee to follow in 2012.
During Disclosure Project, this was the first time we had done 2010 the decision was taken to formally link energy and so and were pleased with the scoring of our submission.
environmental functions under one manager with Group We intend to participate again this year.
We anticipate this change will lead to more effective implementation and integration across the Conservation and the Natural Environment business units: driving efficiencies, synergies, project All of our facilities are adjacent or in close proximity to development, environmental and financial benefits.
sites designated as important for conservation.
These include local, national, European and international Climate Change designations for both species and habitats.
We have Climate Change is clearly now a board room issue.
By operated in close proximity to these sites for decades far the majority of the UKs listed companies accept that and our activities comfortably co-exist with the species human induced climate change is having a significant effect that rely on the adjacent habitats.
Operating in the coastal on the global climate and that collective action is required zone has its challenges: the coast is expected to be a to prevent further acceleration in the rate of change.
Our major area of change in relation to climate change.
As approach to minimising our impact on climate change has previously reported we are funding a Ph.
D. at Dundee been to focus on improving the energy efficiency of our University to examine relative sea level change in the Forth activities and identifying and progressing opportunities and Tay, as these areas are less well studied than the for the generation of renewable energy on our estates.
This will assist us with our long term infrastructure planning and climate change adaption plans.
Similarly we are funding a Ph.
D. at Glasgow University examining climate change the Common Tern colony in the Port of Leith: this is the smallest Special Protection Area in the UK.
Gaining a better iS clearly now a understanding of the ecology of the colony, its tolerance of disturbance and likely future development in the context board room iSSue of the wider population of the area will provide valuable data which will help to inform our future plans for the port.
Energy Efficiency Each business unit across the Group is working on energy efficiency projects.
During 2010 we were awarded the all oF our FacilitieS Carbon Trust Standard across the entire Forth Ports Group.
This was a significant achievement and recognition of the are adjacent or commitment of every member of our workforce during the previous two years.
The strategy initially focussed on in cloSe proximity behavioural approaches and these have delivered significant improvements.
We are now moving into a period to SiteS deSignated where some investment will be required to deliver further significant improved efficiencies.
Current projects are aS important predominantly focussed on lighting, whether improved controls, such as movement and daylight sensors or new For conServation technology, for example LED.
A shed lighting trial in Tilbury is nearing the end of the evaluation phase.
If the results prove to be as positive as the initial findings suggest, then we will extend this trial across sheds in this and other ports over the next few years.
We have set ourselves a target to further improve energy efficiency by 3% over the course of 2011.
24 As both a Statutory and as a Competent Harbour Authority Players in the exercise included the usual participants, we have many statutory duties.
These include the preparation particularly the statutory agencies, shipping companies of oil spill and emergency plans see below and the and agents.
maintenance of safe navigation to and from the facilities within our jurisdiction.
The maintenance dredging we All of our plans are regularly reviewed and exercised.
undertake has remained largely unchanged since the Last year we reported that the Port of Tilbury plan was 1960s.
The volumes of material physically dredged due for review.
The plan was reviewed during the year fluctuates from time to time depending on the siltation rates and subsequently tested.
During 2011, the Clearwater at individual locations, this in turn is driven by climatic and Forth plan will be reviewed.
However during 2010 we began the process of seeking approval for a dredge-disposal operation Waste Management to re-open Kirkcaldy Harbour, which has been closed to During the year NRL took over the contract for the provision commercial traffic for some time.
The project will allow the of waste services within the Port of Tilbury.
This process has neighbouring flour mill to import its grain via short sea created advantages for both Nordic and the Port of Tilbury.
coasters rather than trucking the grain from various There is reduced cost, increased access to professional locations in the UK.
We received the licence for this project advice and expertise and improved data provision and in January 2011 following the submission of a rigorous tracking.
This is part of a drive across the group to reduce Best Practical Environmental Options assessment and it the volume of waste to landfill.
Similarly in Scotland we have will significantly reduce road movements through the centre reviewed waste and recycling contracts and have delivered of Kirkcaldy and secure the future of the mill in the town, synergies that allowed us to hold the waste management whilst also significantly lowering the carbon footprint of charge to ships calling at our ports at the 2009 levels, the mills supply chain.
despite the increase in landfill tax last April.
In Grangemouth, our 2010 dredge disposal licence Nordic has continued to deliver added value services to application was granted for three years, this is one of the customers through working with them to promote recycling first such multi-year licences issued in Scotland and is a and landfill diversion.
We are particularly proud of Nordics major achievement and a model for the future under the key role in the success of one of their largest customers: new licensing regime which will commence in April 2011.
Land Securities won the Responsible Waste Management category of the Sustainable City Awards back in February.
Nordic helped Land Securities all oF our planS are move from a 21% recycling rate to a 50% recycling rate with the remaining 50% going to produce energy: a zero regularly reviewed landfill position.
and exerciSed Water Quality, Pollution Avoidance and Control As reported in previous years, the Marine Division in Scotland continues to upgrade and exercise the various emergency and spill response plans for our Scottish Ports and Harbour Authority waters.
This year the major live play exercise in the Forth was called Black Wood, the aims of the exercise were to: T est the function of the Clearwater Forth Spill Response Plan: Test communication: T est interfaces with other plans that become invoked with Clearwater Forth: Test the command and control function: Test the media interface during an incident: T est waste management functions and the role of the environment group: and Test the strategic decision making process.
Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2010 25 cOrpOrate sOcial respOnsibility continued The Group also makes its land available free of charge for cOmmunity respOnsibility, educatiOn public events.
This year these included The Chinese State and invOlvement Circus as part of the Edinburgh Festival, the Leith Festival and the Zapcats powerboat event for the second year Community Engagement in succession.
We believe that it is important to engage with local communities where projects we are progressing have Charitable Activities an impact on them.
An example of this is Forth Energys The list of charities that our various businesses are involved renewable energy applications where we have adopted with is extensive, however, a small number of these are the consultation approach required by the new Scottish outlined below.
Our involvement varies from donations, Planning Act for major projects despite the consenting through activities to raise funds to the provision of services, system through the Electricity Act not requiring such time and support.
The Company donated land to The an approach.
All of the documentation associated with Merchant Navy Memorial Trust for the erection of a the consultations, and applications generally are available monument in memory of merchant seamen who have lost on the Forth Energy website.
The memorial was unveiled by HRH The Princess Royal in November.
One of the figures in the 6 Times multi-part sculpture work by Antony Gormley sits we believe that on one of our piers beside Ocean Terminal.
There have been fund raising events such as the two teams from the it iS important to Marine Department in Scotland that went white water rafting on the River Tummel raising 3,000 for Seafarers UK.
engage with local Ocean Terminal supports a number of charities by allowing them space in the Centre to promote the work they do and communitieS collect vital funds.
In addition, as in previous years during December, the Ocean Terminal management team Across a number of ports, but particularly Tilbury, we organised a Charity Gift Wrap stall.
Ocean Terminal donates engage with local schools through the provision of interview all gift wrap and accessories required.
In 2010, charities training, Young International Trader Awards, other that took part were: education challenges and work experience.
We have also facilitated port tours and presentations to a number of SANDS Lothian: universities across our sites, provided internships and Multiple Sclerosis Therapy Centre: suggested practical student projects.
We continue to fund Marie Curie Cancer Care: two Ph.
D. students at Glasgow and Dundee universities.
Save the Children: The Port of Tilbury continues to lead the consortium of Poppy Scotland: universities and further education colleges that manage the Childline NSPCC : and East of England Regional Logistics Academy and support British Heart Foundation.
the South West Essex Business Education Partnership.
Regulatory Engagement Tilbury has also been working with the Sector Skills Council Forth Ports actively engages with government on the Skills for Logistics, Maxim Transport and Unipart Logistics, impact of proposed legislation.
Over the past year this who have successfully bid for the licence to run a National has included the Marine Scotland Act and associated Skills Academy for the logistics sector in England.
Its aim is secondary legislation, the Carbon Reduction Commitment, one of transforming the sector by increasing awareness, Environmental Impact Assessment Regulations in both understanding and investment in skills as the route to the Scotland and England and prospective legislation relating development of a more productive, efficient, safe, inclusive to third party access to private networks.
and low carbon logistics sector.
Following the successful bid, the Skills Funding Agency agreed a 250,000 funding package to support the business planning stage with delivery in mid 2011.
Port of Tilbury actively supports and assists Thurrock Council through the Thurrock Learning Partnership and the Thurrock Workforce Development Group and have recently become part of the Economic Development Working Group.
Other projects have included the support of the 2010 Thurrocks Next Top Boss Project.
The basic concept of this project was to bring some of the key Thurrock companies together, to shape a competition that identified and fostered business talent and ambition among young people in Thurrock.
It also helped Thurrock Council and the Thames Gateway Development Corporation promote Thurrock and its opportunities.
26 Management Involvement A number of members of the management team hold voluntary positions in organisations, these include: C harles Hammond, Group Chief Executive, is Chair of the UK Major Ports Group UKMPG and a member of the Scottish Government Energy Advisory Board P erry Glading, the Managing Director of the Port of Tilbury, is a Director of Skills for Logistics M orag McNeill, the Group Company Secretary, is a Director of the Court of The Edinburgh Academy and a member of the Executive Committee of the Pilots National Pension Fund C aptain Bob Baker, the Chief Harbour Master, is a Trustee Director of the Pilots National Pension Fund, a Council Member for Scotland on the general council for the UK Harbour Masters Association and Member of the Executive of the British Tug Owners Association Dr Derek McGlashan, the Environment and Energy Manager, is a Director of the Forth Estuary Forum, Chair of the joint UKMPG and British Ports Association Environment and Policy Group, represents the UKMPG on the Scottish Governments Marine Strategy Forum and the UK Emissions Trading Group and holds an honorary position at the University of Dundee F rank Monaghan, the Group Safety Manager, sat on the Editorial Panel of Port Skills and Safety until the panel was disbanded at the end of 2010 B ob Cowan, the Group Financial Accountant, is a member of the Audit Committee of Mercy Corp Scotland S imon Harper, Training and Development Manager, is a member of the Board of Governors at Chafford Hundred School and Havering College of Further & Higher Education, he is also a Director of the St Cleres School Co-operative Learning Community Trust M artyn Clark, Harbour Master Forth Outer, is the Chairman of the local Port Welfare Committee for Central & West Scotland of the Merchant Navy Welfare Board D errick Turner, Head of Finance of the Property Division, is a guest lecturer at Napier University R ay Clark, Estates Manager, sits on the Board of the Leith Festival Association and on the Water of Leith Action Group Committee.
Forth Ports Annual Report and Accounts 2010 27
