56 SUSTAINABLE dEVELOPMENT REPORT Sustainability is core to Fresnillo plcs philosophy, The HSECR team met three times in 2010, including strategy and operations, underpinning our social lia session to integrate 59 key contractors in our supcense to operate.
Our policies are focused on health ply chain into the HSECR System.
An average of 27 and safety in the workplace, environmental prohours per person of HSECR training was provided tection, and sound relations with the communities to employees and contractors during the year and where we operate.
we rolled out a six-month campaign and provided a Module on Sustainable Development to ensure that We seek to ensure that our operations are fully in all personnel across the organisation understand the compliance with government regulations and inGroups sustainability guidelines and procedures in dustry best practices, and to foster a culture of susplace to fight corruption and promote human rights.
tainable development, teamwork and continuous improvement.
An important aspect of this culture is International, national and industry ongoing outreach and dialogue with our stakeholdguidelines and certifications ers through a variety of channels.
A core responsibility of the HSECR System is compliance with regulations issued by governmental authorities such OUR SUSTAINABILITY as the Mexican Secretariat of labour STPS and the MexFRAMEWORk ican Secretariat of the Environment and Natural ResourcHealth, Safety, Environment and Community es SEMARNAT.
We also seek to adhere to guidelines Relations System on workplace policies and programmes established by The Groups sustainability efforts are managed international institutions such as the OECD, International through its Health, Safety, Environment and Comlabour Organisation and World Health Organisation.
For best practices in our industry, we follow the At the Board level, an HSECR Committee that inframework and recommendations of the Internacludes the Chief Executive is responsible for fortional Council on Mining and Metals ICMM and the mulating HSECR policies, reviewing investigations Global Reporting Initiative GRI.
We also participate of any accidents, and evaluating independent perin various global and national environmental initiaformance audits and action plans.
Key sustainability tives such as the Corporate Commitment on Wilderissues are identified through the risk management ness and the Mexican Greenhouse Gas Programme.
process, which includes an analysis of likelihood and impact.
The certifications we seek to obtain and maintain are: i Further details are included in the Risk Management OHSAS 18001:2008, an international occupational Framework and Principal Risks and Uncertainties on health and safety management system specification pages 22-25.
Safe Enterprise Certificate from the STPS ISO 14001:2004 for Environmental ManageAt the operations level, each business unit has ment Systems separate programme managers specifically reClean Industry Certificate from the Mexican Envisponsible for aspects of health, safety, environronmental Authority PROFEPA ment and community relations who report to the Cyanide Management Certificate from the Interbusiness unit manager and to an HSECR corporate national Cyanide Management Institute coordinator.
Each mine also has a Comisin fide Seguridad e Higiene Hygiene and Safety CommisWe are signatories to the United Nations Global Comsion comprised of representatives from the union pact and track awards and distinctions such as the and non-union employees, as well as contractors, Socially Responsible Company Award from the Mexiwho monitor and review performance on an ongocan Centre of Philanthropy CEMEFI and the Ethics ing basis.
The HSECR team reports to the Execuand values in the Industry Award from the Mexican tive Committee every three months.
In 2010 the Confederation of Industrial Chambers CONCAMIN.
Sustainable Development Manager position was We sent our second Communication on Progress created to advise on global best practices in corCoP in 2010 and participated for the first time in the porate social responsibility and coordinate BoardCarbon Disclosure Project CDP, an initiative aimed at and operations-level initiatives.
quantifying and mitigating greenhouse gas emissions.
GROUP OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 57 Memberships, partnerships and awards We understand the importance of participating in international and domestic industry groups and organisations related to sustainability and corporate social responsibility, as well as in seeking partnerships with non-profit and public sector organisations.
relAtioNShip type NAme our role membership CAMIMEx Mexican Mining Chamber Active member or participation CESPEDES Sustainable Development Active member of the Directive Council Studies Commission, Private Coordinator Council, CCE CONCAMIN Confederation of Industrial Representation through CAMIMEx and recipient of Chambers the Ethics and values Award CEMEFI Mexican Centre for Recipient of the Socially Responsible Company Philanthropy ESR Award United Nations Global Compact Subscriber to the 10 Principles: annual submission of Communication on Progress partnership INIFAP National Institute for Forestry, Partnership for reforestation and research at or project Agriculture and livestock Research Cinega and Fresnillo The Carbon Disclosure Project Participant in the FTSE 350 category through disclosure on climate change risks and mitigation efforts The Wild Foundation Subscriber to the Corporate Commitment on Wilderness to promote biodiversity conservation STPS Mexican Secretariat of labour Participant in the Safety Self-Management Programme SEMARNAT Mexican Secretariat of the Participant in the Mexican Greenhouse Gas Environment CESPEDES Programme, a public-private partnership CEDES Ecology and Sustainable Partnership to protect the Sonoran Pronghorn Development Commission of Sonora State PROFEPA Mexican Environmental Participant in the Clean Industry Programme Authority International Cyanide Management Participant in the Cyanide Management Institute Programme UK Prince of Wales & Cambridge Subscriber to the Copenhagen and Cancun University Communiqus to promote international commitments to climate change Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 58 SUSTAINABLE dEVELOPMENT REPORT continued Strategic priorities EMPLOYEES Objective Provide professional development opportunities and workplace satisfaction for our personnel.
performANce iNdicAtor 2010 2009 2008 commeNt professional 95 92 92 Focus on leadership, development training teamwork, process Average hours person improvement, productivity and management skills hSecr training 27 23 18 Increased training on Health, Average hours person Safety, Environment and Community Relations issues.
Incorporated a Module on Sustainable Development turnover rate 4.61 5.56 8.90 Reflects improved employee Number of union and non-union profit sharing and efforts to employees who left the company improve quality of life divided by the total number of employees employee satisfaction survey 6.8 N A 4.9 The study is conducted every two Survey of union and non-union years by an independent third workers and contractors party: higher satisfaction reflects actions taken on comments from previous surveys labour relations 0 0 0 All collective and contract Total number of days in which negotiations were successfully operations were compromised due to conducted disagreements with local unions and or contract negotiations Engineers at Centauro Deep GROUP OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 59 Priorities, policies and programmes Planning during the year, which aligns employees The wellbeing of our people directly correlates to performance with the Companys strategic objectives.
the wellbeing of the Group.
The quality of life of our personnel and their families can be a competitive Total 2010 wages and salaries were $20.7 million, differentiator, thus we place significant emphasis on a 16.9% increase from 2009.
Collective labour nefair labour agreements with both union and non-ungotiations with unions concluded successfully in all ion workers and competitive wages and benefits for units, with a 6.5% wage increase and a 1.0% bonus all.
In the areas where we operate, and particularly on base salary.
in geographically isolated regions, we provide basic services such as housing, medical services, educa- 2011 priorities tion and transportation, as well as other benefits launch the Technical Mining School at Fresnillo like access to communications and recreational and to improve operational skills and train new operasport facilities.
tors for several projects in the pipeline Develop the Institutional Training Programme for This year we invested US$1.2 million in professional Skills Development development training programmes.
These primarily Monitor and strengthen personnel security measfocus on creating a result-oriented culture through ures as needed in light of drug-related violence leadership, process improvement, innovation, proin Mexico ductivity and management skills.
To ensure personnel alignment with our health, safety, environmental and community relations standards, more than 2010 WORkFORCE OvERvIEW US$215,000 was allocated specifically to HSECR train- 2,449 employees and 1,972 contractors ing.
Personnel recruitment efforts included internship annual average, 57 geological technicians at the programmes for engineers to ensure a next generaExploration division monthly average tion of skilled mining and exploration professionals.
93.0% men and 7.0% women including 48 women as heavy equipment operators Contractors are seen as strategic partners and we 80.0% unionised and 20.0% non-unionised continue to integrate them into our management 16.0% between 18-25 years, 67.0% between systems and training programmes.
Development 26-45, 17.0% over 46 of mines and new projects in 2010 required us to 52.0% between 0-5 years at Company, 16.0% hire a significant number of new contractors.
While between 6-10, 32.0% more than 11 HSECR issues are covered within our contractual ar- 2.0% at executive level rangements, we intend to strengthen training and 269 new hires supervision in this particular area.
30 engineers in training annual average : accepted 77 trainees plus 20 in the Fresnillo mine Labour environment The Fresnillo Group fully complies with Mexican legislation regarding respect for human rights.
Through its Code of Conduct and Fresnillo Plays Fair programme, the Group also promotes gender equality, and freedom of thought and association, and prohibits slavery, compulsory labour, child labour, and actions that discriminate or violate other groups customs and culture.
i More information about the Code of Conduct and the Fresnillo Plays Fair programme may be found on page 96-97.
Teamwork is central to the Fresnillo work culture.
In 2010, for example, we recognised 12 working teams for developing specific efficiency improvement projects.
We also implemented Performance Evaluation Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 60 SUSTAINABLE dEVELOPMENT REPORT continued HEALTH ANd SAFETY Objective Health: Control occupational illnesses and improve general health through preventive care Safety: Zero fatal accidents through the elimination of dangerous workplace conditions and behaviours performANce iNdicAtor 2010 2009 2008 commeNt fatalities 2 0 0 We have a Zero Tolerance Policy in which no fatality is ever acceptable.
After two years with no fatalities, we suffered two such accidents in 2010: in August, a carbon monoxide poisoning at Cinega: in November a fall of a scoop tram at Fresnillo Accident rate 2.21 3.10 3.63 Accident rate was reduced as a Number of disabling accidents that result of our safety programmes require absence from work for more than three days, divided by the total number of union and non-union employees, as well as contractors, multiplied by 100 lost work days rate 1.64 1.20 1.58 Increase is mainly explained by The number of days lost due to the two fatal accidents disabling and non-disabling accidents divided by the total number of union and non-union employees, as well as contractors Safety procedures for managing sodium cyanide GROUP OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 61 Priorities, policies and programmes Conducted 133 medical scans of employees Group policy is to put the life of our personnel above working in higher risk operational areas all else.
We have zero tolerance rules that absolutely Reduced absenteeism at Cinega by 2.0% prohibit any deviation from the Groups safety rules through periodic visits from medical specialists to and procedures.
the mine Reduced lost work days at the Fresnillo mine by In order to maintain the wellbeing of our personnel, 21.0% through a Health Integration Programme we provide a range of medical services for union implemented in partnership with the Mexican Inand non-union employees and contractors.
Health stitute for Social Security IMSS in 2009 programmes include annual examinations, routine Achieved 80.0% advance in OHSAS 18001:2008 cervaccinations, health seminars, and comprehensive tification at Fresnillo: initiated the process at Herramedical care for those in need.
This enables us to dura, Soledad-Dipolos and Cinega at year end monitor occupational illnesses, implement prevenFor the Safe Enterprise Certificate granted by the tion programmes and monitor the general health of Mexican Secretariat of labour, certification is obour personnel to reduce common conditions such tained following completion of three levels of the as diabetes, hypertension and obesity.
Safety Self-Management Programme: Herradura completed the First level programme in 2010 Workplace safety measures are specific to the naand is awaiting the Secretariats report: Fresnillo ture of each mine unit: in underground mines we and Cinega, due to the fatal accidents, were put install ventilation systems, provide refuge stations on stand-by until the recommended preventive and reinforce mine works with a roof support sysmeasures are reviewed: Saucito is awaiting review tem based in anchor bolts and shotcrete.
At open pit operations we maintain mobile equipment in op- 2011 priorities timal condition to ensure driver safety and promote Zero fatal accidents and a 20.0% improvement in off-road trucks and shovels training to operators other safety indices through a simulator that virtually exposes workers A 10.0% reduction in lost work days rate for gento harsh operational situations.
eral illnesses OHSAS 18001:2008 certification at Fresnillo and All hazardous materials are contained, stored and 50.0% progress at all other operating mines labelled properly at every worksite.
First level of the Safe Enterprise Certificate at all operating mines: integration of Soledad-Dipolos To encourage a culture of health and safety, we into the programme provide ongoing training through programmes such Creation of an internal health team and ergonomas Occupational Illnesses Prevention Programme, ics committee at Herradura Safety Conduct Programme, Safety Programme for Facilitators, Hazardous Materials Management and First Aid.
TWO FATALITIES In 2010 We deeply regret the loss of two employees in un- 2010 highlights derground mines this year, the first at Cinega by US$6.0 million invested in health and safety infracarbon monoxide poisoning, and the second at structure, initiatives and training Fresnillo by a fall of a scoop tram.
Group safety advisors certified by the British Standards Institution as OHSAS 18001 leader Auditors The HSECR Committee maintains its strict commitEnrolled our medical doctors in a two-year occument to a Zero Fatality Rate, and following thorough pational health masters programme at  of these incidents the Committee has dad Autnoma fide Coahuila UAC requested additional training be provided to extend Trained 15 rescue teams: the Fresnillo mine team awareness about the fatal consequences of disreplaced third in the Mining Rescue category at the garding safety procedures.
12th Mine Rescue Team Competition organised by CAMIMEx Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 62 SUSTAINABLE dEVELOPMENT REPORT continued ENVIRONMENT Objective Environmental performance: Minimise environmental impact of all operations and throughout the lifecycle of a mine Environmental management: Comply with legal and regulatory requirements and align our operations with international best practices performANce iNdicAtor 2010 2009 2008 commeNt energy consumption 0.124 0.188 0.157 Eco-efficiency projects Gigajoules per tonne of product fresh water consumption 0.095 0.209 0.137 Eco-efficiency projects Cubic meters per tonne of product greenhouse gas emission 0.011 0.017 0.015 Eco efficiency projects C0e tonnes per tonne of product 2 environmental incident lost 0 0 0 Environmental incidents refer to days rate tailing dam leakages, leaching Total number of days in which pad contamination, fires within operations were compromised due mines and facilities, and spillage to environmental incidents of hazardous materials Sustainable forest at Cinega GROUP OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 63 Environmental impact, policies 2011 priorities and programmes Maintain all existing certifications Our operational philosophy is to manage environObtain Cyanide Code Certificate at Cinega, immental risk and mitigate our impact over the lifecyplement initial evaluation at Soledad-Dipolos cle of a mine.
The Groups environmental manageCoach four contractors at the Fresnillo mine so ment systems extend from the exploration phase, they may participate in the Clean Industry Certifito mine development and operation, to closure cation process and restoration.
This year, we invested US$2.6 million in environmental efforts, including infrastructure and programmes.
Water treatment plant at Fresnillo The 150 litre second facility started operations and Through our long-term experience in the mining is treating more than 35% of the citys sewage for sector, we have identified five main environmental reuse in the mines processes.
aspects on which our operations have an impact and therefore require control and mitigation see Climate change following page for detailed information : We participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project for the first time in 2010, a non-profit organisation that Water promotes climate change reporting for risk assessEnergy ment and mitigation efforts.
We endorsed the CanDust and Greenhouse Gases cun Communiqu at the COP 16 seeking action by Waste and Hazardous Materials governments globally on climate change.
land Biodiversity Biodiversity conservation There were no reportable environmental incidents We are a founding member of The Corporate Comin 2010. mitment on Wilderness, a conservation partnership between the Mexican private sector and The 2010 certification highlights Wild Foundation.
Our three main projects are the ISO14001:2004 re-certification at all Group mines Sustainable Forest at Cinega, which now covers and the Exploration Division close to 500 hectares of reforested land: the SusClean Industry PROFEPA re-certification at all tainable Complex at Fresnillo, an animal care facility Group mines and ecological park that welcomed 35,665 visitors International Cyanide Code Certification audit in 2010: and the Sonoran Pronghorn Conservation completed at Herradura, and implementation Programme at Herradura, designed to protect and process advanced by 62.0% at Cinega monitor pronghorn populations.
Obtained Mexican Greenhouse Gas Programme GHG membership for self-reporting of GHG We participated in a project with the Comisin emissions at the corporate level Nacional fide reas Naturales Protegidas CONANP, Registered in the Carbon Disclosure Project in the Mexican public entity that supports land conservaFTSE 350 category for self-reporting on Climate tion to issue a catalogue of photos about the MexiChange risks and strategies can species under threat of extinction.
Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 64 SUSTAINABLE dEVELOPMENT REPORT continued ASpect impAct oBJectiveS ANd 2010 highlightS 2011 tArgetS procedureS 3 Water High water consumer Reduce unit consumption Consumed a total of 2.8 million m Zero fresh water but most of the needed of fresh water through of fresh water, a 20.0% reduction consumption at Fresnillo water is reprocessed.
recirculation: control residual from the previous year.
The start-up and Saucito through the Fresh water is sourced water discharges.
We limit of the water treatment plant at water treatment plant.
from within the mines consumption of fresh water Fresnillo meant a reduction of 95.0% Evaluate the use of at Fresnillo and Cinega to replacement of evaporated at the mine unit.
seawater at Herradura and through wells at water from tailing dams: we have and Soledad-Dipolos to Herradura.
Minimal no residual water discharges.
energy High energy consumer, Reduce unit consumption of Consumed a total of 3.7 million of GJ Reduce energy mainly electricity for the energy.
We implement energy 70.7% diesel, 26.2% electricity: 1.6% intensity through beneficiation plant and efficiency projects and seek gasoline: 1.5% lP gas : during the year eco-efficiency projects diesel to operate mobile renewable sources of energy to efficiency projects generated savings motors and lighting.
of 5,672 GJ compared to the prior year, equivalent to 2.8% of total consumption.
dust and Medium impact from air Contain fugitive dust: Tested a new product on dust Reduce GHG emissions greenhouse emissions.
The Company minimise unit CO emissions.
control at Herradura, using less intensity through eco- 2 gases is not a major emitter of We water down mine roads water.
As per the Mexican GHG efficiency projects.
CO. Our main emissions and use extractors to ventilate Programme, we emitted 205,539 2 from operations are underground mines.
tonnes of CO from direct sources 2 fugitive emissions at in 2010 and 126,788 tonnes from open pit mines caused indirect sources.
Waste and High waste producer.
Maximise the rate of reuse 92.0% of reusable material was sold Maintain the rate hazardous The most significant of industrial and hazardous to third parties as input for other of reuse of spent materials waste product waste: if needed, ensure their processes.
At Herradura, 835,790 litres oil: launch a waste generated by our proper containment.
of spent lube oil were used for blasting, management processes is tailings.
We We have a range of recycling representing 47.0% of total waste programme at Cinega.
also handle hazardous and waste management generated by the mine unit: at Fresnillo, materials and waste.
initiatives, such as the recycling 99,573 litres were sold for secondary of spent oil, tyres, copper, usage in agriculture.
Although we paper and cardboard.
Tailings are in compliance with regulations dams fully comply with national related to the use of hazardous and international standards and materials, we began to reinforce our we maintain strict controls over internal controls due to increasing hazardous materials used.
risks, legal requirements by the Secretariat of National Defence, and recommendations by Internal Audit.
land High local impact on Minimise disruptions to All mines and the Exploration Division Plant 128,000 trees.
Areas flora and fauna on land: have nurseries, with combined Continue building where we impact the mitigate any impact through annual capacity of 186,000 trees.
nurseries in all our most are the tailing conservation efforts, Relocated plant specimens cover an expansion projects, dam terrains and relocation and reforestation.
area of 375.6 acres, with an average Orisyvo being the next.
frontier land where we We participate in conservation survival rate of 83.0%.
At Fresnillo perform exploration and projects in partnership the Bicentennial Nursery was built prospecting.
with public agencies and with a capacity of 80,000 trees.
In exploration also built a nursery at Herradura and projects, we reforest previously have monitored 480 pronghorns as forested areas where drilling compared to 250 in 1993 when the has been performed.
At Cinega 84,500 additional trees were planted in the Sustainable Forest and the nursery has 100,000 additional specimens.
Nurseries built at Noche Buena and San Julin.
GROUP OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 65 Los Jales Ecological Park at Fresnillo Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 66 SUSTAINABLE dEVELOPMENT REPORT continued COMMUNITY RELATIONS Objective Enhance the perception of Fresnillo plc as a responsible mining company in the communities where we operate.
performANce iNdicAtor 2010 2008 2006 commeNt community perception index 86 85 85 The study is conducted every Average perception of four two years by an independent components labour, environmental, third party: thus far the index institutional and social from three has shown the highest possible different sources household ranking score, indicating a very surveys, anthropological positive perception from the observations and personal interviews community School at the Cinega community GROUP OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 67 Social impact management, The framework that guides our community relations policies and programmes efforts incorporates five areas of impact see followWe recognise the high social impact of mining oping page for detailed information : erations at the local level.
Given that our success Environmental culture depends on the parallel success of surrounding Education communities, we are committed to free, prior and Health and social welfare informed consent, fair and open negotiations, reSelf-sustaining capacity spect for the customs and culture of local communiSocial infrastructure ties and cooperative landowner groups ejidos, and to being a good neighbour.
2011 priorities Reinforce the family visits programme and comCommunity citizenship begins at the exploration munications at all mine units phase of our work with outreach efforts and robust Complete the impact analysis of our community baseline studies.
Agreements with landowners ofinvestments to determine alignment with comten include guaranteed investments in the develmunities needs and expectations opment of basic infrastructure such as roads and water works.
Efforts at operating mines depend upon the type of community and its specific needs, distance to the operation and available services and infrastructure.
Sustainability requires that our communities develop a level of self-sufficiency that will enable them to thrive for generations beyond the life of a given mine.
Most of our engagement efforts rely on partnerships with local public agencies and NGOs and are implemented through Welfare and Community Centres.
Agreements can provide a means of securing long-term access to resources, lowering transaction costs and uncertainty, and reducing exposure to disputes and legal action.
In 2010 we invested US$6.1 million in our community outreach programme, including more than US$97,000 at development and expansion projects.
We also encourage philanthropy on a personal level, and 682 employees contributed to the United Way, a non-profit social services organisation.
We launched a comprehensive evaluation of the total impact of our community investments this year based on feedback from the biennial perception study conducted on our behalf by an independent third party.
Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report 68 SUSTAINABLE dEVELOPMENT REPORT continued SociAl ASpect oBJectiveS ANd procedureS 2010 highlightS environmental Go beyond our environmental investment: uS$54,800.
culture mitigation efforts and have Community celebrations of World Environment Day, World Water Day, Earth Day, World impact on a wider scale.
Tree Day, and National Conservation Week, with total participation of 5,940 people.
We sponsor environmental Donated and planted almost 117,500 trees for reforestation campaigns at all mine units.
campaigns and promote activities Received close to 41,250 visitors at the Fresnillo Sustainability Complex, which was such as water conservation, awarded certification for quality in environment management.
Supplied 700 trashcans recycling efforts, reforestation for garbage separation at Herradura.
Organised monthly cleaning campaigns at the and clean public areas.
We fund local schools, support Cultural and civic celebrations such as the Bicentennial festivities.
Facilitated values cultural festivities and promote workshops for 120 teachers and 598 women.
Donated teaching materials to various the study of sciences and educational centres.
Executed children summer campaigns focusing on values respect for values and customs and confidence promotion.
Implemented the INNOvEC programme at Fresnillo, through teacher training and benefiting 2,271 children in science innovation.
At Cinega, built a high school with student workshops.
the Durango State Science & Technology Studies College CECYTED.
At Fresnillo, restored a kindergarten and built a dome at the Gonzlez Ortega school established for employees families.
Donated material to a library and a school at Saucito.
Opened a dining room at the elementary school at Orisyvo.
health Promote health and positive investment: uS$2.5 million.
and social interactions that bring together Celebration of Miners, Mothers, Childrens and Christmas Days.
Offered vaccination integration employees, families and and health campaigns through partnerships with local health offices and the Mexican community members.
Organised sports and recreational activities for 4,930 persons.
extend wellness programmes Events included support for Health Weeks through tests such as bone density and into the community such glucose : triathlon in Fresnillo with 300 athletes: Uruguayan football tournament in as nutrition counselling, Cinega with 400 children: Baseball & Football Academy at Herradura for 70 children: and hygiene habits, athletics and two 5 km races at Saucito, among other activities.
We provide major medical coverage for recreational activities.
families at Fresnillo and Herradura, and at Cinega ran an onsite clinic for all personnel and dependents.
This year we completed construction of 35 houses for union workers at Cinega, restored a public gym at Fresnillo, purchased 8.2 acres of land for a sport facility for workers, and supplied equipment for the fire rescue team at Herradura.
Self-sustaining Ensure the communitys longinvestment: uS$26,700.
Through Offered 27 courses at our Welfare Centres with the participation of 1,297 people from volunteer activities of the Fresnillo surrounding communities.
We offered a special course on Womens Development at all ladies Committee, chaired by the mine units.
wives of the Companys Chairman and CEO, and in Welfare Centres, training and development in alternative sources of income and promoting local enterprises.
Social Satisfy the basic needs of investment: uS$2.6 million.
Through At Cinega, completed the second stage of the main street paving through a partnership partnerships, support public with the Mexican Secretariat of Social Development SEDESOl.
Other projects underway: works and services such as construction of a gym, football yard, public library and fresh water well.
At Fresnillo, electricity, sewage, housing, underwrote the paving of 3,700 metres of road.
At Herradura, completed the second schools, clinics, roads and stage of the Costa Caborca Community Centre that benefits 14 communities and funded telecommunications.
restoration of the community church.
At Saucito, paved a path and built two meeting rooms for the ejidos.
In Orisyvo, donated cisterns that will provide water to 30 families.
GROUP OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 69 Visitors at the Fresnillo Sustainability Complex Fresnillo plc 2010 Annual Report
