The GAME Group plc 46 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Corporate responsibility We recognise that we have a responsibility to understand and endeavour to meet the needs of everyone involved in our business.
Our CR Strategic Goals are to: Help our customers be responsible consumers Behav e ethically and with integrity when sourcing products and dealing with our suppliers Pr ovide a safe and healthy environment for our employees to work in Ena ble our staff to achieve their full potential Suppor t national and local community projects relevant to our stakeholders Activ ely seek ways to minimise our impact on the environment Further information go to: Page 30.
Ben White, Vivienne Hemming, Group Finance Director Company Secretary Our performance The GAME Group plc 47 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 ensure safer driving, and provision of flu jabs.
We also continued to offer discounted rates at a Our stakeholders include the local fitness centre and launched a Cycle to Groups suppliers, customers, Work initiative at our Basingstoke headquarters employees, bankers and which is helping staff incorporate exercise into their daily routine as well as reducing our impact lenders, shareholders and the on local road congestion.
people in the communities in Community Investment which we live and operate.
Our Corporate Community Investment CCI programme defines how we manage our Our Corporate Responsibility activities in local the communities, and making CR programme outlines how a positive impact for both the community and we aim to work in partnership, our stakeholders.
with everyone connected with During 2009 we made some important changes our business, to have a positive to our CCI programme.
We established a Community Investment Committee chaired by impact in society and on the Terry Scicluna our Chief Operating Officer, which environment whilst striving to includes representation from staff of all levels across the business.
The Committee, which achieve our commercial meets quarterly, agreed that to enable us to objectives.
maximise the positive difference we can achieve in the community, the UK Business will now focus all our charitable support on the Message from Ben White, Chair, Group following three areas: Corporate Responsibility Committee During 2009 we made good progress in A corporate charity partner developing and implementing our Corporate Our employees voted overwhelmingly for Responsibility CR programme.
We established Childrens Hospices UK to be the Groups a CR Committee with representatives from Charity Partner until 2011.
They are the national across the organisation, which meets quarterly voice of all childrens hospices in the UK, and to review policy and monitor our progress their vision is for all life-limited children, young against objectives.
We introduced numerous people and their families to have access to the energy efficiency initiatives to our stores, offices best quality hospice care close to home.
Since and distribution centre, which have helped the launch of the partnership in September reduce our impact on the environment, and 2009, our people have been raising funds with we have significantly increased our support activities as diverse as moustache growing of national and local community projects that competitions to parachute jumping, and we our staff are involved with.
look forward to helping Childrens Hospices UK make their vision a reality.
This is the beginning of our CR journey, and we are very much looking forward to taking these Employee nominated charities and other initiatives to the next stage in 2010.
Our colleagues show great commitment to supporting charities that they have a personal Employees connection to.
Through our recently launched The health of our staff is essential and we are Employee Donations fund, employees can continually exploring new initiatives to help request funding for charities they are actively them keep safe and well.
In 2009 we introduced involved with.
The fund has made donations to a range of new services which included free a wide range of voluntary organisations already, winter tyre checks for office employees, to including overseas emergency appeals, wildlife GAME.
Press forward The GAME Group plc 48 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 Corporate responsibility continued charities and community groups that work with disadvantaged young people.
Community investment case study: Local community projects based close to our offices in Basingstoke May Place House, Basingstoke As a major local employer, we have increased our support for projects in the Basingstoke community and the surrounding area.
We support May Place House in Basingstoke as part of our local community investment We are working with Destination Basingstoke, activity.
They work with vulnerable local a not for profit organisation that highlights the homeless people and provide short-term benefits of living and working in Basingstoke and accommodation plus emotional and celebrates the many successes of the local practical support to resettle people into a community.
We continued support for the range of supported housing, as well as help Young Achievers Award, recognising with returning to education or work.
individuals under 21 years old who have shown real achievement in helping their community.
During 2009, GAME people supported the In 2009, the Award was won by Shivani Dawett hostel with refurbishment projects and aged 10 years, a Street Dance champion who arranged donations of essential items such regularly raises funds for charities through her as clothing and blankets during December.
we all thoroughly enjoyed volunteering GAME Group are also a founding member of for May Place and would recommend the Destination Basingstoke Community getting involved to all our colleagues Foundation and we will be working with the its a very worthwhile project and Foundation to provide donations to community fantastic that we were able to help such projects that benefit local children and young a good cause.
We would definitely do it people, with a particular focus on sport, arts, again should the opportunity arise.
Suppliers GAME Group want to ensure that products sold in our stores are sourced from factories that adhere to international workplace regulations, and have introduced independent Social Audits for all factories that produce our own brand GAMEware products.
We benchmark ourselves against the CR activities of other similar organisations.
As part of this process, we surveyed our suppliers to understand their CR priorities and their expectations from GAME Group, and will use the results to formulate our own best practise guidelines.
Environment Electricity GAME Basingstoke Office Team pictured with Ingrid Electricity is our single biggest source of carbon Wright, May Place manager, after a morning of dioxide emissions, and to help combat this, we decorating at the hostel.
have installed 169 AMR electricity meters into Our performance The GAME Group plc 49 Annual Report & Accounts 2009-2010 stores with high consumption levels.
This allows us Emissions Summary to monitor consumption patterns and react to irregularities.
Major savings have been achieved through staff training and changes in store Emissions Source Tonnes CO e 2 shutdown procedures at night.
GAME Stores electricity 10,435 Carbon footprint Head Office electricity 739 The carbon footprint for the financial year for GAME UK and Ireland businesses was Head Office gas 209 calculated at 12,284 tonnes CO e. In 2010, we 2 Distribution Centre electricity 901 will widen our reporting boundary to incorporate the footprint for Gamestation stores, Total 12,284 and we will also collect more detailed information about our waste to landfill and business travel activities and put plans in place to reduce our impact in these areas too.
Recycling summary Waste We are reducing waste wherever possible, and Head Office reusing and recycling more of the waste that is produced in our day to day activities.
In our 29.4 tonnes of electrical waste from Head Office Head Office we actively encourage and 594 tonnes of cardboard from the Distribution provide facilities for recycling mobile phones, Centre cans, batteries, lamps and plastics, and in 2009 we achieved the levels of recyclable material 21.9 tonnes of general paper opposite.
The recycling rate in stores increased from Stores 40 per cent in 2008 09 to 52 per cent in 2009 10.
44.8 tonnes of confidential paper from stores We aim to achieve further reductions through continued support of WEEE regulations and by 25 tonnes of electrical waste from stores raising the profile of our free take back programme for customers.
For more information on our corporate responsibility, please visit our website Further information go to: Page 02.
