12 Genus plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Business Review Results in the region were robust despite generally poor market conditions.
These prevailed throughout the year in the US dairy D ivisional Review sector but gradually improved in all our other sectors during the second half of year.
Although revenue was 1% lower, adjusted The Americas operating profit rose 4% to 42.3m.
At constant exchange rates, operating profit rose by 1% on revenue down 4%.
Lower sales of porcine breeding animals and of dairy semen in North America were the principal reasons for the reduction in revenue.
However, strong growth in Latin America, despite the poor market, and the resilience of the porcine business model in North America, contributed to the improvement in profit achieved.
North America Actual Currency Constant Currency 2010 2009 Movement Movement m m % % Revenue 103.0 109.0 6 8 Adjusted operating Bill Christianson profit 32.2 32.3 3 Chief Operating Officer The Americas Adjusted operating margin 31% 30% Actual Currency Constant It was an extremely difficult year for agricultural production in North Currency 2010 2009 Movement Movement America.
Genus customers continued to suffer from weak demand m m % % and oversupply in their markets.
This resulted in reduced demand Revenue 141.6 143.1 1 4 for Genus products and services and revenues were 6% lower at 103.0m.
The robustness of the porcine business model and cost Adjusted operating reductions implemented in the bovine business enabled profits to be profit 42.3 40.6 4 1 held at 32.2m.
Adjusted operating The US dairy market suffered the most.
Although the national herd margin 30% 28% size had been reduced in response to the poor market conditions, this was offset by an increase in output per cow.
Consequently, milk prices remained at or below the cost of production for most Revenue m : producers throughout the year.
Semen volume was 4% lower and 2010 141.6 strong competitive activity eroded the average selling price, with 2009 143.1 some customers trading down.
The impact was mitigated by Genus 2008 123.3 natural focus on the larger, more profitable producers.
In addition, Adjusted Operating profit m : costs were reduced, management was strengthened and the sales force refocused on the quality and strength of the Genus stud.
As a 2010 42.3 2009 40.6 result, average prices stabilised in the second half year.
In Canada, 2008 35.9 performance benefited from increased sales of premium bull semen.
Adjusted Operating Margin %: The beef sector was less affected by the market downturn, with 2010 30% volumes maintained at the same level as last year.
The Powerline 2009 28% 2008 29% Beef Genetics business, acquired in December 2009, performed in line with expectations.
In the porcine sector, low pig prices and high feed costs resulted in producers continuing to incur significant losses, as they did throughout last year.
However, as the year progressed, producer cutbacks reduced supply by 4% and this, together with increased export demand, resulted in a level of market recovery.
Pig prices firmed, producers returned to profitability and, in the last quarter of the year, Genus customers began to renew their genetics again.
Inevitably, demand for breeding animals was low for most of the year and this resulted in a fall in porcine revenues.
However, the strong demand in the final quarter limited the reduction to just 6%.
Over 95% of porcine business in North America is now conducted under royalty related contracts.
Under these contracts, sales of breeding animals to update customers genetics are generally made at cost so that the fall in revenues had a negligible impact on adjusted profit.
However, new stockings were few so royalty income remained at the same level as last year.
Combined with tight control of costs, this contributed once again to an improvement in profit from the porcine activities, demonstrating the strength of the porcine business model.
Backward Contents Forward Backward Contents Forward Genus plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 13 Latin America Actual Currency Constant Currency 2010 2009 Movement Movement m m % % Revenue 38.6 34.1 13 6 Adjusted operating profit exc porcine j. v. 10.1 8.3 22 12 Adjusted operating profit inc porcine j. v. 12.2 10.2 20 9 Adjusted operating margin exc porcine j. v. 26% 24% We made good progress in this strategically important region despite Strong growth in Latin America, despite the recession in its agricultural markets for much of the year.
Market share increased as market conditions improved in the second half of the poor market, and the resilience of the year, enhancing opportunities for growth.
Revenue rose by 13% to the porcine business model in North 38.6m and resulted in a 22% rise in adjusted operating profit.
In America, contributed to the improvement constant currency, revenue was 6% higher and profits grew by 12%.
Market share gains were achieved in each of the three main markets: Argentina, Brazil and Mexico.
Sorted semen sales volume rose strongly but prices eroded through competitor activity.
In line with product development elsewhere in the world, the Brazilian stud has been very successful in developing a strong product range.
It boasts the top bull in each of the four main segments of the market.
In addition, further progress was made in promoting the added value services: Genetic Mating and Reproductive Management.
These services create greater customer loyalty and increase the average selling prices of semen supplied.
The combination of the strong product range, increased added value services and higher volumes delivered significantly higher profits.
Triumph Foods In the porcine sector, sales volume grew 3%, despite challenging As a top exporter of premium pork products worldwide, Triumph market conditions particularly in the first half of the year.
We improved Foods is one of the leading pork processors in the United States.
market share in Chile and Mexico and renewed key customer Its new and state of the art facilities in Missouri process 5.5 contracts.
The Venezuela market re-opened in the final quarter million pigs annually.
Triumphs proprietary production processes following an extended period of closure ostensibly to protect against include unique genetics that are provided by Genus subsidiary the spread of disease.
This allowed previously delayed shipments to PIC.
A fully customized sire line, the TR4, has been developed by be made in the second half of the year.
PIC for Triumph, based on unique Triumph specifications and PICs genetic technology.
This product provides superior value There was a marginal increase in contribution from our porcine joint and yields while at the same time meeting the stringent export venture in Brazil.
Low pig prices in the first half of the year held back requirements of the Triumph customer.
The partnership between profit as royalty income in Brazil is more closely linked to pig prices PIC and Triumph Foods demonstrates PICs ability to develop than volume and these prices remained depressed.
Performance customer specific solutions for an integrated meat industry.
improved in the second half of the year as prices firmed.
For the future, we are now taking steps to link the local royalty model with volumes as opposed to values.
Backward Contents Forward Backward Contents Forward Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Overview
