34 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Underpinning our strategic objectives GKN is committed to providing long term shareholder value in the form of steadily growing earnings and dividends.
To help deliver our strategic objectives, which we summarise under the four headings of market leadership, growth, operational excellence and sustainability, we develop and deploy key capabilities across the Group.
These are superior technology, world class lean manufacturing, leveraging our global footprint, exceptional customer service, outstanding leadership and development for all.
At the heart of all of these are our Values which bind the Group together.
This review summarises activity during the year in relation to certain key capabilities, not covered elsewhere in this report, with a particular focus on corporate responsibility.
Living our Values In our relationships with shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders, we are guided by our Values.
These Values are contained in the GKN Code which, together with a series of related policies, provides a framework for the behaviour of all our employees whatever their job and wherever they work.
The GKN Code and policies can be found on our website at www.
Responsible business conduct All our employees are required to maintain the highest standards of integrity, honesty and fair dealing.
Compliance with all relevant laws and regulations wherever we operate is a minimum requirement in all our policies.
We support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and do not tolerate the use of child labour or forced labour.
Through our supplier management policy we require equivalent standards through our supply chain: Group companies are prohibited from engaging suppliers that offer inadequate health and safety standards for employees, infringe internationally accepted standards of workers rights, use child or forced labour, unsound environmental practices, have poor standards of social responsibility or that fail to comply with relevant laws and regulations.
The policy encourages Group companies to develop and maintain value adding relationships with our supply base.
Superior technology Superior technology is the cornerstone of our strategy.
The Groups technology plan is developed on a Group and divisional basis, reflecting the priorities of each of the Groups portfolios, and focusing on the products we make, how we make them, the material we use in the manufacturing process, how our customers use our products and how they can be recycled or disposed of safely.
The plan takes into account market drivers for each business area, such as the low carbon agenda, electrification, urbanisation, water shortage and changes in food consumption, all of which help define the technologies of the future.
GKNs Technology Strategy Board, sponsored by the Chief Executive and chaired by the Groups Principal Engineer, drives the development and deployment of the technology plan.
It also facilitates collaboration on technology developments across the Groups businesses, through sharing best practice and exploiting synergies where appropriate.
The Technology Strategy Board has a key role in further developing external relationships and partnerships, including access to sources of funding.
An important focus of the Strategy Boards work during the year has been on ensuring that GKN has the necessary internal resources to deliver the technology plan.
To this end, a career framework for engineers, based on the GKN leadership framework, has been developed which defines the skills and experience required to progress from team member through to senior executive level.
Common training and development programmes to enable individuals to advance their careers are being developed.
35 EMPLOyEES By REGION Continuous improvement as at 31 December 2010 GKNs culture of continuous improvement in everything we do is reinforced through the application of Lean Enterprise techniques in our business and production processes worldwide.
All our sites have a continuous improvement plan, which is refreshed regularly and aligned to business objectives.
Employee involvement is a core concept of GKNs Lean Enterprise approach: continuous improvement plans engage all employees in driving the flow of value through the business, eliminating waste in all its forms including materials and time.
The recessionary conditions in 2009 in many of our markets caused us to focus efforts on inventory management to ensure that our businesses were able to match the dramatic changes in customer demand.
Significant reductions in production inventory were achieved throughout the Group through the use of Lean techniques and we continued our focus on this area in 2010.
GKNs businesses use Business Excellence based on the EFQM model to assess their performance in their journey towards excellence and to identify improvement actions.
These are then implemented through the continuous improvement planning process.
More fundamentally, Business Excellence is also an important tool in the development of business strategy and establishing an environment for its successful execution.
Our employees EMPLOyEES By BUSINESS One of our strategic objectives is to be the employer of choice with a high performance as at 31 December 2010 culture, motivated employees and outstanding leaders.
An important factor in this is for all employees to understand the Groups strategy and their individual roles in delivering it.
To this end, in 2010 we deployed globally a visual strategy map, based on the EFQM Business Excellence model, which describes the strategy, the processes and enablers involved in delivering the strategy and how we will measure progress against our strategic objectives.
At divisional and site level this is used to create a framework for the contribution of business units to the achievement of the overall Group strategy.
Our organisation planning process OPP is designed to enable us to identify and develop the capability of the people needed at every level to deliver GKNs strategy.
In 2010, some 8,500 employees were included in the process.
The OPP is supported by the performance development process PDP through which an employees development needs are identified and addressed.
This process is carried out against the GKN leadership framework which defines the skills, competencies and experience needed to be successful at every level in the organisation.
76% of senior management vacancies were filled internally in 2010.
A suite of three leadership development programmes has been launched globally as we build a strong leadership culture: the Essential Leadership Development Programme for junior management, the Advanced Leadership Development Programme for middle senior management and the Executive Leadership Programme for the executive population.
The GKN Academy, an online training resource accessible to all GKN employees launched in 2010, represents the next step in realising our vision of Development for All.
It offers programmes on a variety of subjects including finance, Lean techniques, customer relationship management, communication skills, health, safety and the environment.
Employee engagement is key to our success.
Every two years each site conducts an employee opinion survey and action plans are put in place.
Monthly, a subset of questions from the employee opinion survey is used to conduct sensing sessions with groups of between 10-20 employees at locations globally.
The results of these Positive Climate Index PCI sessions provide a PCI score.
Improvement actions arising from PCI sessions are incorporated into site continuous improvement plans.
The next global survey will be carried out in 2011.
In 2010, GKN won the category Employee Engagement Strategy of the Year at the annual Chartered Management national management and leadership awards.
On an ongoing basis, we use a variety of communication channels, with the emphasis on two-way face to face techniques, to ensure that employees are kept informed of business developments at a local and Group level.
Our objective is to have a positive and inclusive working environment free from all kinds of discrimination and in which employees are motivated to maximise their contribution.
All Group companies must ensure that employees are treated justly and with respect and that their abilities, differences and achievements are recognised.
Employees can report and discuss problems on a confidential basis.
We operate an international whistleblowing hotline which is run independently to ensure that employees can make, anonymously if they wish, confidential disclosures about suspected wrongdoing without fear of recrimination.
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 ,  #, !
"UK Rest of World "", Continental Europe !, !"
"Americas Total %, Including subsidiaries and joint ventures $, Aerospace , "", !"
"Metallurgy Other businesses Total "", Including subsidiaries and joint ventures SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTINUED 36 ACCIDENT FREqUENCy RATE Health and safety Number of lost time accidents per 1,000 employees GKN is committed to continuous improvement in health and safety performance."
"The management of health and safety, including compliance with laws and regulations in !. """
GKN, is based on the internationally recognised health and safety system standard OHSAS !.
So far 94 locations 68% of the total number have achieved certification to OHSAS .
18001 and the remaining sites are working towards this.
# RADAR Risk Awareness, Detection, Action and Review, a GKN developed behaviour awareness .
"and improvement tool, assists employees in recognising hazards and risks in their working #. """
area and empowers them to take action for themselves to improve their workplace.
Employees receive training and then take part in a RADAR event.
"During 2010, we trained over 29,000 employees who have subsequently participated in events in their workplace.. "" GKN has developed an intensive machinery risk assessment programme aimed at building."
on existing assessments but broadening the scope and increasing employee involvement      and awareness.
In 2010, some 20,000 machines were assessed to the new standard, representing approximately 90% of the total.
ACCIDENT SEvERITy RATE Number of days shifts lost due to accidents and Employee communication is an important element of good health and safety performance.
occupational ill health per 1,000 employees An increasing number of GKN plants have implemented a safety corner, located in a prominent !
position within the plant, to give employees an opportunity to learn about hazards in their  working environment, often by interactive displays.
Employees receive safety briefings,  audio visual content and are made aware of any Group-wide safety alerts or incidents.
GKN recognises the need to share good practice, knowledge and experience throughout the Group.
With this in mind in 2010 a new improvement initiative known as the Assess and !
Improve programme was piloted and will be rolled out in 2011.
visited by GKN global safety specialists who will focus on a simple qualitative assessment of safety systems in a plant, sharing best practice and identifying areas for improvement.
"Health and safety performance is measured on a regular basis and reports are made "" periodically to the Executive Sub-Committee on Governance and Risk and to the Executive Committee: a half yearly report is made to the Board."
     Accident frequency rate AFR and accident severity rate ASR are key health and safety performance indicators for the Group and our performance against these in 2010 is shown in the charts above left.
Whilst performance over the last ten years by reference to both these metrics has been extremely positive an 86% improvement in AFR and an 81% improvement in ASR, 2010 has seen an increase in AFR compared with 2009 which is disappointing.
To address this we are driving the use of RADAR consistently throughout our businesses such that its disciplines become an integral part of every employees daily working life.
Assess and Improve will also support further improvements in performance.
Each business is required to target annual performance improvements.
Targets are set at portfolio, divisional and plant level taking into account risk and improvement priorities.
During 2010 there were three health and safety enforcement actions against GKN companies in the USA, two of which were issued by the relevant authorities with fines totalling US $4,295.
ENERGy CONSUMPTION PER UNIT OF PRODUCTION Environment kWh tonne Our main impacts on the environment are energy use and associated CO emissions, waste 2 , generation and recycling, and water consumption.
We are committed to continuous improvement , in our environmental performance and have taken strong action in 2010 to address each of, these impact areas.
All significant GKN manufacturing locations are either certified to ISO 14001, the, internationally recognised environmental management system, or are in the process of, obtaining certification.
To improve our energy efficiency we apply Lean Enterprise techniques focused on identifying Driveline Powder Aerospace Land and reducing energy waste, both in the office and on the shop floor.
Most GKN manufacturing Metallurgy Systems locations have established energy efficiency targets and incorporated those objectives in their site continuous improvement plans, ensuring regular management attention and the !
The targets set at site level must meet, at a minimum, the Group objective, which is to improve energy efficiency by 15% over the five year period from 2009 to 2014.
37 CO EMISSIONS PER UNIT OF PRODUCTION 2 All four divisions improved energy efficiency in 2010, albeit with some of the improvement kg tonne attributable to increased production volumes.
Powder Metallurgy, our most energy intensive , business, achieved an improvement in energy efficiency of almost 10% over the prior year, as , did Driveline.
Because our CO emissions closely track energy use, our CO performance also 2 2 improved across all four divisions.
Our actions to reduce the generation of waste adhere to the waste hierarchy of first, and the best alternative, of not producing waste, secondly the next best alternative of reusing materials, and finally, if neither of these is possible, to recycle rather than simply dispose of the material.
Our particular focus is to reduce the quantity of waste generated per unit Driveline Powder Aerospace Land of production, and then to recycle as much of the waste as we can.
With regard to our Metallurgy Systems performance, all four divisions reduced the quantity of waste generated per unit of production, and three of the four divisions also maintained or improved the percentage !
In the period 2008 to 2010, waste generation and recycling levels in  the Powder Metallurgy division have been impacted by the recycling of large amounts of stockpiled slag from historic powder production.
During the year, 89% of overall Group WASTE GENERATION PER UNIT OF PRODUCTION waste was recycled.
kg tonne In 2009 the Group Excellence Award for Environment was won by GKN Land Systems Rockford  plant for a significant reduction in water consumption.
One of the drivers for these awards is  to communicate and promote best practice throughout the Group.
In that regard we are pleased to report significant improvements in water consumption across all four divisions: 18% in Driveline, 14% in Powder Metallurgy, 11% in Land Systems and 10% in Aerospace.
Compliance with all applicable rules and regulations is a priority for us.
Unfortunately in 2010 we received five notices of non compliance and paid US$90,425 in penalties.
Driveline Powder Aerospace Land Our priority for 2011 is to strengthen the bonds between our Lean Enterprise systems and Metallurgy Systems environmental improvements.
We will also be sharing new environmental training material with all GKN employees.
Working in our communities GKN has a proud history of working with its communities.
In 2009, to celebrate our 250th anniversary, we launched a global competition to encourage and fund ideas to establish RECyCLED WASTE % of total waste sustainable engineering and educational projects.
Three winners were finally selected from nearly 100 entries from around the world and during 2010 they have progressed the  implementation of these projects.
Winning the prize of 100,000 was a project based in India to create an engineering education centre and industry stepping-stone programme for children and young adults in the rural region of Pabal.
The programme is a partnership with the Vigyan Ashram organisation, already well established in the regional education system.
The funding is being used to create a 520 square metre teaching facility at one of Vigyan Ashrams existing sites with mechanical, electrical and electronic workshops together with training rooms and changing Driveline Powder Aerospace Land Metallurgy Systems facilities for students.
Receiving an award of 50,000, our Powder Metallurgy plant in Chivilcoy, Argentina, !
established a partnership with a local educational establishment to develop a specialised  powder metallurgy course and facility.
The plant worked with the local authorities to design and integrate a technology course into the national school curriculum.
The project includes WATER CONSUMPTION PER UNIT OF PRODUCTION the creation of a mini production line within the technical school in Chivilcoy approximately 3 m tonne 650 students, which will provide direct experience of the process and the opportunity to  carry out research and experiments.
25,000 was awarded to GKN Aerospace to establish a teaching and innovation facility within an industrial research and development centre at Filton in the UK.
Leveraging GKNs position within the UK National Composites Network, it will provide access and training to students to help them design new products and minimise their environmental impact through the consideration of the life-cycle analysis.
This year the project launched a pilot programme supporting the teaching of engineering and manufacturing in the Bristol area Driveline Powder Aerospace Land and has potential to expand across the region.
Metallurgy Systems  We recognise, each year, the contributions made to our local communities by groups and !
individuals across the Company through our Hearts of Gold programme.
We are extremely proud of their efforts which make a sustainable difference to the lives of people in the communities of which we are a part.
"Aerospace measured against "", sales."
GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010
