Business review P08P57 Governance and remuneration P58P101 Financial statements P102P191 Shareholder information P192P212 29 Responsible business Research and innovation Creating a successful and sustainable In undertaking our research and in innovating we may explore and business is about more than financial apply new technologies and will constructively engage stakeholders on any concerns that may arise.
We will ensure that our products results.
We place great importance not are subject to rigorous scientific evaluation and testing for safety, just on what we achieve but on how effectiveness and quality.
We will comply with or exceed all regulations and legal standards applicable to the research and we achieve it.
Running a responsible, development of our products.
Read more on page 11. values-based business is embedded in Products and customers our strategy We will promote our products in line with high ethical, medical and scientific standards and will comply with all applicable laws and regulations.
We are working hard to build a culture in which our decisions Caring for the environment are guided by our values: We will operate in an environmentally responsible manner s #OMMIT TO TRANSPARENCY through systematic management of our environmental impacts, s 3HOW RESPECT FOR PEOPLE measurement of our performance and setting challenging performance targets.
We will improve the efficiency of all our s !LWAYS DEMONSTRATE THE HIGHEST INTEGRITY IN our conduct activities to minimise material and energy use and waste generated.
"s ""E PATIENT FOCUSED We aim to nd opportunities to use renewable materials and to We know that the research and development, manufacture and recycle our waste."
Read more on page 32. sale of our products can raise ethical issues, and we aim to be Employment practices open about how we tackle them.
We understand how important We will treat our employees with respect and dignity, encourage it is to communicate with our stakeholders, seeking to understand diversity and ensure fair treatment through all phases of their views and being transparent about any setbacks we have employment.
We will provide a safe and healthy working experienced as well as the progress we have made.
environment, support employees to perform to their full potential For example, our commitment to putting patients first means we and take responsibility for the performance and reputation of the are focusing on improving access to our medicines and vaccines for business.
Read more on page 33. all patients irrespective of where they live and their ability to pay.
Human rights We believe this is the right thing to do and that it will contribute to We are committed to upholding the UN Universal Declaration of sustainable business growth.
Human Rights, the OECD guidelines for Multi-National Enterprises Ultimately we believe that responsible business is good for society and the core labour standards set out by the International Labour and good for GSK.
It helps us to operate efficiently, to gain the Organization.
We expect the same standards of our suppliers, trust of our stakeholders, to create the products that patients and contractors and business partners working on GSKs behalf.
Read healthcare payers really need and to foster the right conditions for more in our CR Report.
Leadership and advocacy Read about our approach and performance on responsible business We will establish our own challenging standards in corporate issues including access to medicines, research and business ethics responsibility, appropriate to the complexities and specic needs and the environment at www.
Our of our business, building on external guidelines and experience.
2010 Corporate Responsibility Report CR Report will be published We will share best practice and seek to inuence others, while on 21st March 2011. remaining competitive in order to sustain our business.
Read more in our CR Report.
Our Principles Engagement with stakeholders Our principles sum up our approach to responsible business and are We want to understand the concerns of those with an interest underpinned by our values.
They provide guidance for employees in corporate responsibility issues.
We will engage with a range on the standards to which GSK is committed.
of stakeholders and will communicate openly about how we Access to medicines are addressing CR issues, in ways that aim to meet the needs of We will continue to research and develop medicines to treat different groups while allowing us to pursue legitimate business diseases of the developing world.
We will nd sustainable goals.
ways to improve access to medicines for disadvantaged people, Community investment and will seek partnerships to support this activity.
Read more We will make a positive contribution to the communities in which on page 30. we operate, and will invest in health and education programmes and partnerships that aim to bring sustainable improvements to Standards of ethical conduct under-served people in the developed and developing world.
Read We expect employees to meet high ethical standards in all aspects more on page 30. of our business, by conducting our activities with honesty and integrity, adhering to our corporate responsibility principles, and complying with applicable laws and regulations.
GSK Annual Report 2010 30 Responsible business Improving access to medicines Our work with communities Access to healthcare in the developing world We invest in community partnership programmes that seek to improve access to medicines and healthcare to improve the lives of There are no easy solutions to the challenge of providing people across the world.
We aim to make a real difference to these sustainable access to healthcare in developing countries.
Poverty communities by working with our partners to nd innovative solutions is the single biggest barrier.
In many countries people do not have to healthcare challenges.
We believe that business has an important enough food, access to a clean water supply, hospitals or clinics role to play in society and we strive to leverage our resources in a in which to receive treatment and healthcare professionals to care way that delivers shared value to our communities and business.
partner with and support organisations whose goals and objectives We are committed to playing a full part in addressing the reect our mission of improving the quality of human life.
healthcare challenges of the developing world by taking an Our global community investment in 2010 was 222 million.
innovative, responsible and, above all, sustainable approach.
GSK This compares with 163 million in 2009 on a like-for-like basis.
is making a vital contribution to developing country healthcare This increase is due to expansion of our US patient assistance through action in a number of areas including: preferential pricing programme, scale up of our donation of albendazole for the of our anti-retrovirals: tiered pricing of our vaccines and medicines: lymphatic lariasis LF programme, a donation of H1N1 vaccine investing in R&D that targets diseases particularly affecting the to the World Health Organization, plus increased grants for HIV developing world see page 11 : being exible with our IP: pursuing and AIDS and the 20% reinvestment initiative for LDCs.
Our an open innovation strategy: community investment activities and 2010 giving comprised product donations of 147 million, cash partnerships that foster effective healthcare and capacity building giving of 53 million, in-kind donations of 4 million plus costs see page 31 : and seeking innovative partnerships and solutions.
of 18 million to manage and deliver community programmes in We cover our contribution to improving access to medicines almost 100 countries.
The product donations include 100 million extensively in our Corporate Responsibility Report.
for GSKs patient assistance programmes, 17 million worth of We were a clear leader in both Access to Medicines ATM albendazole for the LF programme and 9 million for humanitarian Indexes published by the ATM Foundation in 2008 and 2010. product donations.
Since 2008 our product donations have been We will continue to build on our product, pricing and partnership valued at cost average cost of goods rather than wholesale price commitments to help improve healthcare in the developing WAC as this is a more accurate reection of the cost to GSK.
In 2010 we further expanded our commitments to the UN We believe we are the first pharmaceutical company to adopt this dened list of Least Developed Countries LDCs by establishing practice.
For comparative purposes the total value of donations in a Developing Countries and Market Access operating unit with a 2010 using WAC for products would be 564 million compared focus on the LDCs to broaden patient access to GSK medicines with 467 million in 2009. and to help build our presence in other developing countries.
We do not operate a single charitable foundation for our While much has been achieved, a significant increase in resources community investment programmes, but have a number of from the global community is still needed to support R&D and to country-based foundations and their 2010 grants are included provide access to the resultant medicines and vaccines.
Sustainable in the investment total.
progress will only be made if the significant barriers that stand Our cash giving was targeted primarily at health and education in the way of better access to healthcare are tackled as a shared initiatives as follows: responsibility by all sectors of global society governments, international agencies, charities, academic institutions, the 5 pharmaceutical industry and others.
11 Health 52% Access to medicines in the developed world 22 Education 16% Programmes in the USA 33 Arts and Culture 3% 1 4 We are working to provide access to medicines for people 44 Environment 3% 3 with limited financial resources and without prescription 55 Other 26% medicine insurance.
2 For uninsured Americans who do not qualify for Medicare or Medicaid, GSK and ten other pharmaceutical companies created Global health programmes Together Rx Access, a programme for qualied individuals In developing countries millions of people continue to suffer and offering reductions in the pharmacy cost on more than 300 die from preventable or treatable diseases.
In addition, GSK offers several patient assistance programmes are designed to improve health and quality of life programmes to help low-income or uninsured Americans have for people in these communities through provision of medicines, access to GSKs oncology and specialty products, vaccines and education and advocacy, and investment in disease prevention prescription drugs.
GSKs patient assistance programmes provided and healthcare infrastructure.
Our global programmes are products to over 452,000 patients during 2010. long-term commitments and designed to be scaleable, replicable Programmes in other countries and sustainable.
We have also introduced Orange Cards providing discounts on By working in partnership, with NGOs and leading health certain GSK prescription medicines for eligible patients in a number organisations, we believe it is possible to achieve significant and of other countries.
The nature of the discounts varies between long-lasting improvements in healthcare.
This section highlights countries and the ways in which the healthcare systems operate.
GSK Annual Report 2010 Business review P08P57 Business review P08P57 Governance and remuneration P58P101 Financial statements P102P191 Shareholder information P192P212 31 Responsible business Eliminating lymphatic lariasis LF Local programmes Our effort to eliminate LF, one of the worlds most disabling diseases, We support communities in the many different markets in continued in close partnership with the governments of countries which we operate.
Our programmes are designed to t local where the disease is endemic, the World Health Organization and circumstances and cultures and aligned with an overall goal of over 40 partner organisations.
As a founding partner and leader in supporting access to medicines and healthcare.
Local community this effort, we are committed to donating as much of the antipriorities vary from community to community and population to parasitic drug albendazole as required to reach the one billion population, but there are often common challenges to address, people at risk in over 80 countries.
In 2010, 556 million albendazole whether in terms of a particular health need or the human or institutional capacity required to effectively tackle those needs.
treatments were donated to 26 countries.
We have donated almost two billion albendazole treatments since the global elimination In the UK, we contributed 5.4 million in 2010 to our continuing programme started in 2000. programme of charitable activities supporting over 80 organisations Positive Action on HIV AIDS in health, medical research, science education, the arts and the environment.
This included the UK IMPACT awards scheme which When Positive Action was created in 1992 it was the first provides small charities with grants and consulting support for their pharmaceutical company programme of its kind to support work in addressing the health needs of local communities.
communities affected by HIV and AIDS.
Now under the auspices of ViiV Healthcare, the new HIV-focused company, the programme Programmes in North America at a national and local level targets its funds towards community-focused projects that reach focused on improving public education in the areas of science and those most affected by HIV, particularly in marginalised or vulnerable mathematics, and increasing access to healthcare for children and populations.
Positive Action works with these communities to enable the homeless.
GSKs IMPACT Awards recognise organisations that them to tackle stigma and discrimination, to test innovations in have signicantly improved the health of their local communities education, care and treatment and to deliver greater involvement of in Philadelphia and in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina.
Total those living with HIV.
Our Positive Action for Children Fund launched funding for our North American programmes was $18 million.
in 2009 to make 50 million available over 10 years to help prevent In Argentina the Pro Mujer programme works with low-income mother-to-child transmission of HIV and to support orphans and women who do not have access to affordable financial services or vulnerable children.
At the end of healthcare and provides access to small loans to set up their own 2010, the latest call for proposals was made broadening the reach businesses as well as training and affordable healthcare services.
and scope of its response for babies and children affected by HIV.
GSK returned the CommunityMark for excellence in community The GlaxoSmithKline African Malaria Partnership investment.
The African Malaria Partnership is our programme to alleviate the mortality and suffering malaria brings to affected communities Further information about GSK grants and programmes are in Africa.
In 2010 four new malaria grants were awarded for available on www.
community programmes to provide health education to affected Employee involvement populations and to train community health workers.
The Our employees are encouraged to contribute to their local partnerships are: Save the Children UK in Kenya: Family Health communities through employee volunteering schemes.
Support International in Ghana: African Medical and Research Foundation includes employee time, cash donations to charities where AMREF in Tanzania: and Planned Parenthood Federation of Nigeria.
employees volunteer and matching gift programmes.
Humanitarian product donations Through the US GSK Matching Gift Program, we matched Working with our non-profit partners, AmeriCares, Direct Relief 12,000 employee gifts at a value of $3 million in 2010 plus over International, MAP International, Interchurch Medical Assistance $1 million to the United Way campaign.
GSKs GIVE programme and Project HOPE, we supported humanitarian relief efforts and provided grants of over $367,000 to 365 organisations where US community healthcare in over 90 countries.
employees volunteered and 205,000 to 150 UK-based non-profit We responded to the healthcare needs of the many communities organisations via the GSK Making a Difference programme.
affected by disasters, including the devastating earthquake that In 2009, our Group-wide volunteer initiative was launched to give struck Haiti in January 2010, GSK donated supplies of medicines every GSK employee one paid day off each year to volunteer for a valued at over 1 million.
Included in these shipments were good cause.
In 2010 this continued with employees supporting a significant volumes of antibiotics as well as respiratory and wide range of charities and projects including work in local schools, diabetes treatments.
Our consumer division provided a range shelters for the homeless, community gardens, nursing homes and of products, including toothpastes, antacids, pain relievers and aiding communities affected by natural disasters.
During the cholera outbreak we responded to a further specic request for antibiotics and donated 250,000 to the The GSK PULSE Volunteer Partnership launched in 2009 enables British Red Cross to support the deployment of a mass sanitation GSK employees to make a difference to communities and patients unit serving more than 50,000 people living in temporary relief in need around the world.
Volunteers work full-time with one of camps.
Following the earthquake in Chile, in response to an our partner non-profit or non-governmental organisations NGOs.
urgent request we supplied 95,000 doses of Hepatitis A vaccine, Through this experience, volunteers address a clear NGO need, antibiotics and more than 6,000 dental hygiene kits.
while developing their own leadership capabilities.
During 2009 and 2010, PULSE deployed 116 volunteers in 33 countries to work In Pakistan we provided medicines from local stocks for the with 42 NGOs.
Volunteers continue to receive their full GSK salary thousands of people affected by the ooding.
We also made cash during their three to six month assignment.
In 2010, this gure, donations amounting to 170,000, including a contribution to along with the operating costs for managing the programme, the World Food Programme to support emergency food supply.
represented a total in-kind donation of 2.4 million.
The total value of our international humanitarian product donations was 9 million at average cost.
GSK Annual Report 2010 32 Responsible business A central fund to finance energy saving projects has accelerated Environmental sustainability progress since 2007.
In 2010 we completed 188 projects, which We are committed to integrating environmental sustainability will avoid around 52,000 tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions into our business, especially conserving resources and addressing a year.
We see this as an opportunity as well as a responsibility.
We are also increasing investment in on-site generation of renewable energy, supported by a renewable energy fund created Strategy and plans in 2010.
GSK Consumer Healthcare installed North Americas We revised our environmental sustainability strategy in 2010, largest roof mounted solar photo voltaic system at its regional building on the strategy originally introduced in 2001.
The new distribution centre in York, Pennsylvania.
It will save nearly 1,800 strategy recognises our impacts across the entire value chain, from tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions per year.
raw materials to the disposal of our products.
Our objective is to GSKs global operations were certied to Carbon Trust Standard in benefit the environment, engage employees in tackling key issues and benefit GSK nancially potentially saving 100 million a year 2010, the first company to achieve this recognition of excellence in by 2020 through reduced energy, materials and distribution costs.
carbon management for all global operations.
Analysis of GSKs impacts shows that we need to concentrate in Water three main areas: Water is a particularly important natural resource, and we recognise that GSK can play a positive role in managing it more sustainably.
s CARBON DIOXIDE AND OTHER EMISSIONS THAT CONTRIBUTE TO We endorsed the United Nations CEO Water Mandate in 2009. climate change In 2010 we reduced water consumption by almost 500 million litres s WATER USE despite significant business growth in our vaccines manufacturing s ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP WHICH COVERS THE USE OF MATERIALS business.
Net water consumption fell by 1.6% per 1 of sales, a generation of waste and pollution.
cumulative reduction of 15.7% since 2006, exceeding our target of 10%.
We have set ambitious goals for key impacts, including a 25% reduction in our carbon footprint, a 20% reduction in water use We also exceeded our targets for improving the quality of across the value chain and zero waste to landll, all by 2020.
targets are detailed in our Corporate Responsibility report.
Environmental stewardship Climate change and energy We aim to use materials efficiently and safely, minimising waste Our long-term vision is for our entire value chain to be carbon and pollution and avoiding harm to people and the environment.
This very ambitious target means that there Increasing the efficiency with which we use materials is a priority.
will be no net greenhouse gas emissions from manufacturing, Our long-term aspiration is to achieve 5% mass efficiency by distributing, using and disposing of our products, including 2020 for new pharmaceutical products transferred from R&D sourcing raw materials.
This is about five times the typical level in the We need to act beyond our own operations because 40% of our pharmaceutical industry and will reduce input materials and carbon footprint stems from our supply chain and a further 40% waste by 80%.
The average mass efficiency for new products derives from propellants when customers use our inhalers.
This was during the 2006-2010 period has reached 3.3%.
confirmed by a global carbon footprint review of our entire value Improvements in the efficiency of solvent use also reduced the chain, carried out for the first time in 2010. amount of volatile organics released to air by 12.8% per 1 of GSKs carbon footprint million tonne CO e per annum sales in 2010, cumulatively 35.8% since 2006.
2 5 4 Packaging provides further opportunities to conserve resources 3 and in 2010 we began to implement the sustainable packaging strategy developed in 2009.
We also began to update our green 1 1 Materials supply chain 5.66 1 packaging guide for designers and managers.
In 2010, the US 2 2 Product use 5.50 American Institute of Chemical Engineers presented its Industrial 3 3 Production and operations 2.65 Practice Award in Sustainable Engineering to our operational 4 4 Distribution 0.18 sustainability team for its work embedding sustainability into 5 Product end of life 0.03 5 R&D and manufacturing.
2 Environmental management We manage environmental issues as well as occupational health We met our goal of eliminating the use of chlorouorocarbons and safety using a management system aligned with recognised CFCs in our products by the end of 2010.
This has reduced international standards.
Each business is accountable for its own greenhouse emissions associated with our inhaler products sustainability plans and performance.
Our central audit group from 24 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalents in 1998 includes environmental issues in its routine audits of our sites to approximately 4.7 million tonnes in 2010.
We have research and business processes.
We are working increasingly closely with programmes under way to nd ways to further reduce the impacts suppliers and contract manufacturers to reduce environmental from these products.
impacts from the supply chain.
In 2010 we reduced energy consumption for operations and You can read more about our environmental performance and transport by 5.5% and greenhouse gas emissions by 5.8% relative other aspects of sustainability in our Corporate Responsibility to sales.
The cumulative reduction for 2006-2010 is 9.1% for energy Report at: www.
This is below our target of 20%, mainly because progress was slow in the early years of the five-year period.
GSK Annual Report 2010 Business review P08P57 Business review P08P57 Governance and remuneration P58P101 Financial statements P102P191 Shareholder information P192P212 33 Responsible business Performance and reward Ethical conduct The performance and development planning process means We are committed to creating a strong ethical culture at GSK.
employees have business-aligned objectives and behavioural We do this by emphasising our values, developing robust policies, goals.
Our reward systems are geared to promote high recruiting and engaging the right people and equipping them performance and help to attract and retain the best people.
with the information they need to make ethical decisions.
Performance-based pay, bonuses and share-based equity plans Putting patients first is the core principle of being an ethical align employee interests with business targets.
Communication and employee involvement Our Code of Conduct sets out fundamental standards for all Our communication channels are designed to keep employees employees.
It is supported by the Employee Guide to Business informed, engaged and involved in activities across all areas of Conduct which helps employees make ethical decisions and our organisation.
We encourage two-way, open and honest emphasises GSKs key values: communication with employees, and in 2010 we launched a s #OMMIT TO TRANSPARENCY new updated global intranet portal, ConnectGSK.
s 3HOW RESPECT FOR PEOPLE Feedback and monitoring mechanisms are part of every major s !LWAYS DEMONSTRATE THE HIGHEST INTEGRITY IN YOUR CONDUCT communication event, and Q&A and feedback facilities are a core feature of our web communications channels.
"In 2010 s ""E PATIENT FOCUSED we also introduced Idea Engine, an online tool which allows We stress our commitment to performance with integrity."
This employees to submit ideas and recommendations.
means that all employees must understand our values and what As our business evolves, there will be changes that affect we stand for as well as the policies and procedures that underpin employees and we remain committed to consulting on these our approach.
changes via a number of internal consultation forums and Our internal compliance systems are designed to identify and discussions with the European Employee Consultation Forum address breaches of our codes and reinforce GSKs values.
There and similar bodies in countries where this is national practice.
is continual external pressure to enhance these systems and our compliance oversight and audits are helping to drive this change.
Employee numbers by region 1 We fully investigate suspected breaches and take appropriate 3 disciplinary action, including dismissal where appropriate.
11 USA 17,555 In 2010 we reviewed and strengthened our approach to 22 Europe 39,910 preventing, detecting and addressing bribery and corruption.
33 Rest of World 38,996 We launched a dedicated anti-bribery and corruption unit which will ensure we take a consistent approach across GSK and strengthens our monitoring capability.
2 Also, we introduced a Third Party Code of Conduct which applies Inclusion and diversity to all GSK suppliers.
This sets out the standards we expect We are committed to employment policies free from discrimination suppliers to meet and covers ethical conduct: labour practices, against existing or potential employees on the grounds of race, environmental, health and safety standards: and management.
colour, religion or belief, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity To help suppliers understand how to interact appropriately with or expression, age, national origin, genetic make-up, disability or GSK staff, the Code includes key principles from our Employee chronic health conditions.
GSK is committed to offering people Guide to Business Conduct such as our policy on receiving gifts.
with disabilities access to the full range of recruitment and career opportunities.
Every effort is made to retain and support employees Our due diligence process for potential acquisitions takes account of who become disabled while working at GSK.
For more details on ethical risks and we integrate our ethics and compliance requirements diversity measures, see our Corporate Responsibility Report.
as standard practice in newly acquired businesses.
We seek to enter into joint ventures with organisations that share our values.
Healthy and safe high performance To meet our mission and strategy, Employee Health and Our employees Performance initiatives focus on the health factors that enable Recruitment, talent management and leadership develoment employees to perform at the highest level by sustaining energy In 2010, like every year, recruiting, retaining and developing and engagement.
The programmes developed to deliver this our employees were critical to enhancing and sustaining our health strategy range from the traditional such as immunisations, performance and reputation.
Proactive talent acquisition initiatives smoking control and weight management to cutting-edge underpin our ability to attract specialist and leadership talent programmes in the areas of team and personal resilience, externally.
Our assessment process is aligned to a core set of ergonomics and Energy for Performance.
These programmes, competencies, of which ethics and integrity are central.
available in many languages, are designed to address the root causes of excessive work pressure and low energy and engagement We need good succession plans, not just for senior roles but for at work and at home.
They are complemented by our commitment all our critical positions across the organisation.
We maintain a to exible thinking about the way we deliver our work that enables robust leadership strategy to identify and develop our highly skilled employees to do their best work in an environment that helps leadership cadre and use a systematic, disciplined approach to them integrate their work and personal lives.
For more details on leadership development, providing tools and programmes to help the scope and impact of these programmes, see our Corporate leaders master skills needed to meet customer, employee and Responsibility Report.
In 2010, we provided training to nearly 8,000 GSK leaders worldwide and also developed new programmes for future senior leaders and senior executives.
