DIRECTORS REPORT:BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Operating our companies in a safe, socially and environmentally responsible manner is a vital part of the Groups strategy.
It is what we do on a day-to-day basis and is deeply embedded across our organisation at all levels.
We recognise that adopting a responsible approach directly 2010 HIGHLIGHTS contributes to the success of our business.
Our performance on issues such as safety, service punctuality, convenience and value for Safe and secure networks money are factors that help us grow patronage.
In many cases our Bus accidents per million miles reduced by 6% operational performance is regulated by bodies such asTransport SPADs per million miles reduced by 10% for London and the Department forTransport and therefore forms 75 additional stations awarded Secure Station Status part of the Groups licence to operate.
Minimising the Groups environmental impact also makes good Improved energy efficiency business sense.
Improving the fuel economy of our rail and bus Electricity for rail traction efficiency improved by 14% 1 operations reduces carbon emissions and delivers significant cost Site energy reduced by 9%.
In addition, our achievements in reducing site energy consumption will help to mitigate the financial implications of the Greener bus fleet Governments Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency 38m invested in new buses with cleaner emissions Scheme CRC.
As concern about climate change grows, our Bus fuel efficiency improved by 2%.
environmental credentials are becoming increasingly important to our stakeholders and can play a key part in helping to secure Customer satisfaction contracts.
Highest ever rail customer satisfaction scores achieved in National Passenger Survey.
We firmly believe that public transport is a good place to be.
Buses and trains are more carbon efficient than the private car and it is Accessible fleet widely accepted that sustainable transport is key to tackling 72% of buses already compliant with the accessibility congestion, delivering important international commitments on regulation of the Disability Discrimination Act which comes climate change and achieving a low carbon economy.
An efficient public transport system is also vital to economic Investors in People development.
Buses and trains take people to and from work and Southeastern achieved Bronze Investors in People status.
provide access to services and leisure activities.
The transport sector remains a major employer and contributor to the local Positive working environment economy.
At Go-Ahead we have 22,500 staff working in our 10m spent on staff training businesses across England.
RIDDOR accidents per 100 employees reduced by 16%.
OUR APPROACHTO CORPORATE Community investment RESPONSIBILITY Over 250,000 donated to charities and community groups.
Corporate responsibility CR has always been at the heart of Go-Ahead and over the years we have led the way in our Gold rating approach.
We recognise the importance of being open about our Achieved highest ever score in Business in the Communitys performance and were the first in our sector to publish our Responsibility Index, securing gold standard for the fourth year.
responsibility data, at Group and individual operating company level.
We remain the only public transport company to provide this level of transparency.
We work with an external agency, Bureau Veritas, who verify our CR data collection We have voluntarily responded to the Carbon Disclosure Project process.
CDP survey since 2006 disclosing details of how we manage our greenhouse gas footprint.
CDP is an independent not-for-profit organisation holding the largest database of corporate climate 1 Like-for-like comparison.
Gas consumption data has been normalised by use of degree days to change information in the world.
The information is used by a wide account for variations in temperature.
com Corporate responsibility audience including institutional investors, policymakers and SAFETY government bodies.
In recognition of our industry leading approach to The safety and security of our passengers, the public and our people.
reducing our greenhouse gas emissions we were the first public transport company to be awarded the CarbonTrust Standard.
This ENVIRONMENT year we achieved our highest ever score in Business in the The work we do to reduce the environmental impacts of Communitys BITC Responsibility Index, securing the gold standard our operations.
for the fourth year and the position of highest scoring public transport operator.
BITC is one of the Prince of Wales charities and challenges PASSENGERS businesses to improve their performance in the areas of community, The punctuality of our services, customer satisfaction and how we environment, workplace and marketplace.
are responding to passengers needs.
Read about our approach to corporate responsibility EMPLOYEES governance and how we robustly manage our performance How we develop peoples performance at work and provide and disseminate good practice and knowledge across our a positive working environment.
COMMUNITY FIVE AREAS OF RESPONSIBILITY Our contribution to the success of our local communities, Feedback from last years Corporate Responsibility report and our including our economic impact on society, and our engagement engagement with key stakeholders showed a clear desire for a simpler with stakeholders.
approach to reporting our CR objectives and achievements.
We have taken those comments on board and have structured our reporting The table on page 48 shows how we have progressed against our around five key areas.
targets and objectives in each of these five areas.
We have also undertaken significant work internally to improve the process of centrally collating CR data from across our devolved Group.
This has brought the process in line with our approach to collating the Groups financial results.
Safe and secure stations We continue to increase the number of train stations with Secure Station Status, awarded by the Department forTransport and the British Transport Police.
During the financial year, an additional 75 stations were accredited, bringing the total to 274 stations, covering almost 90% of our passengers.
Secure Stations are those which meet strict security criteria, including a reduction in crime rates, good station maintenance, including lighting and CCTV, and positive results in an independent passenger survey.
Southerns new SaferTravelTeam, pictured left, includes specialist accredited rail employees supported by BritishTransport Police and has been particularly successful in reducing crime and the fear of crime across the network.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 47 Financial Statements Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Report: Business Review DIRECTORS REPORT:BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Progress against our key areas Overall objective 2010 progress 2011 objectives Internal safety video produced to raise awareness of preventing bus accidents Further improve high safety standards working Safety and efficiently managing insurance claims.
The safety and security of Bus accidents which result in a notification to a claims handler per million Continue to reduce crime and anti-social our passengers, our miles reduced by 6%.
people and the general SPADs per million miles reduced by 10%.
public is an absolute 75 additional stations awarded Secure Station Status, bringing the total to 274. priority for the Group.
We Staff RIDDOR accidents per 100 employees reduced by 16%.
aim to achieve a 20% Group wide health & safety forum held every quarter.
improvement across our health & safety KPIs by Annual safety audit of all Go-Ahead businesses.
Group target and Driving Energy Further strategy launched to reduce carbon Continue to improve energy efficiency to Environment emissions per passenger journey by 20% by 2015 and provide framework for meet Driving Energy Further target.
Operate our services in a energy reduction activity.
sustainable manner and 9% reduction in site energy achieved.
reduce our environmental Bus fuel efficiency improved by 2%.
38m spent on new buses which emit Continue to engage and motivate employees impacts through our cleaner emissions but are heavier and therefore less fuel efficient than older in energy efficiency projects and initiatives.
strategy to reduce carbon Electricity for rail traction EC4T efficiency improved by 14%.
emissions by 20% by 2015 Review of water consumption undertaken and new Group wide contract 2 per passenger journey.
implemented to increase amount of waste recycled.
Group wide energy and engineering forums held every quarter.
Involvement in national Greener Journeys campaign to remove one billion car journeys from the road in three years.
Passenger journey growth of 8.7% and 3.2% in our bus and rail divisions.
Further improve customer satisfaction and Passengers maintain high punctuality rates.
To attract more Maintained high punctuality rates and achieved best ever rail customer satisfaction scores in a national survey.
Continue to develop innovative online ticket passengers on to our retailing and roll out the key across more Successful launch of the UKs first domestic high speed rail service between services each year by operating companies.
providing a high quality Rail websites upgraded and pioneering industry marketing campaign service that is reliable at Southern launched which has increased online sales from 1.5m to and convenient.
Successful trial of Go-Aheads smartcard the key at Go North East and London Midland.
More businesses have achieved Investors in People IiP status.
IiP is the UKs Southeastern to achieve Silver IiP status.
Employees most widely recognised people management standard which drives business Southern to work towards achieveing IiP To be the employer of improvement.
Southeastern achieved Bronze status and Go North East accreditation for the first time.
More staff to receive work-related training have a unique devolved 10m spent on staff training across the Group.
More staff achieved NVQ and further development of lifelong learning structure based on qualifications - 40% of Southeastern staff have an NVQ: continuation of safe opportunities.
empowerment, trust and fuel efficient driving for all 8,000 bus drivers: opening of Go North Easts first lifelong learning centre.
and innovation: it enables Maintained low levels of staff turnover 11.6% and absenteeism 4.2%.
our businesses to develop our staff, and reward them for contributing to our success.
Over 250,000 donated to charities and community groups Review charitable donations policy.
Community Achieved highest ever score in Business in the Communitys BITC Continue to benchmark ourselves through BITC To be an outstanding Responsibility Index, securing the gold standard for the fourth year.
BITC rates Corporate Responsibility Index and achieve Platinum member of the companies on their progress in the areas of community, environment, rating in BITC in 2011. communities we workplace and marketplace.
Continue to work closely with stakeholders at operate in.
Extensive stakeholder engagement across the Group by our operating all levels: establish and expand new and innovative companies, including meetings, consultation, briefings, launches and media ways of communicating eg through social media events.
First virtual Passenger Panels launched.
2 Target uses 2008 financial year as the base year.
com Corporate responsibility OUR KEY STAKEHOLDERS OUR KEY ISSUES At Go-Ahead, working with stakeholders is a fundamental part of This financial year we have focused on the following three areas: the way we run our business.
Working closely with the groups listed below is pivotal to our success.
Frequent engagement enables us to SAFETY: OUR NUMBER ONE PRIORITY better understand their expectations and gives us the opportunity As a public transport operator, the safety and security of our to share our plans with them.
passengers, our people and the general public is always an absolute priority for the Group.
Although Go-Ahead and the industry At Board and senior management level we have good working already operate to high safety standards we continually strive to relationships with the Government and other industry bodies.
This year we have set Group wide devolved business structure supports positive relationships with 2 targets to improve our safety peformance by 20% by 2015. local stakeholders.
Across the Group we held around 1,000 stakeholder events this financial year to help understand local issues Bus accidents and explain our plans.
These include Meet the Manager sessions, The number of bus accidents per million miles has decreased by 8% Stakeholder Advisery Boards and meetings with local authorities since 2008, but we are committed to doing more.
responsibility to provide a safe and positive travel experience but reducing the number of accidents also makes business sense as the EMPLOYEES PASSENGERS COMMUNITY cost of insurance claims remains a significant Group expense.
In Our 22,500 employees Over one billion Our bus and rail 2008 09 we launched the Group wide safe & fuel efficient driving keep our company passenger journeys are companies form moving.
They work in a made with us each integral parts of the scheme which promotes smooth driving.
This year, we have wide range of roles, year, so our customers towns and cities they produced a unique training video called Accidents Can Be Avoided.
from bus and train are our key audience.
Good drivers and station relationships with local The video features bus drivers from around the Group sharing staff to engineering, communities are their knowledge and experience in ways to prevent accidents, as accountancy and essential to our well as real life footage.
It also illustrates the importance of efficient marketing.
of our operational management of insurance claim costs if an accident does occur.
Training video Our video Accidents Can Be Avoided is frequently used across our bus companies as part of our bus driver training programme.
Go-Ahead plc GOVERNMENT INVESTORS SUPPLY CHAIN AND LOCAL As a public listed Our key suppliers AUTHORITIES company, attracting range from bus and Public transport is a private investment is train manufacturers to fundamental part of the vital to our success.
Network Rail who UKs infrastructure.
We are committed to provide the Changes to delivering shareholder infrastructure for our Government policy and value and maintain train operations.
Our regulation can affect open and frequent suppliers help us to our business, and dialogue with investors deliver our services in working closely with throughout the year.
a safe and local authorities helps environmentally to deliver passenger responsible manner.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 49 Financial Statements Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Report: Business Review DIRECTORS REPORT:BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED ENVIRONMENT: DRIVING ENERGY FURTHER Almost 60% of the Groups carbon emissions result from traction It is now widely accepted that climate change is one of the biggest electricity used to power electric train fleets, mainly on our challenges facing our society.
Transport accounts for one third of UK Southern and Southeastern networks.
The effects of regenerative greenhouse gas GHG emissions with the private car close to 60%.
In braking on the third rail have therefore been significant.
The contrast, buses and trains together account for only 5%.
The maths is introduction of eco driving techniques has also helped to improve clear encouraging people out of cars onto public transport delivers rail energy efficiency.
In our bus division the carbon savings have resulted from the We recognise that as a transport provider, we contribute to GHG success of our fuel efficient driving programme.
As our passenger numbers grow, we are putting more we have reduced site energy through investment in intelligent vehicles on the road and rails.
Despite this, we also help to alleviate lighting systems, smart gas and electricity meters and by environmental impacts, because trains and buses are much more encouraging all colleagues to take simple steps to control site environmentally efficient per passenger journey than the private car.
energy use by switching off unnecessary lights, electrical equipment and heating.
Through innovation and investment in energy efficiency projects of around 8m, we have made significant progress in reducing our Go-Ahead target: 20% reduction in CO2 by 2015 carbon emissions.
The financial savings have also been substantial, per passenger journey with a payback period of less than one year on capital expenditure.
This year we have set a Group wide strategy Driving Energy Further 2 to reduce our carbon emissions by 20% by 2015 per passenger Carbon emissions by source journey.
This target marks our commitment to continually seek ways of making our fuel and energy go that bit further while continuing to tonnes 911,484 encourage more people to use public transport by providing high 5% Rail EC4T quality, convenient and value for money transport solutions.
6% Bus Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Site energy Scheme CRC Rail diesel The progress we have made in reducing our site energy places us in a favourable position with the Governments Carbon Reduction 34% 55% Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme CRC which began in April 2010.
The UK Government has committed to a 20% reduction in CO2 emissions by 2020, compared to 1990 levels.
CRC has been designed to focus UK business on this goal through a new Estimated carbon reductions CO2 000 tonnes from emissions trading scheme, whereby companies have to purchase improvements in energy efficiency allowances each year to cover their CO2 emissions.
The revenues are redistributed among the participants, with each receiving either Rail-EC4T 2010 a bonus or a penalty, depending on the extent to which they have Bus Site energy reduced their emissions.
2009 PASSENGERS: IMPROVINGTHE CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE This year we progressed a number of projects to improve the 0 20 40 60 80 convenience of buying tickets and travelling on our services following customer research and feedback.
Online retailing in the The chart above shows the estimated carbon savings resulting from our energy efficiency projects in the financial years 2009 and 2010.
The savings are based on improvements in rail electric vehicle bus and rail industry is less developed than other sectors.
For kms kwh, where the consumption data is provided by Network Rail, improvements in mpg in our bus example, in the aviation industry, passengers widely use the internet companies and reductions in site and gas consumption at our sites.
to book flights: in rail a very limited amount of rail tickets continue to be bought online.
2 Target uses financial year 2008 as the base year.
com Corporate responsibility The progress we have made is highlighted on page 16.
We have MORE INFORMATION launched innovative marketing campaigns which have successfully Further information will be available in our Group Corporate increased online sales, rolled out our own unique smartcard the Responsibility Report and individual operating company reports.
key and upgraded our websites to make it easier for our customers Our performance against a wide range of KPIs for each of our to find up to date information.
five areas of responsibility, analysed at Group, division and operating company level, will be available on our website FOCUS FOR 201 1 from October 2010.
Working closely with our stakeholders, we will remain focused on providing high quality, efficient and responsibly operated bus and rail transport, despite the potential challenges the industry and economy may face in the next 12 months, as the new Government tackles the UKs budget deficit.
The table on page 48 highlights the Groups key objectives for 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 A local focus driving growth A local focus driving growth A local focus driving growth A local focus driving growth A local focus driving growth around our five key areas of responsibility.
As ever, our number one priority is safety and we continually strive to improve our already rigorous standards.
We will build on our successes this year in improving the passenger experience as we roll out the key smartcard across more of our operating companies and make further progress with online ticket retailing.
Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Corporate Responsibility Report 2010 Working together to bring people together A local focus driving growth A local focus driving growth Working for our communities A local focus driving growth We have set new targets for 2011 to further improve our energy efficiency as we progress with our driving energy further strategy.
We also aim to make our business more sustainable by reducing the Groups water consumption by 10%.
To view our environmential data publications visit: We look forward to continuing to demonstrate our industry www.
com goahead responsibility se reports leading approach to corporate responsibility.
Accessible bus fleet Over 70% of our buses are already compliant with the Public ServiceVehicles Accessibility Regulation PSVAR which comes into effect in 2016.
This regulation, part of the Disability Discrimination Act DDA, requires buses to be certified fully accessible which includes measures such as low floor access and wheelchair ramps.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 51 Financial Statements Directors Report: Corporate Governance Directors Report: Business Review
