Business Review Greene King plc Annual Report 2010 21 CORPORAtE sOCiAl REsPOnsiBility REPORt With our position as a leading brewer and retailer Food safety and supply most sustainable restaurants Loch Fyne topped in the UK, with over 2,400 pubs in over 1,800 Food safety and the security of supply are the sustainable food tables on www.
com villages, towns and cities across mainland Britain, of vital importance to us and our customers.
and set the online standard for information about and as an employer of over 18,000 people, We require all our suppliers to have either British the seafood it sells.
comes a responsibility to ensure that we conduct Retail Consortium BRC or Safe and Local Supplier our business in an ethical and responsible manner.
All food products Loch Fyne takes advice from respected marine supplied to us must meet our strict labelling bodies regarding the fish and seafood they serve.
Building a sustainable business in which we requirements and our suppliers must be able Where species are not plentiful they will find create value for our customers and shareholders to demonstrate full traceability of all products alternatives and will not source fish caught by and maximise the potential of our staff and supplied and ensure that all products, labour methods deemed to be harmful to the marine tenants whilst being a responsible corporate and ingredients fall within ethical guidelines.
ecosystem such as deep-sea trawlers, beam citizen is of paramount importance.
The approach Palm oil has been in the headlines this year but at Loch Fyne has been shared with the rest of The key CSR issues for our business are: we are pleased to report that our supplies are our retail business as they lead the way on best from ethical sources.
Our supplier is a founder practice in this area.
This year all fish served in Food safety and supply G member of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm our Retail division was line-caught.
The environmental impacts of our business Oil and has actively worked to promote the G sustainable production of palm oil for a number Scores on the Doors Providing a positive working environment G of years.
They set up and support the Green Palm Greene King continues to support the adoption Retaining, developing and attracting talent certificate trading programme, which pays a of a national Scores on the Doors scheme to G with fair and rewarding terms and conditions premium direct to those palm oil producers give clarity to customers on what standards to using sustainable methods.
expect, and to enable all operators to achieve The health and safety of our staff and customers G a recognised industry standard.
In areas where Support for the communities in which we operate Loch Fyne this scheme does operate, we have regularly G With sustainable fishing and fish stocks also achieved 5 star excellent ratings and are now Responsible retailing G high on the agenda, our Loch Fyne Restaurants working, through our Kitchens of Excellence Support for our tenants chain continues to lead the way in its approach training and mentoring scheme, to ensure all G to environmental issues and to share best of our pubs exceed this standard.
Greene King practice across the organisation.
Following now has 22 pubs and restaurants ranked good the release of his film The End of the Line to excellent across the UK.
Charles Clover created a web site to rank the healthy eating inn In Scotland, our Healthy Eating in Schools initiative fruit and vegetables, which was accompanied came out of local contacts between our Lime Kiln by a tasting of some of the more exotic fruits Eating Inn and its local primary school.
It began with such as kiwi fruit and mango.
schoolchildren designing birthday cards and cake A treasure hunt for fruits followed along with a decorating at the restaurant and has led to a healthy demonstration of kick boxing, from a member of eating programme across the brand.
staff at the Lime Kiln who is a kick boxing champion, After the success of the cake decorating the school to highlight the benefit of an active lifestyle.
Fruit asked us to come back during healthy eating week.
skewers were provided for break time and the children Eating Inns set to work with their local fruit and vegetable left with healthy lucky bags, which included vouchers suppliers to create a fun, educational experience for for the local gym.
During the day the children were given The model has now been replicated in other Eating talks on the origins and benefits of different types of Inn sites.
Food safety and supply continued The award is proof that we have taken real action We now offer a healthy alternative with all of G Healthy eating on cutting our carbon emissions.
our meals i. e. a jacket potato or fresh seasonal Over the past year we have continued our salad mix to replace chips.
work with the Food Standards Agency FSA As we go forward and prepare to participate Going forward we have committed to the following: on improving our menus and the nutritional in the CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme this year, information available to our diners.
Our aim is to much of the work carried out so far will put us Extending our work on publishing calorie, fat, G serve great tasting, quality food that provides our in a good position, not only for the initial phase salt and allergen information across our customers with choice through a wide range of but, importantly, also for the subsequent phases unbranded local pubs.
menu options including fresh fruit, vegetables, fish where an ongoing carbon reduction programme Working to reduce salt in 29 of our G and lean meat to support a healthy and balanced is essential.
We continue to develop lighter options and support our customers to make healthier choices.
Last year we produced our first environment Increasing the range of healthier items on the G report and plan to continue to report our childrens menu.
Our childrens menus offer fresh fruit, salad environmental progress separately in a more Working to better understand what customers G and fresh vegetables in line with the 5-a-day comprehensive report.
However key data want and need from calorie labelling on menus Government strategy on dealing with obesity.
and key achievements are also reported above through research and testing.
We have also introduced organic meals for and below: children.
In addition, as part of our community environment engagement, our Eating Inns in Scotland are Key achievements this year include: Our environmental impact is high on our working with suppliers and schools to encourage agenda and our commitment to reduce that Reducing our overall CO emissions by 4.1% G 2 healthier eating through structured visits by deeply embedded across our organisation.
despite using more gas due to the winter snows.
We have an energy champion for each pub Reducing our water use by 1.5% across the and energy ambassadors for each area of the UK.
G Baking and grilling are central cooking methods business and by 6% in our managed outlets, Our Turn it off and Go Green campaigns aimed 2 in our kitchens, where no salt is added in the despite an increase in the numbers of outlets.
at all our staff have run successfully over the past cooking process.
We now provide nutritional three years, kept fresh and alive by our energy Collecting 891,373 litres of used cooking oil, G information to consumers across our branded team.
We have weekly telephone conferences 6% more than the previous year, for recycling outlets of Hungry Horse, Hardys House and with our energy champions and energy ambassadors.
We are currently working on Our chief executive communicates regularly on extending this work to all of our 436 unbranded Going forward we intend to: progress and priorities in this area and invites managed pubs.
In addition, we publish information feedback and suggestions through his monthly Further reduce our CO emissions on a like G 2 for those suffering from Coeliac disease on these briefing, which goes to all 18,000 of our staff.
for like basis by 2.5% in 2010 11. menus and have created gluten free menus for Hungry Horse and Hardys House.
Set out measures to reduce the amount As a result of our work, we are the first brewer G of waste we send to landfill.
and pub operator in the UK to achieve the Our progress in our Retail division this year: coveted Carbon Trust Standard after cutting Install water meters across all our managed G carbon emissions by 7.8 per cent 11,941 tonnes Calorie, fat, salt and allergen information G estate and set targets for water use reduction.
This reduction equates to published via the web and in-house for employee engagement the emissions produced by 35 million car miles, Hungry Horse, Hardys and Old English Inns.
Our workforce is our greatest asset our aim is and would be enough to heat 3,834 average Childrens menus have had portion G to be an employer of choice.
Greene King has a households for a year, or toast over 1.5 billion sizes reduced to bring them in line with proud history of being a first-class employer.
values of respect, honesty and courage, customer focus, results and execution underpin the way in The Carbon Trust Standard is the only We have begun work our suppliers on the G which we do business.
independent award for companies that can FSAs 2012 salt reduction targets to ensure verify they are cutting their carbon footprint and they understand and work with us on our We recruit, develop, reward and promote our reducing their own direct impact on climate commitment to achieving these.
staff on the basis of their skills and suitability for change year-on-year.
Just 320 companies in We have benchmarked 159 of our best G the role.
We are committed to ensuring that all the UK have been awarded the standard so far.
selling products against salt targets.
2 Figures based on a combination of meter readings and spend.
Business Review Greene King plc Annual Report 2010 23 employees receive equal treatment regardless end of the three or five-year term, a stake in We also support people who might face barriers of their colour, nationality, race, religion belief, the company they work for.
to employment to achieve their full potential ethnic origin, sex, marital status, disability, and in one such case, at the Bradmore Arms in part-time or fixed term status, parental Training Wolverhampton, our work was recognised when responsibilities, sexual orientation or age.
Dedicated training programmes and development we were runner-up in the Local Employment Our flexible benefits enable employees to courses ensure constant growth both for Partnership Awards.
tailor their benefits to what is important them, individuals and the company as a whole.
Our including childcare and healthcare, as well as induction programme ensures all pub staff are Future development offering flexible working hours and working trained on entry in compliance, licensing, conflict With an eye on the future of our business and from home options where practicable.
management, food safety and health and safety attracting the best talent, we have relaunched including fire safety.
All of our managers are and improved our graduate training scheme.
We are committed to engaging with our staff trained to food safety standard Level Two and in This year we are aiming to attract 50 managers through our many communication channels such the past year over 650 staff have been trained to of the future from universities across the UK.
as regular business performance updates and National Certificate for Personal License Holders This investment in attracting and training the best actively encourage feedback directly to our NCPLH standard.
personnel is a key strand of our business growth chief executive.
strategy and will see successful candidates running Recruitment their own venues within the estate by the third This year we revised and relaunched our staff Recruitment is a key area for our business year of the programme.
Results were encouraging with employee to help ensure we have the right people to engagement scoring 2.96 out of 4.
The survey deliver our vision.
This year we entered into health and safety will now be used to benchmark our performance a partnership with Job Centre UK to offer job Greene King enjoys an excellent health and safety as an employer with an engagement KPI set for trials to people considering a career in one of record and is committed to the promotion of a next and future years.
Greene King is proud to be positive safety culture and to ensuring that we do BACKING YOUNG BRITAIN the campaign all we can to protect our staff and customers.
We have again this year offered our staff our to encourage businesses to provide more attractive share save scheme, which provides opportunities for young people through jobs, both an affordable savings scheme and, at the apprenticeships and work experience.
master Chef Employee engagement goes beyond communication where they were judged by a panel of food experts, and staff surveys, it is also about involving our staff who rated them according to aroma, texture and taste, at every level in the organisation.
before being given an overall score.
The winning dish of baked cod, crushed new potatoes with bacon and peas In our Destination Division our chefs were invited, with roasted cherry tomatoes was created by Marc through our own MasterChef competition, to create a Henry from the Cross House, Liverpool.
new dish to be served in our pubs, and hotels.
This year, the second year of the competition, 45 chefs across 38 The competition forms part of our drive for constant pubs vied for the title MasterChef.
The brief was to quality and innovation across our pub menus and, create a new home made dish that could be used in the by involving members of our staff in the pursuit of spring summer menu.
innovation, we aim to ensure they feel engaged and empowered.
Competition was fierce and the standard of dishes extremely high.
Four dishes went through to the final Greene King plc Annual Report 2010 24 CORPORAtE sOCiAl REsPOnsiBility REPORt health and safety continued Charity Our pubs are at the This year has seen our organisation again We recognise the importance of establishing awarded a number of prestigious health and good relationships with the communities in heart of the community safety awards including: which we operate, and work in partnership they serve and we are with a number of charitable organisations.
The RoSPA Gold Award for Occupational We appreciate that a mix of financial support, G committed to being an Health & Safety for the sixth consecutive year.
as well as actual involvement with time, skills active and positive and donations in kind are all beneficial when The RoSPA MORR tm Award for the fourth G investing in charities and communities.
contributor to local consecutive year.
British Safety Council International Safety To help either good local, national or international communities.
G Award for our Brewery at Bury St Edmunds causes, many of our employees, licensees and for the second year.
customers across the UK get involved in raising money through a varied range of activities such British Safety Council International Safety G as sports events, quizzes, raffles, auctions, and Award for our Abingdon and Eastwood depots.
Last year, our English managed pubs Community raised in excess of 200,000 for local and Our pubs are at the heart of the community they national charities and causes.
serve and we are committed to being an active and positive contributor to local communities.
Our largest single fund raising activity this year involved over 20 members of our team who joined Greene King is proud to sponsor, in partnership Lawrence Dallaglio to cycle 417km from Paris to with The East Anglian Daily Times, the Suffolk London for Sport Relief and the Dallaglio Foundation Community Awards.
The awards are designed in a bid to raise a further 60,000 for charity.
to celebrate the success of local people, community groups and organisations that have made a difference By demonstrating to our employees that we are in their community and to the lives of those responsive to the charities and organisations they around them.
most care about, we facilitate their giving in a variety of ways including product donations, old Speckled hen serves those who serve us Servicemen and women on their flight back from role in the local community and our team at the depot Afghanistan were treated to a well-deserved taste wanted to do something to show their appreciation.
of home when, in support of the Beer for the Boys Beer for the Boys is the brainchild of Wing Commander campaign, our distribution centre in Abingdon donated Steve Chadwick, Officer Commanding 216 Squadron, thousands of cans and bottles of Old Speckled Hen to based at RAF Brize Norton in Oxfordshire.
Brize Norton and to local barracks in Dalton.
Our beer helped to quench the thirst of those returning from active service.
Both bases play a very important Business Review Greene King plc Annual Report 2010 25 Top team at Shamblehurst Barn A Greene King pub in Hedge End believes it now has Manager Michael Wells explains: I wanted every the most highly-trained staff in the country.
The team one of my team to be trained to the highest level.
of 16 at the Shamblehurst Barn has undergone extensive The Shamblehurst is a community family pub where training in alcohol retailing and the law as part of their all ages can come and enjoy themselves in a safe and National Certificate for Personal Licence Holders secure environment.
With everyone in the team having undergone this training Normally, pubs would have two or three senior staff I believe I now have the best trained team in the country holding the personal licence qualification but at The and our customers can be confident that alcohol will be Shamblehurst everyone from the door supervisors sold responsibly and that we can spot, and put a stop to, through to bar and waiting staff now holds the certificate.
The team also undertook drugs awareness training as part of their development.
An example of indicating that the trade is making a huge effort Best Bar None product giving this year is highlighted through to enforce the law and prevent underage sales.
We support initiatives such as Best Bar None, our involvement with Beer for the Boys.
the Home Office endorsed award scheme that To help us in our efforts, this year we accredits licensed premises for operating their Responsible retailing programmed all of our tills to challenge bar business in an exemplary manner.
In areas where We strive to ensure that alcohol produced or staff to check the age of the purchaser before the scheme operates we have now have 20 pubs sold by us is consumed responsibly.
We were completing the transaction.
This prompt ensures with this accreditation.
one of the founding members of the industry-led that not selling alcohol to underage customers is Why let the good times go bad Campaign for always front of mind with front of house teams.
Licensing in Scotland Smarter Drinking.
Conceived in response to the To continue this work we are talking to industry Over the past year, Belhaven has successfully Governments challenge to the drinks industry colleagues and encouraging them to join us in navigated through the transitional changes from to take action on binge drinking, the campaign developing software which would display on the the previous regime under the 1976 Act to the was aimed at 18 30 year olds who drink tills the latest year in which a customer would new system under the 2005 Act.
In support irresponsibly more than once a month but no have to be born to be 18 or over.
of each application Belhaven has prepared more than once a week.
The aim was to provide documented evidence as to how it will support practical information and advice in a non-patronising Our promotional materials carry clear and the five licensing objectives of: and intelligent way.
We lent our support both concise messages encouraging sensible drinking preventing crime and disorder: G financially and in promoting the campaign throughout and all bottles, cans and outer packaging for all our managed and tenanted divisions.
our beers specify the number of units of alcohol securing public safety: G and we have been an active participant in the preventing public nuisance: G This year we have undertaken an audit of all Governments consultation on drinks labelling.
of our managed pubs in England and Scotland protecting and improving public health: and G to ensure we comply fully with all legislation We also support the Governments anti-drink protecting children from harm.
G and with a view to producing a responsible drive Christmas campaigns and last year 900 retailing code across our managed business.
Greene King pubs supported the Driver Friendly As part of the new Licensing Act, each board region Encouragingly, when benchmarked against our campaign, which offered free soft drinks to drivers.
is required to establish a licensing forum which is a competitors published information, our standards body consisting of all relevant stakeholders police, are among the highest in the industry.
Last year we donated 9,550 to The GREaT community councils, licensing standards officers and Foundation.
Formerly known as the Responsibility trade representatives.
Belhaven is represented in All of our pubs operate Challenge 21 and, if you in Gambling Trust, the GREaT Foundation was each of the licensing forums where they hold a are lucky enough to appear under 21, you can established as a charity in 2002 as Britains largest premises licence and see this as an important factor expect to be asked to prove your age.
Research funding body responsible for tackling problem in supporting each of the licensing objectives.
shows that pubs turn away over one million gambling through the funding of research, education customers each month who, when challenged, and treatment from voluntary donations.
are unable to provide acceptable proof of age Greene King plc Annual Report 2010 26 CORPORAtE sOCiAl REsPOnsiBility REPORt Responsible retailing continued in our industry to retain the good quality licensees At Greene King we take BID schemes and that to do that we need to give them the best Greene King was instrumental in setting up the start.
Go for Growth ensures everyone has the right a partnership approach Nottingham Business Improvement District BID, level of skills to operate one of our pubs and, equally to working with our the only BID nationally that is solely for the licensed importantly, the best platform to build their businesses economy, and is still an active member three in the long term.
Last year 638 licensees went licensees.
The BIDs aims are to improve safety through the course and the results have been support good businesses.
in, the trading environment of, access to and the dramatic both in terms of business success and promotion of the core of Nottingham over and retention of licensees.
above the services already being provided by the city.
Research carried out by Oxford Brookes University found that of the licensees who Working with our licensees attended the induction programme: At Greene King we take a partnership approach 96% plan for growth of their business rather G to working with our licensees.
We can and do than just working in it support good businesses.
96% review customer care as part of their G Go for Growth ongoing strategy This year, as part of our support for new tenants 96% developed and managed their staff G taking on one of our pubs, we introduced mandatory more effectively training for all new licensees.
We believe that it is vital Green shoots Prasong Suppadungchon is the licensee of the Old Tom in Oxford and comes from a background in restaurants.
Since attending the Go for Growth training course he has increased gross profits by 50% and reduced overheads by 10%.
He had been so busy running the business and making it a great place for his customers to visit that he had completely forgotten about profit.
Prasong felt the course totally boosted his confidence and focused his attention.
After attending a second day some six months later, he would definitely recommend the course to others saying: It makes you focus on whats important to the business and spend time planning the way forward.
Business Review Greene King plc Annual Report 2010 27 CSR Key Performance indicators Priority Performance 2009 10 Target 2010 11 environment A reduction in CO emissions in our existing 4.1% overall reduction 2.5% reduction on a like for like basis 2 C estate of breweries, offices and managed houses on a like for like basis A reduction in the amount of waste sent No target set 80% of all waste generated by our Retail F to landfill managed houses not to be sent to landfill by end of calendar year 2011 A reduction in water usage in our existing 1.5% reduction across the business To install AMR water meters in all managed C estate of breweries, offices and managed houses by year end and set reduction targets houses on a like for like basis for 2011 12 employee engagement An improvement in employee engagement Benchmarking survey undertaken To achieve a satisfaction score of 3.00 C demonstrated by our annual attitude survey and score set at 2.96 healthy eating The provision of more information and choice The development of a nutritional database To extend this work to include the five C for our customers to support a healthy and with nutritional information provided on the Local Pubs division menus balanced diet and support the FSAs principles internet for Hungry Horse, Hardys and on healthy eating Old English Inns menu items detailing fat, saturated fat, calories and salt The provision of allergen information C and the creation of gluten free menus for Hungry Horse, Hardys and Old English Inns The provision, on all our childrens menus, Our childrens menus now offer portion To increase the range of healthier items on the C of a choice of healthier meals, which are lower sizes in accordance with government childrens menu and to change the 710 years in fat and contain a portion of vegetables guidelines, fresh fruit, salad and fresh section to a pick and mix style to provide vegetables in line with the 5-a-day more choice for healthier options government strategy as well as organic meals Responsible retailing Compliance with our Challenge 21 policy All tills are now programmed to challenge To look at the development of software C in all our managed houses bar staff to check the age of drinkers at the which would display the latest year in which point of order and to confirm age before a customer would need to have been born the transaction can be completed to be over 18 to assist staff in implementing the Challenge 21 policy The introduction of measures to reduce the risk No target set To undertake under-cover test purchases F of underage drinking taking place in Greene King in at least 50 managed houses to ensure managed houses compliance with our Challenge 21 policy health and safety Continually strive to identify and reduce health No target set Specialist third-party fire risk assessments to be F and safety risks and to improve the safety completed for all managed houses and any works of our premises to be scheduled for completion according to risk
