 continued k Impairment The carrying amounts of the Group and Companys assets, other than inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment.
If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.
Impairment reviews are carried out on an individual shop basis unless there are a number of shops in the same location, in which case the impairment review is based on the location.
An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
Impairment losses recognised in prior years are assessed at each reporting date and reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the assets carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.
l  Non-current assets that are expected to be recovered primarily through sale rather than through continuing use are classified as held for sale.
Immediately before classification as held for sale, the assets are remeasured in accordance with the Group and Companys accounting policies.
Thereafter generally the assets are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell.
m Sharecapital i Repurchase of share capital When share capital recognised as equity is repurchased, the amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs, is recognised as a deduction from equity.
Repurchased shares that are held in the Employee Share Ownership Plan are classified as treasury shares and are presented as a deduction from total equity.
ii Dividends Dividends are recognised as a liability in the year in which they are approved by the shareholders.
n  The Group and Parent Company accounts include the assets and related liabilities of the Greggs Employee Benefit Trust EBT.
In both the Group and Parent Company accounts the shares held by the EBT are stated at cost and deducted from total equity.
o Employeebenefits i Defined contribution plans Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the income statement when they are due.
ii Defined benefit plans The Group and Companys obligation in respect of defined benefit post-employment plans, including pension plans, is calculated by estimating the amount of the future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior years.
That benefit is discounted to determine its present value and any unrecognised past service costs, and the fair value of any plan assets is deducted.
The discount rate is the yield at the balance sheet date on AA credit rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating to the terms of the Groups obligations.
The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method.
