Halfords Group plc Online version 81 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 2 April 2010 halfords.
com responsibilities Corporate Social Responsibility Halfords corporate social responsibility CSR programme is Percentage of customers who would definitely use aligned with the Groups business strategy, addresses the important Halfords stores again CSR issues that we face and informs appropriate management and 70 colleague behaviour.
60 We believe effective management of our CSR makes good business sense.
In doing so, we will seek to ensure that Halfords, which is 50 a household brand, has a positive impact on the communities and 40 environment in which we work, be it through our operations, products 30 and services or through our interactions with our customers, colleagues and suppliers.
We are proud of our business and we see CSR as a 20 core business consideration as it derives strategic, commercial and 10 reputational benefits.
We aim to achieve standards of responsible care 0 across a number of key areas, including: customers, trading, health & 2008 2009 2010 safety, the environment, employee welfare and the community.
aba: research We are concerned to ensure we do the right things and our aim is to continually improve our management of the social, environmental Our store network is extensive and we endeavour to locate a Halfords and economic issues within our control or influence these throughout store within 20 miles of any UK customer.
At the time of writing 99% of the business and our wider supply network.
The Group has reviewed the UK population live within 20 straight-line miles of a Halfords store its ongoing CSR policy to ensure it meets the needs of the markets and 90.4% live within a 20 minute drive of a store.
Our store portfolio and communities in which it operates and that the associated Key continues to grow in quality and quantity.
Performance Indicators KPIs accurately reflect the Groups success or otherwise in implementing its policy.
Number of Halfords Stores in the UK and ROI In 2009 Halfords engaged with Business in the Community BITC to review and advise on the Groups current CSR strategy and activities with the view to driving continual improvement and integration within 470 the business.
This will be reported on fully in next years Annual 465 Report.
For the period to 2 April 2010 the Group continued to follow its 460 ACTING RESPONSIBLY policy.
455 The policy commitments are translated into actions and KPIs are used to assess success against our internal targets.
Paul McClenaghan, 450 Commercial Director, takes the lead in ensuring that the policy supports 445 the strategic objectives of the business.
The Halfords Executive 440 monitors performance with regard to these objectives and targets via an internal report.
It is, however, the Boards responsibility to ensure that 435 2008 2009 2010 the Group operates in a responsible manner, and the Board reviews the policy and our performance against that policy annually.
CSR OVERVIEW & KEy PERFORMANCE INDICATORS This network is fully supported by a dedicated Customer Service team based at our Head Office in Redditch where our customers are CUSTOMERS able to contact us by phone, e-mail, letter or fax.
This year, we have Stores & customer service consolidated our web and store contact centres giving our customers We market high quality products that we believe meet or exceed the and stores the opportunity to contact us through one single phone requirements of appropriate legislation, international conventions and number and e-mail address.
This has enabled us to offer increased codes of practice.
Where external guidance does not exist, we apply support to our store colleagues and be more flexible to our customers our own exacting standards.
With a complex product range of around needs.
10,000 items, we talk with our customers every day to ensure that our range meets their requirements and that they understand how to use our products safely.
Halfords has a large number of regular customers who see their key drivers of satisfaction being choice of products and brands, store environments and ease of shopping, knowledgeable staff with a will-do attitude and competitive, value-for-money pricing.
Surveys are regularly carried out across our customer base, asking customers to score certain questions, such Would you definitely use Halfords again?
or How likely is it you would recommend Halfords to a friend?
In 2009 10 59% of customers asked said they were very likely or extremely likely to use Halfords again.
17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Financials Responsibilities Business Review About Halfords Introduction
