14 Our Customers Usually, I am lost when I go into large stores I visited your store in the Old Kent Road London SE1 earlier this morning and was delighted by the courteous and knowledgeable advice I received from the Sales Assistant in the Bicycle Department.
"I was looking for a Schrader valve inner tube and a 28"" tyre and the assistant, who was also a mechanic, kindly stopped what he was doing to pick the items for me."
Usually, I am lost when I go into large stores, but the help shown by your member of staff today has confirmed that I shall be using Halfords in future: for price, for quality and above all, for the stress-free service that came free with the purchase.
Anthony Dennis on Customer Service The repairs were carried out promptly and efficiently Last week I had occasion to take my daughters bike into your Rickmansworth cycle branch for a check and service.
I am delighted to say that the service I received was exemplary: the repairs were carried out promptly and efficiently and I was immediately informed by phone.
Moreover, the gentleman who carried out the work provided me with some invaluable advice concerning bike maintenance, taking time to ensure that I fully understood.
He is clearly someone who really enjoys his job and takes great pride in providing excellent customer service.
Needless to say, I will be returning there!
Bill Grimwood on Bikes 17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Halfords Group plc Online version 15 Annual Report & Accounts for period ended 2 April 2010 halfords.
com abouthalfords She was passionate about the benefits and delights of Satellite Navigation I just wanted to take a few minutes to let you know what a refreshing shopping experience I had before Christmas.
My wife was deciding what to buy me for Christmas so I opted for a Sat Nav device.
We knew nothing about Sat Navs and the Store Manager quickly spotted us staring aimlessly at the devices on offer at your Macclesfield store.
Her product knowledge was first rate and it was pretty obvious that she was passionate about the benefits and delights of Satellite Navigation.
By the end of the discussion, not only had we decided on which device to purchase a Garmin, but I too now consider myself to be a Sat Nav expert.
Excellent product knowledge, first-class customer engagement and a great shopping experience.
Peter Morgan on In-Car Technology A job well done and all for a modest 6.68 I telephoned your branch on Queens Road, Sheffield yesterday to check stock and fitting of a brake light for my Citron.
The assistant I spoke to was most helpful, polite and patient.
I visited the store today and received equally great customer service.
A member of staff promptly attended to my brake light, a new bulb fitted and working in no time.
Excellent customer service, great advice, a job well done and all for a modest 6.68.
Without any doubt, Ill return there as and when needed and recommend Halfords to family and friends.
Marie Collinson-Wallace on wefit 17399 14 06 2010 Proof 7 Financials Responsibilities Business Review About Halfords Introduction
