directors report Business revieW: CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT MOBILISING FOR GOOD Dear shareholder The past year has been tough for the world economy.
Yet WE HELP ORGANISATIONS against this background it is encouraging to see that corporate responsibility CR has gained further momentum.
Watchwords FIND THE PEOPLE like governance, accountability, risk control, ethics and sustainability have taken on greater prominence.
Put each of THEY NEED, WHICH IS these words into a search engine and you will hit upwards of 450 million web pages.
For Hays, they are integral to the way we A MEANINGFUL AND want to do business, building trust with people and organisations we rely on for our success.
RESPONSIBLE ROLE Our whole business model is based on providing a service that IN SOCIETY.
is very relevant in the world we live in today, namely helping organisations find the people they need to flourish and helping individuals find the next role to further their own careers and livelihoods.
We take our role in this process very seriously, not just because it drives our business but also because it is a meaningful and responsible role in society in general.
This holds true wherever we operate, whether it be helping to solve local employment issues in any one of our many markets, helping 293,000 multinationals tap into global talent pools or bringing our services to new markets such as Brazil and India.
raised for good causes We have continued to integrate CR into everything we do, for example, this year we have measured our global carbon footprint for the first time.
While our business has a low environmental impact, we work to reduce it each year.
We also seek to use our scale to make our contribution toward 77% national and international charitable appeals.
I was proud of employee engagement level our response to the January Haiti earthquake appeal, which saw Hays employees from 22 countries working together to help earthquake victims, and within many of our regions we support local charities, by both volunteering and donating.
We have been operating our new CR business plan for a year now, co-ordinated by our Corporate Responsibility Steering Group.
Already we have achieved a number of our early milestones.
There remain many challenges ahead but I am confident that we will meet them with ingenuity and resolve.
Alistair Cox Chief Executive This report is a summary of the full Corporate Responsibility Report, which is available on the Companys website, haysplc.
The full Report includes details of our corporate responsibility plan and the results of our global carbon emissions survey.
34 Hays plc annual report & financial statements 2010 directors report Business revieW directors report governance remuneration report governance financial statements VALUES EMPLOYEES Our business is dependent upon our employees, not only those We are the worlds leading recruiting experts in qualified, who deal with clients and candidates, but also those who support professional and skilled work.
By truly understanding our them.
As a consequence, our people strategy continues to focus candidates and clients, locally and globally, we help people on ensuring that we have the necessary capabilities, resources and companies achieve lasting impact.
Our values aim and work environment appropriate for a high-performing to reflect this promise.
Our values underpin our skills, organisation.
behaviours and way of doing business.
These values are: We want to attract, retain and develop the best people in the industry to work for Hays.
In order to achieve this, we have Ambitious focused on a number of key themes.
In particular, 2010 has As a results-orientated company we are continually driven seen continued progress in the areas of employee engagement, to succeed.
Our energy and dynamism makes us ambitious succession planning, talent management and leadership for our people, clients and candidates, and for the positive development.
impact we know recruiting can have in their lives.
Employee engagement Passionate About People Each year we receive a very good response to TALKback, our employee engagement survey, that runs across all the We are a people business so were passionate about geographies in which Hays operates.
2010 participation levels creating valuable relationships with everyone we work were no exception with just over 70% of employees expressing with.
Our enthusiasm compels us to find the right person, their views and opinions in all aspects of their workplace believing this is fundamental to improving their life and environment, our brand, our values, our leadership and work, allowing people to be all they can be.
development activity and the work that we do for clients.
Although slightly fewer employees participated in the 2010 Expert survey, it shows that the majority of employees want to share As experts across many industry sectors and professions, their views with us and see a value in doing so.
our professional know-how and unique understanding of Gathering our employees views enables us to understand and markets and people is shared with our clients, candidates monitor levels of engagement and highlight any areas of concern and across our expanding global network.
Key drivers of employee engagement Inquisitive in Hays are career development, leadership and direction, culture and collaboration.
Overall reported engagement levels Were always curious, wanting to understand more about were unchanged from the prior year, at 77%, reflecting positive people and the world of work.
Thats how we build deeper responses to most of the items that make up this dimension.
knowledge into what makes people fit culturally and how Given the amount of change that our employees have companies and people can achieve their full potential.
experienced during the year with new systems and ways of For information on our business principles and policies, working, as well as the difficulties of operating in a challenging please visit haysplc.
economic environment and the backdrop of the global financial crisis, this reflects the high level of commitment from our employees of which we are justly proud.
Kpi: employee engagement 77% 2010 77% 2009 Employee engagement comprises a number of components that explore areas such as employees sense of belonging, discretionary e ort, personal motivation and job satisfaction.
Hays plc annual report & financial statements 2010 35 directors report Business revieW: CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our business is dependent upon our employees, not only those who deal with clients and candidates, but also those who support them.
As a consequence, our people strategy continues to focus on ensuring that we have the necessary capabilities, resources and work environment appropriate for a high-performing organisation.
Values and behaviour Talent attraction, identification and development Hays believes that the way our employees work is just as Our resourcing, training and development programmes important as what they do in the workplace.
To supplement are designed to ensure that we have a pool of well qualified, our leadership and management development activity, we have talented individuals, able to meet both the operational needs focused on the behaviours and values that are important to of our business and our clients, as well as the future strategic the way that we run the business.
The Hays Leadership and challenges facing the Company.
We are committed to providing Management Competencies cover key areas of, and expectations our employees with opportunities to develop and grow their skills, around, behaviour and are being embedded into our key, but we will also continue to bring in new capabilities to the people-related processes.
business through targeted, external recruitment.
Employees are encouraged to take a proactive approach to Reward and recognition developing their careers.
Employee training and development We seek to reward and recognise peoples contributions to takes many forms, from the more traditional classroom teaching the business appropriately, both as individuals and as a team.
through to lunch and learn sessions, e-learning, on-the-job Programmes to achieve this are cascaded through the coaching, development projects and secondments.
In 2010 organisation to ensure that there is a focus on short and, we worked closely with the Chartered Management Institute where appropriate, long-term performance.
Senior executive and launched an online global e-learning and resource centre remuneration is linked to the Groups annual and long-term plans, ManagementDirect, which is available to all employees.
This which is described in the Remuneration Report on pages 56 allows employees to develop their skills in a broad range of areas, to 61. explore a range of different media and learn at their own pace.
Diversity Hays believes that diversity is a key driver of the organisations Additionally, Hays aims for all employees to have regular effectiveness, both now and in the future.
We actively encourage discussions with their managers regarding their performance, different viewpoints, styles and approaches, and are committed potential and their individual development needs.
to providing a workplace free from discrimination of any kind.
Hays conducts an annual succession planning process to assess A notable success in this area has come in Australia, where once the strengths and development opportunities of the Group at all again we were awarded the Employer of Choice for Women levels globally.
The picture of Group succession is built bottom status for 2010.
Hays was the first recruitment company to up by specialism, country and region.
Succession plans are achieve this award and the only one to achieve it consecutively maintained for key areas of the business and are reviewed for eight years.
This citation is awarded to non-government annually by both management and the Board.
organisations that have demonstrated policies and practices that support women across the organisation and have had a positive Leadership development outcome for both women and the business.
This award The calibre of our leadership and management cadre is critical strengthens our competitive edge and allows us to promote to the success of our business.
2010 saw the launch of Fast publicly our commitment to recruiting, developing and retaining Forward, our flagship global executive development programme women at Hays.
for our most senior leaders.
This has been funded under the auspices of the Waxman Scholarship and combines formal classroom training at internationally renowned business schools Each year, EOWA, an Australian Government department, with individual and team coaching, live project-based work on assesses applications from a range of organisations global business issues and action learning.
Work is also under way to create a list of great places for women to work.
on developing our Advanced Management Programme, the Organisations on this list need to meet a series of Hays AMP to deliver a broader executive curriculum to our key criteria each year designed to ensure their workplaces senior management populations in each region.
In order that have a focus on ensuring equity for all female staff.
our executive development activity remains closely tailored By applying for and receiving this citation, organisations are not only and aligned to the succession planning needs of the business, meeting the criteria, they are publicly declaring their commitment we have also completed the first phase of running global executive to making their workplaces equitable.
This ensures that we have an objectively benchmarked understanding as to where our strengths lie and that we address any capability gaps with targeted responses.
36 Hays plc annual report & financial statements 2010 directors report Business revieW directors report governance remuneration report governance financial statements POLICIES THAT SUPPORT OUR BUSINESS AIMS MANAGING THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF HAYS Our good conduct is a foundation for the trust our customers AND ITS SUPPLIERS place in us.
We are a commercial organisation and we will pursue Whilst our business has a low environmental impact, the best possible economic return for our shareholders.
However, we are committed to achieving continuous improvement in making economic decisions, we have regard to the impact of in environmental performance and to preventing pollution.
those decisions on other stakeholders, including society and the We seek to minimise our impact by reducing our use of energy, wider environment.
water and raw materials, increasing efficiency and re-using wherever possible.
Throughout the 2010 financial year, our business operated in Hays recognises that environmental initiatives do not work in accordance with the June 2008 Combined Code on Corporate isolation.
So we are developing our  Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council.
procurement arrangements that encourage suppliers and All Hays employees are aware of our Code of Conduct & Ethics contractors to support our programmes and to minimise Policy, which aims to ensure the Companys values are upheld.
the impact of the goods and services that they provide to us.
For the first time this year, we published our Business Principles Before we select a large supplier in the UK, we establish by and Public Policy Principles, which can be found on our website questionnaire, the suppliers policy, practice and targets in the at haysplc.
areas of corporate responsibility and environmental management.
CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT Actions taken under the Environmental Policy We will maintain our commitment to continuous improvement Actions of particular note included: in the area of corporate responsibility and we will seek to develop we have taken an industry lead in measuring our global carbon the quality of our reporting year-on-year.
We continue to keep footprint in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
the need for any further KPI disclosures under review.
In the This equips us to give greater focus to reducing our energy 2011 financial year, our main priorities are: consumption in coming years: commencing meaningful reductions in our energy consumption, adjusted for cyclical and strategic growth: we promote recycling and the use of recycled materials and we design energy efficiency into new services and offices reviewing our anti-corruption policies and procedures in and manage energy efficiently in all operations: and the new financial year and reinforcing them globally through in 2008, we joined the Green500 group funded by the London training and other promotional steps: Development Agency to help deliver the Mayor of Londons establishing a stakeholder engagement programme in relation target to cut Londons emissions by 60% by 2025.
During to our CR activities: and the year, we were awarded the Green500 Gold Award in recognition of work undertaken since joining the scheme.
promoting the adoption of core CR principles by major suppliers in key countries beyond the UK.
PROMOTING HEALTH AND SAFETY It is the policy of Hays that all reasonably practicable steps will be taken to ensure the health, safety, and welfare of its employees and the protection of others not in its employment.
Hays recognises its statutory obligations to maintain standards of safety and its obligation to members of the public, contractors and visitors.
Managers work to provide and maintain safe and healthy working conditions, carry out suitable risk assessments of all premises and tasks carried out within them and monitor safety procedures.
They involve employees, who are required to co-operate fully in the operation of the health and safety policy.
The policy is reviewed annually and is revised appropriately in the light of legislative or organisational changes.
Hays plc annual report & financial statements 2010 37 directors report Business revieW: CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT USING OUR GLOBAL SCALE TO IMPROVE THE LIVES OF MANY JUST SOME OF THE MANY ExAMPLES OF OUR CHARITABLE SUPPORT CANADA In support of the Canadian Breast HAITI Cancer Foundation CIBC Run for the Cure, several Hays Recruiters for Hooters teams participated in the annual run raising funds for breast cancer research, and education and awareness programmes.
In January 2010, over 220,000 people died and 300,000 people were injured Employees from offices in the Toronto by the devastating Haiti earthquake.
area raised 5,400 for the WWF, Hays employees from 22 countries joined climbing the 1,776 steps of the CN Tower, together to raise 53,000 for the Unicef the worlds second tallest building.
This money has gone towards In our Vancouver office, business Unicefs relief projects giving safe water clothing was collected for Dress for to 333,000 people, supplying 185,000 Success which equips women seeking children with educational materials and employment and self-sufficiency preparing for the hurricane season.
to confidently tackle job interviews.
BRAZIL Here are some of the initiatives our Hays Vancouver also supports a employees have undertaken on behalf local womens crisis shelter providing of the Haiti victims: transition housing to rape and abuse victims and their children.
Hays Spain organised a solidarity campaign for Haiti, generating financial support from 45 national and international clients, including names Last Christmas, employees from the such as Hugo Boss and Verifone.
In Rio fide Janeiro office gave up their recognition of their generosity, Hays usual Secret Santa tradition in order to Spain published all 45 client logos in shower the children of Lalec Lar Amor El Pas.
Luz e Esperana da Criana with a Hays Belgium donated 20 for Social Secret Santa.
Lalec is a shelter every vacancy filled during 12 days for abandoned children suffering from in February, while Hays Germany social vulnerability, giving care and hope donated 10 for every placement to children until they are reintegrated over five days in the same month.
Across our APAC region we raised Hays employees spent the day with the over Aus $20,000.
A National children, distributed gifts and donated Marketing Day was the focus of some much needed items to the shelter.
activity and for every job registered The team decided they had benefited on the day, Hays donated $10 to more from this visit than the children the appeal.
38 38 H Ha ay ys p s pl lc c a an nn nu ua al l r re ep po or rt & t & f fi in na an nc ci ia al l s st ta at te em me en nt ts 2 s 20 01 10 0 directors report Business revieW directors report governance remuneration report governance financial statements UK 95,000 raised in the UK we began our relationship with Hays UKs official charity partner, Action for Children, in 2009.
Over 100 Hays employees, clients and friends took part in the Beat the Moon charity challenge in May 2010, raising over 55,000 matched by a Hays UK contribution of 40,000.
The challenge required participants to complete a series of physical challenges over the course of one day: cycling for nine miles, a nine mile trek to the top of Scafell Pike the highest point in England, a canoeing stint on Wast Water, before finishing with a one mile run to the finish line before the moon rose.
GERMANY 45,700 donated in Germany continuing its social commitment to children with cancer, Hays Germany sponsors paediatric care within the oncology unit of a childrens hospital in Heidelberg, helping the units young cancer patients.
NEW ZEALAND AUSTRALIA 9,000 donated in New Zealand PORTUGAL United Way New Zealand helps support community initiatives providing funding 12,000 donated in Australia our assistance, time and skills to benefit the involvement remains as strong as ever underprivileged across New Zealand.
with Camp Quality, a childrens cancer 4,500 was raised through charity charity using fun therapy to bring auctions, event nights and golf optimism and happiness to the lives of tournaments, with Hays New Zealand In May 2010, Hays Portugal celebrated children and families affected by cancer.
donating 1 for every pound raised 10 years supporting the work of Camp Quality is known for its activity by employees.
Hays New Zealands Fundao Gil, an organisation that camps where cancer takes a back seat Managing Director also acts as provides social support to children to allow the kids to be happy kids again.
Vice-Chairperson for the charity, hospitalised for long periods and shelter This outstanding effort has enabled us donating his personal time to promote for children in need of non-medical help.
to fund camps for over 35 children.
the charity and its cause.
H Ha ay ys p s pl lc c a an nn nu ua al l r re ep po or rt & t & f fi in na an nc ci ia al l s st ta at te em me en nt ts 2 s 20 01 10 0 39 39
