40 Corporate responsibility Our Corporate Responsibility CR platform, comprising the areas HMV UK & Ireland partners the music industry initiative Julies of Environment, People and Community, was reinforced during Bicycle, which aims to reduce the sectors greenhouse gas the year.
The following is a summary of our Corporate emissions, and in our next financial year these considerations Responsibility Report 2010, which contains a full discussion of will be extended to the Groups live music venues and festivals.
our activities and is available from the Groups corporate website Waterstones works with the Booksellers Association & at www.
com Publishers Association Environmental Action Group to ensure that various industry-wide initiatives are implemented within its Environment stores.
This group considers all aspects of the trade, including The following have been identified as the principal areas for packaging, book miles, paper sourcing and returns, and operates potential environmental impact by our businesses: the information website green4books.
Waterstones also works with the British Safety Council BSC Energy usage to consider wider measures of environmental impact than the Waste recycling companys carbon footprint.
A BSC audit in November 2009 awarded Waterstones four out of a maximum five stars for Supply chain its commitment to reducing its environmental impacts, an Packaging improvement on the three stars achieved in the prior year.
Waterstones was commended on the role of its CR committee Green purchasing policies of goods not for resale and its Branch Environmental Champions.
A further BSC Green build initiatives assessment is expected in 2011.
Health and safety Carbon reduction commitment: We are managing our impacts through the following initiatives: CRC energy efficiency scheme The Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC is a UK emissions Industry and environmental partners trading scheme ETS with the aim of cost-effectively reducing The Groups businesses in the UK work with a number of emissions in the service, public and other less energy-intensive specialist organisations to help to minimise our impacts on the sectors by 1.2m tonnes by 2020.
The CRC will be a mandatory environment, including The Carbon Trust, British Safety Council, emissions trading scheme, targeting large organisations whose Adam Energy Management Systems, Inenco, IMServe and Biffa emissions are currently not included in the ETS or Climate Waste Services.
In addition, through our involvement in various Change Agreements of the European Union.
trade bodies, we are helping to manage the environmental Registration of the qualifying sites within the Companys impacts made by the entertainment and book industries.
UK store estate is due to be completed, as scheduled, before 30 September 2010.
Energy usage As the table below summarises, energy usage in our UK businesses increased during the year, reflecting a larger store portfolio in HMV UK, the extreme winter weather and extended occupancy hours during our peak trading.
We remain committed to reducing the amount of energy consumed and a number of initiatives are underway to support this.
When store openings and closures are factored in, energy usage per square metre is below: 2 2 Group Total kWh Total CO2 tonnes Retail sq ft kWh m CO2 m Financial year 2006 7 93,810,713 49,910 3,145,627 321 0.17 Financial year 2007 8 90,905,492 48,358 3,149,382 311 0.17 April 2008 Mar 2009 CRC Reporting Period 87,970,072 46,850 3,318,261 285 0.15 April 2009 Mar 2010 CRC Reporting Period 102,943,753 54,788 3,399,295 326 0.17 NB: consumption figures exclude sites that have energy costs included in the rent.
41 In HMV Canada, over 95% of stores are located in shopping malls, The CR committee continues to consider mall landlord where energy usage is managed by landlords.
During the year, environmental commitments as part of our ongoing due diligence our landlords were consulted to determine their participation in of property.
For waste and recycling, HMV Canada only uses green electricity procurement, from which it was established that waste bags produced from oxo-biodegradable material.
in multiple HMV store locations there exist landlord programmes to procure power derived exclusively from renewable sources Table: UK stores recycling averages such as wind and hydro facilities.
HMV UK 2008 09 28% Energy management A substantial initiative is underway to reduce energy usage in our 2009 10 61% UK stores through the implementation of an energy management Waterstones system.
This enables systems for heating, air conditioning and 2008 09 46% lighting to be pre-programmed to ensure maximum efficiencies.
Following a successful trial in 17 HMV UK and Waterstones 2009 10 52% stores during November and December 2008, in which energy Figures do not include shopping centre locations, where waste and centre savings of over 14% were achieved, in the six months to February management carries out recycling.
Consultation on waste management and 2010 a further 101 systems were installed in the largest HMV recycling is underway with landlords of these locations.
Consumption in these sites through a full-year cycle is being monitored and will be disclosed in a Water usage future report.
Measures are taken, where possible, to reduce the amount of water used in our store and distribution locations.
Waterstones Automated Meter Readings AMR and participates in The Ripple Effect, an initiative that assists electricity procurement companies to reduce water consumption, and water-saving During the last financial year, 329 stores with domestic devices are being trialled in several of our stores.
The fit-out of all energy meters were switched to AMR Smart Meters to improve of our new stores follows a green blueprint, incorporating energy billing, monitoring and reporting capabilities.
The new meters and water-saving design and devices, while at the Waterstones remove the need for manual reading and estimated billing, book hub a recycled grey water system is in use.
In stores, and assist the Company and our energy suppliers to reduce our Environment Champions perform regular audits of customer waste.
Flexible electricity contracts are negotiated for our and store facilities to ensure the effective management of UK businesses, enabling us to maximise price reductions water consumption.
in the UKs electricity market.
Supply chain Environment Champions During the year, Waterstones book hub became fully operational.
A member from each of our UK store teams has been appointed This will deliver a number of environmental benefits for the as an Environment Champion to ensure that best practice is company and its suppliers, including: shared between store locations.
Ideas and initiatives are also A significant reduction in suppliers transportation shared through the CR committees to maximise the engagement requirements, driven by the replacement of deliveries to of store colleagues.
individual branches with shipments to a single destination.
Waste and recycling Prior to the hub, an average number of 20 medium-sized The total amount of waste generated by HMV UK and cardboard boxes per day were used to deliver books direct Waterstones remained broadly flat during the year, despite from suppliers to each store.
Now books are primarily delivered an additional seven HMV UK stores.
This reflects greater rates to the hub on pallets and, after processing, transferred to each of recycling achieved through the introduction of Dry Mixed store in plastic resusable totes, thereby reducing the amount of Recycling DMR into stores.
HMV UKs central distribution cardboard and packaging involved in distribution of stock.
centres adopted new waste management and recycling 100% of all packaging used in deliveries to the hub is either recommendations following an environmental audit in the prior re-used or recycled.
As a result, our distribution centre at Merlin Park in the West Midlands this year achieved recycling rates of 97%, and a further Returns of excess stock from each store are made to the operation at Canning Town, London is on target to achieve the hub, rather than direct to suppliers generally for pulping, same early in the new financial year.
allowing for sale in other branches of Waterstone's.
In Canada, the high proportion of mall-based stores means Green benefits within the hub include: motion-sensor energythat HMVs landlords have responsibility for waste and recycling, efficient lighting, half-flush sanitary systems and half-hourly and most of these participate in mandatory municipal recycling metering to ensure efficient monitoring of energy usage.
Green tenant pilot schemes are currently in place with landlords covering almost a quarter of our store estate, and it is expected that this will increase.
42 Corporate responsibility continued Goods not for resale Year-on-year As part of the Groups continuing commitment to tightly Business Bags used % change managing its costs, efficiencies are being made by more HMV UK effectively procuring the Groups goods and services not 2007 08 50.5m for resale.
This programme is also helping to enhance our environmental commitment.
2008 09 44.5m 12% 2009 10 47.2m 6% Paper HMV Canada Most of the paper used by the Group worldwide is supplied from FSC-certified sources, and includes a mixture of recycled and 2007 08 10.9m non-recycled stock.
The green credentials of suppliers of our 2008 09 10.0m 8% in-store point of sale materials POS are carefully monitored.
2009 10 8.2m 18% We continue to review our paper consumption, and in Waterstones this declined by 11% year-on-year, reflecting Waterstones changes made to both the Companys systems and the working 2007 08 27.4m practices at head offices and stores.
Where practical, the primary 2008 09 18.6m 32% channel for all internal communication is the Companys Intranet, while in stores till receipts have been shortened by on average 2009 10 14.7m 21% 3cm by the removal of non-essential customer information.
Group This activity has the potential to itself reduce paper consumption 2007 08 88.9m by approximately 1,000km per annum.
In HMV Canada, electronic processes for reviewing stock 2008 09 73.2m 17% reports have been implemented to reduce paper, toner and 2009 10 70.1m 4% electricity consumption.
Additionally, the transfer from paper to electronic distribution of all communication to colleagues, Our businesses adopt a responsible approach to sourcing carrier including pay statements, annual earnings taxation documents bags.
Stores in HMV UK and HMV Canada provide degradable, and training information, is expected to lead to an estimated single-use carrier bags made from 30% recycled plastic.
The bags annual elimination of over 170,000 paper documents per annum.
degrade in landfill sites within 12 to 24 months in the presence of light, oxygen, heat and stress.
In addition, HMV UK has introduced Carrier bags a bag for life, manufactured from 100% recycled plastic, The Groups businesses are working hard to reduce the amount principally recycled water bottles.
Sales of these bags have of carrier bags distributed annually by our stores to customers.
exceeded 100,000, with 5p from each sale donated to HMV Our stores have a policy to ask customers, individually or through UKs charity partner.
In Canada, a 5c carrier bag fee was point of sale communication, if a bag is required with each implemented during the year by the City of Toronto, where HMV purchase.
In Waterstones, loyalty cardholders are offered has 12 stores, in an attempt to reduce carrier bag consumption.
Eco Points when they decline a bag, thereby rewarding our Across HMVs Toronto-area stores, carrier bag consumption fell customers with money off future purchases.
to 23% of customers, compared to the annualised average for The table below shows a year-on-year decline of 4% in the Canada of 78%.
HMV Canada donates the 5c per bag charge number of the Groups customers requesting a bag, and on a to its main charity partner.
At Waterstones, plastic carrier bags two-year basis this has fallen by 21%, a strong achievement as are manufactured from 100% post-consumer recycled plastic.
the total number of transactions across the Group has remained In addition, Waterstones offers a bag for life manufactured from broadly constant.
The increase in HMV UK last year reflects an 100% certified Fairtrade organic cotton.
In Ireland, where local increased number of stores and transactions.
legislation prohibits the use of plastic carrier bags, HMV and Waterstones provide customers who request them with bags made from recycled craft paper.
Online products ordered from hmv.
com are shipped using recycled packaging materials.
43 Green build Recruitment policy We strive to ensure that the new stores we open and those we Our businesses are committed to providing equality of refit are as green as possible.
As well as the roll-out of smart opportunity and to maximising the talents of our people.
meters and energy management systems to new stores, any Our recruitment decisions are made only on the basis of new timber used in store builds is FSC-certified and only energyqualifications, skills and ability to do the job.
This commitment efficient PCs, lighting and appliances are deployed.
We also to equal opportunities includes: recycle fixtures and fittings, wherever possible, with browser The promotion of equality of opportunity in employment.
units and stands re-sprayed and metallic merchandising fixtures refurbished.
HMV Canada uses Eco carpet for all new builds and The development, implementation, regular monitoring and applicable refits, and through an electronic recycling programme review of employment policies, with the aim of ensuring 6,443lbs of materials have been recycled, which previously would that colleagues receive fair and consistent treatment.
have been sent to landfill.
In addition, Waterstones is refitting air A continuing programme of action to ensure our policy conditioning units in its stores with more energy-efficient R410a and its implementation is fully effective, including training gas, replacing R22 refrigerant gas equipment.
Health and safety The elimination of discrimination of any kind.
For the benefit of the millions of customers who visit our stores The law sets out that our policies must at least ensure that current every year and our colleagues who work within them, the Group and potential colleagues are offered the same opportunities maintains a strong commitment to health and safety.
regardless of gender, colour, race, religion or belief, national Highlights and progress this year have included: or ethnic origin, age, disability, sexual orientation, marital status, part-time or fixed-term status.
Our stance is that the promotion HMV UK of equal opportunities is essential and, therefore, all colleagues The total number of accidents reported to the risk and safety should be treated with respect, regardless of whether they are department fell by 12% from the previous year.
Conflict management training has been extended to store Colleague progression Loss Prevention Officers.
The Group is committed to nurturing talent and promoting from Two bespoke health and safety training DVDs, covering fire within, wherever possible.
Various internal training programmes awareness and manual handling training, were issued to all are available, as well as assistance to gain professional stores.
qualifications where this is relevant.
The programmes we operate enable our businesses to have well-developed succession plans Waterstones and to fill any gaps in individuals knowledge before promotion.
Reduction in RIDDOR accidents by 42%.
Examples of these programmes include: HMV UK & Ireland provides an induction-training programme, Total accidents down 5.2% year-on-year.
Get Started, for all new colleagues.
This includes: a company Importance placed on health and safety training and fire DVD: 'Get Closer' days for all new starters: and regular reviews log completion.
for colleagues during their first six months with the Company.
Since 2000, HMV UK & Ireland has had Investors in People Colleagues engagement and compliance with health accreditation, which was successfully renewed in April 2009, and safety promoted by regional champions.
reflecting our commitment to developing our people so they are better able to deliver what is required of them.
HMV believes People in promoting from within and offers Fast Track programmes Our businesses fully recognise the essential nature of attracting to ensure that talented people with the desire to progress into and retaining dedicated and motivated people.
There are management roles are supported.
Over the past three years, numerous initiatives to promote the engagement of our more than 450 people have completed one of the four levels colleagues, to celebrate success, provide a range of attractive of Fast Track programmes available.
benefits, and to develop the careers of individuals.
In May 2009, HMV Canada introduced the HMV Academy, an independent e-learning platform that delivers and tracks compliance-related learning, as well as delivering knowledge and information about policies, procedures and product.
The Academy has delivered significant cost reduction, flexibility for end-users and administrators, as well as the elimination of workbook printing.
Since the launch of the HMV Academy, more than 18,000 modules have been successfully completed.
In order to assist colleagues in the completion of modules, we have made available books for loan to all HMV employees.
44 Corporate responsibility continued To support this, a library of relevant management books has Rewarding loyalty been created, and a synopsis of over 100 titles is available via the In the UK, both of our main brands have programmes to reward company Intranet prior to arranging a book loan.
HMV Canada customers for their loyalty.
Purehmv has been highly successful, has also developed the Heads Up programme for all stores to with over 1.1 million members joining since the launch in May enhance its sales-focused culture, and to promote awareness of 2009, exceeding its first year target within six months of launch.
how individual colleagues are able to directly contribute to their Members earn points every time they shop with HMV in-store stores profitability.
and online, and these points can then be redeemed for cool For colleagues in Waterstones stores, an induction stuff money cant buy via a bespoke members website.
programme exists for all new booksellers, following which there is a The prestigious Marketing Week 2010 Engage Awards awarded focus on customer service through the Get Selling initiative.
For Purehmv Best Loyalty Scheme.
Following its launch in autumn those wishing to progress up the career ladder, a Lead Bookseller 2007, the Waterstones loyalty card now has approximately 3.4 development programme was launched this year, with workshops million members, enjoying a wide range of benefits.
Points can be attended by 219 Lead Booksellers.
During the year, three of our earned on virtually every item in every store, and are also given Branch Managers were promoted to the four Regional Manager as a reward if customers either bring their own carrier bag vacancies that arose, reflecting the success of our Fast Track or opt not to use one.
During the year, customers who declined programme for Regional Managers.
Branch Managers and a carrier bag, saving 1.6 million bags, earned over 8 million Assistant Managers also benefit from a range of workshops, bonus points.
The Waterstones card won the Institute of Direct based around various management tasks, including performance Marketing Business Performance Diamond Award in 2009, and in reviews, delivering training to others, Living Leadership and 2010 was second in The Times Onlines list of the 10 best loyalty Get Selling for Managers.
The data we collect from customers participation in our Green benefits package schemes enables us to provide carefully targeted and relevant Our people are encouraged to choose from a menu of benefits communication.
The right to privacy and security of customer that directly promote green issues, including: data is taken very seriously.
Customers can opt in or out of communication at any time and the information we use is not Loans of up to 1,000 to purchase a bicycle for travel to and sold, rented or passed on to others for marketing purposes from work.
without the express consent of customers.
All of the information Season ticket loans to encourage travel to and from work provided to us by customers is treated securely and strictly in using public transport.
accordance with the Data Protection Act 1998.
Give As You Earn GAYE scheme to make regular, pre-tax Responsible selling donations to chosen charities through payroll.
We are proud As specialist retailers, our brands are committed to providing the that our colleagues donated nearly 16,000 during the year widest ranges of products available either on the high street or through this scheme.
Sometimes, for all sorts of reasons, certain of the products In addition, Waterstones offers colleagues the opportunity we sell in stores or online can be of a sensitive nature.
Therefore, to participate in the Day for Good scheme, which enables we adopt a responsible approach to selling.
Where appropriate, our people to take paid time off to carry out voluntary work.
we liaise with trading standards and other external bodies and Colleagues can request one day of paid time in any year listen to our customers and our colleagues.
to volunteer for their chosen organisation.
Within the boundaries of existing legislation and industry regulation applied to our product categories, including the Public Responsibility to customers Order Act and British Board of Film Classification BBFC ratings, we maintain a strictly non-censorial approach to selling.
In support The customer experience of this, the people in our stores are provided with training and We believe that it is our responsibility to provide our customers regular communication to ensure that, if appropriate, sensitive with the best possible experience.
Our people are, therefore, product is clearly identified and or is sold only to customers who equipped with high quality and extensive training and our most are entitled to purchase it.
prestigious company awards recognise excellent customer HMV UK and Canada believes that it is inappropriate to service as a key criteria.
restrict or censor the choice that it makes available to customers.
As the standards expected of us increase, we must strive to However, we recognise the importance of merchandising and deliver an ever more rewarding customer experience.
In support displaying stock in a responsible manner, which is consistent with of this, we carry out regular research and brand tracking surveys trading standards and retail practice and sensitive to prevailing with our customers, and employ mystery shopper programmes.
Results from these initiatives are fed back to all parts of our businesses and, where appropriate, adaptations to policy or training are made.
45 Waterstones believes that it should not act as censor and that During the year, HMV UK, Fopp and HMV Canada hosted several customers should have the right to choose whatever they want to hundred personal appearances by some of the biggest names in read.
The only circumstances under which we would remove a the music and filmed entertainment industries.
book from sale are on the advice of the police or the publisher.
They provided volume sales for artists and stores, local, national We understand that we share a responsibility with parents to and, in some instances, international publicity, and provided ensure that inappropriate material is not sold to minors.
While unique experiences for our customers.
Demonstrating a many books for children and teenagers include no printed direct commitment to help develop the careers of new and emerging age guidance, our booksellers can both offer advice or decline a artists, HMV and MAMA launched a new music festival, Next Big sale if they believe a particular title should not be sold to a minor.
Thing, to showcase and celebrate a broad and diverse range of 50 breakthrough artists drawn from across the music spectrum.
Community Waterstones ran over 8,000 events during the year, including We recognise that both the products we sell and, therefore, the nearly 4,000 author appearances, over 800 reading groups and HMV and Waterstones brands, have an important part to play in nearly 3,000 childrens activity times.
These took place in stores as the lives of our customers.
Our commitment to the hundreds of well as at numerous local community venues.
First-time authors as communities in which we operate is to extend our engagement well as household names launched their new books, with signings, with them in ways which, we hope, can help to make even more talks, readings and workshops.
Of the nearly 5,000 events held of a difference.
this year for children, Waterstones ran activity and story-time sessions with themes as varied as: fairy and pirate parties: Horrid Charitable support Henry parties: treasure hunts: mask-making: Wheres Wally hunts: The focus of HMVs community engagement activity is its dinosaur days: and, for older children, launch activities for nominated charity CLIC Sargent, which supports children and Stephanie Meyers Breaking Dawn series.
Since 2008, HMV has generated over Waterstones also supports, through activities in its stores, 500,000 for CLIC Sargent through a range of fundraising events, World Book Day, by honouring the vouchers that permits every donations and cause-related marketing, and has helped to raise child in the UK to a free book.
A senior manager of Waterstone's awareness for the invaluable work of the organisation among serves as a trustee of the charity, and held the Chairmanship of HMVs customers, employees, suppliers and other stakeholders.
Throughout March, hundreds of On behalf of CLIC Sargent, HMV has created a number of sportsthousands of children redeemed their 1 vouchers in related annual events and, with its suppliers, has created a range Waterstones.
Stores held a range of events to celebrate of products to sell in stores and online.
During the year, 50,000 World Book Day itself, from the official launch at Waterstone's was raised for CLIC Sargent by donating the proceeds from the Piccadilly flagship with four authors and 160 pupils from two sale of HMVs eco-charity bags.
schools, to activity days and readings across stores and schools.
HMV Canadas charitable focus is on the promotion of The World Book Day campaign is supported by Quick Reads, education and awareness-raising activities to help reduce the a selection of nine books which appeal to reluctant adult readers incidence of suicide amongst young Canadians.
This is in across fiction and non-fiction, which this year included titles from partnership with the Centre for Addiction and Mental Health a number of well-known authors.
The Big Book Bank is an awardCAMH, Canadas largest addiction and mental health teaching winning Waterstones initiative that enables children to bring a hospital, which leads groundbreaking research and influences favourite book to school to share with other children and, in public policy.
return, receive a voucher from the school to redeem against a Waterstones and its customers raised 120,000 for its new book from Waterstones.
During the school year ended charity partner, Dyslexia Action through various activities June 2009, a total of 3,468 schools took part in the scheme, in our stores and initiatives carried out by our teams.
A special with nearly 15,000 books being exchanged across the country.
edition book, Modern Delight, created by notable authors in This scheme was recognised by the Institute of Sales Promotion partnership with Waterstones, raised nearly 60,000.
ISP, winning three of its Gold Awards in June 2009: the ISP Gold Our stores also sold charity Christmas and Valentines cards for Retail, Home Shopping and E-Commerce: ISP Gold for Art during the year, which contributed to a total donation of 118,000 Direction & Copywriting: and ISP Gold for Social Responsibility.
apportioned between Macmillan Nurses, Wateraid, Save the Waterstones was also involved in nearly 20 literary Children, Unicef, Oxfam Ireland, Irish Cancer Society and festivals during the year, offering varying levels of support and Great Ormond Street Hospital Kiss it Better cancer care for sponsorship.
These included: the Times Cheltenham Festival of children.
Following a review of community activities, Literature: UEA Spring Literary Festival: Stratford Literary Festival: Waterstones appointed Rainbow Trust as a worthy successor Daphne du Maurier Festival in Fowey: Glasgows Aye Write!
to Dyslexia Action as its charity partner.
Durham Book Festival: and Discovery Season in Bloomsbury.
Events Among the important added-value experiences our local stores are uniquely placed to provide, is the opportunity for our customers to meet their favourite artists and authors from the entertainment and literary worlds at live performances, signings and other special events.
