Corporate responsibility Hochschild Mining plc Unlocking value through exploration Annual Report & Accounts 2010 31 Training and developing our people points.
Despite not achieving the stretching target of a 5% PEOPLE improvement this is considered to be a commendable result Our Approach which reects well on the initiatives implemented during the We recognise that the quality of our employees contributes the year to improve the overall working environment at Hochschild long-term success of our business, and we therefore seek to which include: the development of the leadership programmes, recruit, develop and retain the high quality people we need to the provision of recreational activities for mining personnel and deliver our corporate goals.
The Groups HR team supports this various programmes to enhance work-life balance.
corporate mission through personnel management driven by innovation and best practice.
2011 targets Implement development plans for all critical positions 2010 performance Continue with the Hochschild Mining Leadership programme TARGET STATUS for senior management Implementation of the Hochschild Mining Complete the first stage of the Developing Leaders Leadership Programme programme for mid-management in Peru 5% improvement in the measurement Launch the Developing Leaders programme for midof the working environment as gauged management in Argentina.
by the Organisational Climate survey People indicators Developments during 2010 2010 2009 2008 2007 Implementation of the Hochschild Mining Leadership General Programme, for senior and mid-management: Average number of 5,776 4,969 5,012 4,132 During the year the first leadership workshop for senior GroupEmployees management took place in Lima in conjunction with the Training Centre for Creative Leadership CCL.
Members of senior management participated in a one-week programme entitled Average number of hours 17.83 14.03 19.62 13.59 Leadership at the peak delivered by the CCL in Colorado, of training undertaken 1 USA.
For mid-management, the Developing leaders byeach employee programme was designed and launched in Peru inJanuary Percentage of workforce 92% 94% 83% 68% 2011 with a planned launch in Argentina later intheyear.
1 trained during the year Organisational Climate Survey: Labour Relations Every year the Group carries out an organisational climate Number of production 1 40.5 0 1 survey which in 2010 took place in August.
The number days lost as a result of ofemployees giving a satisfaction rating to the Groups industrial unrest employment conditions increased by three percentage 1 In respect of Peruvian operations only.
Below: Participants from one of the mid-management leadership programmes run by the Group during2010.
92% Percentage of Peruvian workforce trained during the year Hochschild Mining plc 32 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Working together with local communities Corporate responsibility continued COMMUNITY RELATIONS Developments during 2010 1.
Encourage mutual respect and co-existence with local Our Approach communities We aim to work together with our local communities in order toprovide them with more positive living conditions, in terms This is an overarching principle of the Group which has been ofeconomic development, health and education.
achieved through greater interaction and communication with our local communities.
This has enabled us not only to improve our To do this, the Groups primary objective is to maintain a relationships but to foster trust and manage conicts as well as constructive relationship with communities and promote facilitate good relations with regional and municipal authorities.
development, guided by the following principles: The Group has participated in community fairs and celebrations, 1.
Encourage mutual respect and co-existence with and has also provided support in times of need.
Such support localcommunities has included the provision of clothing and supplies after a re 2.
Achieving mutually beneficial agreements engulfed several houses in the town of Perito Moreno located near the San Jos operation.
In addition, the Group provided 3.
Improving the quality of life of community residents materials to assist with the repair of the structural damage 4.
Improving the health, nutrition and education of members thathad been caused.
Fostering good relations and co-ordinating During the year we concluded numerous agreements and  stakeholders to promote negotiations with diverse communities in respect of both .
operating units and areas of exploration.
Through our efforts we have focused on establishing arrangements that are satisfactory 2010 performance to both parties.
Examples of such arrangements include a TARGET STATUS Co-operation Agreement entered into by the Group with the Zero Loss of Production days arising as a result communities close to Selene and the Regional Government of ofcommunity conicts Apurimac to collaborate on issues relating to health, education and initiatives to benefit the farming community.
To achieve tangible improvements in the level of education, health and nutrition of local communities 3.
Improving the quality of life of community residents asassessed by NGO partners We believe that we can make a significant impact on quality oflife around our mines by providing work to local people and weactively explore sourcing goods and services locally, and sponsoring community projects which provide employment opportunities.
In addition to directly employing community members within the mining operations, the Group seeks to provide opportunities with other local employers including a road maintenance company close to Selene and a building company based near Pallancata.
We can report that at the end of 2010, our Peruvian operations employed over 34% of the economically active population residing in local communities.
In addition, 25% of our Argentinian workforce and 66% of our Mexican workforce camefrom neighbouring communities.
Below: A mobile medical unit Community Relations donatedby the Group beingused bythe local community.
Operacion Sonrisa Peru OperationSmile The Group is a committed supporter of Operacion Sonrisa.
This charity was founded in 1999 to provide free medical services to children with facial deformities such as cleft lip and cleft palate.
Through the Groups involvement, Operacion Sonrisa has treated a number of children in the localities of its operations and projects in Peru.
Corporate responsibility Hochschild Mining plc Unlocking value through exploration Annual Report & Accounts 2010 33 In Peru, the main economic activity in the highland regions is 5.
Fostering good relations and co-ordinating activities with third thebreeding of alpacas and, on a smaller scale, of vicuna and party stakeholders to promote sustainable development llamas.
The Group provides financial and technical support for The Group has sought to promote the participation of regional these activities as well as for small-scale agricultural activities and local authorities by facilitating agreements with local in lowland areas and to co-operatives formed by local women communities and businesses.
These arrangements have which produce hand-woven garments made from Alpaca wool.
resulted in resources being committed in the areas of education, 4.
Improving the health, nutrition and education of members health, nutrition, culture and tourism.
Examples of such work ofthe local communities undertaken at Perito Moreno, a town located close to the San Jos mine, include funding of the construction of a School of The Group has expended much effort during the year in these Arts and Crafts and financial support for an archeology museum.
The Group continues to work closely with local authorities to Education During the year we have worked to improve literacy identify and develop sustainable projects and is exploring a and numeracy as well as promoting lessons in natural and potential partnership between the public sector and various social sciences.
In addition to providing direct support to mining companies which operate in the region.
preschools, primary and secondary schools, the Group has joined with governmental institutions to build learning centres 2011 targets and fund campaigns to promote adult education.
We have On-going target: Zero loss of production days resulting from continued to develop our ties with various non-governmental community conicts organisations, notably Caritas del Peru in providing free training to school teachers and supplying computer equipment.
Continue identifying community and economic development initiatives that promote sustainability Health & Nutrition The Group has sponsored workshops which have been organised in collaboration with local hospitals and Work with government agencies in health and education, educational institutions to address issues of local concern.
andimplement meaningful measures of quantitative and TheGroup has also supported health campaigns aimed at qualitative achievements children, the elderly and expectant mothers.
The Group has Facilitate further collaborative projects involving the state and continued to provide resources to combat child malnutrition private mining companies for the benefit of local communities forexample, by establishing allotments which are designed To make further progress in providing adult education.
togrow fresh produce even at very high altitude and which signicantly improve the nutritional intake of children and Community relations indicators expectant mothers.
The Group has also organised health campaigns to raise 2010 2009 2008 2007 awareness of the dangers of the cold climate and has also Community investment $6.7m $6.0m $4.6m $4.3m provided treatment for children suffering from facial deformities Production days such as cleft lip.
In addition, during 2010 the Group donated an lost as a result of 0 1.5 0 0 ambulance and medical equipment to the Santo Tomas hospital community conict close to the Groups Azuca and Crespo projects.
Community Relations Alpaca Breeding Programme Most of our exploration and production units are located at very high altitude, in some cases higher than 4.500 metres.
This limits the potential of local people to generate their own income.
However, the breeding of Alpacas is one ofthe few economic activities that local communities ataltitude are able to pursue which can result in significant sustainable economic and social benets.
The Groups alpaca breeding project provides support in four key areas, namely: exploring breeding techniques to raise the quality ofthe wool produced developing the technical skills of participants by providing training in various areas including livestock and pasture management Supporting sales in order to maximise the revenue ofthe breeders and Promoting sustainability by forging on-going collaborative ventures.
