Hochschild Mining plc 34 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Managing our environmental impact Corporate responsibility continued 6.
Undertake periodic audits and inspections of ENVIRONMENT environmentalsystems Our Approach 7.
Plan for, and implement, the rehabilitation and closure of The Group endeavours to minimise the impact of its business mine structures and disturbed areas following mine closure.
onthe environment and to facilitate the on-going sustainability of the land where it develops operations and activities.
We recognise The Environmental department works together with the that doing this brings benets both in environmental terms, and operational teams, community relations and the Legal also enables us to increase the efficiency of our own operations.
Department in the application for, and on-going compliance with, mining permits, thereby assuring the continuity In order to support its efforts, the Group is committed to ofoperations.
complyingwith the highest local and international standards.
These standards include ISO 14001, which we use as a benchmark Environmental management is facilitated through a reporting for environmental management, and for which we are currently structure at mine level with accountability to the Corporate seeking accreditation across our sites.
Environmental Manager who reports to the VP of Operations.
The Groups environmental teams focus on the following areas: The Groups environmental team seeks to: Water management mine, industrial, domestic water 1.
Assure the efficient management, treatment and discharge ofwater in conjunction with the operations team Tailings management 2.
Supervise the chemical and physical stability of the Groups Waste rock management mining structures Safe disposal of domestic and industrial waste 3.
Implement efficient waste management Storage and handling of hazardous materials, 4.
Identify and adhere to relevant legal requirements and other principallycyanide environmental standards Hydrocarbons management 5.
Encourage the adoption of the Groups environmental mission Rehabilitation works in respect of disused structures by all third party stake-holders Management of new projects Permitting.
Left: Community members near the Ares mine participating in water sampling.
Corporate responsibility Hochschild Mining plc Unlocking value through exploration Annual Report & Accounts 2010 35 2010 performance 2011 targets Group Compliance Performance Indicators above 80% TARGET STATUS Obtain ISO 14001 certication for Arcata, Selene, Pallancata, Group Compliance Performance Indicator of Ares and San Jos at least 70% Submit Azuca, Crespo and Inmaculada Environmental Zero material environmental incidents across ImpactAssessments entire operations Update mine closure plans for Ares, Arcata, Selene San Jos and Pallancata to achieve formal andPallancata.
ISO 14001 certication Stage One Environmental indicators Achieved 1 1 2 2 2010 2009 2008 2007 Developments during 2010 Average monthly fresh 0.21 0.63 0.55 2.72 water consumption per On-going reimplementation of environmental management metric tonne of treated systems at the Groups operations at Ares, Arcata and Selene ore cubic metres as ISO 14001 compliant Average monthly electricity 57.75 53.32 90.3 102.01 Stage 1 implementation of environmental management consumption per metric systems at Pallancata and San Jos mines tonne of treated ore kWh Environmental impact studies performed in connection with Average monthly diesel 0.97 1.23 3.14 1.62 proposed expansion programmes and in the planning of new consumption per metric infrastructure projects, such as mine capacity increases and tonne of treated ore anew tailings dam gallons Group-wide initiatives to raise the general awareness of Average monthly wood 12.47 10.31 18.33 17.13 environmental issues amongst employees consumption per metric To promote transparency, the Group arranges for discharge tonne of treated ore kg levels to be monitored jointly with members of the local Number of material 0000 communities.
During these sessions, water samples are taken environmental incidents from ofcial monitoring points for analysis at laboratories across entire operations selected by community members and results shared with allparticipants.
Estimated volume of 30,628 29,668 Not available waterwithdrawn per day cubic metres Estimated proportion of 32% 27% Not available recycled water used cubicmetres Environmental Management Estimated volume of 37,538 35,606 Not available Responsible mine closure waterdischarged per day cubic metres All operations are required to rehabilitate, and where possible, enhance the land disturbed when extraction 1 Figures relate to the Groups mines in Ares, Arcata, Selene until its closure in June 2009, activities cease.
To ensure this happens, every Pallancata and San Jos unless otherwise stated.
operation maintains a closure provision that is 2 Figures relate to the Groups mines in Ares, Arcata and Selene only, unless otherwise stated.
Further progress wasmade inthis area during the year.
Sipan The Groups Sipan mine was an open-pit mine which was in operation for seven years until its closure in 2004.
The process of preparing for the end of operations began in 2001 and since that time, a number of measures have been implemented to reduce the environmental impact of closure, including: the construction of Acid Water Treatment Plants which use lime and limestone to treat acid water in disused structures and waste rock deposits and pits the engagement of a hydrology expert to evaluate alternative courses of action in respect of specic deposits and extensive works to rehabilitate the land to support the growth of indigenous species.
Hochschild Mining plc 36 Annual Report & Accounts 2010 Financial review & risk management Financial review & risk management 37 Financial review 42 Risk management
