homeserve Corporate responsiBility 38 annual report & accounts 2010 homeserve continues to see the management environmental management system of its contractors as critical to the effective as an essential business tool which supports the management of health and safety risks.
to improve business to operate in a controlled and compliant the current process there has been continued way, homeserve is continuing to develop its investment in the internal auditing resource.
a environmental management system and plans to significant amount of time is spent working with have the system operating across the UK business contractors who work on domestic gas systems this financial year.
to ensure excellent standards of health and safety the benefits of having an environmental are achieved.
management system will include: having homeserve ensures employees receive environmental objectives which the Company will occupational health support when required commit to achieving, having a clear environmental and this is currently provided by the business statement and policy which the Company will hr functions.
commit to delivering against, ensuring that environmental management is embedded although a number of achievements have been across the Company as part of business as usual made by the business in effectively managing operations: improved control through the integration health and safety it is expected that successful of new or enhanced processes which will prevent health and safety will remain a continued priority environmental incidents arising.
for homeserve, with particular emphasis being placed on the continued reduction in the overall Fleet initiatives accident rate.
the commercial fleet of homeserve contributes the highest proportion of carbon to our carbon footprint.
environment We are therefore focusing on reducing the impact to continue to improve the governance, control and the fleet has on the environment by improving environmental performance of the business this the fuel efficiency of the vehicles which constitute year, homeserve has continued to deliver several our fleet.
existing initiatives while developing several new environmental initiatives and projects.
the initiatives which have been implemented this governance year and will continue during 2010 2011 include the the environmental steering Committee, which following: was set up in 2008 and chaired by Brian Whitty, every van will have a telematics system continued to meet on a quarterly basis throughout installed to enable the business to monitor, the year.
the steering committee has provided amongst other measures, speed and the direction for the environmental strategy of distance it has travelled in any given period.
the Company and senior level support for the a league table of the commercial fleet drivers, changes which have been made to improve the showing the fuel efficiency levels each person environmental management and performance of is achieving, is used to encourage employees the business.
a prize incentive will going forward the environmental steering be given to the employee who achieves the committee will become a key part of the corporate highest fuel efficiency levels over the year.
a move to newer and more fuel efficient commercial vans from 2010. in addition, our current company car list has been reviewed, with the highest carbon dioxide emission levels per kilometre vehicle being reduced from 225gCo km to 180gCo km.
employees can now 2 2 select vehicles with emission levels as low as 118gCo km.
2 39 Energy efficiency HomeServes carbon footprint Reducing the amount of energy our offices At HomeServe we are committed to measuring our consume is a key area of focus this year.
Analysis of the data will enable HomeServe will be seeking to invest in projects us to focus attention on the areas which when which will lower our total energy consumption improved, will benefit both the business and the and our carbon footprint by 320 tonnes of carbon climate.
In 2009 10 we emitted 16,048 tonnes of dioxide equivalent.
To enable us to achieve this we carbon dioxide equivalent tCO e. Of this 9,897 2 are aiming to: tCO e was emitted by the membership businesses 2 and 6,151 tCO e by the discontinued operations.
2 Implement software which will ensure that PCs and monitors are automatically switched off at the end of the working day.
Invest in the heating, ventilation and cooling system at our head office by installing centralised control over the whole system, which will ensure a more efficient use of energy.
Continue to install passive infra red sensors in our offices so that the lighting goes off when the offices are unoccupied.
Recycling At the start of 2010 we reached an agreement with a waste management company that is now working with HomeServe to support us in recycling ELECTRICITY 44% AIR & RAIL TRAVEL 2% GAS 5% WATER & WASTE 3% as much of our waste as possible, with the aim of COMPANY CAR & GREY FLEET 5% PAPER 18% diverting all waste away from landfill by 2012.
COMMERCIAL FLEET 23% Now that we have recycling facilities in place across the UK business we aim to set recycling targets this year and to further drive the reduce, reuse and recycle message to employees to ensure we achieve the targets we set.
Reducing our paper consumption As a business which relies heavily on direct mail to communicate with our customers we utilise thousands of tonnes of paper each year.
However we are continually looking into ways of reducing the impact of the paper we use.
All of our direct mail packs are made using sustainably sourced wood PEFC.
Employee travel To encourage our employees to travel to work using low carbon modes of transport we launched the HomeServe Cycle2Work scheme in partnership with Halfords in the summer of 2009.
The scheme is a tax efficient way for employees to purchase a bicycle which they use to travel to and from work for some or all of their journeys.
The scheme has been well received and will continue to be offered to employees this year.
homeserve 40 governanCe annual report & accounts 2010 great people We can only deliver the best experience for our customers all over the world people experience if all our people have the right attitude, skills and tools.
home emergencies and need our services.
41 H tho is m meo ew an ns we n ers eve ee ry d t wo h her ire e W Sh e a arlis no n g b ee esd t t p o d rac etvie ce lop Fo anc d we a using o lso wa n orgn a t o niu c r h th a e r five t igh ro t p ub elo e fi ple n, a din nd t g hen w to s ayu s of wo pport g rkriow ng w th we n hich m ea ek d e g pe ro ow plte t h o work with us in a inn vd p est i a n t yin hg f eir t or r a r ainin eg a liab nle d itt e o s ah sa ie re b r foe r o st p ur p rae co tip ce le t. W o e t gh ivis m ing s eo am ns s eth eitn tig b ng u ac p o k to ur t dre avd ee lo sp m m ae nn.
T t t o a o gd ivd e t reh se s t m his d ca o a g n imrp er a ot j five o ob, a ur b nd m usin a e ks e ses ow our c n o op m em ra u tn io it n ie s i sn n. ew g tha e s p ikn t ills a he m nd e ar xke petr, w iene a ce re c bo y l m ein ag t rnio w ng fo ro rk m m eo arc e h other, countries.
We will consider t th ae ky n ing o eed u. r products to new e an njd we a oyablel.
so want to create buying local service delivery countries.
We are... homeserve in a box to help capabilities and policy books us set up in new countries.
