homeserve Corporate responsiBility 36 annual report & accounts 2010 sUpply Chain We have developed an accredited training and during the year homeserve implemented ethical development programme for our call centre staff & sustainable procurement policies to work in in the UK, providing them with training which conjunction with their main procurement policy.
is externally recognised as well as improving these policies have now been integrated into the personal and business performance.
the Company general procurement process and all tenders that has actively supported trade apprenticeships for are issued are now in line with these requirements.
some time and this commitment will be enhanced in this way homeserve aims to apply its with the establishment of a formal, accredited responsible, sustainable and ethical principles apprenticeship programme for plumbing and throughout its supply chain in all dealings with its drainage engineers in 2010. goods and service providers.
We continue to recognise the importance of employees effective communication with both managers and over the last year homeserve has reviewed and employees.
the Companys strategy has been refocused its business values, ensuring they align circulated as a booklet to all employees in the UK to our Company vision, mission and strategy.
in and will be cascaded to all employees as part of the addition, the Company has undertaken research annual performance management and objective into the key leadership behaviours which have setting process.
We are also continuing to make made homeserve successful, bring our values to effective use of Company intranets, staff magazines life, and support our continued expansion.
six key and employee representative forums both to leadership characteristics have now been agreed disseminate information and to receive feedback and defined and will form one of the foundations of and ideas from employees regarding business our recruitment and development strategies.
homeserve is committed to developing talent the Companys employee recognition scheme, within its businesses, and has introduced a formal homeserve heroes, has seen dozens of staff succession planning programme, complementing recognised and rewarded for their contribution to the performance management process and homeserves success with a second annual award overseen by the executive Committee.
the ceremony being held in June 2010.
Committee formally reviews available talent and health and saFety key current and future opportunities twice a year, homeserve has continued to strive to successfully ensuring a planned and robust approach to manage health and safety and where possible, resourcing, development, and the appointment of deliver improvements in its performance.
homeserves strategy is to ensure compliance We have successfully employed interns in our with legal standards as a minimum, but where French joint venture for some time, and have now practicable adopt good industry practice, whilst introduced a graduate training scheme into our ensuring good practice is shared across the UK membership business.
been appointed to roles in the UK marketing during the last 12 months homeserve has continued department, an approach which allows them to engage proactively with its customers, clients, to benefit from practical experience as well as a contractors and partners.
homeserve has had formal development programme.
Feedback from limited contact with the health and safety enforcing both graduates and managers is very encouraging authorities during this reporting period, with no and the Company plans to extend the scheme into prosecutions or other enforcement action being other businesses in due course.
taken against the Company for breaches of health and safety regulations.
37 during the last year the Company has undergone homeserve has continued to maintain acceptable a significant restructure, including the disposal of standards of performance in terms of health and a number of its operating businesses, however safety throughout the year, one measure of that during this period the effective management of performance is its accident and injury rates.
during health and safety has remained a key business 2009 10 the accident rate across the UK operating driver.
the Company has consistently achieved an businesses has continued to show an improving acceptable health and safety record through good trend, although this was contributed to by the leadership from the senior management team, disposal of some businesses that operated in a the employment of competent health and safety potentially higher risk environment, such as the professionals and active engagement with the glass and locks business and the property repair workforce.
each of the operating businesses is required to number of riddor reportable incidents have a specific health and safety policy which is in the UK, under the requirements of the reporting underpinned by an appropriate management of injuries, diseases and dangerous occurrences system that ensures an effective risk assessment regulations 1995 riddor certain types of process exists within those businesses.
a key accidents or incidents need to be reported to the element for the effective management of health and health and safety executive.
homeserve has had a safety within the organisation is the development good year in terms of the number of the reportable of a culture in which line management actively incidents with no fatalities, no defined major demonstrates ownership of health and safety injuries or dangerous occurrences.
homeserve expects each of its operating have a total of 16 defined 3 day riddor reportable businesses to ensure compliance with relevant lost-time incidents, but this is a reduction from health and safety legislation regardless of the the previous years performance in which 37 such country in which it is operating.
martin Bennett is incidents were recorded.
the main Board director responsible for reporting in total during this period there were 126 accidents on health and safety, but the Board as a whole recorded, of which eight accidents required an remains responsible for health and safety issues employee to attend hospital for treatment.
a total of 252 working days were lost as a result of there are a number of good practices being work related accidents.
implemented within the UK businesses to ensure as with previous years the main causes of the the continued safety of stakeholders.
homeserve accidents or incidents were in respect of manual continues to believe, and drives the principle that, handling, slips, trips and falls, cuts and bruises line management must own and take responsibility or muscular strains.
the overall incident rate for for the effective management of the health and reportable incidents per 1,000 employees was 5.69, safety process.
compared with a rate of 7.59 the previous year.
over the last two years homeserve has invested in the use of proprietary training packages such as iosh managing safety and iosh health and safety for senior managers to ensure its managers have the correct toolkits for managing health and safety effectively.
in addition, during the year, the network management business in the UK has achieved the rospa silver award for its health and safety performance.
