Corporate social responsibility report Howden Joinery is a leading supplier benefit, and that our progress is the European Programme for the of kitchens and joinery to trade measurable and motivational Endorsement of Forest Certification customers across the United for all those involved.
These respected, Kingdom through a network of independent schemes enable us to We performed well against our KPIs depots.
Our kitchens are fitted in all source wood and paper products in 2010 and also made progress in kinds of homes, from local authority from suppliers that use sustainable other areas of the business.
and social housing to privately methods to manage their forests.
owned and rented flats and houses.
Committed to responsible To monitor the effectiveness of this The business was founded in 1995. manufacturing in the UK policy, we set ourselves an annual Today, the company directly employs We operate two manufacturing KPI which is: over 6,100 people and sells more facilities in the UK one in Runcorn kitchens than any other company in and one in Howden.
Manufacturing To ensure that 100% of our wood the UK.
Each year, we supply our at scale in the UK benefits our product used in manufacturing customers, principally small builders, domestic workforce and the comes from certified sources.
with around 3.6 million kitchen communities in which they live and cabinets, 2 million doors and work, and we are pleased to report In 2010, we used 221,000 cubic 400,000 complete kitchens.
that the volume of products metres of chipboard and 16,500 produced by our factories has cubic metres of MDF in our Our market leading position means continued to rise year on year.
As has been we have responsibilities that must be the case every year since 2006, all of reconciled with the pursuit of our During 2010, our UK-based this came from certified sources.
This report manufacturing teams produced 22 describes the actions we have taken approximately: We also aim to source all our over the past year to ensure that our cardboard packaging from either 3,650,000 kitchen cabinets: commitment to all our stakeholders is recycled or certified sources.
In real and sustainable and continues to 2010, we used 3,300 tonnes of 870,000 kitchen worktops and progress along with our business.
cardboard packaging for our breakfast bars: and Unless otherwise stated, the report manufactured products, all of covers the entirety of our business.
which came from recycled sources 2,700,000 kitchen frontals.
2009: 2,820 tonnes from recycled Measuring our achievements sources.
It is our intention to aim for Committed to managing our Over the last three years, the Group a similar high standard in the future.
impact on the environment has measured its performance in Wood All of the kitchen ranges which are respect of environmental issues Manufactured product manufactured at our factories are through the use of a number of Key As a supplier of kitchen and joinery certified by the UK FSC and over Performance Indicators KPIs.
products, wood obviously plays a 99% of all products which we These KPIs, which are discussed in central role in what we do.
It is manufacture in-house are now FSC detail below, measure performance therefore our policy to always try compliant 2009: 96%.
in those areas where we feel that our and source wood in a way that is operations most significantly impact good for the environment as well as Bought-in product the environment.
They help us to good for our business.
Our preferred As well as manufacturing much of ensure that the action we take to option is to buy wood which is our product in the UK, we continue reduce our environmental impact is certified by either the UK Forest to source joinery products and targeted where it will have most Stewardship Council UK FSC or by kitchen frontals from a range of Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2010 suppliers in the UK, Europe and housing association properties, This section of our report highlights elsewhere in the world.
Ethical and means that we are constantly activity in key areas of energy environmental sourcing is an required to review our products, consumption such as manufacturing important factor in our international our supply chain and our logistical and our vehicle fleets as well as supply chain, and we expect all our and operational processes to elsewhere in the business.
suppliers to exercise high standards ensure that we address their Manufacturing in this area.
One of our key metrics for In 2010, 92% of our European Howden Joinery has been energy usage in the factories is timber based product suppliers certified by the FSC and the PEFC the electricity we consume per were certified as sourcing timber since February 2008.
At the end of cabinet produced.
We are pleased from a sustainable supply 2010, 17 of our 40 kitchen ranges to say that we saw another year 2009: 90%.
43% of our kitchens were fully on year reduction for this measure compliant with FSC requirements reducing our consumption by Regular audits and continuous compared to 44% in 2009.
We 4.8% from 3.28kWh per cabinet improvement programmes aim to maintain a similar to 3.13kWh.
The level of reduction have become an integral part proportion in 2011. which we have achieved has been of supplier selection and significant over the last three years development and we continue to Energy our baseline measurement in audit a sample of our suppliers on This year our efforts to reduce 2008 was 3.62kWh per cabinet an annual basis to verify their energy across the business were and equivalent reductions will compliance with our requirements.
recognised through our successful therefore be unrealistic going 23 Our Vendor Management accreditation under the Carbon forward.
Our aim for this year is Programme operates across all Trust Standard which certifies therefore to maintain this lower our key suppliers and incorporates organisations for real carbon level of energy usage.
measures relating to environmental, reduction as well as their continued health & safety and ethical commitment to ongoing reduction.
All our Supply division sites performance as well as to For over ten years prior to this, the manufacturing, distribution or commercial performance in Groups manufacturing division had warehouse related retained their areas such as quality.
enjoyed accreditation under the ISO14001 accreditations during standards predecessor the Energy the year.
Our key finished goods suppliers Efficiency Accreditation Scheme.
are audited annually by a Truck fleet dedicated internal team using As well as assessing the Groups The Group continues to operate a recognised quality performance overall reduction in energy usage fleet of 106 trucks.
This fleet remains metrics and measures.
In 2010, all over a three year period, the considerably smaller than it was our key suppliers were audited Standard also looks at general three years ago as we continue to and assessed for compliance.
As energy management systems across work with our haulier partners in 2009, all achieved an A rating in the business and the ways in which through traffic sharing arrangements this programme.
energy reduction is encouraged and to maximise the use of backhaul across all sites.
All of our trucks remain The increasing focus on noted our commitment to supply Euro 5 compliant.
environmental matters by our energy efficient products to our customers, particularly those customers where possible.
working with local authority and Corporate social responsibility report continued Car fleet both in terms of energy consumption areas by reducing consumption, The replacement of our existing and water usage.
The targets were: re-using materials and recycling car fleet with more eco-friendly wherever possible.
vehicles has continued as planned.
To improve the efficiencies In 2010, we continued to During the year, a third of the vehicles of our best selling electric perform well in the area of driven by our sales representatives ovens by reducing the kilowatt waste management.
Of the 44,800 and managers were replaced with the consumption per hour by 5% tonnes of waste produced by our remaining two thirds scheduled for or more over the next three years.
manufacturing processes, we replacement over the next two years.
recycled 98.1% thus beating the To reduce the water consumed SMART meters KPI set for this area last year: per cycle by 5% or more for A project to install SMART meters laundry and dishwashers over across the entire depot network To recycle more than 95% of all the next three years.
commenced this year which will manufacturing waste produced.
allow more accurate and proactive Excellent progress has been One element of waste from the monitoring of energy usage in this made with our ovens with energy manufacturing process is sawdust.
Over the year 361 of our consumption in our own brand depots had the meters installed Lamona appliances already In 2010, we converted over with the remainder scheduled for reduced by 10% overall and by 21,500 tonnes of sawdust into installation in Q1 2011.
The rest of 5% for our best selling ranges.
We energy at our Howden and the business is already equipped have yet to make similar progress to Runcorn sites, with the sawdust with these meters.
However, fuelling eight wood combustion 24 developments continue to be tested boilers that burn this waste to IT with our best selling dishwashers and heat our factories.
This equates Our IT department engaged laundry appliances.
to approximately 111k MWh of a specialist energy consultancy energy generated from sawdust to help them identify areas where In addition to measuring our in 2010. they could target greater energy performance against our chosen efficiency.
A number of actions have KPIs, we are committed to gaining In addition to this, we supplied been implemented from this report Energy Savings Trust certification for over 3,000 tonnes of milled during the year and we plan to some of our appliances.
Our HJA sawdust to a local manufacturer implement more in the future.
8553 washing machine continues to of animal bedding where the be certified and recommended by sawdust is recycled for use in Products the Energy Savings Trust EST and bedding for horses, cattle and Last year, in light of improving we have applied for certification for a other livestock.
energy efficiency across the market, number of other products.
We we decided to set ourselves more continue to work with our partners We continue with the initiative demanding KPIs in respect of the on this matter and are working with started in 2007 to recover and products which we supply to our the EST to establish new criteria for repair pallets which would customers.
Similar to our performance in 2009, Our new targets, which were set for a Waste this year we recovered more than three year period 2010-2012, were Our employees are encouraged to 135,000 pallets 2009: 134,000. aimed at improving the efficiency of consider how we can improve our our best selling own-brand products environmental performance in all Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2010 Committed to supporting Developing apprenticeships training in 2009 which was necessary our workforce to acquire and training at Howdens as we rolled new systems out to the and practise core skills During 2010, we further promoted business.
This was highlighted in our Employee responsibilities the use of apprenticeships within report last year.
Courses are offered We take our responsibilities as the workplace.
The Group currently in subjects ranging from HR skills to an employer very seriously and employs eight modern apprentices manual handling, from diversity & we aim to provide a positive work in our Supply division and 16 within inclusion to health & safety, from environment for all our staff, whether the depot network, with a further 36 environmental awareness to LGV and they work in factories, warehouses, being recruited currently.
In addition fork-lift truck driving.
Our plan is to depots or offices.
Our culture during the year, we supported over continue to invest in training to the emphasises the importance of 550 staff across the Group in their same degree in 2011.
We will also individual accountability, which achievement of a variety of NVQ and maintain a strong in-house delivery means the personal responsibility other professional qualifications capability in training as we continue of each of us towards those we work a substantial increase on the 160 to encourage staff to achieve training with every day.
We are proud of this registered during the prior year.
qualifications in their own right.
culture, which encourages openness One of the reasons for this increase Encouraging apprentices and and transparency within the business is the development of a unique traditional skills in the community and has been vital to its growth and course in Trade Business Services As well as a commitment to development since 1995.
This culture which we have developed with our developing our own staff, at is reinforced by our commitment to training partners, Harper Company Howdens we believe that one certain core principles: Ltd formerly Talent Training UK LLP way of offering support to the local 25 recognising by reward the hard and more recently, The Real tradespeople we serve and keeping work of all employees: Apprenticeship Company.
The their traditional skills alive, is to course is accredited as an give young people the opportunity investing in training and apprenticeship and includes an to learn traditional skills and development across the business: additional BTEC award.
It is on offer understand how to deploy them and to all our depot staff.
To support that bespoke basis for Howdens to objective we continued with two ensuring that recruitment, career develop skills which are core to our other initiatives in 2010 which we success and progression are business, the programme delivers reported on in the previous year.
solely determined by an not only development opportunities employees abilities and The first of these was to continue for the individuals involved but also achievements.
building relationships with local helps us to deliver true value to the further education colleges which business as their skills are enhanced Supporting learning and offer courses in construction skills.
development in the community As well as sponsoring prizes and Howden Joinerys heritage and As well as supporting staff in gaining offering fitting guides and tools, culture means we place a high external accreditations, our staff have our depots also supply college value on the whole range of skills also invested their time in internal departments with discontinued technical, commercial and courses with over 60,000 training products on which students interpersonal that are practised hours completed during the year.
can practise their joinery skills.
We are keen The reduction against the prior year, This year we continued our to promote the use of these skills in where our staff invested over 80,000 support for a number of colleges the workplace and interest in them hours, is due to the prevalence of IT that offer specific courses in kitchen in the wider community.
Corporate social responsibility report continued installation as part of the new Health & Safety We continue to support the CSkills Construction NVQ Diploma, The managers and directors in our knowledge and awareness of by supplying the colleges with real operating divisions are personally staff in this area, by encouraging life kitchen sets and equipment.
We responsible and accountable for the staff to gain externally accredited hope to offer this kind of support in health & safety of their employees.
health & safety qualifications all our regions going forward.
The health & safety requirements of IOSH, NEBOSH and CIEH as these two divisions necessarily differ well as training operatives in the Our second initiative has been to somewhat and, as such, each of the requirements of OHSAS 18001. work with ConstructionSkills, the operating divisions reviews its own Sector Skills Council and Industry Under the British Safety Council strategy, issues and performance on Training Board for the construction 5-star audit process which a regular basis.
industry, to put in place a bursary measures against health & safety scheme for new apprentice joiners.
In the depots: best practice, our Howden and The scheme, which is the first of its There were 16 reportable health Runcorn sites achieved a 5-star kind in the country for any industry, & safety incidents in our 490 rating and our Northampton aims to fund first year wages for depots during 2010 2009: 35. warehouse a 4-star rating.
All around 20 new apprentice joiners.
As well as maintaining a low achieved over 90% compliance The intention is to create new number of incidents across the and improved their performance opportunities for apprentices in depot network, we were also on the prior year.
companies which would otherwise pleased to note a 52% reduction In recognition of our achievements be unable to afford to fund year on year in the number of in health & safety, our Howden site apprenticeships.
Other than working hours lost due to injury.
was also proud to receive the 26 stipulating that the money be used We continue to run a defensive British Safety Councils for apprentice joiners, Howdens has driving course for those staff prestigious International Safety no involvement in choosing either across the depot network who are Award for the second year running the apprentices or the companies required to drive as part of their day following its excellent performance involved.
Twelve bursary placements to day role.
A total of 202 drivers in this area.
were awarded in 2010, with the completed the course in 2010. students progressing well with both Across the Group, there were no their college work and their work In our manufacturing, warehouse improvement or prohibition notices experience.
Importantly, the scheme and distribution sites: served on us during the year by the has meant that some businesses All our manufacturing, warehouse Health & Safety Executive HSE, nor who were previously sceptical about and distribution sites remain were there any prosecutions by the the value of apprentices, are now certified to OHSAS 18001.
HSE or the Environment Agency.
willing to consider employing apprentices on an unfunded basis Our Supply division achieved Committed to playing an active given the benefits they have seen in a 13% reduction in reportable part in our local communities this type of training.
injuries in 2010 14 compared to Our business is driven at a local 16 in 2009 and a 58% reduction level, and it is our policy to engage year on year in lost working time.
in community activities at local level too.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2010 Each depot, manufacturing site Our staff continue to find ways We are proud of the fact that our and distribution centre fulfils an to fundraise for Leonard Cheshire staff, our customers and indeed important role in the life of the area as well as providing volunteers all our stakeholders take such an it serves, and all our staff are for particular LCD projects.
Our active part in giving something encouraged to make a contribution Howdens Great North Run team back to their local communities.
raised enough money to buy LCD a In celebration of their generosity, mini-bus for the second year running we continue to publish our Truly This year, our staff made over and 53 volunteers from our Product Local books pocket-sized 2,100 donations to local good & Marketing team spent two days illustrated books that tell the stories causes 2009: 1,750.
This amounted building a sensory garden and of people everywhere who enrich to some 793k across the Group helping with other projects at the our lives on a daily basis through 2009: 599k.
As well as cash LCD home in Sandringham.
their engagement with their local donations and employee fund raising community.
We are lucky in the fact initiatives, the Group donated joinery In June we also held the annual T 4 that these books represent only a and kitchen equipment to local Ability week, a popular promotional fraction of the good work carried out schools, village halls, care homes event for LCD, where our customers by our staff and customers and their see below, local youth groups are encouraged to make a donation families as part of their daily lives.
for the complimentary tea or coffee that our depots provide for them all Matthew Ingle In 2010 we celebrated five years of year round.
Chief Executive working with Leonard Cheshire Disability LCD.
This inspirational Our inclusive kitchen research with 2 March 2011 27 charity is a key community partner for LCD inspired by working with their Howdens, and mindful of their reliance residents, enables us to offer on volunteer support they need to relevant, affordable kitchen solutions recruit over 1,000 people a year we to customers of all abilities.
In 2010 have funded their recruitment and we donated four further installations training programme for the past four and revisited five centres to upgrade years.
In 2011 this programme will or improve facilities following now include their Can Do project, feedback from residents.
As a result which finds 1,200 mostly long-term of our work together, we were also supported volunteering opportunities invited to work with LCD on their for young disabled people aged 16 to Adaptable Housing Project, which 25.
For most of them, the support aims to design properties which are network they had come to rely on will as adaptable as possible and have ceased when they finished therefore offer disabled people the school or college.
This project is one chance to remain in a property with of the very few that is actively offering the maximum degree of young people in this category the independence, regardless of possibility of social inclusion and in a changing physical ability.
few cases the chance of employment.
