Job: 14875 HUNTING AR10 frt AW - CS4 Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: rich Date: 26 February 2011 1:13 AM IMAGES TO BE CHECkEd Server: studio 2 Set-up: r o b : set-up only First Read Revisions Hunting PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 24 Corporate Social Responsibility Report This report describes the policies and procedures put in place by the Board to ensure that the Company operates in a safe and responsible manner and, where practical, takes steps to protect the environment.
Number of Employees by Geographic Region 473 UK 452 1,115 USA 591 384 Canada 422 52 Europe 52 386 Asia Pacic 189 n 2010 2,431 21 Other 32 n 2009 1,738 Surface water runoff pond at Fordoun, Aberdeen.
Introduction The Group encourages and promotes applications for positions from The Group acknowledges and is an awareness of the financial and disabled persons and to their training committed to its corporate social economic factors affecting the and career advancement.
Every effort responsibilities within its global performance of the Group and is made to retain in employment operations.
Its contribution and shares information on current those who become disabled while involvement is determined by activities through regular employed by the Group.
regional custom and best practice communication and consultation.
in each location and is subject to Communication with employees is The location of our employees regular monitoring and review by the undertaken through a variety of reflects the global nature of the oil Board and divisional management.
media including the Groups and gas industry and the geographic magazine, the Hunting Review, diversity of the Groups activities.
This report describes the policies and which is published every six months procedures put in place by the Board and distributed to employees.
It is important for the Group to retain to ensure that the Group operates in key employees, as well as attracting a safe and responsible manner and, Currently, the Group has 2,431 high quality individuals.
This remains where practical, takes steps 2009 1,738 employees.
In 2010, a major challenge for the oil and gas to protect the environment.
there was a 40% increase in industry.
Hunting has developed a employee numbers, largely due to supportive work environment that Employment and Training the acquisition of Innova-Extel on promotes development, learning and Our people are our most valuable 3September 2010 and the advancement to ensure that its asset and the Group recognises that commissioning of new facilities in employees realise their potential.
its success and reputation depends China and the US.
The Group seeks Long service is a feature of the upon their efforts and integrity.
to adhere to all relevant local and Groups employees and recognition Our people create Huntings jurisdictional laws about employment is given through service award competitive edge and target to equality and minimum wage programmes across the Group.
ensure that our customers legislation.
Forty years service is not an expectations are met and exceeded.
Responsibility for employees lies The Group provides training to its with local management, which staff to ensure health and safety Health and Safety allows local cultural issues to be standards are maintained, as well as The Group is committed to achieving appropriately managed and the investing in personal development.
and maintaining the highest necessary development programmes standards of safety for its employees, to be structured accordingly.
As a responsible employer, full and customers, suppliers and the public.
fair consideration is given to c o m p a n y B u s i n e s s f i n a n c i a l o V E R V I E W R e v i e w GOVERNANCE s t a t e m e n t s Job: 14875 HUNTING AR10 frt AW - CS4 Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: rich Date: 25 February 2011 3:01 PM IMAGES TO BE CHECKED IMAGES TO BE CHECKED Server: studio 2 Set-up: r o b : set-up only First Read Revisions Hunting PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 ComPAny oveRview 01-05 25 Business Review 06-27 GoveRnAnCe 28-44 FinAnCiAL stAtements 45-108 Each location has in place a tailored health and safety programme.
Hunting has a proven culture of Seeking accreditation and aligning its operational activities and remains aiming for best practice and employs long standing company focused on ensuring environmental rigorous health and safety practices.
programmes and procedures to consideration is at the forefront of its During the year, there were no internationally recognised Quality business practices.
To enable the fatalities across the Groups Assurance standards.
Group to achieve this, our local operations.
Monitoring is a management task operations are encouraged to which is documented and implement an Environmental The Group operates a range of reported at each Board meeting.
facilities and each location has in Appropriate training and place a tailored health and safety education of all staff.
Key aspects of our environmental programme designed to, at a policies include: minimum, comply with local Environment Policies, procedures and practices regulatory requirements.
Local The Group is committed to the are in place so that any adverse management are responsible for protection of the environment by effects on the environment are monitoring and reporting on using renewable resources wherever kept to a practicable minimum.
personnel, as well as process, health possible and developing The Group encourages the and safety.
manufacturing processes and reduction of waste and emissions procedures, which ensure that any and promotes awareness of The Chief Executive, who is directly adverse effects on the environment recycled materials and use of responsible for health and safety, are kept to a practicable minimum.
presents a health and safety report at We take the view that sustainable Each operating unit develops and each Board meeting.
All subsidiaries development is in the interests of implements their own procedures target continuous improvement to all our stakeholders and include while conducting regular reviews their Health and Safety Standards.
environmental issues in our planning to ensure that they are maintained and decision-making.
Health and Safety policies include: Employees are encouraged to pay Regular review, maintenance and The Groups environmental policy is special regard to environmental audit of facilities, equipment, to look for opportunities and adopt issues and requirements in the practices and procedures to practices that create a safer and communities in which the Group ensure compliance with prevailing cleaner environment.
standards and legislation and a sensitive to the challenges for the The design of new sites and safe environment for all those who industry in which it operates.
The facilities incorporates health, safety work within and around our Group has programmes in place to and environment considerations.
monitor environmental impact from Job: 14875 HUNTING AR10 frt AW - CS4 Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: rich Date: 25 February 2011 3:01 PM IMAGES TO BE CHECKED Server: studio 2 Set-up: r o b : set-up only First Read Revisions Hunting PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 26 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued The Company is committed to the protection of the environment by using renewable resources wherever possible.
Dennis Proctor, Chief Executive Storm water retention scheme at Conroe, Texas.
During the year new facilities Operational Excellence collaborate with the University of were commissioned in the US With the aim of maintaining standards Dundee in the UK to research ways of at Latrobe, Pennsylvania and and to comply with customer trading improving safety and reliability of ultra Conroe, Texas.
The design of both requirements, a high proportion of deepwater oil and gas extraction.
sites incorporated health, safety our operating facilities are either ISO and environmental considerations.
or API registered or subject to other Business Ethics At Latrobe, soundproof rooms similar registrations or industry The Group targets and encourages prevent noise pollution of the qualifications.
In 2010, the Group the highest standards of honesty, nearby residential neighbourhood, continued its programme to introduce integrity, fairness and respect in all filters cycle phosphate tank fumes lean manufacturing processes into its business dealings.
Local customs and prior to discharge to eliminate air global operations.
This resulted in cultures are respected in the pollution and containment efficiency gains in a number of its communities in which the Group processes are in place to minimise key business units.
The objective is to maintain waste water discharge.
At Conroe, and enhance the reputation of the a storm-water retention pond was The Group continuously drives Group and enforce ethical dealings built to prevent local flooding and to gain leadership in areas of with customers and suppliers.
a secondary containment process technology relevant to the Groups has been installed to prevent any products and at the year end has The Groups Code of Conduct sets out on-site spills from contaminating 341 active patents.
principles which promote integrity and the site.
All land disturbed during fairness in all of the Groups dealings, construction has been reIn order for the Group to develop including anti-harassment, nonlandscaped.
its engagement within its industry discrimination, health and safety at sector, the Group is a member of work and conflicts of interest for all Environmental programmes with the following organisations: our employees.
Through the Code, the similar features are in place for the American Petroleum Institute Group actively promotes business Groups other facilities.
API competitiveness and transparency, and Society of Petroleum Engineers has policies on anti-bribery and Regulatory Environment The Intervention and Coiled corruption.
The Code sets out the The Company is listed on the London Tubing Association importance of complying with Stock Exchange and is subject to Leading Oil and Gas Industry international laws and regulations, regulation by the Financial Services Competitiveness along with procedures on anti-money Authority in the United Kingdom Investors in People laundering and protecting the UK as well as compliance with UK environment.
Employees will be Company Law.
The Group is also The Group continues to develop its required to complete online training subject to the laws and regulations of relationships with academic institutions to demonstrate they are acquainted the jurisdictions in which it works.
and during 2010 Hunting agreed to with the Code.
c o m p a n y B u s i n e s s f i n a n c i a l o V E R V I E W R e v i e w GOVERNANCE s t a t e m e n t s Job: 14875 HUNTING AR10 frt AW - CS4 Proof: 03 Proof Read by: Operator: rich Date: 25 February 2011 3:01 PM IMAGES TO BE CHECKED IMAGES TO BE CHECKED Server: studio 2 Set-up: r o b : set-up only First Read Revisions Hunting PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2010 ComPAny oveRview 01-05 27 Business Review 06-27 GoveRnAnCe 28-44 FinAnCiAL stAtements 45-108 The Board has an established Of particular note is the annual whistle-blowing procedure in place Hunting Art Prize which, after a for any employee wishing to raise in quarter of a century of supporting confidence any concerns they may British art, was re-launched in have about possible financial Houston, Texas in 2006.
The improprieties or other matters with Hunting Art Prize is one of the most the Senior Independent nongenerous art awards in North executive Director.
Details of the America for painting and drawing.
procedure have been communicated Now in its 31st year, the Annual to all employees.
Hunting Art Prize raised in excess of 65,000 in 2010, with the proceeds Hunting in the Community donated to Oilfield Helping Hands, a The Group acknowledges and non-profit charitable organisation in is committed to its social the Houston area providing responsibilities within the areas assistance to oil and gas industry in which it operates.
Huntings workers who face financial hardship.
contribution and involvement is determined by regional custom and best practice in those locations.
In this way, subsidiaries support a range of local charitable and community projects in their region.
Community support is delivered in many different ways, from corporate Dennis Proctor sponsorship of arts events to Chief Executive individual employee sponsorship.
24 February 2011 During the year, the Group donated 45,000 2009 56,000 to UK charitable organisations and 119,000 2009 106,000 to overseas charities.
