1 Environmental Performance Absolute CO Emissions CO Emissions 2 2 Scope 1 and Scope 2 : Scope 1 and Scope 2 : Manufacturing Sites and Main Ofces Tobacco Manufacturing Tonnes CO Tonnes CO per million cigarette equivalents 2 2 300000 0.6 Base Year FY10 250000 0.5 Target 200000 0.4 150000 0.3 100000 0.2 50000 0.1 0 0.0 01 10 07 08 09 01 07 08 09 Increases in CO for 2009 were largely due to the inclusion of two facilities that use CO to expand tobacco.
We are currently evaluating the 2 2 options to improve our current CO recycling at these facilities.
We use the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and UK DEFRA guidelines to inform 2 our reporting.
The reported increase in CO emissions in recent years also reflects changes in these guidelines.
Scope 1 carbon emissions 2 are emissions from sources that we own or control, also known as direct emissions.
Scope 2 carbon emissions are emissions from another company, for example purchased electricity, heat, cooling or steam.
Energy Consumption: Water Consumption mains & abstracted : Tobacco Manufacturing Tobacco Manufacturing Kilowatt hours per million cigarette equivalents Cubic metres per million cigarette equivalents 3000 5.0 Base 2500 Year FY10 4.0 Target 2000 3.0 1500 2.0 1000 1.0 500 0 0 01 07 08 09 01 10 07 08 09 We improved our energy efficiency in 2009 and remain on track for Water conservation and protection is managed locally and we have a 10 per cent reduction on our base year by the end of 2010. set reduction targets in a number of countries identified as being at risk from water scarcity.
Waste: Waste to Landll: Tobacco Manufacturing Tobacco Manufacturing Tonnes per million cigarette equivalents Tonnes per million cigarette equivalents Base FY10 0.12 0.030 Base Year Target Year FY10 0.10 0.025 Target 0.08 0.020 0.06 0.015 0.04 0.010 0.02 0.005 0.00 0.000 04 10 07 08 09 04 10 07 08 09 The increase in waste in 2009 was largely due to integration Despite increased total waste, our waste to landfill has reduced by activities including construction projects.
26 per cent since 2004, reflecting our excellent progress with our recycling initiatives.
The focus of our climate change strategy is We constantly review and manage our governance toreduce our impacts by achieving a balanced approach processes to ensure our long term sustainability.
These are tocarbon management through energy conservation fundamental for responsible business practice.
lowercarbon technologies, renewable energy and carbon Our key CR areas of focus are governance, business integrity offsetting.
Further details on our approach is available on and risk management, anti-illicit trade activities, regulatory ourwebsite www.
engagement, and our other engagement activities across our Based on the results of the energy audits, potential cost supply chain and within the communities in which we operate.
savings and additional energy saving opportunities, we have 1 Adult choice and anti-illicit trade activities underpin legitimate developed a carbon saving target of 20 per cent by 2020 sales which are a key driver in strengthening our long term inline with the current EU target of 20 per cent.
We continued to evaluate renewable energy opportunities We seek proactive engagement with governments and other within our manufacturing operation, however our main focus regulatory bodies and encourage reasonable, proportionate is on overall efficiency improvements throughout the Group.
We support consumers in Renewable energy options are considered in all our energy their choice to enjoy tobacco products without discrimination, studies and where factories are being upgraded or new and challenge disproportionate and unnecessary regulation buildings are in development.
that undermines the principles of adult choice and the In the UK, we made preparations to participate within the freedom of competition.
mandatory Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency We focus on continuing to engage with and influence our Scheme, which came into effect in April 2010. partners to improve social and environmental standards in Carbon Disclosure Project CDP and Supply Chain thesupply chain.
Supporting the communities in which we Leadership Participation operate is important to us and enables us to address issues Developing stronger relationships with our suppliers and the that directly and indirectly affect our supply chain.
sharing of good environmental practices remains a priority Governance and Business Integrity for us.
Benefits include optimising our costs and improving our security in our supply chain.
In our governance report on pages 54 to 72 of this report, we explain how in practice we apply the principles of We took part in the CDP 2010 information request, and goodgovernance advocated by the Combined Code received a score of 63 per cent 2009: 62 per cent.
CDP and our submission is available at www.
net During the year we established a Commercial Integrity team We have continued our participation in the CDP Supply which has responsibility for reviewing and managing our Chain Leadership Programme and a number of our key anti-illicit trade strategies and the protection of our brands.
suppliers whom we invited to take part agreed to participate.
Commercial Integrity is also responsible for promoting good We are working with our suppliers to further encourage corporate and individual conduct across the Group and participation which now covers approximately 50 per cent facilitating our Corporate Responsibility approach.
ofour non-tobacco material purchases by value and our major global tobacco leaf suppliers.
In 2010, we reviewed and updated our existing Code of Conduct and began a comprehensive training programme 1 This target will use 2009 as a base year.
More information on how our Code of Lao Tobacco Conduct supports our employees is available on page 14 ofthis report and the Code is published on our website Lao Tobacco is a joint venture between the Lao Government and www.
Our operations include a leaf processing facility and a cigarette factory and a partnership with Lao tobacco farmers.
Our Code of Conduct is supported by our public interest Lao Tobacco employs around 630 people and we work together to disclosure whistleblowing policy and processes.
Our Code meet our shared social objectives.
Read more about our activities clearly reinforces our commitment to ensuring we comply atwww.
com cr with the requirements of the UK Bribery Act which comes into force next year.
Following the recent publication of for more information visit: thedraft guidance by the UK Ministry of Justice, we are www.
com cr conducting a full review of our current policies and practices and we will be well positioned to fulfil the requirements of the Bribery Act in line with our ongoing commitments set out in our Code of Conduct.
Risk Management During the year our Risk Co-ordination Committee has further developed our risk register which is regularly updated.
On page 25 the Principal Risks and Uncertainties facing the Group are outlined with a report on the activities of the Risk Co-ordination Committee on page 68.
Our risk register covers a number of environmental, community, ethical and reputational issues and they are integrated into our decision-making and risk assessment processes.
Specific local risks are managed at the local level, and integrated into the In September 2010, we signed a co-operation agreement annual risk management and compliance processes.
Specific with the European Commission and the Member States of training is provided as appropriate, for example in the area of the European Union to jointly combat illicit trade in tobacco.
We have extended our memoranda of understanding MoUs and co-operation agreements with governments which Anti-Illicit Trade govern jointly developed protocols to combat the smuggling The prevention and elimination of tobacco smuggling and and counterfeiting of tobacco products.
We have 18 such counterfeiting is one of our major business priorities.
Illicit agreements in place and are progressing MoUs in Morocco, tobacco products deprive consumers of the quality they Algeria, the Netherlands and Lebanon.
expect, and governments and retailers of variable revenue.
Illicit trade also deprives the tobacco industry of legitimate Our Know Your Customer process seeks to ensure we sales, undermining the responsible way in which we manage onlysupply product to legitimate customers.
The process our operations and eroding the long-term sustainability of provides us with a regular and detailed review of each of our business.
We have a senior team who strategically ourcustomers.
During the year we improved technology manage and target our anti-illicit trade activities such as providing quicker and easier visibility.
We are currently working with suppliers, developing technological solutions, running a pilot programme before further roll-out throughout co-ordinating within the industry and progressing support the Group.
In addition, we plan to extend our Know Your materials for markets.
Customer process to handlers of finished goods, including 49 Strategy Performance Governance Financials Corporate Responsibility continued This engagement is both as an individual company warehouse storage and logistics service providers.
More orsubsidiary, or via various industry associations such detail on our product supply compliance is available on astheConfederation of European Community Cigarette ourwebsite.
Manufacturers CECCM, the European Smoking Tobacco We have also further improved our internal processes Association, and the European Cigar Manufacturers toprovide greater support, resources and intelligence Association ECMA.
We have developed joint industry toauthorities when notifying them of seizures of illicit position papers to be used with a wide spectrum tobacco products.
ofEuropean stakeholders, as we strive to achieve workableregulations.
We have progressed implementation of new technology into our production and logistics processes to further improve our It is regrettable that the FCTC continue to ignore the tobacco tracking and tracing capabilities for finished tobacco products.
industry as a legitimate stakeholder in the various debates In addition, we continued to enhance our general training, that are ongoing.
communication and awareness of illicit trade.
For example This exclusion is symptomatic of attempts to denormalise inPoland we have run a series of workshops for customs smokers and smoking, and is something we continue officers, where attendees were shown the scale and sources to resist.
of tobacco products smuggled into Poland and the methods of identifying legal and illicit products.
Ahead of the 4th Conference of the Parties to FCTC in November 2010 we consulted with governments on the Regulatory Engagement guidelines being developed and debated which include We continue to engage with regulators and government product regulation, education, cessation and alternatives authorities in support of reasonable and practical regulation.
We recognise we are a company that manufactures and sells In terms of specific regulation, we remain especially a controversial product.
We continue to oppose regulation focusedon the situation in Australia where the government that undermines the rights of our consumers to enjoy smoking has announced plans for the plain packaging of tobacco and our commercial freedoms such as product display bans products with effect from July 2012.
Plain packaging and further encroachment on our packaging, including the legislation has never been implemented by any government plain packaging of tobacco products.
in the world and we are robustly challenging this proposal.
Key drivers of regulation are national governments, the As well as depriving us of our registered trademarks European Commission, through the European Union anddiluting the value of our brands, we have particular Tobacco Products Directive EUPTD and the World Health concerns about the impact plain packaging would have Organisation, through the Framework Convention on onillicit trade.
Making all tobacco products available in Tobacco Control FCTC.
thesame, easy-to-copy generic plain packaging would We seek proactive engagement with these bodies through leadto asignificant rise in counterfeit product, adversely ongoing dialogue and by providing detailed submissions to affecting governments, retailers and consumers as well regulatory consultations.
50 In line with our enhanced Code of Conduct, we have started Supplier Relationships to progress a new supplier standard that will extend across Our main supplier engagement and assessment programmes all our suppliers Group-wide.
are Social Responsibility in Tobacco Production Programme SRiTP for tobacco suppliers and Supplier Qualification Social Assessment and Human Rights Programme for non-tobacco materials supply.
We have We have identified 28 manufacturing sites in countries continued to work with suppliers and business partners to deemed medium to high risk in terms of human rights in tackle issues such as deforestation, environmental protection, linewith our own criteria.
We use the principles of the Social child labour, sustainable development and poverty alleviation.
Accountability SA 8000 standard and the International One of the most important partnerships we are involved in is Labour Organizations ILO core conventions as a basis of the Eliminating Child Labour in Tobacco ECLT Foundation of evaluation of the labour practices at these sites, combined which we are a board member.
ECLT works with communities with our own employment policies, practices and standards.
to address the underlying causes of child labour.
During Our assessments of these sites have confirmed that local theyear, we have continued to provide financial support, employment practices are aligned with our Group policy.
guidance and advice in line with our long term commitment Wehave conducted social assessment visits to 19 of these tothe Foundation.
sites including visits to the Philippines, Puerto Rico and The majority of the tobacco that we use is purchased theDominican Republic in 2010.
Recommendations through the leading international leaf supplying companies.
included minor improvements related to the need for Only a small portion is purchased directly from growers, formaldocumentation for grievance, non-discrimination mainly in Morocco, Madagascar and Laos who also now anddisciplinary procedures which we are progressing.
All of our tobacco suppliers 100 per We continued to keep abreast of developments in Human cent participated in the programme 2009: 92 per cent.
Rights, including the work of the United Nations Special Evaluations of our supplier SRiTP self assessments for Representative, Professor John Ruggie, and via our the2009 calendar year indicated the majority of suppliers memberships of organisations such as the Confederation of averaging a score of 60 per cent, indicating a good level British Industry and the International Chamber of Commerce.
Weak performance is identified Information on our Human Rights Policy and due diligence throughannual review.
We are increasing dialogue with processes including our supply chain activities is available weakperformers to focus improvements.
We aim to deliver onour website.
ongoing improvements and are embedding new categories Stakeholder Panel for post-harvest management and climate change.
Given Our Stakeholder Panel, comprising representatives from this change, general scores were impacted and we many of our main stakeholder groups including consumers, continueto monitor and seek to improve our performance investors, suppliers, employees and community, met with with our suppliers.
usduring the year to share views on our business.
Their We have also continued to roll-out our SRiTP programme valuable input has continued to help shape our Corporate with our USA cigar tobacco suppliers.
All cigar suppliers Responsibility approach and reporting.
have been incorporated into the rolling audit plan.
Feedback has related to how we engage with a wider All of our non-tobacco materials suppliers are part of our rangeof stakeholders across a broader geographic spread.
supplier qualification programme which includes relevant This includes further extending the membership of the social and environmental aspects.
Our central team of Stakeholder Panel as well as increasing our transparency non-tobacco materials buyers have received ISO accredited onregulatory issues.
We have also incorporated the Panels training and been certified as auditors.
They subsequently improvements into our 2010 reporting.
visited suppliers at eleven sites in 2010.
51 Strategy Performance Governance Financials Corporate Responsibility continued Community Involvement Madagascar We allocated around 3 million to community investment in 2010 as well as the management time involved to maximise Our business in Madagascar involves tobacco growing, processing, the benefits from our community investment programme.
We work closely with the During the year our employees also gave their time during communities around our operations in Madagascar and invest normal working hours to contribute to local community in practical initiatives that actively support these communities.
Read more about our activities at www.
com cr programmes in a number of countries such as the UK, Greeceand Poland.
for more information visit: As a result of our engagement activities and analysis of our www.
com cr benchmarks we have strengthened our community investment approach.
We have joined the London Benchmarking Group which helps facilitate the sharing of good practice for community investment.
We have improved the way we structure our community investment this year, with funds consistently allocated by our regional committees against thefive categories below: Improved livelihoods: supporting micro-finance and sustainable agriculture projects.
Community wellbeing: funding health, water, sanitation and HIV AIDS projects and other community support projects including those working with elderly and disabled people.
Environment: backing projects that tackle climate change, deforestation and protection of water sources projects.
Adult Education: providing scholarships and funding courses as well as improving access to education.
Disaster Relief: responding to significant global humanitarian events.
We have further reviewed the Altadis Foundation during the year to align more closely with our community investment approach.
The Foundation budget has been redirected to support communities in Spain and supply chain sustainability issues in Latin America.
The Foundation has successfully collaborated with a charity to provide disaster relief activities, including the provision of clean drinking water in Guatemala, assisting families to improve their domestic living conditions.
Further examples of projects and the benefits delivered to their communities are available on our website.
