Corporate Responsibility and our Strategy Further embedding high standards of conduct and We understand that stakeholder issues impact the behaviour with our Code of Conduct revised in 2010 and commercial success of our business therefore we have training being progressively rolled out across the Group.
aligned our responsible approach within our strategy.
Inleveraging our assets of our brands, our unique total Inclusion of all tobacco suppliers in the Social tobacco portfolio, our extensive market footprint and our Responsibility in Tobacco Production Programme, people to drive sales, we have three particular areas of with100 per cent compliance.
focus: consumer centric, execution excellence and future Commencing negotiations to form a single European foundations.
Our CR activities in each of these areas Works Council to represent our employee interests.
underpin our sustainable sales growth agenda.
Measuring and Monitoring our CR Performance Gold award rating in Business in the Communitys 2009 We use our CR Framework with performance indicators to Corporate Responsibility Index with a score of 93.8 per monitor our CR performance, set objectives and structure cent 2008: silver rating and a score of 84.5 per cent.
The CR framework details social and Achieving a score of 74 per cent for 2010 2009: 73 environmental issues that are important to our stakeholders percent in SAM Research on behalf of the Dow Jones and to the success and sustainability of our business.
During the year we reviewed and subsequently amended Our 2011 CR Focus ourCR Framework to better reflect consumer interests, Consumer Centric riskmanagement, water management and societal and Further address and respond to consumer preferences regulatory issues.
Our revised framework incorporates our interms of products, quality and regulation.
own internal reviews and feedback from our stakeholders, including our Stakeholder Panel, external benchmarking Execution Excellence andwider economic and business developments.
Continue to improve OHSE management and performance.
Undertaking these periodic reviews enables us to consider Further develop environmental performance management gaps which are then addressed in our objectives and and our commitment to carbon reduction.
Further develop our people capabilities to support our We have progressed the implementation of new indicators sales growth strategy.
ina number of areas including in employment practices, Future Foundations product stewardship, international marketing practices, Continue our Code of Conduct training.
social responsibility in tobacco production and community investment.
We are aiming to report our new fully revised set Extending membership of our Stakeholder Panel.
of non-financial performance indicators in our 2011 report.
Enhance our non-financial reporting and CR CR Performance 2010 Highlights .
We delivered another strong performance this year, further Strengthen our responsible sales approach focusing on demonstrating our continued commitment to responsible anti-illicit trade activities and youth smoking prevention.
Further align our community investment partnerships Our highlights this year include: toour business interests.
Further increasing our focus on anti-illicit trade activities Enhance our level of proactive regulatory engagement, with a new Commercial Integrity team and completion supporting our business, consumers and customers.
Target supply chain improvements by increasing dialogue Signing a co-operation agreement with the European with our suppliers.
Commission and the Member States of the European Union to jointly combat illicit trade in tobacco.
Performance Highlights: CR We further increased our focus on anti-illicit trade activities with a new Commercial Integrity team.
