Corporate Responsibility Our Corporate Responsibility strategy is integral to our overallbusiness strategy and isembedded throughout the ImperialTobacco Group.
Corporate responsibility is integral to our business success.
CR Assurance and Verification We are committed to operating in a way that is financially, Statement from Corporate Citizenship socially and environmentally responsible.
We believe that this Imperial Tobacco commissioned Corporate Citizenship to focus and commitment enhances our foundation for long-term provide external assurance on its Corporate Responsibility sustainable sales growth.
CR reporting for 2010, including this corporate responsibility section of its Annual Report and Accounts and key parts of the corporate responsibility section of its website.
Information within this Report Imperial Tobacco has chosen to use the AA1000 Assurance Reflecting our belief that operating in a responsible manner Standard AA1000AS 2008.
Our assurance is a Type 1 and is simply part of how we do business, this years annual the level of assurance offered is moderate as defined by the report incorporates our Corporate Responsibility Review Standard.
Details of our assurance scope, methodology toprovide stakeholders with a comprehensive overview of andconclusions appear in our full statement published at our activities and achievements.
Our performance review is www.
structured around our strategy and highlights the progress In our opinion Imperial Tobaccos CR reporting reflects the we have made against our current objectives and the targets principles of AA1000AS 2008.
In our full statement we we are setting for the future.
provide information on the Companys performance against Key information about CR within this report can be found these principles and provide feedback that can help the asfollows: Company and its stakeholders identify where its reporting can be strengthened in future.
22 Key Performance Indicators Corporate Citizenship 25 Principal Risks and Uncertainties London, November 2010 41 CR Performance Review SGS Verification 53 Non-Financial Performance Indicators SGS United Kingdom Limited have verified the accuracy and 54 Governance reliability of our occupational health, safety and environment data.
Their findings are available in their assurance statement published on our website.
CR Information Online More detailed and background information on our approach is available on our website.
Here you will find: More details on our CR Framework Our views on important issues in the tobacco industry A full progress report against our objectives set out in ourCR Review published in March 2010 Our performance aligned to the GRI index Case studies demonstrating our progress External feedback from our assurance and verification andour Stakeholder Panel for more information visit: www.
