Directors Report: Business Review Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility and define ourselves.
We believe that At Inchcape, we recognise that Corporate Responsibility our commitment to CR will deliver a CR is a long term programme.
Our approach is sustainable approach to our business for all of our stakeholders and their varying to ensure that we make responsible, economic, needs.
To this end, when we reviewed environmental and social behaviour intrinsic to the way the approach to our CR journey in we work.
Inchcapes CR Programme is recognised by our 2007, we specically reviewed, with the assistance of an external consultancy, continued inclusion in the FTSE4Good index.
We also our stakeholders and their needs.
We take part in the Carbon Disclosure Projects review and review this on an annual basis across our have qualied and registered for participation in the UK markets and engage with them during the course of the year on our approach.
Governments Carbon Reduction Commitment scheme.
Our CR Committee To emphasise the importance of CR, this year we established a Board CR Our responsibilities Committee which met four times in 2010.
At Inchcape, we take This section of the Annual Report sets out It is chaired by David Scotland, a Nonresponsibility for the the Groups key principles of its Corporate Executive Director.
Its members in 2010 Responsibility CR Programme and impact of our activities were Michael Wemms, a Non-Executive how we have taken further steps in our Director, the Group Chief Executive, Group on five core areas and CRjourney.
HR Director and the General Counsel our key developments and Group Company Secretary.
Day In particular, building on our programme during 2010 have to day management of CR activities in 2008 and 2009, throughout 2010 we are delegated to an operational CR focused on these: have been collecting data to enable Committee which meets monthly at the us to measure the Groups CO2 footprint Groups head ofce and to local CR t Our environment page 26 and discuss these steps below.
We have Committees and Champions within each been developing our CR initiatives for our t Our people page 27 of ourbusinesses.
Finally, we have provided highlights of some of our t Our brand partners page 28 Governance and management achievements in respect of the Groups impact on the communities within which Good governance is a fundamental t Our customers page 28 element of CR.
We have clear goals, our many businesses operate.
t Our communities page 29 which are effectively communicated and We continue to be committed to have demonstrated strong leadership, integrating socially responsible behaviour strong performance management and into every aspect of how we operate transparent reporting.
As a UK listed Our CR journey CR is an evolving journey.
We have taken a number of steps which have resulted in significant progress in raising awareness of CR issues and in changing the way that we operate and how we can help our customers.
We believe that CR is an important part of our future and we are committed to building on the good work that has been done to date.
The past 2007 2008 2009 2010 Customer 1st Core purpose CR strategy Continued 160 years strengthen dened, values implemented focus on CO2 Inchcape has and expand refreshed and KPIs listed emissions a heritage of corporate tracking for the integrity and a People strategy Focus on CO2 strategy dened Group history of caring announced emissions for its local Focus on tracking for the Raising markets, its encouraging Group employee people and its local community engagement customers support through various initiatives 24 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION company, we are required to comply Priorities.
This allows us to be efficient with with a variety of legislation including our resources and to benefit from the the UK Corporate Governance Code.
growth opportunities in emerging markets.
Details on our approach and how we Verication and assurance have complied are set out at The Board is responsible for the strategic www.
com about us direction of all CR initiatives, and the governance.
programme as a whole, as part of the Subsidiary governance risk management programme.
The The Group has in place minimum Board is ultimately accountable to our standards across all of its subsidiaries.
shareholders for our CR Programme.
These polices are set out in the Groups Management of the CR Programme has Subsidiary Governance Manual and been delegated to the CR Committee.
compliance is veried annually, through Above all, the CR Committees role is the year end reporting processes and to ensure that our day to day business through Internal Audit reviews.
These operations respond to the opportunities, policies recognising that there may and avoid the risks, posed by CR issues.
be variances in local laws require that Through a network of locally based CR each subsidiary complies to at least the Champions, employees with global standard set out in the Group policy and local responsibilities, support and to a more stringent standard where the work of the CR Committee.
Our required by local law.
In this way, the activities are focused through our CR Group can ensure that despite variances Awarecampaign.
there is a consistent approach to business Health and safety is reviewed by Group taken across all core functional activities, health and safety ofcers and as part of including legal, governance, tax, treasury, the Internal Audit Programme.
Human resources data is reviewed Financial and veried ultimately by the Group HR Financial stability and viability is essential Director.
Community engagement data is to the operation of the Company and reviewed by the CR Committee and the therefore the sustainability of the Group Executive Committee.
As set out on page 8 of the Group Chief Executives strategic Other information presented is reviewed review, we are focusing on our Top Five by the relevant functional experts.
Progress against our 2010 goals In 2009 we focused on a small number of core steps that would cement the foundations of our long term CR Programme and allow us to develop a world class approach in the future.
We not only met, but exceeded our goals in 2009.
Having established these solid foundations, in 2010 we looked to embed these practices in our global operations, particularly focusing on our people and our CO2 footprint management.
Goal Objective What we did attainment Raising employee engagement t All employees were part of the appraisal process.
through the various initiatives from our t All senior employees were part of the talent review process people strategy including significant t All senior employees have individual development plans reward and development plans Extending our employee survey to our t We continued to implement Heartbeat, our employee survey, across the Group.
global employee base t Action plans were implemented to build on results Extending best practice in health and t We measured and monitored our accident rates and agreed, on a market by.
safety to our operations worldwide market basis targets for reduction t We reviewed time lost through accidents and monitored the impact on business Supporting our communities in which t We continued to focus on appropriate local initiatives.
we operate through focused initiatives Continued collection of CO2 data in t We continue to collect CO2 data, simplifying the system by implementing an.
order to establish trends and seasonal automated data collection process variations and eliminate practices t We performed analysis to identify trends which do not support both our CO 2 and business strategies Identication of CO2 reduction t Based on above, we are constantly reviewing the opportunities to positively.
and or offset opportunities for our impact our CO2 footprint in support of our objectives, our shareholders, our brand coremarkets partners, our customers and employees www.
com 25 Directors Report: Business Review Corporate Responsibility continued Our 2011 goals Objective What we will do CR is rmly Raising awareness of local CR activities and t Each of our markets to showcase local CR initiatives for a designated embedded within employee engagement through the Green period during 2011 our Group and we Baton initiative seek to harness Identifying opportunities to demonstrate and t Work with industry bodies to share the learnings we have from two full the energies of share our best practices within our industry years of data collection on improving retail centre efficiencies our employees to ensure that we Extending best practice in health and safety t Continue to measure our accident rates and agree targets for reduction have a positive to our operations worldwide t Review time lost through accidents and continue to monitor impact on impact on all that business we do, wherever we do it.
Continued support of the communities in t Encourage local initiatives and provide support for these which we operate through focused initiatives Building on the data collected to date, t Continue to collect CO2 data continued collection of CO data to perform 2 t With greater depth of data, perform more detailed qualitative and further trend analysis, eliminate unproductive quantitative trend analysis activities and ensure data is as robust and t Review opportunities to improve our positive impact on our reliable as possible communities, shareholders, brand partners, customers and employees Identication of CO2 reduction and or offset t Based on the above, review the opportunities which positively impact opportunities for our core markets our CO2 footprint to support our objectives, our shareholders, our brand partners, our customers and employees Our environment In 2008, the Group commenced collecting data on its CO2 footprint, measured against three Key Performance Indicators KPIs.
Measuring our direct costs using a CO2 metric will present opportunities to work This KPI measures our global electricity and gas usage.
Since Energy closely with our brand partners as we 2008, data has been collected on the basis of megawatt hours for can support their CR values and vice electricity and cubic metres for gas.
versa, ensuring that there is a consistent approach throughout all elements of the This KPI measures the movement of cars and parts from the point Transport supply chain.
of ownership which means legal or contractual ownership to the We have ensured that all travel is point we cease to have legal ownership.
necessary and have used alternative We calculate our CO2 footprint by car or parts kilometres communications where practicable, such depending on the mode of transport with a CO2 multiplier.
as conference calls, video conferencing and virtual offsite meetings.
The cultural This KPI measures the impact of the movement of our people.
Flights change in our ways of working has been We have recorded the number of ights each ight leg counts as implemented positively.
one unit and calculate our ight CO2 emissions with a multiplier We have already introduced a number by ight kilometre.
of measures into our ofces designed to protect our environment.
These are highlighted in our code of best practice At the start of 2009, we rened the process Namely: that is shared across the Group.
to ensure that the collection of CO2 data t Additional data is required in order was sufciently robust and to build on As Inchcape operates three routes to understand if there is an impact of the experiences gained in 2008.
In 2010 to market distribution, retail and VIR seasonality on our data usage: we have followed the same reporting please see www.
com for t Whilst there are early indications of trend basis, but in order to facilitate the data more detail there are variances in our patterns in the data, there is insufficient collection process, we moved during CO2 footprint across these channels.
data to establish if these are actual or the second half of the year to a more Direct comparisons between markets perceived trends.
In particular, as 2009 was automated process.
This makes the operating channels are unlikely to the first full year of reporting on the new basis process more efficient and will allow us to produce meaningful results.
However, and was a difficult year due to the global prepare reports and carry out analysis on we are looking for opportunities to recession, it is not apparent at this stage the data more easily.
exploit synergies between the channels how representative the 2009 data will be: by having a consistent approach to This data collated has started to provide reduction and offsetting goals and by t Verication and robustness of our data us with insights into our CO2 footprint, sharing best practices.
We are ensuring that from particularly now that we are building the start of the process we are building in month by month comparisons.
We still In addition, there are significant variances sufficient control points so that our data consider that additional data collection between our markets engaging in is capable of independent verication is required in order to provide meaningful similar activities e. g. between distribution as part of our overall planning process guidance.
We measure CO2 responsibility for this element of our CR Programme.
from the point where we have control, 26 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION for some distribution markets, such as The Right Reward by recognising, Ethical behaviour celebrating and rewarding the Australia where this control extends to the The Groups business ethics policy defines point of shipment, compared to other contribution our people and teams the core ethical behaviours expected of make to delivering our challenging markets such as Belgium, where our all employees.
In particular, the Group: control commences in-country.
Therefore, business ambition: t Has zero tolerance of bribes or we will need to devise a sliding scale of The Right Culture by creating a great facilitation payments: targets as a one size ts all approach will place to work, where people choose to not complement our business, nor allow t Has a zero tolerance of fraud or theft: make a real difference and deliver the meaningful CO2 managementobjectives ultimate customer experience for our t Has a strict limit to the value of to be set.
corporate hospitality given or received, 2010 analysis including the provision or receipt of gifts: Our employee base is diverse and reects We are looking at how the data collected the different cultures and markets within t Does not make political donations or can provide meaningful insights into which we operate.
This diversity creates incur political expenditure: 2 our CO footprint and therefore how we a range of perspectives that allow us to t Seeks to avoid actual or perceived can ensure that our activities have a constantly challenge and improve the conicts of interest: positive impact.
We have carried out initial way we do things as we work towards our analysis which shows how many CO2 goal of putting the customer at the centre t Prohibits the misuse of information: tonnes we produce per pounds sterling of of our business.
t Conducts appropriate due diligence revenue against each of our KPIs.
Talent and performance management in the selection of our joint venture and The actual gures produced are of other partners.
Talent planning and performance limited relevance until we have sufficient management sits at the heart of our Employee communications data to analyse the signicance of any people strategy as we look to ensure we trends that emerge.
However, the early During 2010, more than ever before, we have the right people in every role.
Whilst analysis does show that there is an have regularly communicated with our our processes are continuous, there is a opportunity to reduce our CO2 footprint employees to ensure they were always more detailed review and planning session by implementing changes in how we well informed of the forces acting on conducted within each of our markets and rely on utilities, particularly electricity and us as a Company, the state of the at head ofce at least once a year.
2010 gas in our retail centres.
We are looking automotive industry and the actions we was the fourth year for this process.
The at how this can be implemented and the were taking to address these.
Through processes are designed to ensure that we potential for a positive impact.
the various forums and channels of constantly upgrade our talent and look to communication we were able to create create the right development opportunities much higher levels of involvement with for all our people.
Our people our people on business priorities.
This During 2010 we continued our rigorous Arising out of the talent planning process was achieved in several ways, including focus on our Top Five Priorities growing we have made several key people Group Chief Executive roadshows, market share, growing aftersales, decisions, including secondments, monthly employee meetings, a monthly improving margins, controlling working promotions, lateral development moves, Group-wide newsletter, weekly customer capital and being selective with our mentoring, and in many cases enhanced letters, and through cascading messages capital expenditure.
This has meant the development plans of the individual through line managers.
a continued focus on our cost base.
As a global business we Employee survey Despite this, our customer and employee are also able to provide international satisfaction and engagement scores opportunities to our people and this Our annual Heartbeat survey is an remain at high levels and our clearly important part of our overall employee allows us to create even more stimulating dened people strategy continues to career paths and personal growth for engagement programme.
We encourage have a positive impact.
our line managers to use the results of the many of our talented people.
In 2010 we have made changes within the Group survey to create action plans that will help Our people strategy has the ultimate goal their teams increase levels of engagement.
Executive Committee and each of these of having Engaged People in Winning changes was a consequence of this We were delighted that well over 90% of Teams.
We believe that in our business it is our entire Groups population participated talent planning process.
only when our people are fully engaged in the third year of Heartbeat in 2010.
We that we will see the fruition of our business Our analysis continues to validate our have seen an increase in the levels of strategy.
After all, it is only when our belief that talented people who are engagement in our people and going employees really want to give the best fully engaged and aligned with our forward we intend to continue this process.
customer service that we will become the Companys leadership skills and values, most customer-centric automotive retail The Heartbeat survey is conducted for yield higher levels of customer satisfaction us by the Gallup organisation, which is company in the world.
the worlds leading provider of employee We continue to believe that this goal will In the future, we will continue to focus surveys.
This allows us to benchmark be achieved through four areas of priority: our efforts on ensuring that each of our our progress against other world class employees has a meaningful growth plan The Right People by becoming a companies, as well as providing us with that takes into account their strengths, magnet for talented people who live deep insights at a team level into the development areas, aspirations as well as our values and enjoy working in winning areas we need to work on to further the needs of the business.
We recognise teams delivering outstanding results: increase engagement.
that each individual has their own unique The Right Learning by equipping our growth style and requirements and that people to excel today and providing the nourishment of this growth is core to exciting development opportunities the growth of the individual and, through for the future, aligned to our that, the growth of the Company.
com 27 Directors Report: Business Review Corporate Responsibility continued Employee reward In our business we seek to eliminate this has allowed local managers to discriminatory practices and to promote set targets for each centre based on We recognise that it is our culture, the support of fundamental human rights customer satisfaction measured through our values, and the opportunities in all of our operations.
Net Promoter Score NPS and sales and we provide our people that attracts service funnel management analysis.
However we We support our brand partners in seeking to also recognise the need to have well enforce positive labour practices including We have introduced a system for tracking benchmarked, stretching yet stimulating the eradication of child labour and a safe daily customer information for both sales reward opportunities for everyone.
We support freedom and aftersales operations, including retail management incentive programmes of association and, as applicable, collective centre trafc, sales leads, test drives and have elements relating to customer .
Additionally, satisfaction in addition to financial we have introduced key aftersales Driven by our values measures.
As we have reported in the operational metrics that not only track We believe it is the enthusiasm and Directors report on remuneration, this our monthly performance, but allow us understanding of our people that will shape year we have undertaken a thorough to benchmark our businesses across all and empower Inchcapes CRculture.
review of our Group remuneration ourmarkets.
strategy to ensure that we continue to We combine the local knowledge, Results are collected and monitored align rewards with the specic needs of enthusiasm and expertise of our employees daily through a dedicated awardour business.
In addition we have several worldwide with our clearly dened values winning web portal.
This information is local and Group-wide schemes aimed Respect for each other, Winning together, aggregated overnight, providing reports at recognising people for high levels of Treating every as our own, Integrity and comparisons against brand, country, performance and for demonstrating without compromise, Pioneering new ideas, region and across time periods.
Passionate about customers, Caring for allows us to measure, for example, the our environment standards and policies Employee safety number of orders taken as a percentage to enable us to contribute responsibly and of leads and to set targets accordingly.
The safety of our people is of paramount sustainably tosociety.
Importantly, these leading indicators give importance to us.
Many of our people local management detailed insight into handle hazardous substances and work For more information please visit our website particular markets.
com about us values monitor accidents and lost time incidents Our customer understanding is facilitated to ensure that the safety of our staff and by a mystery shop carried out in each Our brand partners customers remains at the top of our of our retail centres sales and aftersales We carefully select the brand partners agenda.
We regularly review our policies operations and by quantitative analysis of that we choose to work with in each and procedures for our people and our NPS results.
Here, on a monthly basis, market.
The automotive industry has have appropriate training programmes each retail centre submits feedback from made significant progress in reducing inplace.
20 buyers and a further 20 non-buyers vehicle emissions and we fully support about their experience at the centre.
The 2010 results are set out below.
There the investment that is being made by our This exercise is also undertaken with is no specic trend or consistency of brand partners in this area.
accidents that has occurred, either in a In the UK, average new car emissions given location or across the Group.
Guidance on best practice as well have fallen by over 13% in the last 10 as detailed recommendations on Accident years.
The biggest impact that motorists opportunities to improve customer Location % no.
could have on the environment is service are accessible to all retail centre Australasia 58 replacing older high emission vehicles employees and we actively pursue and having their cars regularly serviced.
Europe 6 9 knowledge sharing via the network of Improvements in emissions have been North Asia 19 29 Inchcape Advantage champions present achieved in all vehicle segments.
South Asia 3 5 As an industry leader, Inchcape is close UK 5480 We use the Inchcape Advantage to CO2 related technological developments.
programme to monitor both our own Russia and Inchcape brand partners CO emissions Emerging Markets 13 19 2 performance as retailer for our brand partners, and the performance of our 2009 2010 third party retailers where we manage the Total 100 150 Average CO2 g km 145.75 141.55 retail network as the distributor.
This represents a decrease of 2.9% We believe that this focus on customer Average number of employees 2010 service and sales technology helps us Australasia deliver a superior retail experience to our Our customers Europe customers.
Further, improved customer North Asia We place great importance on the quality service sets us apart from our competitors South Asia 14,068 of our customer service and as part of our UK and builds loyalty, resulting in stronger st Russia and Emerging Markets Customer 1 strategy, in 2007 we launched relationships with our brand partners and the Inchcape Advantage programme leaving the Group better positioned to to deliver outstanding customer service grow market share.
every time, every day, everywhere.
In Customer 1st in 2010 See note 3f on page 74 2008 the programme was expanded to include our aftersalesoperations.
t We carried out approximately 2,800 mystery shop exercises in 237 retail Following extensive consumer research, centre show rooms across the Group.
we developed and implemented superior customer processes, training and systems t We carried out approximately 2,300 throughout our retail centres.
In particular, mystery shop exercises in 246 service sites across the Group.
28 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION t We talked to over 85,000 customers for young people to take up the sport, get programme continues to provide support our vehicle sales NPS programme, 2,000 t and develop a positive attitude and and hope to these children and their more than 2009. sense of teamwork.
org held in Hong Kong between teams t We talked to over 76,000 service and the children have established Singapore customers for our Aftersales NPS, 20,000 greatfriendships.
Inchcape Singapore Borneo Motors & more customers than 2009.
Champion Motors is collaborating with Our NPS performance has improved Inchcape Australia supports an the SouthWest Community Development again across the Group in 2010 in both exceptional team member Council CDC to plant 1,000 native sales and aftersales.
plants and trees over a three year period.
In April of 2009, a young Service Advisor, Jerome, in the Inchcape Australia team The project, Tree of Life, aims to create Supporting our customers an environment and ecosystem which was involved in a serious motor bike We are committed to providing clear accident, leaving him paralysed from the attracts more than 200 local species of information to our customers to help birds and butteries, and contribute to waist down and confined to a wheelchair.
support them in their vehicle purchase Within weeks, colleagues rallied together an eventual reduction of 22,000kg of choices.
This is provided in our showrooms CO2annually.
and raised over AUD$28,500 to help him and on our websites.
and his family with medical costs and The Tree of Life project brings together costs of modifying their home.
Throughout As part of providing a customer staff of Inchcape Singapore and his recovery, Inchcape Australia kept in focused aftersales service, we offer an residents of the community in a joint touch with Jerome and, in late 2010, he environmental Vehicle Health Check effort to create a vibrant, colourful and was able to go back to work in a technical which includes: sustainablelandscape.
customer relations role, providing expert t Tyre pressure check advice.
Jerome has continued to work for Inchcape Fleet Solutions supports the brand he loves and is dedicated to 2 t CO test and emissions test UK road safety charity Brake delivering outstanding customer service.
t Air condition check During 2010, Inchcape Fleet Solutions Inchcape Australia has been fortunate IFS signed up as a corporate donor enough to retain this talented and t Engine lubricant test to road safety charity Brake, which dedicated member of staff, with a long t Emissions test promotes road safety and provides and bright career ahead of him.
support to families affected by serious In some of our retail centres, customers roadaccidents.
are offered a free Green Test Drive when Belgium team donate car to local they visit us for vehicle maintenance.
community hero IFS staff have raised a total of 12,000 The Green Test Drive shares tips with the through various initiatives including the Sister Florentine, who has been living in customer on how to drive more efficiently, Yorkshire Three Peaks Challenge.
As a Burkina Faso for the past 20 years, works how to improve their environmental result of these donations, IFS has gained tirelessly to help local communities with impact and ultimately how to reduce their access to services like Brakes Fleet education and health issues.
She had vehicle running costs.
Safety Forum, which provides road safety a 17 year old Land Cruiser in which she resources to eet managers.
Thanks to We also have accessories available travelled at least 500,000 miles, and was this burgeoning relationship, the business that help our customers manage their in desperate need of a new vehicle.
is able to further enforce its road safety environmental footprint, including low Toyota Belgium was able to offer her a awareness message to clients and staff rolling resistance tyres, which can reduce new Toyota Hilux, which was shipped to alike, raising donations in the process.
CO2 emission by around 2% and lower Burkina Faso in a container also lled engine friction lubricants, which can with generous donations of childrens reduce CO2 emission by around 1%.
clothes from our staff in Belgium.
These Greek colleagues clean up were distributed to local communities and Our Toyota Hellas Greece colleagues Sister Florentine put her old Land Cruiser participated in the fourth annual Beach Our communities to rest and is now driving from village to Cleaning event during June 2010, Inchcapes extensive international village with her new Toyota Hilux.
In association with interests allows the Group to support Environmental NGO the Mediterranean many different communities and Inchcape supports the Mother SOS Network and the Municipality of cultures within our operating markets, and Child Rehabilitation Centre Marathonas, staff volunteered for a often through sponsorship and support MCRC in Ethiopia day and cleaned Schinias beach.
The of local charities for local people.
We event really cultivated the spirit of social This fantastic charity takes in extremely believe that each business selecting and responsibility and volunteerism among disadvantaged children from Addis supporting local initiatives gives us the our staff.
Ababa and beyond, provides shelter, best opportunities to engage with and food, education, medical care and work closely in the communities in which Inch-by-inch bikers cycle 400 therapy for children and their parents.
We have highlighted some of miles for UK charity Havens MCRC aims to help them recover from the work that we have been undertaking past traumas and equip them through Hospices in our communities in the following employment and professional training case studies.
In September 2010, Nigel Woodman with the means to be independent and and James Tayler cycled 400 miles from successful in the future.
Sponsorship of Childrens Soccer Sunderland to Southampton over six days School in Hong Kong to raise funds for Inchcape plcs Charity Over 2010, staff around the world donated of the Year Havens Hospices.
The team money, clothes and toys, took part in a Our business in Hong Kong, Crown Motors, raised a total of 10,600 that went to number of fundraising events and, in sponsored the Arsenal Soccer School supporting the invaluable support Havens November 2010, Inchcape agreed to for children aged from five to 12.
Inspired provides for sick adults, children and fund the centres monthly rental costs by Toyotas Live Young campaign, the their families.
For more information on the securing their new premises.
All of these initiative helped to encourage over 100 charity see www.
uk ongoing contributions help ensure the www.
