Governance Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility CR has always been a core part Ensuring product integrity & quality of the business strategy of the Informa Group, but our focus As a knowledge based Company Informas clients need to in 2010 has been to ensure that it is properly integrated into know that events and publications are expertly researched each of the business divisions.
providing balanced, truthful, and reliable content.
For the academic publications the peer review process helps In 2010, all managing directors and divisional Chief safeguard content.
More widely for the Groups magazines Executives across the business nominated a senior level and daily news papers an editorial and content code to guide representative to lead on CR within each division of the journalists and editors has been developed.
Informas key businesses also set up divisional aims to roll out a programme of training and initiatives to CR teams which have been tasked with identifying material raise awareness in order to support the code, ensuring that CR issues for their businesses.
it covers both in house staff writers and also freelancers.
Our CR Representatives will now be supported at Group Maintaining and improving customer service level by a full-time CR Co-ordinator, who will manage CR One of the key priorities for the Group in 2011 is to continue on a day-to-day basis.
The programme will continue to to develop digital content in innovative formats.
Informa is be overseen at Group Level by our Director of CR and HR, supporting this process in two important ways: Emma Blaney, who reports into Peter Rigby.
By adapting more flexible business models in Providing a rewarding, fair and inspiring workplace for staff recognition of the fact that our customers now use For the third year running Informa was recognised as one information in different ways: and of Britains Top Employers by the CRF Institute.
The annual survey used in respect of these awards looks at pay and 2.
By ensuring that our knowledge is accessible benefits, training and development, career opportunities, to all potential customer Groups, especially the working conditions, and company culture.
Taylor & Francis most vulnerable to exclusion.
T&F carried out their own staff survey for the second year T&F has been at the forefront of the development of digital running.
Their overall response rate increased from 80% content.
In January 2010, it contributed to an independent to 85%, with an employee engagement level of over 85%, study into the accessibility of ebook platforms by the several percentage points above the external benchmarks Shaw Trust and also received an honourable mention in provided by the survey company.
The survey is now a core the first JISC TechDis awards www.
uk which component of the T&F strategy and the management recognise publishers who have excelled in changing and teams use employee feedback to help drive business adapting their business processes to meet their customers changes.
During 2010 a whole range of initiatives relating accessibility needs.
to personal and professional development, training, staff communication and teamwork were introduced in their Managing environmental impacts offices worldwide.
Informa is an office based organisation and so the impact of direct operations largely relates to the office network.
Informas employee benefits continued to grow and expand Whilst Informa has been able to increase the coverage of with a new corporate ISA on offer to all staff in the UK from reporting for this network, it is recognised that more is April 2011.
A new computer purchase scheme was launched required and this will be a focus for 2011.
Informa will also in 2010 and has been well received.
up-date all facilities managers environmental guidance Training continues to be delivered to staff internally across documents which will be made available for all offices.
the businesses through the Group Informa Academy, More importantly Informa wants to do more to understand with the Company also offering internal training sessions.
the wider environmental impact through the Groups print Informa supplemented this with external training providers supply chain for academic publications, the data centres when needed.
used by the Group, and the air travel to and from the The Company launched an employee volunteering Groups events.
This will be a focus for the environment policy this year.
In the past many of our staff had been programme in 2011. volunteering their time to support local charities and community organisations.
We formalised this giving all staff the opportunity to volunteer one day per year.
Informa sees this as not only an opportunity to support local communities but also helps develop staff alongside traditional training and development routes.
48 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 INF2570 AR10 cover AW05.
pdf 50 21 03 2011 17:33 r Continue to promote and develop the three Group Giving back to the communities in which it operates wide programmes: Informa has long encouraged employees to get involved in local community initiatives, as well as take part in Group r Charitable giving Banana Run community activities such as fundraising for the World Cancer Research Fund WCRF.
r Environment Awareness Green Week In 2009, the Group launched its new Community Strategy to r Community Volunteering Week drive community initiatives across all its businesses.
It had two main elements: Academic Information: r Undertake a research project to measure the 1.
Volunteering Policy: One day per year for all environmental impact of the print supply chain employees: and logistics for T&F, and use the results to drive further improvements.
Partnerships Policy: Encourage each of our businesses to build a long-term partnership with a local or r Increase employee volunteering at main sites.
Professional and Commercial Information: In 2010, a total of 76,100 was raised for our global partner, r Develop pilot training on the Editorial and Content WCRF, through both staff fundraising and matched funding Code at IBI head offi ce.
r Roll out an overseas volunteering initiative as part Looking forward to 2011 of IBIs joint employee development and community Our key objectives for 2011 are: involvement initiative.
In 2011 40 staff will be sent for two weeks to work on community overseas Groupwide: community projects.
r Improve CR data reporting for the business.
Events and Training: r Develop CR best practice guidance documents r Develop best practice case study on management for the business.
Use this to encourage best practice among our events operations partners.
r Roll-out smart-meter electricity monitoring to at least two Group sites.
r Develop community partnership between IIR UK and the Microloan Foundation.
Case Study: Taylor & Francis India and Udayan Care Udayan Care is an organisation that works Some of these are: with homeless young people in Delhi by r Teams of volunteers have spent a day providing them with an education and at one of the charitys care homes: opportunities to reintegrate into society.
r The marketing department has sent T&F identifi ed the organisation as a suitable out the charitys leafl ets to its database partner for them in 2010 through a rigorous of contacts & will solicit donations to screening process designed to help them the charity at conferences & book not only fi nd a well-respected partner but launches: and also one who needed the skills their staff could off er.
They were supported in this r Sent gifts to each care home by one of their authors, Ms Pushpa Sunder, during Diwali.
who has written a book on NGOs in India and therefore knows the landscape very well.
45% of staff, an enviably high rate, have now contributed some time to the charity Throughout the year the number of and this will hopefully rise even further employees involved increased, striving over the long-term.
to meet the charitys needs and working together by off ering a range of varied opportunities for staff to get involved.
Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 49 INF2570 AR10 cover AW05.
pdf 51 21 03 2011 17:33 Financial Statements We enter 2011 with a strong balance Independent Auditors Report Group 51 sheet, comfortable headroom within Consolidated Income Statement 52 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 53 our banking facilities, plans for growth Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 54 and a business with a high quality of Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 55 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 56 FBSOJOHT m WJTJCMF SFDVSSJOH SFWFOVF Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 57 Independent Auditors Report Company 116 streams and strong cash generation.
Company Balance Sheet 117 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 118 Adam Walker, Finance Director Five Year Summary 123 50 Informa plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2010 INF2570 AR10 cover AW05.
