2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IN THIS SECTION CORPORATE SOCIAL Code of conduct 29 Community 29 RESPONSIBILITY Employment 30 Environment 31 Education 33 Partnerships 33 We developed the award-winning 505 Emergency Calling service so that FleetBroadband customers with no GMDSS facility can call for assistance in an instant anywhere in the world.
One example of its successful use was the recent rescue of a We recognise social, environmental and ethical matters and yachtsman in Puerto Rico whose yacht was sinking after taking in endeavour to take into account the interests of our stakeholders, water.
505 does not replace our GMDSS service, it does though including investors, employees, suppliers and business partners provide mariners with additional peace of mind that they have a when operating our business.
reliable trusted service they can use in an emergency situation.
Code of Conduct We have continued our charitable support of the International We maintain and require the highest ethical standards in carrying Maritime Organizations IMO Safety and Rescue SAR fund.
out our business activities and have clear guidelines for dealing This is part of a five-year agreement which was signed in 2005 to with gifts, hospitality, corruption, fraud, the use of inside support the IMOs International SAR fund.
Our Inmarsat C SafetyNET service continues to be used to The Code of Ethics policies state that Directors, of cers and provide vital updates on reported pirate activity.
The service employees are expected to conduct business in accordance with enables ship masters to access reports of pirate movements, the highest standards of personal and professional integrity.
The giving them information to know which regions to avoid with high Code of Ethics is published on www.
pirate activity and allowing them to re-route if necessary.
Community We continue to support Tlcoms Sans Frontires TSF, the Safety at sea remains core to our Companys activities.
We are telecommunications relief aid organisation.
We have a long proud of our maritime heritage and that our business continues history of supporting TSF through direct funding and the this commitment.
Inmarsat remains the only approved provider of provision of free satellite terminals.
TSF is able to reach disaster satellite communications services for the GMDSS.
This service is areas quickly and help other aid charities with their trusted throughout the world by mariners and by the rescue communications needs whilst also providing the opportunity for co-ordination centres that are integral to ensuring that a safety those affected to call relatives.
During 2010, TSF sent response alert is actioned.
The GMDSS service gives maritime users teams to deal with eight emergency missions including the complete con dence that if they send a distress call, it will be Philippines, Chile, Indonesia, Haiti and Pakistan.
In Haiti, the first received by a rescue authority.
BGAN call was made by a local aid agency within 15 minutes of the disaster happening and within two days TSF had set up Our award winning 505 emergency calling service launched in BGAN networks for incoming NGOs and others.
In recognition of 2009 has already been utilised more than 100 times.
This short the high volume of activity from TSF in Haiti, we made an code dialling facility connects to the rescue co-ordination centre.
additional donation of US$100,000 to support their operations.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 29 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED We also work closely with the International Telecommunications Tlcoms Sans Frontires training survivors of the 2010 tsunami in Union ITU which deployed 100 satellite terminals to parts of Indonesias Mentawai Islands to deploy IsatPhone Pro in the event Pakistan that were ravaged by severe ooding last year.
terminals were used to restore communications and provide telemedicine applications and services for remote areas that were too dif cult to access following the disaster.
The ITU also sent terminals to the disaster zones in Indonesia after the tsunami there in 2010.
Our Universal Service Obligations seek to support the use of our services, normally payphones, in rural villages in remote regions of the world, where terrestrial voice services are poor or non-existent.
Employment We have established policies which address key corporate objectives in the management of employee relations, communications and employee involvement, training and personal development and equal opportunities.
We have elected employee forums operating in several operating business in the UK, Batam in Indonesia and a Works Council in the Netherlands.
These groups extend two-way communications between employees and management and allow the views of employees to be taken into account in making decisions which are likely to affect their interests.
In the UK, the Staff Forum is an elected body constituted in accordance with prevailing legislation to provide the formal means of consultation on contractual matters, as and when required.
In the Netherlands, the Works Council is constituted according to local requirements.
Perry Melton, Chief Operating Of cer, has been identi ed as having responsibility for health and safety issues within the Inmarsat Global operations.
Stratos and Segovia have various managers responsible for health and safety across their operations.
The Group recognises its legal responsibilities to ensure the well-being, safety and welfare of its employees and to maintain a safe and healthy working environment for them and for visitors and sub-contractors.
Regular health and safety audits are undertaken at operating sites across the Group and health and safety updates are available to staff to show what improvements have been made to their working environments.
Our aim is to have effective controls that maximise the well-being of our staff and minimise the losses resulting from ill health TSF runs programmes of disaster relief and preparedness, and injury.
Our framework for health and safety management training other relief organisations and regional and national aligns with our broader strategy which focuses on the need disaster response agencies about the capabilities of emergency for leadership, management and ownership of health and telecommunications.
This helps these organisations to be able safety matters.
to respond to an emergency knowing they have the necessary training to use BGAN and IsatPhone Pro, our handheld satellite We encourage activities in each of our businesses for staff to phone.
A recent training event by TSR was within the framework participate in socially and as a way of also improving health of the International Emergency ICT Training Program 2010-11 awareness to create a healthier workplace.
Inmarsat Global and in partnership with the European Commissions Humanitarian has continued to hold an annual health and wellbeing day Aid Department to 22 humanitarian organisations from Central which was supported by all levels of the organisation.
In their feedback to us, TSF advises that through our support, we are serving more than 200 organisations per year UK-based staff of Inmarsat Global are encouraged to support and tens of thousands of people in distress, providing them with individual charities of their choice through the HM Revenue & the necessary contacts inside and outside their countries.
We Customs approved Give As You Earn scheme.
The payroll-based believe the work TSF does is vital in emergency situations and we scheme enables employees to gain tax relief on their are delighted to continue to support them.
30 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS As a satellite operator, we have adopted the highest industry Environment standards in terms of space debris mitigation, including end-ofThe activities of the Group are judged to have a low environmental life graveyard manoeuvre plans for the disposal of satellites when impact and are not expected to give rise to any signi cant, they reach the end of their commercial life.
To date we have only inherent environmental risks over the next 12 months.
had one satellite disposal, which was in 2006.
Its disposal was undertaken in full compliance with the relevant ITU standards.
We do not manufacture satellite user terminals, which are There are no near-term plans for decommissioning any of the produced by manufacturers who provide health and safety remaining satellites.
We operate our satellites in geosynchronous guidance as to how terminals should be utilised.
Controls are in orbit which is approximately 36,000km 22,500 miles above the place to ensure that antennae do not radiate any power at low earth.
This orbit has signi cantly less debris than in a low earth elevation angles.
During 2010, we started to manufacture our orbit which is approximately 700km above the earth and where handheld satellite phone, IsatPhone Pro.
The design and several MSS operators have their satellite constellations.
manufacturing processes have met all the relevant safety standards and disposal requirements are included in the We have over 1,355 staff worldwide represented by approximately packaging for each handset.
Due to the size and nature of our business activities, we acknowledge that we have some impact Across our Group companies, we operate a number of ground on the local and global environment.
However, although the earth stations, a microwave network, VSAT and telemetry and satellite industry and Inmarsat are extremely low on the scale of tracking facilities where there are satellite dishes which generate carbon generators, we are conscious about environmental impact radiation.
Access to these sites is restricted and there are regular as we carry out our business.
health and safety checks to ensure that they are in protected areas away from access by the general public.
Personnel who Some of these environmental impacts include the use of natural work at these sites are provided with relevant training as to the resources, the consumption of energy and water, the production health and safety issues.
of a variety of waste, in addition to staff and visitors travelling for business purposes around the globe.
Adventurer and environmentalist David fide Rothschild and Helm, Jo Royale, sailed the Plastiki, a 20-metre boat made from 12,500 reclaimed plastic bottles, across the Paci c to highlight pollution caused by single-use plastics on the worlds seas.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 31 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Our objective is to ensure that the Group does not have any During 2010 the Company joined the Carbon Reduction Scheme detrimental effect on the environment through our business which is UK legislation based upon a Government Commitment operations.
Our mission is to adopt and support the following to reduce carbon emissions by 80% by the year 2050.
Although the principles: basis of this legislation was changed by the Coalition Government in October 2100 we continue to be committed to to provide first class energy and environmental management the scheme by delivering continued energy consumption savings practices: and reducing CO emissions.
We will proactively monitor and 2 target energy savings and develop initiatives to meet this to comply with all relevant global environmental legislation objective.
and regulatory controls: During 2010 our main UK sites electrical consumption rose by to identify signi cant environmental and social impacts 6% which was a direct result in the increased computing base and establish objectives and targets for improvement: load as new major services and test systems went live.
With the installation of high ef ciency machines, the buildings lift in our main UK site, to recycle a minimum of 90% of refurbishment project was completed in October and will result generated waste and constantly to review the opportunity in electricity savings in 2011.
We believe these will negate to use recycled products: any increase in last years consumption.
actively to encourage the conservation of energy, water Our main UK site continues to recycle as much of its building and natural resources through the increased ef ciency waste as possible.
In 2010 43,000kg of waste was sent for mixed 3 and introduction of new and modern technology: and recycling which resulted in a saving of 578m of land ll space.
Around 72,000kg of the buildings waste which could not be to encourage all employees in our main UK site to be recycled was sent the SELCHP energy recovery plant in Deptford, proactive in their daily activities by: South East London where it was incinerated and contributed to separating their waste into dry and wet waste r eceptacles: the power for the local community.
Energy and the environment ensuring that printer cartridges ar e recycled: continues to be a major focus in 2011 with the objective of switching of f lights, computers, phone chargers and any reducing the carbon footprint for the business.
other electrical items when not in use: and r educing business travel and using more site-based During 2010, we sponsored The Plastiki Expedition which was a technology such as video and audio conferencing.
campaign to highlight severe environmental degradation across the Paci c Ocean.
The Plastiki, which is a boat made almost with similar activities occurring elsewhere in our global of ces.
entirely from plastic bottles 12,500 of them in total, travelled the Chairman and CEO Andrew Sukawaty supports a joint team from the American School and Quinton Kynaston School, both based in London, which we sponsored to enter a regional heat of the FIRST Robotics Competition, organised in Boston, USA.
32 INMARSAT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 2010 OPERATIONS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 8,000 nautical mile voyage from San Francisco to Sydney.
Using Our partnership with VSee Labs and San Diego State our FleetBroadband service the crew successfully engaged with University aims to arm refugee camps with connectivity media throughout the journey drawing attention to plastics via BGAN: trapped forever in the Paci c gyre and to the damage being done to sea and bird life.
Our FleetBroadband service even Supporting the Siberian Express for Water exhibition to allowed one of the crew to share the experience, via video raise awareness of the worldwide scarcity of clean water conference, when his wife gave birth to their son.
The expedition which involved two stages: a team initially running the length has already received nominations for awards, one being from of Siberias frozen Lake Baikal and then across the Sahara Time Magazine for Invention of the Year.
Desert using BGAN as the communications service: Education Haulage companies using Inmarsat services for We continued with our funding of the Inmarsat Chair of Maritime communications to help ensure the safety of drivers along Education and Training at the World Maritime University which the steep and narrow North Yungas Road, also known as supports the education of maritime specialists.
We encourage the Road of Death in Bolivia: internships with schools and universities to provide students with the opportunity to experience first-hand the engineering IsatPhone Pro services being used by emergency services and and technical aspects of satellite operations.
During the year, state and community of cials in Queensland, Australia during we also continued our support of the International Space the recent devastating oods: University by funding two half scholarships for students on its Masters Programme.
Londons Natural History Museum hosted live satellite video conferences for schools with scientists on an expedition to We sponsored children from the American School and the local previously unexplored rainforests in Borneo: community funded Quinton Kynaston School both based in London, as a joint team to participate in one of the regional heats Under the banner LArbre Noix the Nut Tree, two young of the 19th season of the FIRST Robotics Competition in Boston, French environmentalists have helped eco-projects in remote USA where teams compete to build robots.
This has been our regions of South America publicise their work via BGAN.
fourth consecutive season of sponsoring this event to foster local They have already helped out at the Yasuni Research Station community relations.
Government recognises that the in Amazonian Ecuador, which supports scienti c research use of space is critical to the UKs interest and science in schools into the sustainable use of natural resources: create the bedrock for the future.
We believe working with schools and generating an interest of science through events and Use of our Inmarsat C service helped save more than 140 activities like this is an important part of encouraging pupils to children and adults from two vessels both in the Atlantic continue to study science at school and then at university.
We after distress signals were received.
The maritime rescue also have an ongoing discussion with the education minister in co-ordination centre used the Inmarsat C SafetyNET system the current government on how to stimulate science in schools.
to broadcast appeals to shipping in the region to go to the We are pleased to be part of the debate on this subject as part of aid of the stricken craft: the review for how to develop the science skills of future generations.
Staff working in our main UK site have recently BGAN was used to break the news of Mount Everests started a mentoring programme with a school in Greater London youngest conqueror a 13 year old who kept in touch with for students who are just about to enter their key exam year, family and the media throughout his trip using a BGAN which we hope will be an inspirational experience for both the terminal: and pupils and those involved from the business.
FleetBroadband was used by two teenage girls each sailing Partnerships solo around the world as a way to keep in touch with friends, The work our partners undertake with local companies and family and supporters, and for updating their social networking charities are examples of the wider in uence of our services and sites.
Both were trying to set a new record as the youngest were delighted how these can have an impact socially and sailor to complete a non-stop unassisted circumnavigation.
Here are some examples of our partnerships involvement with these types of activities: IsatPhone Pro units being used by teams, press and organisers to provide support for the Dakar Rally during its 9,000km off-road route: IsatPhone Pro used by an Argentinian search and rescue team to rescue climbers stranded on the remote Patagonian icecap: ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 INMARSAT PLC 33
