68 International Power Annual Report 2010 Corporate responsibility For a global power generation business like International Power, corporate responsibility CR means following fair and ethical principles to govern the way we manage and conduct our business.
European Wind Portfolio Germany Corporate responsiBility 69 70 International Power Annual Report 2010 Corporate responsibility Environment Use of natural resources Our approach to corporate Fossil fuel in the form of gas or coal is responsibility Climate change and the regulation the key natural resource that we use.
We of CO emissions 2 CR forms an integral part of our business constantly strive to improve the efficiency We have a pragmatic and sustainable decision making process and contributes of our power stations to minimise the strategy for our business which addresses to our competitiveness and reputation.
Our amount of fuel used for each unit of the key issues for the power generation commitment is to ensure that International electricity generated.
Recycling of waste sector namely CO reduction, affordable 2 Power is a responsible, efficient and materials is another important focus, power and security of supply.
Our stakeholders for example recycling oil or the sale of shareholders, employees, customers, Climate change, and the need for waste materials for other uses, such as suppliers, regulators and host reduction in greenhouse gas emissions pulverised fuel ash and gypsum from the communities expect nothing less of us, particularly CO is, and will continue to 2 flue gas desulphurisation FGD process.
and we aim to deliver on this commitment.
be, at the top of the global environmental The abstraction of fresh water by power agenda.
The measures necessary to It is important that we operate our stations also represents a significant use combat global climate change represent business in a manner which is sustainable.
Water is used mainly one of the biggest challenges to our This means we need to retain our for cooling, and consumption varies business.
Government actions across the competitiveness today and continue significantly across the portfolio depending world to reduce CO emissions will, over 2 to take steps so that our business is on the geographic location of the plant and time, increase the cost of emitting carbon.
well positioned for the future.
Many of our These measures will alter the economic plants, which are located in areas where Within this CR report we deal with: balance between different fuels, favouring fresh water resources are limited, use lower carbon and renewable technologies.
issues relevant to International Power sea water or dry cooling systems which However, with these challenges will come dramatically reduce the quantity of fresh how we managed CR issues in 2010 new business opportunities to further water required.
invest in renewable energy and other low 2010 performance and highlights carbon technologies.
At the global level Health and safety our CR priorities for 2011 there is uncertainty over what will replace Excellent health and safety performance the Kyoto Protocol on climate change is critical for our business.
It is important when it expires at the end of 2012.
Issues relevant to to provide all personnel at our sites with a Negotiations in Copenhagen in December International Power safe place to work, and we seek to avoid 2009, and Cancun in December 2010, any injuries to our staff, our contractors The key CR issues relevant to International did not produce a legally binding treaty and our visitors.
Poor performance can Power include: to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
have a detrimental impact on our However, we can expect there to be environment operations and our business as a whole.
continuing pressure for such an climate change and the regulation agreement to be reached before 2012. of carbon dioxide CO emissions 2 Measures to control other measures to control other environmental impacts environmental impacts In relation to other atmospheric emissions, use of natural resources meeting the requirements of the applicable legislation in each of the countries in health and safety which we operate is the minimum level of employees compliance.
Many countries are tightening their atmospheric emission limits and we business ethics and social performance respond to these requirements through either plant modifications or changes in operating regime.
Corporate responsiBility 71 Employees Stakeholder engagement How we managed CR During 2010 we endorsed the United A core element of CR is to engage with key issues in 2010 Nations Universal Declaration on Human stakeholders across the business regarding In 2010 CR matters relating to International Rights and this was supported by our own the issues.
In 2010 such engagement Powers activities were governed by the Code of Business Conduct the Code included the following groups: Executive Team, with the CEO having and human resources policies.
We have th e local community through the overall responsibility.
The CEO was applied human rights principles rigorously environmental and social impact assisted by the Company Secretary, for our own employees, and have sought assessment process carried out the Head of Operations and Engineering, to influence our partners, contractors and during the development of new the Corporate Environment Manager suppliers to apply the same standards.
assets, and through ongoing and the Corporate Health and Safety The Code, which applies to all International community engagement activities Manager.
The CEO gave regular CR Power employees, includes clauses on briefings to the Board and the Board complying with our ethical and, health, r egulators through meetings and also received a summary of Group-wide safety and environmental HS&E policies.
information sharing initiatives, such CR issues in the annual risk report.
The It also covers competitive practices, as the Joint Environment Programme Board HS&E Committee established conduct in the community and charitable with the UK Environment Agency a corporate focus and leadership for donations.
The Code has been made k ey suppliers through the application these issues, which demonstrates the available to all employees.
of the Code and our procurement policy importance of them to the business.
The Effective internal communication is to the tendering process, and through Company Secretary was responsible for essential to ensure employees receive monitoring of construction projects to the Code, and the Charities Committee.
accurate information on the Groups ensure that social and environmental Executive Directors of International Power strategic agenda, major initiatives, provisions are met and key staff within our business units corporate developments and position have received training in corporate o ur employees through regular on industrial issues.
Being well-informed governance, CR and the Equator Principles.
structured HS&E meetings and more is a key driver in ensuring that employees informal communications through the www.
com feel respected, valued and become intranet IPR Connect, CEO briefings engaged in any Group initiatives.
and the Company magazine Day-to-day management of CR during 2010 interconnect was performed by our Regional Directors, Business ethics and social Plant Managers and employees.
Their work performance th e investment community through was overseen by the global and regional As a global power generation company regular meetings with shareholders HS&E management committees and the we recognise a duty of care towards and analysts Human Resources group.
In addition, the protecting the environment and society in l enders through the application of Board HS&E Committee provided high level which we live, and we have a responsibility social and environmental standards, oversight direction.
All employees were to conduct our business with a genuine such as the Equator Principles expected to play a role in enhancing concern for the world around us, in International Power as a responsible particular where our business has a business.
CR policies relevant to our direct impact.
business were reviewed by the Company Local business customs and practice Secretary and the Head of Operations and may vary considerably from place to Engineering along with the CEO.
place but it is important that we operate responsibly and with ethical integrity throughout the world.
We also take our societal responsibilities seriously, whether working to enhance the communities in which we operate or to ensure that our employees are well treated.
Where we share ownership of a plant, we encourage our partners and, during the construction phase, our contractors to adopt our CR policies, typically through influence at project level board meetings and contractual arrangements.
72 International Power Annual Report 2010 Corporate responsibility Compliance with the Equator Principles North America Latin America is an increasingly important aspect of In the US, our plants in New England and Following the Combination, International project development.
These principles New York participate in the Regional Powers Latin American portfolio is are a benchmark for lenders regarding the Greenhouse Gas Initiative RGGI.
RGGI primarily located in Brazil, Chile and Peru.
management of social and environmental is a programme that sets carbon reduction Current emissions from the electricity issues in project financing.
They require levels for a ten-state area in the northeast sector in the region are relatively low given the social and environmental impacts US and requires certificates to be obtained that the largest source of electricity is of major projects to be assessed and for any carbon emissions.
At the federal hydro generation and the balance is made managed according to internationally level, a more comprehensive carbon up of natural gas and biomass.
They cover a range legislation effort has stalled after several Chile and Peru are all signatories to the of issues including corruption, workers unsuccessful efforts during 2010.
During Kyoto Protocol but do not have binding rights, resettlement, indigenous peoples this period, the US Environmental emissions obligations non-Annex 1 and cultural heritage, as well as Protection Agency EPA issued an countries.
The associated clean environmental issues such as pollution endangerment finding under which they development mechanisms, as well as control.
Our Executive Team has been would invoke the Clean Air Act to regulate the country national appropriate mitigation provided with training on how the Equator greenhouse gas emissions.
In November mechanisms, have substantially Principles may influence project 2010, the EPA published its best available contributed to sustaining a low carbon development.
control technology BACT determination expansion of the power generation sector for control of greenhouse gases GHGs in Brazil and Peru.
As a result of this ability www.
com from electric generating units, industrial to produce electricity with low emissions, boilers and similar GHG-emitting industrial international agreements on emission Regulations key developments sources.
The EPA will work with permitting restrictions have been seen more as an in climate change and authorities to identify and implement the opportunity than a risk.
environmental legislation most efficient control techniques for As indicated above, climate change Chile is one of the most active countries in minimising greenhouse gas emissions in represents one of the key CR issues the region in terms of both environmental new and modified power generation plants.
As such, our discussions and legislation.
A new policy Separately, Congress has introduced monitoring of, engagement in, and on particle emissions and GHG allowances several new bills to regulate the EPAs response to climate change legislation for thermal power plants has been authority over greenhouse gas emissions.
is critical to our business.
Although the adopted giving two and a half to four years speed of development of such regulation In late February 2011 the EPA also released for adoption.
E-CL is currently analysing varies throughout the regions in which its revised version of the boiler maximum the impact and necessary investments we operate, we will always ensure that achievable control technology MACT, in order to comply with this new regulation.
we are actively engaged in advocating our which impacts biomass and coal-fired In addition, Chilean law mandates power position during any legislative process.
The EPA is also in the generators to produce a proportion of process of releasing new regulations future generation from non-conventional The development of environmental covering: more stringent ozone, nitrogen renewable energy sources e. g. biomass, regulation in our core regions continues to oxide NOx and sulphur oxide SOx rules: mini hydro, solar, wind, tidal or evolve, and a brief summary of the position restrictions on hazardous air pollutants cogeneration.
This applies to power as at 1 March 2011 is set out below.
such as mercury Utility MACT : cooling purchase agreements PPAs that were water intake regulations: and a draft signed after 31 August 2007.
The transition regulation on coal ash management.
period for applying the legislation begins in Updates and final versions of these 2010 at 5%, and from 2025 onwards will regulations are expected to be released increase to 10% of production.
E-CL has over the coming year.
In general, we taken into account this change in its believe these regulations will have more commercial operations planning and is impact on solid fuel-fired power plants.
able to pass through the additional costs to the offtaker.
We continue to monitor proposed new and modified environmental regulations, Overall, the Group is working to take into and provide comments on the proposed account the environmental issues in their changes when warranted.
Based on this operational and commercial activities, in-depth awareness of the regulatory and the environmental regulation risk climate, we continue to believe that in the region is thought to be low.
Our main the overall efficiency and low carbon company in the region, Tractebel Energia intensity of our US power generation is a member of the BM&FBOVESPAs fleet is well positioned in the face of Corporate Sustainability ISE index new environmental regulations.
for the sixth consecutive year.
Corporate Sustainability Index Indice fide Sustentabilidade Empresarial Index of Sao Paulo Stock Exchange Market made by companies with the best sustainability practice.
Corporate responsiBility 73 Europe Australia Middle East, Turkey Under the Kyoto Protocol, the European In the lead-up to the August 2010 federal and Africa, and Asia Union EU is planning an 8% reduction election, the government deferred further There is no imminent legislation expected in from 1990 levels in greenhouse gas consideration of a carbon pollution either the Middle East, Turkey and Africa, or emissions by 2012, primarily to be achieved reduction scheme CPRS until 2013.
Our project companies in these regions via the EU Emissions Trading Scheme However, in February 2011, the new operate primarily under long-term PPAs and EUETS cap and trade mechanism, government announced a two-stage power and water purchase agreements designed to promote the reduction of CO framework to introduce a carbon price PWPAs and many of these have change 2 emissions across European industry.
In mechanism as of 1 July 2012, with a fixed of law protection, which would enable us December 2008, EU member states agreed price period for three to five years before to pass on carbon costs to the offtaker.
new, longer-term binding targets: a 20% transitioning to a form of emissions trading.
reduction in greenhouse gas emissions The proposal focuses on the high level Health, safety and by 2020 again from 1990 levels and 20% architecture, start date, potential environmental management of energy use to come from renewable mechanisms to allow flexibility to move In 2010 the global HS&E management sources by 2020.
These targets are to emissions trading, sectoral coverage, committee reviewed the overall apportioned between member states and and international linking arrangements.
performance of businesses across the implemented through new directives.
From Further detailed discussions will be Group and defined global HS&E standards 2013, full auctioning of CO allowances is required in relation to a starting price and targets.
The global committee was 2 to be implemented for the power sector for the carbon price mechanism, and supported by regional committees, which across the EU with limited exceptions which in relation to the associated assistance included representation from each plant.
do not apply to International Powers plants.
arrangements for households, communities The Board HS&E Committee oversaw and industry, and support for low emissions EU member states have also agreed HS&E policy and the performance of the technology and innovation.
to move to a 30% reduction target in global and regional HS&E management greenhouse gas emissions by 2020, The proposed architecture also allows committees.
It reviewed HS&E reports, should there be a global agreement on for consideration of design options such as well as any major incidents and issues carbon emissions and there is a possibility as phased coverage of sectors over time of public concern.
During 2010 the of a unilateral move to a 30% target by and coverage of the electricity sector via Committee met twice, in June at the the EU even without this agreement.
Fujairah F2 construction site, and in International Powers continental European The government plans to legislate in December at the T-Power construction thermal plants are operating under the second half of 2011.
The Committee toured the sites, long-term contracts with the ability to regulatory environment to be characterised reviewed HS&E matters and met with pass on carbon costs to the offtaker: by uncertainty in the short-term due to the plant managers and on-site staff.
therefore, our main risk exposure, the lack of clarity and we remain active including a potential UK-only carbon participants in the ongoing dialogue floor price, relates to our UK plants.
involved in developing this framework.
We have a trading desk to cover the In Victoria, where our Hazelwood and EUETS requirements and manage Loy Yang B plants are located, the former compliance obligations under the scheme.
government introduced legislation The trading desk operates within strict designed to achieve a 20% reduction internal risk management limits in terms of in CO emissions by 2020.
However, 2 matching its power sales commitments the new Conservative Liberal state with fuel purchases and associated carbon government, which was elected in late costs.
The Group includes provision for 2010, has ended negotiations regarding changes to such schemes in its the closure of selected brown coal plants negotiation of PPAs.
over a defined timescale, in a manner that compensates owners for the full economic The other major environmental regulatory value, and has not yet outlined alternative measure in Europe, in addition to those policies as to how it will address the for CO, is the Large Combustion Plant 2 reduction target.
This will now be superseded to engage with the new government by the Industrial Emissions Directive IED on policy developments.
from 2016, which requires improved emissions to air standards.
We are working towards those requirements, including review of a number of transitional options that were agreed at a European level during 2010.
74 International Power Annual Report 2010 Corporate responsibility Third party auditors assess our plants At the end of December 2010 100% of Maintaining corporate responsibility standards against the certification criteria required for those International Power plants where environmental and safety management we have operational control, except those In 2010, our Internal Audit Team maintained its cycle of audits on CR processes and systems, such as ISO 14001 and that have recently been acquired or OHSAS 18001, and for compliance with constructed, have ISO 14001 certified performance in the key areas of HS&E management.
All International Power the EUETS CO emissions reporting environmental management systems, 2 requirements.
The HS&E data in this 2010 and 94% have OHSAS 18001 certified business units have typically received a full internal audit every three years, with report has been formally verified by Lloyds health and safety management systems.
Their Any plants which do not currently hold an interim audit mid-way through the cycle.
The Internal Audit Department includes assessment provides assurance that certification, including those that have International Powers data monitoring and recently been acquired or constructed, HS&E specialists, and additional technical support is externally sourced where calculation processes generate accurate are in the process of working towards and complete data, that our data certification.
We also work with partners to try to ensure that joint ventures and management systems are robust, and the CR section of the Annual Report is credible Policies associates receive an equally rigorous audit regime.
The Audit Committee and CEO to stakeholders.
The LRQA verification Our CR strategy is to strive to protect statement is available on our website.
and, wherever possible, enhance the receive all audit reports.
environment and the host communities www.
com  who trust us to do our job safely, environment environmental-data competently and efficiently.
In order to implement our CR strategy, we have developed a number of CR policies, and these are set out in the table below.
summary of key Cr policies during 2010 Environment We strive for excellence in environmental performance through legal compliance, certified management systems, stakeholder engagement and the efficient use of natural resources.
We use state-of-the-art, proven environmental technology at our new plants and seek to upgrade the older ones and improve their efficiency where economically viable.
Health and safety We are committed to the best possible health and safety performance through management commitment, legislative compliance, certified management systems and continuing stakeholder engagement.
Employees We believe in fairness and equal opportunities for all our employees or applicants, regardless of race, religion, marital status, sexual orientation, age or disability.
International Power encourages employees or others with serious concerns about any aspect of work to come forward and express those concerns on a confidential basis, without fear of reprisal or victimisation.
Business ethics and social performance We follow fair and ethical principles to govern the way we manage and conduct our business.
We will conform to local societal norms and values enshrined in host countries laws, regulations, customs and business practices, so long as compliance does not breach our code of ethical behaviour.
In such cases we would seek to lead with new, higher, local standards.
In addition we aim to support the local economy, act as a responsible neighbour and employer and contribute towards the improvement of local health and education services.
Corporate responsiBility 75 2010 performance and highlights In order to measure the effectiveness of our performance we use a number of performance indicators.
2 The emissions intensity figures above take into account the significant quantities of energy used to produce desalinated water and steam at various plants.
Figures for equivalent electricity output at these plants have been calculated to reflect this and provide a correct representation of our emissions intensity.
3 Data on reportable environmental incidents and prosecutions is provided for those assets where we have operational control.
In addition, note that the European Wind Portfolio is currently excluded from this reporting.
4 Reportable environmental incidents are those where the reporting of an exceedance of emissions limits to the relevant authority resulted in a requirement to review existing operating practices.
Climate change and the The average carbon intensity of International Powers global portfolio has regulation of CO emissions 2 fallen in recent years from 0.715 kg kWh Carbon intensity equivalent in 2006 to 0.627 kg kWh We measure the carbon intensity of each equivalent in 2010. unit of electricity generated across our The key contributing factors to the portfolio.
In 2010 we used net reporting for reduction in CO tonnes and emissions CO, which reflects our ownership interest 2 2 intensity for the Group in 2010 were the in a power plant and therefore includes the sale of the Czech coal-fired assets in 2009 net MW of joint ventures and associates, and the reduced running hours at Pego and also the electricity equivalent of energy and Rugeley during 2010. used to generate products such as desalinated water and process heat.
Our portfolio pages 8 and 9 76 International Power Annual Report 2010 Corporate responsibility CO by region 2 2010 regional CO emissions 2 1 2 intensity, compared to Total CO 000 tonnes kg kWh equivalent 2 2010 2009 2010 2009 regional net MW by fuel type North America 9,673 10,776 0.536 0.545 North America 0.536 Europe 10,594 13,433 0.428 0.515 Middle East 9,650 8,926 0.402 0.393 Europe 0.428 Australia 22,363 23,380 1.199 1.208 Asia 7,903 7,156 0.751 0.751 Middle East 0.402 Australia 1.199 Notes: 1 Based on net MWs of capacity owned during the year.
Asia 0.751 2 The emissions intensity figures above take into account the significant quantities of energy used to produce kg kWh equivalent desalinated water and steam at various plants.
The adjacent graphs and table above Australia relies heavily on coal-fired power North America 6,374 show how CO emissions intensity in 2010 stations, which account for some 80% 2 Europe 7,035 varied across the five core business of the national electricity generation.
Emissions from thermal power Hazelwood and Loy Yang B plants in stations depend on the fuel they burn, Victoria were built to burn the abundant Australia 3,044 the thermal efficiency of the units and local brown coal, which produces higher Asia 1,639 the operating regime they work under.
CO emissions due to the higher moisture 2 Net MW Hydrocarbon fuels, such as natural gas, content of brown coal and results in a Gas inherently produce less CO per unit of relatively high emissions intensity.
2 Coal energy compared to coal.
Modern plants However, emission intensities from these Pumped storage tend to be more efficient due to continuing plants were similar to those of the other Wind improvements in technology.
major power generators in Victoria.
Oil Hydro In general, the International Power portfolio Whilst we measure the carbon intensity in 2010 mirrored global trends.
Our of our output, and seek to reduce it, we do average emissions intensity in North not have a specific target for reducing total America was relatively low because our CO emissions.
There are three principal 2 US fleet consisted of mostly highly efficient reasons for this.
Firstly, we are a growing gas-fired plants and this helped offset the business and any fossil fuel stations we higher emissions intensity of the Coleto add to our fleet will add to our aggregate Creek coal-fired plant.
In Europe there CO emissions level.
Secondly, we are a 2 were a variety of fuels and technologies in demand-led industry: we are obligated the portfolio, and our European renewables to generate electricity to meet customer portfolio contributed to the low emissions demand and we are committed to intensity for the region.
The Middle East ensuring the security of supply.
Finally, portfolio comprised largely modern and the choice of fuel is often dependent upon efficient gas-fired plants, and the majority client specifications which for new-build of these made effective use of fuel by using plants are specified during the bidding waste heat from generation to produce process and the most economic and desalinated water, which further reduced secure fuel available in the local market.
Our Asian power stations burned a range of fuels including gas, coal and oil and the emissions intensity for Asia reflects this fuel mix.
Corporate responsiBility 77 managing Co emissions In 2010, we continued to invest in the With equity partners, Morgan Stanley 2 Our strategy to manage CO emissions development of low carbon technologies.
45% and Atlantis Resources Corporation 2 has three core strands: Our carbon capture and storage project 10%, we have secured an agreement for at Hazelwood, in Australia, has been lease with The Crown Estate for an up to to generate electricity more efficiently successfully capturing up to 25 tonnes 400MW site in the Pentland Firth, Scotland.
to invest in low carbon fossil fuel of CO a day since the plant was Subject to achieving planning consent, 2 generation commissioned in July 2009.
This provides construction is planned over a phased valuable operational experience as well build out programme to 2020.
The first to expand our renewables portfolio as utilising CO to reduce the pH of the step will be to deploy a limited turbine array 2 We install high efficiency generating plant plants ash water and sequester CO as to assess the environmental impact of the 2 with proven environmental technology at calcium carbonate.
In separate trials at tidal turbines and help in the detailed our new power stations to enable us to the Hazelwood plant, post-combustion planning for future phases.
produce electricity competitively and with capture techniques using adsorbent The UK biomass generation sector is low emissions.
For example at the 840MW and membrane technologies are also expected to grow significantly, driven by Elecgas power station at Pego in Portugal, being investigated, using two additional binding targets for both renewable energy where construction has now been test rigs attached to the capture plant.
International Power completed, Siemens SGT5-4000F gas We have continued to grow our continues to pursue opportunities for turbine technology has been used in renewables portfolio, the majority of market entry, working with credible combination with steam turbines, giving which is onshore wind, and we have developers who have existing project design thermal efficiencies of over 57.5%.
a small but growing presence in other pipelines.
In addition, we will explore We regularly review the thermal efficiency renewable technologies such as tidal, greenfield opportunities, mainly in the UK, at our power stations in all regions and hydro, solar and biomass.
using a variety of technologies and fuels.
During 2010, we further expanded our These range from steam turbine upgrades, Canadian wind business.
In May a PPA improving combustion conditions and was signed for an additional 76MW reducing the electricity used on site.
of new wind generation capacity in During 2010 substantial investment was Ontario, which included the 49MW made in the installation of more efficient Pointe-Aux-Roches wind project for turbines at Rugeley Unit 6 and 7, Coleto which a C$117 million project financing Creek Unit 1 and Hazelwood Unit 1. was completed in October 2010.
In addition numerous energy efficiency North America regional review page 44 upgrades have also been implemented at other plants.
For example at our First Hydro pumped storage plant, efficiency improvements made in 2010 include the installation of a more efficient turbine runner, replacement of the supergrid transformer and improvements to the cooling water pumps.
78 International Power Annual Report 2010 Corporate responsibility Left EcoElctrica Puerto Rico Measures to control other Use of natural resources At our TNP plant improvements have been made to the reverse osmosis system to environmental impacts Our corporate environmental objectives The impact of the forthcoming EU IED and targets for 2010 required all asset save water.
As a result the number of back wash cycles required has been halved.
is being considered for all our European managers to assess the potential for plants covered by this legislation.
The resource efficiency savings at their Improvements have also been made so that waste water draining from the system biggest impact of the IED will be the businesses.
reduction of NOx emissions from coalcan be treated and reused, resulting in Midlothian in the US has actively pursued savings of 86 million litres of water per year.
fired power plants and our Rugeley plant water efficiency initiatives since 2003, is currently evaluating the feasibility of primarily by recycling industrial Our Paiton plant in Indonesia has been installing selective catalytic reduction very successful at recycling ash.
Since 2003, 670 million SCR technology to further reduce its 86,845 tonnes of ash were recycled litres of water have been saved and NOx emissions to IED limits at an 92% of total ash production.
Following US$4.75 million in additional costs have appropriate time in the future.
successful trials, the plant is now recycling been avoided.
Midlothian continues to previously stockpiled pulverised fuel ash Our assets have continued to make plant be one of the lowest water consuming PFA.
Approximately 13,680 tonnes of upgrades on a smaller scale to continue power plants in the US with an average the stockpile has been recycled.
consumption rate of 24 litres per net One example is the commissioning, in MWh over the last seven years.
This is February 2010, of low NOx burners on one approximately 3% of the consumption of the three units at our Turbogas plant in of a similar water cooled plant, which Portugal.
This technology will be extended typically uses 750 litres per net MWh.
to the remaining two units in 2011.
Corporate responsiBility 79 Health and safety Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 1 Accident frequency rate KPI 0.08 0.10 0.09 0.12 0.16 Fatalities 1 1 Notes: 1 Data on accident frequency rates and fatalities is provided for those assets where we have operational control.
We are committed to the best possible in health and safety performance.
This and health and safety performance.
Our key the increased focus on active monitoring performance indicator KPI in 2010 was have contributed to improvements in injury the accident frequency rate AFR which rates at many plants.
is defined as the number of lost time All but two plants, where International accidents LTAs divided by the number Power had operational control in 2010, of hours worked, multiplied by 100,000. have achieved OHSAS 18001 certification.
We have defined a LTA as a person being The International Power global health and absent from work for one or more safety governance documentation has subsequent working days or shifts been further refined in 2010.
Revised excluding the day or shift when the Group safety rules are currently being accident occurred due to injury or ill health introduced at our UK assets in order to sustained at work.
As well as incidents ensure a consistent and robust approach involving employees at all our sites where to managing permit to work systems.
we have operational control, we have also reported injuries to contractors at these Employees plants excluding those working under A variety of communication channels have engineering procurement and construction been used to communicate key issues EPC contracts.
The AFR of 0.08 for 2010 effectively.
Management briefings and remains a very low AFR when compared functional forums are good examples of with our peer group.
In 2010 we continued to produce It is important to provide all personnel at an internal International Power magazine, our sites with a safe place to work, and interconnect, which was distributed we seek to minimise any injuries to our globally to all International Power sites and staff.
In order to help us improve our offices.
The publication contained details understanding and management of health on major Group news, key industry and safety at our sites, in 2010 we placed developments, updates on regional an increased focus on monitoring total progress and features on CR.
Through recordable injuries any accident or 2010, International Power also continued injury however minor, and regardless to develop IPR Connect, an intranetof whether or not time is lost at work.
By based knowledge platform which provided identifying trends, sharing lessons learned, corporate employees across the Group and taking action in response to these with access to key information, services, incidents, we aim to reduce the potential policies and collaborative working areas.
Our people pages 64 to 67 Our behavioural safety programme known as Fresh Eyes, has now been running for three years and is widely adopted across the International Power portfolio.
Improved reporting systems were implemented in 2010, enabling analysis and comparison of the Fresh Eyes data across both plants and regions, and allowing common themes to be addressed on a plant and regional basis to help drive further improvements 80 International Power Annual Report 2010 Corporate responsibility Left Calumet North America Right First Hydro UK Business ethics and social performance Year ended 31 December 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 000 000 000 000 000 Community investment from International Power 1 and its subsidiaries 1,251 1,423 1,031 1,196 1,050 Community investment from 1 our joint ventures and associates 1,256 1,251 879 251 346 Notes: 1 100% of all donations included for subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, regardless of ownership percentage.
Our business partners range from We support the communities in which governments and multinational we operate by acting as a responsible organisations through to local and small employer and neighbour, and supporting energy providers, whose ultimate the improvement of local amenities customers rely on the generation of such as health and education services.
Local Donations are also made by our business customs and practice may businesses to alleviate hardship and vary considerably but, as a company support relief efforts in response to committed to certain business values, natural disasters.
Employees also give it is important that we operate with their time freely within their communities, ethical integrity in our business conduct offering support for many CR activities.
In 2010 we have We encourage our staff to participate applied uniform standards across the wherever possible and back them fully Group, which are set out in the Code.
More information about our community investments can be found on our website.
com  society Corporate responsiBility 81 Left Marmara contract workshop Turkey Charitable giving Flagship Projects lasting impact as the workshops ongoing running costs will be funded by the local In 2010 the International Power Charities Our Flagship Project programme has been Committee oversaw the award of charitable running since 2001.
This scheme selects Silivri Municipality.
In addition to assessing community projects, nominated by staff, requests and making awards in response to to be corporately funded annually by lord somers Camp performing arts centre applications for assistance from a variety of International Power.
Flagship Projects charities and good causes, the committee can range in size and scope, but they Lord Somers Camp is a not-for-profit youth development organisation located was also responsible for selecting the all have a common goal: to improve the Companys community-based nominated quality of life in the community.
This investment will allow the upgrade of outdoor theatre charities and annual Flagship Projects.
The 2010 Flagship Project award was split facilities including a new stage, proper International Power has supported three between two projects: 50,000 was given seating, lighting, audio visual equipment, major charities from our corporate centre.
to the Marmara handicapped workshop canopy and roofing so the facility can be During 2010, these were Crisis, Sight Turkey : and 36,000 was given to the used in all weather.
The Somers campsite Savers and Renewable World formerly Lord Somers Camp performing arts centre is used for a variety of programmes run for the Koru Foundation.
These projects represent our the youth, community, culturally diverse, about our relationship with these charities objective of giving back to the communities terminally and chronically ill, and disabled.
is available on our website.
in which we operate, and will provide It is also hired by schools and community ongoing benefits to those using the www.
com  groups at subsidised prices or at no cost.
facilities for years to come.
All programmes are organised, fundraised, society nominated-charities developed and driven entirely by volunteer marmara workshop to association members.
This project was In 2010 we operated a Give As You Earn help the handicapped scheme to facilitate personal charity nominated by one of our Simply Energy This project, located near our Marmara employees, Kate Devine, who volunteers donations by our employees.
We also plant in Turkey, will establish a workshop matched monies that our employees raise at the centre and whose family has to help handicapped and elderly people a long-standing relationship with for charity.
In 2010 International Power and become more involved in everyday life.
its subsidiaries contributed 1,251,000 to the organisation stretching back The funding will furnish and equip a new three generations.
charitable causes and other community muscle therapy room and enable the projects.
Companies in which we share purchase of both an ambulance and a control or have significant influence joint minibus to provide transport for people ventures and associates contributed a to and from the facility.
The nature of the further 1,256,000. venture ensures the investment has a 82 International Power Annual Report 2010 Corporate responsibility Left Indian Queens UK Environment Our CR priorities for 2011 The enlarged International Power will We are committed to running our be one of the largest independent power business in a responsible manner and generators in the world.
Although total taking into account our obligations to all CO emissions will increase as a result 2 our stakeholders.
This includes making of the addition of new fossil fuelled power sound investments of resources to stations to the portfolio, the emissions improve the environmental performance intensity kgCO kWh will be significantly 2 of our plants and the broader CR reduced due to the fuel and technology performance of our business.
types of the plants being added.
Of the enlarged portfolio 63% of net capacity is In setting our CR priorities for 2011 we from gas-fired plants, which produce lower need to take into account the larger CO emissions than other fossil fuels, and portfolio created by the Combination.
2 13% is from renewable energy sources Our overriding aim is to ensure that we such as hydro, biomass, wind and solar adopt and promote best practice from power.
The new plants introduce some the Group in managing the enlarged new technologies and locations to the portfolio.
In doing so, we will actively International Power portfolio.
GDF SUEZ participate and contribute to GDF SUEZ Energy International brings experience of Group CR objectives.
managing these plants and any potential environmental impacts.
Setting out the corporate objectives and targets for the enlarged portfolio, and developing consistent methods for collecting and reporting data will be key priorities for 2011.
Corporate responsiBility 83 Left Turbogs Portugal Health and safety Business ethics and social The plants comprising the enlarged performance portfolio have well established and We aim to ensure that ethical principles effective health and safety management are applied consistently across the Group.
Our aim is to ensure that In particular we will ensure we are we adopt and promote the best policies, compliant across the business with the procedures and practices from across the provision of the new Bribery Act which is enlarged Group.
Establishing mandatory being introduced in the UK during 2011. corporate requirements for the combined International Power bases its ethics and business on both a corporate and regional compliance policy on principles which are basis will be a key focus for 2011, as will similar to the core values which GDF SUEZ the development of consistent methods Energy International has applied.
The of recording and reporting data.
Group will continue to give generously to appropriate charities and will work to Employees enhance the communities in which we Our priority will be to keep staff members operate by being a responsible employer, informed about the integration process supporting the local economy, being a and to retain valuable skills.
We will also responsible neighbour, and supporting work to harmonise key performance local services and community initiatives.
indicators, review data collection mechanisms and adopt and promote the best practices from across the Group.
