64 International Power Annual Report 2010 Our people The enlarged organisation has an enhanced portfolio and committed growth pipeline, which we believe will strengthen our ability to attract, retain and develop highly skilled employees.
Left Hidd Middle East Right Rugeley UK International Power is a diverse group, for the future.
We recruited high calibre Attracting employees both in terms of our geographical locations individuals to our newly designed In our organisation, like many others, and employee backgrounds.
At the end graduate engineering scheme, providing getting the right people to join our of 2010, we employed some 3,500 people an opportunity for selected individuals business is critical for future success.
either directly or through our subsidiaries.
to work at our UK power stations.
The We seek to attract and retain high calibre Following the Combination this has two-year scheme is structured to facilitate employees, including those with specialist increased to approximately 11,000.
Whilst the achievement of Chartered Engineer qualifications, skills and experience.
any large integration represents a time of status and we are working closely with We also seek to recruit people who have significant change, our employees have the Engineering Council and relevant the potential to develop and meet the risen to the challenges presented to them professional bodies to achieve formally advancing needs of the organisation.
and continued to deliver to very high recognised accreditation.
The increased global reach of the enlarged standards, albeit that in some locations In the Middle East and Australia we International Power, combined with it has been a time of uncertainty.
successfully recruited high calibre the strengthened employer brand As a result of our regional management graduates, whilst in Indonesia we offer and excellent career development framework and business ownership work experience programmes for local opportunities, will help ensure that we structures, our people policies reflect university students.
The structured continue to attract talented employees input from both the corporate centre graduate programme launched in 2008 in all regions.
Our at our London corporate office is now The global energy industry faces challenges Executive Team takes the establishment in its third year and graduates have been as the number of engineers and skilled and implementation of our principles, recruited and developed in our Corporate technical operators retiring exceeds the guidelines and governance standards Finance, European Finance and number graduating with engineering seriously.
In joint ventures or when working Commercial teams.
This programme degrees and technical experience.
In 2010 with associates, International Power is has already seen a number of graduates we continued to take comprehensive steps also committed to providing input into successfully transition to substantive to address this issue across the business.
employment practices to ensure our roles within the business.
In the UK our Engineering Succession general principles are followed.
Development Programme progressed Our regional management teams are and the relationships we have developed held accountable for managing our with academic and industry institutions power plants, ensuring we respect supported both graduate and apprentice national cultures and comply with intake, and the development of engineers local employment regimes.
Business overview 65 Left Paiton Indonesia Right Hays Texas At the Umm Al Nar power plant in the UAE, Where possible, we encourage internal we have 11 apprentices undertaking applications from within the Group for all a two-year training programme.
An vacancies in order to give employees a apprenticeship working group has broad range of experience.
Developing been formed to provide a forum and and challenging employees not only helps the necessary frameworks to facilitate retain them in the business, but is critical consistent, quality provision of to enable effective succession planning.
In the In the Middle East, a number of countries UK we currently have apprentices at operate a form of localisation, whereby our Rugeley, Deeside, First Hydro and employers are required to increase the Saltend stations.
Our apprenticeship number of local staff in the workforce scheme in Australia continues to be over time.
This requires detailed training a success and the scheme at the Hub programmes to be in place, and power plant in Pakistan remains the co-operation with external training corner stone of skills development institutes and government bodies.
At our in the local community.
Umm Al Nar plant in the UAE, we have established links with local universities and Developing and retaining colleges to provide management training employees to supervisory and middle management, and English language training for all.
At We recognise that the skills and dedication Hidd Power Company in Bahrain, we have of our employees will improve our achieved a high level of localisation 55%, competitiveness.
During 2010, we invested and we aim to increase this to 80% over in developing our employees skill base the next five years, through graduate to meet the needs of individuals and recruitment, with five new graduates the organisation.
We are committed to joining each year.
The five most recent providing employees with interesting and graduates have been registered to challenging roles, and opportunities to participate in the Institute of Leadership learn, develop and advance their careers.
and Management certificate which Hidd is pioneering in the Middle East.
66 International Power Annual Report 2010 Our people Left Ras Laffan B Qatar Right Thai National Power Thailand In 2010 leadership and management Performance management is critical to Reflecting our commitment to employee development were a key focus throughout the ongoing success and growth of our welfare, we offer employee assistance the Group.
A variety of formal courses, business.
A number of development programmes, health talks and education programmes and coaching were provided and support opportunities specifically sessions often supported by local at both a regional and local level.
Formal designed to improve related key skills providers at many of our power stations.
initiatives were delivered in all five of our objective setting, feedback skills, formal Competitive pay, benefits and a number regions, targeting the development of performance appraisal, coaching skills of incentive plans are offered to attract and individuals at all levels of our management have been provided to managers retain talented people in our organisation.
in a number of regions, including the For senior staff we continue to operate US and the Middle East.
In Europe, we implemented a pilot a long-term incentive plan.
We view this leadership programme for our senior The provision of technical training is as an integral part of our strategy to align managers, incorporating a 360 feedback also essential for the growth of our the interests of staff with the Groups element.
The programme was designed business and continues throughout the performance, based on clear financial to raise awareness of individual leadership Group.
We encourage people to study criteria.
capability and achieve sustained change for both national qualifications and The increased size and capacity of the through follow up activity and coaching.
A number of safety enlarged organisation will offer attractive A six-month management development training initiatives have also continued career prospects for many employees programme for first-time managers in 2010, and the implementation of and access to additional development also took place.
This focused on the our new Group safety rules has been opportunities, such as GDF SUEZ development of core management successfully supported by comprehensive University.
Throughout the integration skills and involved delegates from training to ensure the common application process we have been mindful to take many of our European power stations.
The Fresh Eyes the necessary steps to retain key skills, programme continues at all plants where Simply Energy, our retail operation in ensuring we provide the best leadership, we have operational control.
This initiative Australia, developed a new approach to management and expertise for the newly concentrates on improving safe behaviour growing leadership capability in their Senior integrated teams.
at our power stations through colleagues Management Team.
This development observing their peers at work and then initiative focused the Senior Management providing feedback.
Team on strategic leadership, whilst supporting senior managers to take on vital key management activities.
Business overview 67 Communicating Equal opportunities and with employees diversity in the workplace Team briefings are undertaken on a regular We endeavour to ensure our employees basis at our power stations to ensure key conduct themselves with the highest messages are communicated to all staff integrity at all times.
To help employees in a timely manner.
Additionally, the CEO, understand and follow consistent Philip Cox, hosts quarterly Connect Live standards of conduct throughout our CEO briefings.
These are all-employee international operations, the Code of conference calls which allow every Business Conduct has been developed employee in the Group, from all parts of the for use by employees and managers world, to hear directly from Philip about and is reviewed annually throughout important issues.
Employees are also our business.
given the opportunity to ask him questions.
Recognising the very wide diversity of our We continue to invest in the latest employees and business partners across technology to support communication the globe, International Power is fully with our colleagues around the world.
committed to the provision of equal During 2010 we continued the opportunities and the prevention of development of IPR Connect, an discrimination.
Not only is this the right intranet-based knowledge platform which thing to do, but we believe wholeheartedly is gradually being rolled out to employees that it makes sound business sense to in our regional offices and subsidiary benefit from the wide ranging knowledge companies.
In addition to our general sites, and experience of individuals in all sectors employee portals have now been designed of the societies in which we have a presence.
to provide targeted information sharing for specific groups of individuals.
For example, we have an active graduate community portal which provides an additional opportunity to communicate, inform and engage both graduates and their support network.
We also continued to share our achievements and communicate through our Company magazine interconnect.
This publication was available to all International Power employees in 2010 to inform them about business news and developments.
Whilst we consistently provide regular employee communication, throughout the ongoing integration of International Power and GDF SUEZ Energy International we have also ensured that employees are regularly updated and provided with additional opportunities to receive information and discuss progress and issues relating to the integration process.
These additional communication efforts have been pivotal for managing the change effectively and have included the regular circulation of an all-employee newsletter: open sessions with Philip Cox and members of the Executive Team: team briefings: and where relevant, employee consultation.
