com Corporate Social Responsibility Report Introduction from the Chief Executive Officer Contents From the continual development of our own services we know that the importance of corporate social responsibility keeps growing.
31 Introduction from the Chief Executive Officer This year, to support the growing demand for environmental 32 Our business improvements, we have added a number of environmental services to our portfolio, details of which are given on page 32.
32 Our values Additionally this year we have offered some of our audit customers 33 Our employees the opportunity to offset the emissions generated through their use 34 Our communities of our services.
In this way customers can demonstrate their social responsibility to their own customers while at the same time verifying 35 Our environment their own processes.
We intend to extend this programme to other 35 Our customers, standards providers, suppliers areas of our business that involve significant identifiable emissions.
and shareholders We remain a service business that prides itself on its local flexibility, 37 Our corporate social responsibility so we have not changed our fundamental model that allows our CSR structure local businesses to react appropriately to local stakeholders, within the framework of our global policies.
In this way the direction of charitable donations or the methods of engaging with employees can be decided at a local country level rather than centrally.
Our greatest contribution to corporate social responsibility is to provide services that enable our customers to develop more green and sustainable products through socially responsible supply chains.
For that reason our focus at Board level is on providing an ethical and fair service that meets customers needs.
We are pleased that this approach has been recognised in our nomination in 2010s UK National Business Awards for bringing to the market a new style of customer-focused service.
Customers are facing increased challenges to reduce their carbon emissions arising from their operations, supply chain networks and end users.
In response to such challenges, Intertek became the first company in the sector to launch a carbon offset program for our audit services.
Our customers achieve carbon neutrality for audit services received through participation in one of a number of offset projects.
The diversified project portfolio features carbon offset projects of the highest quality and standard guidelines such as Gold Standard, Voluntary Carbon Standard and Climate Action Reserve.
Sample projects include a wind renewable energy project in Turkey and a biomass project generating steam for electricity production in Brazil.
Our carbon advisory and sustainability services are also helping our customers apply the latest standards to mitigate their environmental and socio-economic impact.
Our carbon services team helps customers assess the environmental impact of their products through lifecycle analysis consulting and tools.
This enables them to strengthen their brands through carbon labelling schemes on products and in their stakeholder reporting.
Intertek Annual Report 2010 31 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Our business Our new social compliance programme, Workplace Condition We provide testing, inspection, certification and related services in Assessment, represents the next generation in social auditing tools.
respect of a huge range of products and services.
Our work ensures Manufacturers and retailers can measure performance against the quality and safety of customers products, processes and systems industry benchmarks, communicate results and improve workplace which ultimately benefit the end consumer.
A unique scorecard produces a measured result by knowledge, valuable research and industry expertise are shared comparing a facilitys performance against industry, country and through our growing training and consulting services.
An automated report facilitates improvements and enables factories to showcase performance to stakeholders.
Intertek continues to develop and acquire new testing methods, laboratories and expertise to support innovation, particularly in the In partnership with Credit360, a CSR data management service renewable products and commodities sector.
We have committed provider, we enable the collection of social and environmental data new resources to the development of solar, wind and battery fuel in China and Hong Kong to a central secure location.
The highly cell technology and biodegradability testing and are opening stateconfigurable system addresses numerous CSR challenges through of-the-art testing laboratories in Europe, Asia and America.
This year our renewable energy services have been augmented by the acquisition of Metoc in the UK, which through its provision For manufacturers requiring energy testing, Intertek recently of consultancy services from the initial concept to the design stage deployed 18 global Energy Efficiency Centres of Excellence of energy infrastructure projects, is able to influence the interaction throughout North America, Asia and Europe.
of clients with the environment.
This includes wind, wave, solar and hydro-electric projects.
Metocs work also mitigates the adverse Intertek has been named an EPA-Recognised Certification Body impact of oil and gas exploration through its upstream services.
for the new ENERGY STAR Enhanced Testing and Verification procedures, which will require manufacturers seeking use of Technological solutions for oil and gas upstream clients, such as the ENERGY STAR label to submit products for third-party those provided by the advanced mathematical software modelling certification from EPA-recognised certification bodies.
products of another UK acquisition, Profitech, support the efficiency of oil and gas production processes, while exhaust emission control This distinction by the EPA is a crowning achievement for Intertek, is better evaluated by our ground breaking test technology in said Gregg Tiemann, Executive Vice President of Interteks San Antonio, Texas, USA.
Being the only EPA-Recognised Certification Body that has the breadth to cover all gas and electrical Our work also includes testing compliance and effectiveness targets ENERGY STAR product categories is clear affirmation of Interteks in the production of biomass, biofuels and ethanol.
This enables our market leading position and global expertise in energy efficiency customers to comply with ultra low sulphur diesel legislation and across all types of products.
assess low energy and low emission equipment.
New laboratories in Albany in the USA and Bilbao in Spain will provide additional Our values testing capacity for biofuels and the Bilbao lab will also carry out Our principal aim is to use our resources to add value to our environmental testing of contaminated water and soil.
customers products and processes whilst employing the highest standards of integrity in business.
We are a world leader in helping our customers design safe products, with particular expertise in childrens toys.
Our centres Our Mission Statement of excellence in Chicago and London provide advice to some of We will: the worlds largest product brands to advance the design of safe value trust and personal responsibility: products in the marketplace.
In partnership with industry and health act with integrity, honesty and respect: bodies we collect and analyse safety data in connection with child deliver excellent services which add value to our accidents, and use this information to help our customers design customers business: safer products.
focus on continual growth and outstanding performance: strive to create a safe work environment: Intertek provides audit and consultancy services to corporations, value each employees contribution toward achieving our non-governmental and regulatory organisations to improve the business objectives: social and ethical impact of their operations.
Increasingly consumers promote a culture where motivated customer-orientated around the world want peace of mind that products they have employees can flourish, experience professional fulfilment purchased have not been created through social or ethical abuse and reach their highest potential: and of workers or unfair trade.
We audit factory conditions and work respect diverse perspectives, experiences and traditions practices to help make sure that they are legal, ethical and humane.
We work with corporations to develop bespoke global CSR standards and programmes to ensure that they exceed minimum social and ethical thresholds in their sourcing.
We have successfully initiated partnerships and collaborations with non-governmental and not-for-profit organisations to improve standards.
32 Intertek Annual Report 2010 Directors Report Business Review www.
com To help us ensure that our values are maintained: Our policies personal integrity is as important as technical competence in our We have framework policies in place that enable fair treatment of recruitment and promotion decisions: employees across the Group, whilst still giving local managers the all employees and sub-contractors are required to sign the Groups authority and flexibility to adopt what is right for their local area.
Code of Ethics, which sets out our robust stance on upholding As we grow, whether organically or by acquisition, we continue to sound business ethics: promote and monitor these policies, which embrace matters such employees are trained regularly in our business ethics: as fair recruitment, performance management, internal our compliance network ensures that our policies and procedures communications and remuneration.
are properly applied in practice and that they remain appropriate to the business: The maps on pages 10 and 11 show how we are distributed all employees have access to whistle-blowing hotlines.
Employees geographically and why we strive to respect regional and cultural and external parties also have access to a hotline through the differences.
Our human resource managers support the progress Group website: and of our people through country-specific teams who are able to our Audit and Risk Committee regularly reviews the outcomes respond to local circumstances.
Our strategy is to develop and from hotlines and compliance reports on behalf of the Board.
promote locally for the best blend of understanding of the local market, with provision of career progress opportunities for everyone.
Our employees We continue to give opportunities to the most talented individuals Our principal strengths are the talent and integrity of our employees.
to advance into international management.
Our intention is to unlock the potential of every employee to perform to the best of his or her abilities.
This enables us to achieve The health and safety of our employees is of paramount importance maximum results for them, our customers and shareholders.
We aim to provide a safe working environment and ensure that our employees have the information and knowledge At 31 December 2010 we employed 27,000 people, an increase of to perform their duties safely.
We are committed to maintaining 7.4% over the prior year.
The growth in employee numbers in each high standards and complying with relevant local legislation and region over the past five years, is shown in the following graph.
guidelines in any area in which we operate.
We continually seek The largest increase during that period has been in the Asia Pacific to minimise risk to our employees and our procedures are regularly region where 54% of employees are based.
Because we operate monitored by our compliance team to ensure that they are being in so many countries, we have adopted a framework of human properly applied in practice.
resource policies to provide a guide to a fair and consistent approach to people around the Group.
As part of our equal opportunities policy, people with disabilities are given the same consideration as others when they apply for jobs.
Depending on their skills and aptitudes, they enjoy the same career Growth in employee numbers prospects as other employees.
If employees become disabled every 28,000 effort will be made to retain them in their current role or to look at possibilities for retraining or redeployment within the Group.
Where 21,000 necessary the Group aims to provide these employees with facilities, equipment and training to assist them in doing their jobs.
14,000 In the UK, Phillip Carson, one of our Quality Directors, and Derek Snowden, our UK Quality, Safety, Health and Environment Manager, 7,000 contributed to the prestigious Institution of Chemical Engineers journal Chemical Engineering Research and Design an article on 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 health, safety and environment metrics and their application in Asia promoting improvement.
The depth of their expertise is an EMEA indication of the importance Intertek places on health and safety.
Americas Intertek Singapore launched an employee safety campaign with a Objectives Laboratory Safety Day.
More than 100 employees took part in the Our focus this year has been on: event designed to increase employee awareness of safety, which assessing and improving the strength of our collective leadership: involved a quiz, slogan competition and a drawing competition for and young family members.
The day reinforced employees commitment improving our capacity to attract, retain and motivate employees to safety in a country where Intertek has reduced its lost-time injury as our global presence expands.
rate by half in seven years.
Intertek Annual Report 2010 33 Corporate Social Responsibility Report We use face-to-face review meetings, safety meetings, regular In the US our injury and lost-time incident statistics once again management meetings and, increasingly, country-focused improved over the previous year.
newsletters to give and receive information.
Routine fire code, water quality, safety, and environmental audits Employees are also able to use our confidential telephone and took place in our US premises, without any significant citations.
email hotlines if they have any issues that they want to communicate anonymously.
All hotline calls are investigated sensitively by our Our safety programmes maintain an excellent regulatory compliance compliance managers.
rating from external client-appointed safety consortia.
Federal regulatory changes are reviewed when released and incorporated Our Intertek as One programme of cross-divisional liaison has into the applicable safety programme.
contributed to increased knowledge of the Group and to better opportunities for our employees through regional and countryInformation about employees based meetings, communications and workshops.
It is important to monitor progress in matters such as diversity, employment of disabled people, training, employee retention Share interests and safety, to attain the best results for the Group.
The more We are committed to aligning the interests of our senior executives information we have, the better we will be able to make changes with the interests of shareholders and the Groups performance when they are necessary.
through ownership of the Companys shares.
The Company operates a long-term incentive share plan for senior executives Group wide and regional human resource meetings and intranet and requires the most senior of them to retain some of the shares based sharing of information are used to communicate objectives they obtain through this plan.
More information about the plan is and share knowledge, and we have begun to introduce software contained in the Remuneration Report which starts on page 54. that will once extended around the globe, provide us with more We are pleased to note that a number of our employees have detailed and consistent data.
chosen to invest in the Group and that shares to the value of around 10.4m were held by employees and Directors at the end of 2010.
13% of the Intertek Council, which comprises the Groups most senior functional and business leaders, are women.
Our communities Because of the decentralised structure of our Group and the nature 17% of our senior leadership group, which includes about of our activities, community involvement is organised at local level 240 managers, are women.
We recognise the importance of our relationship with the communities in which we operate, and encourage our businesses and employees to undertake community service and Information for employees charitable giving.
Good communication is the basis of every successful relationship and we continually look for ways to increase the two-way communication opportunities with our employees.
In particular, Employees from our Houston, USA headquarters and our Technical we ensure that our employees are aware of our Code of Ethics, Centre in Deer Park, USA worked as Rodeo Buddies at the Baytown risk and safety procedures.
Special Rodeo western theme day held for local special needs and handicapped children.
Thirty staff members assisted children and With the increasing range and complexity of our activities we are their families participating in games, hay rides, horse riding and more.
investing more in the flow of information across the Group to enhance commitment to Group values and consistency in how In August 2010 our Singapore team took part in the New Moon we support our customers and each other.
We have extended the Big Walk.
The walk is a community project organised to raise rice for scope of our intranet to encourage Group-wide communication needy families in the North East Community Development Councils and knowledge sharing.
Our intranet has become an online constituencies in Singapore.
Seventy-five Intertek employees and encyclopaedia of the Group, a home to internal communities, their families took part.
a reference for policies and information and an e-learning forum.
Hong Kongs Red Cross blood transfusion service recognised the We are delighted to have been awarded the 2010 Ektron All Stars long term support for blood donation of staff at Intertek in Hong Award for the best intranet site.
Kong with a special merit award in 2010.
At a Gymboree Play & Music event in China we used our expertise Our online training tool, SOLO, has been expanded to include a wide in child safety to advise parents and teachers how to choose safe range of training modules including safety, technical, ethical, products and what to look for when buying toys.
personal development and standard software training.
The tool has been made available to new geographical locations and further developments are planned.
34 Intertek Annual Report 2010 Directors Report Business Review www.
com We also encourage the development of links with professional Interteks operational and compliance teams take an active role in peers, providing lecturers and examiners and contributing to identifying areas where the Group and its employees can have a publications and presentations.
positive effect on reducing our environmental impact.
These include energy and water consumption, use of fuel by Group vehicles, Our environment reduced use of ozone-depleting substances and waste and byAs a service business, our consumption of energy is relatively product production.
insignificant and whilst we continually strive to make improvements in respect of our own operations, the positive impact we can have We aim to educate our employees so that we can all work on the environment through our services to clients is far greater.
towards a better future for the environment.
For example, providing information on energy consumption is one of the ways we enlist We have measured our carbon emissions at 10 key sites over the last the help of all employees in minimising specific and overall usage.
four years to gain a better understanding of our energy use.
This has helped us track the impact of various initiatives on CO2 emissions.
Our customers, standards providers, suppliers and shareholders Our compliance team carries out regular risk reviews at key sites, At Intertek we: and as part of these reviews confirm that the sites comply with maintain quality management systems in our divisions and applicable environmental legislation.
Any issues identified are continually monitor the service we provide: corrected as part of the process.
Local operational managers value and serve our customers, as embodied in our customerreview environmental controls on a continuing basis.
focused mission statement: offer an integrated and unified service on a global basis: In common with many areas of Interteks business, the welcome feedback from all stakeholders: implementation of our framework policy on the environment is hold regular feedback meetings with customers and welcome operated by local management in accordance with relevant local their inspection of our premises: legislation and guidelines.
A number of projects have been carried provide an accessible feedback service to assess the quality out at a local level during the year.
of service provided: and conduct customer satisfaction surveys.
We have continued with the following: reducing paper usage by introducing paper-free delivery to clients, Government regulators and industry bodies responsible for using electronic document management systems, using electronic implementing better health, environmental, quality, safety and communication with shareholders and increasing the use of the technical standards are also our stakeholders.
We work with many internet and intranet for all communications including voice calls: standards bodies directly in a number of countries, such as Trading increasing investment in low-energy equipment: Standards in the UK to assist their development of standards.
We increasing recycling schemes throughout the Group: are members of, and sometimes leaders of, standards development reducing carbon-fuel travel by holding meetings by conference organisations and their technical committees.
call or Webinar and amending travel policies to include  elements: and green office initiatives have reduced paper usage, saved energy, and cut costs.
In compliance with UK legislation we have declared our consumption of energy to the UK Environment Agency under the Energy Efficiency Scheme.
Our declared consumption was 4,406 megawatt hours.
Our new acquisition Metoc has been a winner of Anglian Waters Corporate Responsibility Award for its technical solution that enabled Southend-on-Sea, in South East England, to retain Blue Flag status.
Our new green laboratory and office building in Mexico has environmental features that help reduce energy and water usage, carbon emissions and waste.
The building is designed to maximise natural sunlight and the interior of the building uses light coloured materials with open floor plans and natural light to cut artificial lighting costs.
Energy efficient lighting is used throughout the building.
The cross-divisional headquarters building has an onsite water treatment plant that processes waste water from the textiles laboratory for use in the buildings gardens, cleaning areas and bathrooms.
Biodegradable materials are used for cleaning and maintenance.
Intertek Annual Report 2010 35 Corporate Social Responsibility Report To better facilitate global alignment Intertek holds roles in several As a Group we do not have any individual suppliers on whom we key workgroups within the most internationally recognised are overly reliant and we aim to treat all suppliers with fairness and certification organisation, the IECEE Worldwide System for integrity.
We strive to create relationships based on mutual trust and Conformity Testing and Certification of Electrotechnical Equipment ensure payment of all invoices on a timely basis.
As global standardisation becomes more aligned, global trade barriers will be systematically diminished.
Our global procurement teams, which are located in key regional bases, have introduced undertakings to be required of new suppliers, based on our own ethical guidelines.
Our industry participation includes: We do not carry out testing on live animals.
Membership of the Environmental Committee of the American Apparel and Footwear Association, supporting industry in meeting Our Compliance Code sets out our business principles including environmental requirements.
their application in business relationships.
The Code is available in the Compliance and Corporate Governance section of our website Membership of the Swedish National Committee for Environmental at www.
Management, Subcommittee on Carbon Footprint.
Membership of the Roundtable for Sustainable Fire Protection, an We work with our customers to make sure our Compliance Code industry roundtable to address sustainability, environment and safety is readily available and prominently displayed where inspection and in the fire protection industries.
This encourages transparency and fosters open communication.
Leadership of the Canadian committee for environmental standardisation for electrical and electronic products and systems, Communication with shareholders is given a high priority and a which contributes to the development of  number of means are used to promote greater understanding standards for environmental improvement and the harmonisation and dialogue with investment audiences.
Our investor of Canadian environmental standards with international standards, programme includes: helping to facilitate global trade.
regular individual meetings with shareholders and investment managers during the year: Membership of the Swedish National Committee for Environmental road shows in many countries: Standardisation for Electrical and Electronic Products.
regular analyst briefings: and investor days where analysts and investors are invited to visit Contribution to the development of several International some of our laboratories to meet our employees and observe Electrotechnical Commission environmental standards including work being performed.
those for the testing of hazardous products and photovoltaic product assessment.
These standards improve environmental In addition, Intertek has an experienced investor relations team to accountability while helping to facilitate global trade.
handle enquiries and report investor-related matters to the Board.
Feedback on the Groups investor programme has been positive Contributions to the development of: and Intertek has a good relationship with investors and their the Association Connecting Electronics Industry IPC standard 1752 representatives.
on materials declaration: the coming ISO standard on Product Carbon Footprint: During the course of the year shareholders are kept informed on the draft Greenhouse Gas Emissions standard from the EU CEN the progress of the Group through reports on our financial results, organisation, Committee on Greenhouse Gas Emissions: and and other announcements of significant developments that are the revision of the Product Certification Accreditation Standard.
released through regulatory news services and our own website, which received a relaunch during the year.
We have introduced the Membership of the Board for Health & Beauty America for option of electronic communications with shareholders as a way contributions to the industry on health and environmental topics.
Membership of the impartiality committee of the Carbon Trust Footprinting Certification Company.
A director of one of our UK subsidiaries sits on the technical panel of judges of the Business Commitment to the Environment Environmental Leadership awards.
The US Environmental Protection Agency consulted with Intertek in transforming the globally-recognised Energy Star Program into a third party energy efficiency certification program.
36 Intertek Annual Report 2010 Directors Report Business Review www.
com Our corporate social responsibility structure Community and stakeholder policy Intertek has businesses in many locations around the world.
Intertek will take into account, when making decisions, of their Our activities are organised to permit local managers to manage impact on all relevant stakeholders.
their operations within the framework established by the Board of Intertek Group plc.
We consider local managers are best placed Business practices policy to understand and react to their local business environment.
Intertek will carry out its work in an honest, professional, independent and impartial manner.
Marketing will be conducted The corporate social responsibility framework within which these in a manner that is not misleading.
Procurement from suppliers activities are to be managed, has been formally adopted by the whose corporate responsibility policies align with Interteks will Board of Intertek Group plc.
General policy We have cascaded these policies through our management teams Interteks core businesses provide services that are ultimately of and published them on our corporate intranet.
Employees are benefit to consumers and other stakeholders.
We test substances encouraged to supply ideas and information concerning our CSR for purity and performance.
We test products for safety and quality.
performance by contacting us through the intranet.
We measure air and noise emissions.
We review imports to assess their content accurately.
We provide advice that can lead to greater Overall and ultimate responsibility for the Groups CSR policies, efficiency of production or operation.
We carry out audits to help issues and their implementation lies with the Chief Executive Officer.
ensure that factory conditions and work practices are legal, humane Direction falls under the remit of the Group Executive Vice President and ethical.
Intertek takes seriously the benefits that our businesses for Human Resources.
confer and will continue to endeavour in all its dealings to improve quality, safety and to bring about environmental benefits through improved efficiency of products.
Environmental policy Intertek will strive to prevent its operations causing adverse impact on the environment.
We will comply with national environmental legislation and will endeavour to identify, monitor and control our environmental risks.
We will seek to reduce emissions, effluents, waste and adverse effect on biodiversity.
We will commit to recycling schemes and energy efficiency.
We will provide benefits in respect of environmental impacts through our testing of environmental standards and will operate safely.
Ethical policy Intertek prohibits the offer, giving or acceptance of bribes in any form.
Intertek prohibits the provision of improper benefits.
No reward, gift or favour dependent on the outcome of any work will be accepted by employees.
Employees shall operate free from any conflict of interest.
Employee policy Intertek will strive to provide a safe and healthy environment for its employees to work in.
It will comply with national employee legislation.
In the absence of any local prescription, employees will be assessed solely on the basis of their ability irrespective of their race, religion, colour, age, disabilities, gender or sexual orientation or their participation in legitimate union activities.
Employees diverse perspectives, experiences and traditions will be respected.
Wherever possible, employees personal growth will be fostered through the provision of training.
