Corporate Social Responsibility Invensys is committed to supporting the principles of The Code of Conduct and associated training are the core economic success, environmental stewardship, diversity elements in the latest iteration of the Compliance Programme.
We believe that by acting as In the course of the current year, we will release further training aresponsible global citizen, we will not only minimise on specific areas of compliance, targeted to relevant audiences, business risk but also enhance our reputation as a and offer refresher courses in critical areas of the Code of businesspartner.
The Invensys Code of Conduct and compliance training Our sustainability strategy The Invensys Code of Conduct both describes and represents We have continued to implement our sustainability strategy our commitment to responsible business and is the foundation throughout the year.
We have made good progress against of our broader Compliance Programme.
Under the terms of our sustainability targets.
the Code of Conduct, our employees undertake to work with We have continued to reduce our environmental footprint, integrity as representatives of Invensys and in accordance with minimising waste and increasing efficiency.
We are pleased both local law and our own standards of ethical behaviour: to report that we have exceeded our targets for reductions where the Code of Conduct is more exacting than local laws in our environmental key performance indicators KPIs.
As our orstandards, the Code of Conduct must be followed.
suppliers play an important role in our own sustainability efforts, As we undertook in last years Annual Report and Accounts, we are in the process of updating our supplier assessment during the year we relaunched the Invensys Code of Conduct, procedures, and plan to communicate our expectations of refreshing its look and also updating its content to take into suppliers to act ethically and to make advances in the areas account changing laws and a growing focus on compliance.
of social and environmental responsibility.
This increased focus is also reflected in policies on key areas During the year Invensys renewed its participation in the approved by our Board.
The Board is given regular updates United Nations Global Compact UNGC and the Carbon on compliance issues by the Chief Legal Officer.
The Chief Disclosure Project CDP.
In the UK, Invensys wasagain listed Executive and Chief Human Resources Officer receive regular on the FTSE4Good Index Series, which lists companies that briefings from the Chief Legal Officer where any concerns meet recognised standards of corporate responsibility.
Legal and ethical compliance is recognised Invensys has also for the first time been added to the Dow as a priority for Invensys.
Jones Sustainability Indexes DJSI in recognition ofour Our redesigned and rewritten Code of Conduct was translated economic, environmental and social performance.
Wewere into 12 languages and hard copy versions were distributed to also awarded certification under the Carbon Trust Standard for all Invensys offices and facilities, along with digital copies both having reduced our carbon emissions over the last three years sent on storage devices to these offices and made available in our UK operations.
As stated in last years Annual More detail can be found in our Sustainability Report, which Report and Accounts, the Code of Conduct is available on isavailable on our website.
theInvensys website and can be read by any customer, shareholder or member of the public.
Environmental performance The Code of Conduct is being supported by training for all Our manufacturing locations have shown year-on-year employees and the Board.
This training was launched at the improvements in the environmental KPIs energy, CO, water, 2 end of February 2010.
Initially, training was made available hazardous waste and non-hazardous waste at levels exceeding online but, to reflect the significant population of Invensys our 5% absolute reduction targets.
The higher than expected employees who work in manufacturing environments reductions are driven in part by successful efficiency projects withoutpersonal Internet access, kiosk-based training and and in part by the rationalisation of some of our manufacturing classroom-based training are also being arranged where facilities.
For the current year, we have set a 3% absolute necessary.
Our stated aim is 100% training completion by the reduction as a target.
In support of this objective, Invensys has produced or is producing a range of supporting materials to promote the Code of Conduct and Compliance Programme, including posters, abridged versions of the Code of Conduct and presentation materials.
| 24 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 Year ended 31 March Unit 2010 2009 % change % target Energy use 1 manufacturing MWh 152,135 175,353 13% 5% 2 4 non-manufacturing MWh 48,741 53,611 9% nm CO2 emissions 1 manufacturing tonnes 64,587 71,512 10% 5% 2 non-manufacturing tonnes 24,658 26,786 8% nm global fleet tonnes 12,835 13,865 7% nm 3 business airline travel tonnes 21,310 22,511 5% nm 1 3 Water consumed m 390,372 436,076 10% 5% 1 Waste generated non-hazardous tonnes 6,874 8,866 22% 5% 1 Waste generated hazardous tonnes 562 658 15% 5% 1 Based on 42 sites in 2009 and 41 sites in 2010.
3 2009 data restated to reflect current methodology.
Further details regarding environmental performance can be found on our website.
Our Continuous Improvement function has examined ways to Health and safety in the workplace reduce energy consumption, carbon emissions, water use and We are pleased to report continued improvements in our waste generation at our major manufacturing facilities.
All our health and safety performance, as reflected in decreased facilities, large and small, are encouraged to look for ways to injury illness incident frequency rates.
Over the year, our Total improve their efficiency simple measures can often make Recordable Case Incident Rate TRCIR fell 32% from 0.31 to significant savings.
For example, replacing warm-air hand 0.21 and our Lost Workday Case Incident Rate LWCIR fell 47% dryers and paper towels in the bathrooms of the headquarters from 0.15 to 0.08.
We continue to look for ways to improve our of Invensys Rail with cold-air dryers reduced the sites carbon safety performance and record.
Energy control equipment and upgraded 1.0 Total Recordable Case Incident Rate compressor units at our Invensys Controls site in Hanover, US Lost Workday Case Incident Rate contributed to an 8% reduction inenergy consumption at the site during the year.
Reuse of wastewater in our Foxboro site in 0.8 the US lowered total water use by 5% at the facility.
0.6 Over the year, we took steps to reduce the CO2 contributions associated with business travel.
By replacing larger vehicles with smaller, fuel-efficient four cylinder petrol and diesel 0.4 vehicles, our CO2 contributions associated with global fleet vehicles have been reduced by 7%.
Focussed efforts to 0.2 minimise air travel and maximise the use of videoconferencing have resulted in a 5% reduction in CO2 associated with 0.0 business-related airline travel.
April 06 April 07 April 08 April 09 April 10 The Board continues to be briefed on the environmental Further details regarding health and safety performance can be found on our website.
performance of the Group and receives regular reports on anyviolations or relevant developments.
During the year, During the year we focussed on improving the safety therewere no environmental releases.
However, the Invensys programmes for Invensys employees who work at customer Rail location in Rancho Cucamonga, US received a notice locations, which may contain risks outside of our control.
ofviolation associated with a lack of equipment permits.
The Ourefforts included providing learning modules and new Invensys Controls location in Trnava, Slovakia received a notice procedures, as well as conducting safety audits and reviews of violation and a 3,320 fine for failing to comply with local atthe project locations.
Within our own operating locations, recycling requirements.
In both cases, corrective actions were we established a behaviour-based safety initiative across instituted and no further notices or fines have been issued.
theGroup in order to improve our culture of safety.
This programme included employee learning, new procedures andmonthly targets for behaviour-based activities.
| Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 25 Per 100 employees Corporate Social Responsibility continued We continue to use our Safety and Sustainability Awareness Invensys Operations Management provided training Metric SSAM to drive and measure several leading activities programmes in conjunction with the Kazakh-British Technical at an operational level.
The SSAM, which is measured and University KBTU in Almaty, Kazakhstan.
During the last two reported monthly, includes on-time closure of corrective years, the division has invested approximately US$100,000 actions, near misses, completion of safety training, safety toequip KBTUs laboratory and provide students with the tours inspections and environmental KPI improvements.
first-class training they need to succeed at home and abroad.
In the current year, we will enhance the SSAM to consider Invensys Operations Management in Worthing, UK received community investment activities and implementation of our a 15,000 donation for use of their car park by a local utility Environmental, Health, Safety & Sustainability EHS&S company.
Invensys chose to allocate this money to three management system.
local schools to support the UK National Healthy Schools Programme and Eco-Schools Programme.
Our Chief Executive reviews the health and safety performance A team of 17 cyclists representing Invensys Rail participated data, including any major incidents, on a monthly basis and in the Around the Bay in a Day charity cycling event in presents it to the Board.
We are pleased to report that there Melbourne, Australia raising money for The Smith Family were no major incidents or work-related fatalities during the charity which provides educational and learning support to year.
During inspections by government officials, we received disadvantaged Australian children.
safety or compliance-related citations at seven locations in Invensys Controls employees in Matamoros, Mexico raised Europe, Asia and the Americas.
In all cases, corrective actions approximately US$5,000 by collecting 298,000 aluminium have been initiated and no fines or further notices have been cans for the Down Syndrome Institute, Multiple Education issued.
We have increased our compliance and assurance Institute and Multiple Rehabilitation Centre.
efforts across the organisation and look forward to reporting Invensys Controls in Eliwell, Italy worked with the local on improved progress in this area next year.
municipality to provide financial assistance to help build anew play park for local children.
The Eliwell facility Our responsibility to employee health contributed 1,000 to this cause.
The well-being of employees and communities continues to be part of our sustainability strategy.
Our strong safety culture Invensys Values and compliance assurance programmes have helped us We continue to embed the Invensys Values Innovation, improve our employee safety performance since last year.
Agility, Integrity, Courage and Meritocracy into our To encourage employees to improve their personal wellness, organisation.
Alignment with the Values is considered integral our major locations were asked to establish a minimum of four to the performance of our employees, and the Values are built wellness programmes each.
Our local operations support into our performance management processes.
The key employee participation in these programmes.
messages of the Invensys brand and its values are being elucidated and made relevant to current and potential Invensys Community and charitable investment employees through an employer branding initiative launched We continue to encourage our divisions and employees after the introduction of new external Invensys branding.
This to engage with good causes to build relationships in the is intended to create an I want to work here culture, and community and enhance workplace morale and cohesiveness.
retain and attract confident, competent and ambitious people Our businesses provide a variety of programmes such as to Invensys who are drawn to a high performance work culture.
matching gifts, sponsorship of activities and paid volunteer time to allow our employees to participate actively in Diversity in the workforce community events.
As a global company with employees across the world, Examples of projects our divisions have been involved Invensys seeks to recruit the best individual for every position with include: regardless of gender, ethnic or national origin, religion, sexual orientation or any personal characteristic not relevant to their Invensys Controls employees in Caxias do Sul, Brazil work.
Invensys fosters an inclusive culture where anyone with promoted a charity lunch for 700 people to raise the skills and abilities to perform is treated fairly.
We embrace approximately US$6,000 for DOMUS, a house of refuge the diversity of our employees, and the greater effectiveness a for children and teenagers with cancer.
diverse workforce allows us to offer our customers.
Employees at the Invensys Operations Management facility in Mumbai, India organised and participated in a blood donation drive in association with DY Patil Blood Bank.
Employees also gave cash donations to pay for clothes and sports equipment for the orphan girls of the Vatsalya Trusts Balikashram.
| 26 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 We continue to respect and support the principles of the Aligning individuals with the Group to safeguard European Convention on Human Rights and the UNGC by our future ensuring we comply with the labour laws of the countries in During the year we used our goal deployment and which we operate and by creating an inclusive and respectful performance management tools and processes to help culture for our diverse workforce.
The Group seeks to ensure our employees to understand the organisational goals and that fair consideration is given to applications for employment objectives of Invensys and align them with their own.
Line received from people with disabilities and we offer continued managers are required to hold annual performance reviews employment, training and advancement where possible with all employees who report to them, where they can discuss to employees who are or become temporarily or their performance, set personal objectives for the coming year permanently disabled.
and create personal development plans.
Approximately 10,250 employees are participating in our Dialogue with employee representatives and employees performance management processes with goals for 2010 11 The Invensys European Employees Forum IEEF promotes on our integrated system.
This equates to 51% of all employees dialogue between elected employee representatives and and 100% of managerial and professional employees.
The annual meeting between IEEF employees such as those in manufacturing are participating representatives and senior management has been running in local performance management processes.
Members of the Executive Leadership Team communicate Investing for the future with training regularly with employees through global activities and local We continue to demonstrate a strong commitment to our communications networks, including site-level briefings, employees learning and development.
Our dedicated smaller, face-to-face meetings and employee newsletters.
Learning and Development L&D centre of expertise has Invensys is also exploring the use of blogging and social simplified and streamlined the way employees access learning networking technologies to facilitate fast and open and assess and develop the knowledge and skills they bring communication between employees and to realise the totheir work at Invensys.
During the year the L&D centre performance advantages of sharing knowledge and best broughtcommon global learning tools across Invensys in practices across our divisions.
seven languages into one online portal to increase access foremployees.
Planning for future skills gaps We continue to focus on growing internal capability and Employee engagement enabling internal career moves through our Organisational Following the Invensys-wide Employee Engagement Capability Review process.
This process combines the creation Survey in2008 our business and functional teams have been of robust succession plans, the identification of individuals implementing action plans created in response to survey withhigh career potential and the creation of focussed feedback.
The next survey in 2010 will allow us to measure the development plans to support leadership career paths.
As an impact of the action plans and changes in engagement levels.
example of other initiatives, in 2009 we launched a Finance We continue to strive to make Invensys a place where high Leadership Development Programme.
This programme will performing people choose to be, where they can enhance their attract high potential finance professionals and develop them lives and careers and are motivated to perform at their best.
over a threeto five-year period through a number of challenging roles and assignments.
It will include international global roles outside their countries of origin and end in a significant leadership position for the successful participants.
In addition, we have recently introduced a more robust workforce planning approach for managing our workforce more strategically and effectively.
This involves identifying gaps in our employees capabilities and skills required to achieve our strategic plan, and proactively cross-training, developing or, if required, hiring the right people based on these gaps.
| Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 27
