Earth & Environmental Description of business 1 Change Underlying million 2010 2009 % % Principal activities: Specialist environmental, geotechnical, programme management, engineering Revenue 592.6 470.8 26 14 and consultancy services provided to a broad range EBITA 54.7 36.5 50 24 of customers in the public and private sectors, EBITA margin % 9.2 7.8 140bps including many common to the other divisions.
Order book 0.27 0.29 -7 Typically characterised by a large number of small Average number value contracts.
2 of employees 4,457 3,905 14 Locations: Operates from a regional network of around 1 Growth measured against 2009 as restated for material acquisitions 170 offices, mainly across North America but also in and movements in material currencies.
2 Full time equivalents, including agency staff, 2009 restated to bring Europe, the Middle East and South America.
definition of full time equivalents in line with other divisions.
Revenue split by geography: 9 per cent Europe, 90 per cent Americas, 1 per cent Rest of World.
Revenue split by sector: wastewater collection systems: US Air Force: installation of a one-acre solar photovoltaic field, a new Environment and Water Oil & Gas condenser water system, energy-efficient lighting and Oil & Gas 9% Water 13% lighting-control system at Tyndall Air Force Base in Unconventional Government Oil & Gas 7% Florida, US: Natural Resources Conservation Service Services 29% Minerals & NRCS, an arm of the US Department of Agriculture: Industrial Metals 9% Light Detection and Ranging LiDAR projects involving Commercial 16% Clean Energy the collection of elevation data in various watersheds Transport Nuclear 1% Renewables Infrastructure 15% across six states.
In addition, very many smaller value Bioprocess 1% contracts were won and executed in the year.
Customers include: Alberta Transportation, Arizona Business overview Dept of Transportation, Atlantic Richfield, CSX Earth & Environmental is a leading international Transportation, ExxonMobil, Newmont Mining, Pacific environmental and engineering consulting organisation Gas and Electric Company, Province of New Brunswick, with full service capabilities covering a wide range of Public Works and Government Services Canada, State disciplines, including environmental engineering and of North Carolina, Suncor, Ultra Resources Inc, US Air science, geotechnical engineering, water resources, Force, US Army, US Navy, Vale Inco, Works Services materials testing and engineering, engineering and and Transportation, Newfoundland.
Significant contracts include: US Navy: AMEC-led With the vast majority of its activities falling outside the joint venture among the winners of a five-year, scope of engineering and project management US$4 billion framework contract for design and services provided by the other divisions, Earth & construction work to support the US Defense Policy Environmental enables AMEC to provide a broader Review Initiative in the Pacific region: US Government: range of services across the asset life cycle than many among those selected for the major energy competitor companies.
This halo effect can lead to sustainability agreement or blanket purchase AMEC becoming involved in major projects at the time agreements BPAs totalling US$500 million in services of the environmental impact assessment, before they on a broad spectrum of energy conservation projects: even get off the ground.
Southwestern Illinois Flood Prevention District Council: Services are provided for a broad spread of public and managing the redesign and repair of 64 miles of levees private sector customers across the life cycle of their in three counties along the Mississippi River, Illinois, operations, including for customers common to the US: Town of Miami, Arizona, US: engineering services Natural Resources and Power & Process divisions.
contract to design the replacement of the towns 28 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2010 Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials The environmental services industry is large and The division works for resource, government fragmented, providing opportunities for growth through and commercial customers, providing services bolt-on acquisitions.
In recent years, Earth & from environmental impact assessments at the Environmental has added to its geographic footprint earliest stages of the project life cycle right through and capabilities through acquisitions and intends to advising on and project managing clean up to make further investments in the future.
The Earth & Environmental business portfolio is well In addition, a broad range of services are provided to the balanced both by end market, and in terms of the US Federal Government, which is the largest procurer nature of services provided, with the vast majority of of environmental services in the world.
Here, customers the divisions employees being transferable between include the US Air Force, US Army and US Navy, where market sectors.
The business is characterised by a services are as diverse as remediation programmes, high number of small value contracts.
to fixed price design and delivery of airfield facilities at bases in the US and around the world.
The division has some fixed price commitments in respect of certain federal activities and other In the water sector, AMEC offers a range of services consulting projects.
such as water supply, stormwater management, hazard mitigation, dam safety, water wastewater treatment, water quality protection and reclamation, Services and watershed management.
Revenue from water Earth & Environmental operates a seller-doer related services increased by 46 per cent year on year.
business model employing specialist consultants based in a branch network of regional offices.
Increasingly, the division is using its technical and scientific capabilities to provide sustainability solutions The following are examples of services provided by to its customers.
One example is the sustainable Earth & Environmental: approach taken on the Mount Milligan Mine project in Canada, which recently received approval to proceed OO OO Archaeology Oceanography and from the federal government.
meteorology OO Architecture O OO Programme management Further details on each of these services can be OO Climate change found at amec.
OO consulting Remediation planning and execution OO Ecological studies Markets OO Socio-economic studies OO Engineering design Earth & Environmental operates in a large and highly OO Tailings waste dump fragmented market.
Precise figures for its size are OO Environmental site design and construction hard to establish, though AMEC believes the North characterisation monitoring American environmental consulting and engineering OO Environmental impact market segment to be valued in excess of US$50 OO Waste management studies and permitting billion.
Whilst AMECs overall market share of this OO Water and air quality OO Geotechnical design market is small, the business has strong positions in OO and analysis Water management, certain end market sectors, notably natural resources, development and water and defence.
AMEC also maintains strong local OO Infrastructure design protection.
market share in a number of the communities in which OO Materials engineering, it operates, and also with select nationally operating construction commercial customers.
monitoring and testing AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2010 29 Earth & Environmental continued The European market for environmental services is Many customers of Natural Resources and Power & smaller than in North America, and is also fragmented.
Process value the complementary services that Earth Underlying long-term growth drivers are stronger than & Environmental can provide.
For example, in 2010 the more mature market in North America, being cross-divisional teams worked for EDF on UK nuclear driven by increasing regulatory pressures.
new build and on Kearl oil sands for Imperial Oil, among many other projects.
Vision 2015 deliberately Earth & Environmental provides consulting services in positions AMEC across the asset lifecycle and we will other regions of the world outside North America and continue to promote this One AMEC approach to Europe, primarily meeting the global needs of existing servicing our customers.
O Further details on Vision 2015 can be found on Market drivers for this division include an increasing page 6 and at amec.
recognition of the need to manage water resources, including by customers in mining and oil sands Financial performance sectors: growth in environmental legislation: Revenue increased by 26 per cent to 592.6 million in increasing corporate social responsibility: increasing 2010 2009: 470.8 million, benefiting from organic use of brownfield sites and increasing exploration of growth, the Entec acquisition and positive currency environmentally sensitive regions by natural movement.
Government services had a strong year in resources companies.
2010, as did unconventional oil and gas and mining, underpinning the organic growth.
The water sector AMECs view of the market growth potential of each benefited from a strengthened position in the UK and of the sectors in which Earth & Environmental revenue from water services increased by 46 per cent operates is shown on page 6. in the year.
Vision 2015 strategy EBITA increased 50 per cent in 2010 to 54.7 million The acquisition of Entec Holdings Limited, an 2009: 36.5 million, driven by a strong performance in environmental consultancy business, in March 2010 Western Canada and the acquisition in the UK.
Overall greatly strengthened the divisions position in Europe EBITA margin increased 140 basis points to 9.2 per and enhanced its capabilities in water.
Employing some 700 people in the UK, Entec has The peak level of activity in AMECs federal business is a leading position in the water services and expected to reduce in 2011.
This is expected to be offset wastewater sector as well as providing renewable, by increased activity in the Mining, Oil and Gas and nuclear and other energy services, industrial Water sectors.
engineering, contaminated land and regeneration O services, environmental planning and project Major agreements or contracts during 2010 are management services.
O On 2 February 2011, BCI Engineers and Scientists Further details on these, and other contract awards, Inc was acquired.
BCI is a 200-person, Florida US may be found at amec.
based, consulting firm concentrating on the water and mining sectors.
AMEC continues to see acquisition opportunities in the unconsolidated environmental services markets in North America and Europe, and expects to make further selective acquisitions which improve its competitive position by way of increased capability, particularly in the water sector, and or geographic footprint.
30 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2010
