Introduction Strategy Risk Performance Governance Financials Sustainability Sustainability and AMEC Other highlights of 2010 include: At AMEC, we believe that sustainable development OO Included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for is a core part of our everyday business life, through the the seventh year in succession: sector leader in services we provide and the way in which we provide Oil Equipment and Services sector for the second them.
We want to achieve economic success in ways year running which uphold our values and Guiding Principles, meeting todays needs without compromising the OO Launched My Compass, an online, interactive needs of future generations.
We aim to ensure onboarding induction programme for new sustainable business principles filter into every level employees of our business and culture.
OO Published first Communication on Progress COP to United Nations Global Compact We believe this makes good business sense.
Not only does it allow us to reduce overhead costs, increase OO Started to track time invested in community skills and achieve resource efficiencies, but it also investment activities, using a tool supplied by LBG provides a business opportunity.
OO Provided 553, 000 of support to charities, including matching funds raised by our employees Our customers are looking for sustainability solutions: OO sustainability consulting services such as carbon Low carbon management programme continued.
footprinting, economic analysis and community Since 2008 we have seen a five per cent reduction in consultations: sustainable engineering projects such carbon emissions per employee.
Our target for 2013 as wind farms or biodiesel facilities: and applied is a 15 per cent reduction.
sustainability, incorporating key aspects of OO Employee-instigated turnover returned to more sustainability into a project as a value-added service.
normal levels in 2010, at 10 per cent, 2009 having In each of these areas, we can help assess what our been affected by the general economic climate customers need and match it with AMECs technical OO Continued to deliver sustainability services to and scientific expertise.
customers, including for Thompson Creek Metals In our measurement and reporting on sustainability Company Inc see page 29. we focus on those areas which are most important for For 2011, our priorities include: us to manage, those which are important to our stakeholders, and those which are critical for AMECs OO Further develop and market AMECs sustainability long-term success.
We set targets for, and check on services, focusing on clean energy solutions and the progress of, over 40 sustainability indicators, which adapting to climate change are grouped together into four areas: OO Continue to reduce our carbon footprint by setting OO local carbon reduction targets and by learning Our workplace from best practice within the company OO Our environment OO Review how the companys water usage is OO Our community measured and agree a baseline from which to OO Our marketplace.
work going forward OO Further embed the Global Compact principles within The 2010 Annual Sustainability Performance report, our our business policies and processes, re-issuing our tenth, is available at amec.
Code of Business Conduct to incorporate these It provides full details on each of these indicators, some changes and take account of the UK Bribery Act.
of which are also incorporated into this report.
In particular, see pages 6-9 and 14.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2010 15
