ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 32 Governance Corporate social responsibility Overview Give Life Foundation and the charity The Board of ITE believes that corporate department of the Russian Church.
and social responsibility is an important part of the Groups culture and that the In Kazakhstan, amounts were donated adoption of good practice will have a to Akneid a local charity.
positive impact on profits and increase the long-term value for shareholders.
Due In total charitable donations across the consideration is given to risks arising from Group totalled over 35,000 2009: social, environmental and ethical issues as 18,000. part of an ongoing risk review process.
The Group has also donated equipment Social interaction with a value of approximately The Board of the Company is aware $10,000 to the Special School for the of both the benefits to its business of Hearing Impaired in Uzbekistan.
engaging with its various constituencies in a socially-responsible manner and the The Group is looking to increase risks of failing to do so.
As an operator further the number of its offices which of  businesses take part in charitable activities.
in emerging markets, the Company ensures that it is culturally sensitive in its Employees dealings with the local community and Employees are selected and promoted on that its employment and development the basis of merit and ability, regardless policies are non-discriminatory and of age, gender, race, religion, sexual encourage the employment of local orientation or disability.
The Group has nationals at all levels in the Company.
a policy of encouraging employees, especially those from the locations in The Company actively supports its emerging markets, to move around the employees in their support of local offices of the Group, thus providing community projects.
For the first time, development opportunities for all staff.
In the London office selected a charity addition, employees are assisted in their of the year.
The charity selected was career development through an annual Coram which is based in London and uses appraisal scheme and sponsored training music therapy as a form of counselling is provided where there is a benefit to both for children.
Amongst a number of fund the individual and the Company.
All staff raising initiatives, a group of staff from the are eligible for issues of share options or London office donated a day of their time awards under the Employees Performance to Coram to help maintain the garden at Share Plan as the Board feels that it is the Coram centre.
Approximately 5,000 important for them to take an active part in has been donated to Coram this year.
the success of the Company and to share in the long-term value they help to create.
The Board recognises the need to provide a safe working environment for employees and exhibitors and visitors at the Groups events.
Each office is responsible for In Moscow, amounts were donated ensuring that their business operates in to the Brotherhood of St Alexis, the compliance with Group policies and the Volunteering day Coram: ITE, London Operating performance Overview and Divisional summary Governance Financial statements ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 33 relevant local health and safety legislation.
the relationship between the Group and term value for shareholders.
The Group During the year, all employees in the a supplier must remain confidential.
already undertakes a number of initiatives London office have had a refresher Health aimed at reducing its carbon footprint: and Safety training session.
Staff from all Environment r The Group encourages the recycling regions with lead responsibility for the As a media services company, the Group of waste paper and office waste and operation of the Groups exhibitions on-site acknowledges that its business has plans to increase the recycling rates also attended an updated training course.
an impact on the environment, albeit and materials recycled throughout relatively minor, and ITE recognises the Group.
The Group has recently Ethics the importance of following good introduced a paid-for waste recycling Integrity is core to the Groups values environmental practice.
The Company initiative in our London office.
which it actively promotes in its dealings is aware that this is an area of increasing r The Group has installed videowith employees, shareholders, customers concern to employees, shareholders and conferencing facilities at its and suppliers and with the authorities of customers alike.
The Company does not London, Huddersfield, Moscow, the countries in which it operates, and manufacture or sell any tangible products St Petersburg, Kiev, Istanbul, recognises that reputation is a valuable and has identified the principal areas of Almaty and Hamburg offices to and fragile asset gained over a substantial environmental impact as energy use, waste reduce staff travel requirements.
The leadership position of the recycling, paper & printing and travel.
r Computers and IT equipment are Groups exhibitions and the long-term recycled where possible and redundant growth of its core shows is a testament The London and Huddersfield offices equipment is either sold to staff or to the success of its practices.
engaged the services of Carbon Smart given to charitable organisations.
Carbon Smart assessed r The Group has been reducing its The Group promotes high ethical standards these offices Carbon Footprint.
Their printed materials over the last few in carrying out its business activities and carbon footprint was found to be years, with a greater reliance on has clear guidelines for dealing with gifts, 427 tonnes CO e which equated to electronic media for its marketing 2 hospitality, corruption, fraud and the use of 3.3 tonnes of CO e per employee per materials.
However, catalogues and 2 inside information.
All ITE staff are required year.
This compares favourably to the delegate packs are still printed and to comply with the laws and regulations average UK employee 4 tonnes of the Group is implementing a set of of the country in which they operate.
CO e emissions per year, however, it is operating standards to be followed 2 recognised that improvements can be by suppliers aimed at controlling The Group is a member of UFI the made.
The London and Huddersfield paper sourcing and use of materials.
worldwide exhibition organisers offices have set themselves a target r The Group encourages staff to use association and through this, the to reduce their carbon footprint by at public transport through offering attendance figures at our key exhibitions least 5% over the next 12 months.
season ticket loans for London staff.
are audited by independent services.
r The Group is taking advantage of This helps to provide assurance to The UK operation of the Group has been recent e-communications legislation our exhibitors and visitors as to the awarded the Carbon Smart Blue Award for communicating with shareholders standard of our exhibitions.
during the year, and is aiming to achieve and so will be able to reduce the the Silver award in the next 12 months.
volume of printed materials produced The Group aims to provide a high with the publication of our Annual quality of service at all its events in Report and Interim Statement.
The Group operates to a strict minimum quality level to ensure The Groups activities in staging events are provided to exhibitors and exhibitions and conferences do impact visitors at international standards, on the environment, through waste and irrespective of where they are held.
natural resources usage from materials used in assembling exhibition stands The Group ensures that all advertising and travel to exhibitions and conferences and public communications avoid for exhibitors, delegates and ITE staff.
Presently, practice in controlling waste at different exhibition centres varies widely By identifying environmental improvements, ITE builds a relationship with through the different regions in which the we expect to see increased efficiencies suppliers based on mutual trust and Group operates.
The Group follows current and with that reduced costs and the undertakes to pay suppliers on time best practice in each of its markets by management of environmental issues is and in accordance with agreed terms observing industry and country legislation.
part of our business strategy to create longof business.
