Corporate responsibility review Corporate responsibility review Commitments and progress Value Commitment Progress Best for Food and Health Healthier baskets for We will make the most popular items in our Ongoing we continue to make the customers customers baskets healthier, focusing on most popular items in our customers products that contribute the most saturated fat, baskets healthier.
salt or sugar to the UK diet, to deliver a real impact on the nations health.
Sourcing with Integrity Being best for British We will source great-tasting British products when Achieved and Ongoing we remain in season, wherever these meet our customers committed to supporting UK farmers expectations for quality and authenticity.
and continue to source British products, both when in season and in certain categories all year round.
Being number one We will offer the widest range of higher welfare Achieved we offer both the widest supermarket for animal products of any UK retailer.
range of Freedom Food higher welfare welfare products and sell more than any other UK retailer.
Sourcing responsibly We will be the largest UK retailer of Fairtrade Achieved we are now the worlds and ethically products by sales value.
largest retailer of Fairtrade by value.
Respect for our Environment Reducing energy We will reduce our CO emissions per square Ongoing our commitment on 2 metre by 25% by 2012, against a 2005 06 refrigeration, Eco-stores and baseline.
reset programme are helping us to progress towards this target.
Reducing packaging We will reduce our own brand packaging Ongoing making progress both weight relative to sales, by 33% by 2015 incrementally through packaging against a 2009 baseline.
redesign and through packaging innovation like milk bags.
Reducing food waste We will have all supermarkets and depots Achieved we now have all of our connected to a zero food waste to landfill supermarkets and depots connected programme by the end of 2009. to a zero food waste to landfill programme.
Reducing waste We will have all supermarkets and depots Ongoing making progress by using connected to a zero waste to landfill programme our back-hauling process more for operational waste by the end of 2010. efficiently and ISO14001 at depots.
Making a Positive Difference to our Community Generating a positive We will provide 6,500 new Sainsburys jobs in Achieved over 6,500 new economic impact on 2009 10, through our planned opening of 28 Sainsburys jobs were created by communities supermarkets and 55 new convenience stores.
opening 38 new supermarkets and 51 new convenience stores.
Supporting local We will launch our Local Charity of the Year Achieved we have supported communities scheme, linking every store, Sainsburys depot over 750 local charities through and our support centres to a local charity the scheme this year and donated partner each year.
over 1 million to local charities.
A Great Place to Work Supporting the We will provide over 10,000 colleagues with job Ongoing we are making progress development of opportunities, skills and qualifications through against our target of providing 10,000 our colleagues our You Can programme by 2010. colleagues with job opportunities, skills and qualifications through You Can.
To date, around 9,150 colleagues have taken part in You Can.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 J Sainsbury plc 11 Corporate responsibility review continued An award-winning year for Corporate Responsibility at Sainsburys 99 10 10 Dow Jones Sustainability Index 2009 10 IGD Food Industry Award We are proud to be recognised as the global industry Tetra Pak Environmental Sustainability Award for leader in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index 2009 10.
Consumer Focus Green to the Core?
A rating in a survey of UK leading supermarkets FTSE4Good Index by Consumer Focus.
We continue to be included in the FTSE4Good Index, in recognition of our management of environmental, RSPCA Good Business Awards social and ethical issues.
Most improved supermarket widest range of Freedom Food labelled products.
CBI Human Capital Award BITC CR Index Platinum status award We won the Peoples Organisation award for our For the 2nd year running we are Platinum members of the broad-ranging HR and people-management excellence.
BITC CR Index for our commitment to responsible retailing.
Fairtrade Worlds largest retailer of Fairtrade by value.
Carbon Trust Standard Freedom Food Recognition of our supermarket divisions reduction Largest UK retailer of Freedom Food both of CO year-on-year.
2 With an average of over 19 million customer transactions respect for our environment and play an active role in each week, almost 150,000 colleagues and in excess of the communities we serve making a positive difference 2,000 suppliers, Sainsburys has a real impact on the to our community.
All this is possible through the economy, environment and society.
Sainsburys values commitment of our colleagues so that Sainsburys is underpin our goal to provide healthy, safe, fresh and tasty a great place to work.
These values are at the heart of our business: they determine our priorities and ensure that Our values are an integral part of the way we do business we conduct ourselves in an honest, ethical, and therefore at Sainsburys.
This is reflected in our corporate sustainable manner.
As a leading food retailer we focus on responsibility governance structure whereby members being the best for food and health which is why we are of our Operating Board have responsibility for each of committed to sourcing with integrity.
As we source from our five values and sit on our Corporate Responsibility all over the world to sell in the UK we aim to always show Steering Group.
Corporate Responsibility CR steering group Governance Structure Established 2001, Meets quarterly Justin King, Chair, Chief Executive Health Best for food and health Steering Group Gwyn Burr, Customer Director CR committee Brand Governance Sourcing with integrity J Sainsbury Steering Group Mike Coupe, Trading Director Established January 2007 plc Board Meets twice annually David Tyler, Respect for our environment Environment Anna Ford, Chair Chairman Neil Sachdev, Commercial Director Steering Group Non-Executive Director Making a positive difference to our community Community Roger Burnley, Retail and Logistics Director Steering Group A great place to work A Great Place to Work Imelda Walsh, Human Resources Director Steering Group 12 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Corporate responsibility review Corporate responsibility review Corporate responsibility review continued Customers and stakeholders trust the company to act Little Ones launch: Our Little Ones baby and toddler responsibly on their behalf.
They also look to Sainsburys club, launched in October 2009, aims to provide parents of to take the lead in encouraging people to shop with children aged zero to four years with targeted, nutritional the environment and ethics in mind.
Throughout the advice and recipes through direct mail and a fully interactive challenging economic environment, customers have told website.
All of the 180 recipes are approved by the British us that ethical and environmental issues are important Nutrition Foundation and our online experts such as to them.
Therefore, whilst customers have demanded Dr Dawn Harper and nutritionist Sara Stanner, give the better value from their purchases this is not at the 300,000 registered users comprehensive health and expense of the environment or society.
Sainsburys publishes an extensive Corporate Responsibility report that covers our five values in more detail and this Sourcing with Integrity is available at www.
We have reported Sourcing with integrity is central to our ability to deliver on Corporate Responsibility in some form since 1996, great products at fair prices.
In practice it means working when we were the first UK food retailer to publish an with our suppliers to ensure the sustainability of our Environment report.
products in the round, taking into consideration their economic, environmental and social impacts.
We are committed to offering British products at their best, Best for Food and Health when in season and when the quality meets customers Our goal is to offer our customers great quality food at expectations.
For example we sell more British apples fair prices and as a leading food retailer, we are committed and pears than any other retailer in the UK.
We have to being Best for food and health.
Our approach is to a long history of supporting British farmers and helping to help and inspire customers to eat a healthy, balanced diet raise capability and skills to create sustainable businesses by promoting healthy eating and active lifestyles.
Its not and long-term relationships.
only about making healthy, high quality and tasty food easily available in our stores, but its about having clear Sainsburys also recognises the value it brings to communities and straightforward labelling that helps people make more in developing countries.
Through our position as the informed choices.
We were the first UK retailer to apply worlds largest retailer of Fairtrade products we know front-of-pack Multiple Traffic Light labelling to all that we make a positive impact by not only providing relevant products, making it easier for customers to trade but also through the payment of social premiums to make healthy choices at a glance.
local communities that improve schools, healthcare and local infrastructure amongst other projects.
Last year We recognise that customers are still conscious about Sainsburys customers helped us to pay $16 million in price, which is why we also focus on making healthy social premiums.
We also provide financial and logistical food affordable and inspiring customers to cook and support to farmers in Africa and elsewhere to help them try something new today.
Through our initiatives such achieve Fairtrade accreditation.
as Feed Your Family for a Fiver and the Try Team we continue to help customers cook on a budget and We are committed to promoting high standards of encourage them to waste less food through initiatives animal welfare, as we know this is a key concern for our such as Love Your Leftovers and Make the Most of customers.
We are proud that not only do we sell more your Roast tip cards.
high welfare freedom food products than anyone else but we also stock the largest range.
Sainsburys also offer Highlights from the year include: the largest range of fish certified by the MSC in the UK.
Be Good to Yourself: The Be Good to Yourself healthy The MSC certification programme for sustainable and food range was relaunched in January 2010 with 60 new well-managed fisheries assures the highest standards of and improved lines bringing the total to around 250 lines.
We recognise that we have Market share Kantar Worldpanel February 2010: 52 week a responsibility to use natural resources sustainably and was up one per cent on last year, to nearly 27 per cent.
through our commitments to sustainable palm oil, Forest Stewardship Council FSC timber and improved water Freefrom: The Freefrom range was relaunched in February management we minimise the impact of our products on 2010 with over 100 new and improved lines making 236 in the environment.
Market share Nielsen February 2010: 52 week was up 6.8 per cent on last year, to nearly 29 per cent.
Highlights from the year include: Fairtrade: With sales of over 218 million, we are the Tip cards: Over the last 12 months, our customers have worlds largest retailer of Fairtrade by value.
This collected over 40 million tip cards.
Over 25 per cent of leadership along with our green credentials prompted these recipes contain at least one portion of five-a-day the first state visit to a supermarket by South African and 50 per cent feature healthier recipes i. e. only green president Jacob Zuma.
We now have at least two tip cards in every set of 12 aimed specifically for kids, thereby catering even more for families.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 J Sainsbury plc 13 Corporate responsibility review continued Freedom Food and MSC fish: We are the largest retailer Change Strategy divides the business into three elements: of Freedom Food meat and fish in the UK and offer Our Operations, Our Products, Our Customers.
Our the largest range of own-brand MSC fish, illustrating approach is to reduce the environmental impact of our our strong commitment to sourcing sustainable fish operations and our products and help our customers and promoting high animal welfare.
Development groups: During 2009 10 we extended Highlights from the year include: Sainsburys successful Development Group model to Green to the Core: We received an industry-leading beef, pork, poultry, lamb, cheese and egg suppliers.
A rating in the Green to the Core?
survey by Our first group, the Dairy Development Group helps Consumer Focus.
This report assessed supermarkets our dairy farmers implement efficiencies to become performance on making green shopping easier.
We ranked more competitive businesses.
The group pioneered well on engagement with our customers on green issues a carbon footprinting model which has the potential and our excellent sustainable farming and fish policies, to reduce farmers energy costs and reduce farmers with a high proportion of sustainable products available.
Environmental stores: We continue to lead in store Sustainable palm oil: Ranked number one out of environmental innovation with our eco-store programme 59 European retailers in the World Wildlife Fund growing larger in 2009 10 with store openings at Sustainable Palm Oil Buyers Scorecard.
The scorecard Westhoughton, Dursley, Gloucester Quays and a ranks companies commitment to buying and using convenience store in Bath.
Through these we have sustainable palm oil, ultimately linked to deforestation commissioned Europes first biomass generator, of the rainforest.
We were the first retailer to buy created bee hotels and opened the UKs first carbon sustainable palm oil last year and it is committed negative extension at Durham.
to only using sustainable palm oil in its own brand products by 2014.
Reducing packaging: Through a number of packaging innovations, such as switching canned chopped tomatoes to FSC-certified Tetra Pak and the launch of milk bags Respect for our Environment that have 75 per cent less packaging compared to plastic bottles, we are on track to meet our corporate target of At Sainsburys we take environmental issues seriously.
a 33 per cent reduction in packaging by sales by 2015.
We aim to be environmentally responsible in the way we run our business and we also want to make it easy for Supporting customers: We launched a number of customers to be environmentally responsible.
Climate initiatives during the year making it easier for customers change represents one of the greatest challenges we to be more environmentally responsible.
For example, we face, both as a business and as a global population.
As were the first UK retailer to invest in electric vehicle a UK retailer, we source products from all over the world.
charge points at 11 of our stores in London: this is now We take a long-term view of our environmental impact and being extended to our remaining London stores.
We also are committed to reducing our carbon footprint, as well as announced the worlds largest fleet of electric vans for managing the use of precious resources in a responsible our online deliveries.
We recognise that tackling the issue involves addressing both our direct and indirect impacts.
We are working hard to reduce our operational footprint and Making a Positive Difference to our Community continue to develop a better understanding of the carbon embodied in our products and in the construction of our Our stores are at the very heart of the communities they buildings.
We are the UKs first retailer to make a firm serve.
For us this is not only about providing great service commitment to phase out harmful gases from our and quality products.
Its also about making a positive refrigeration.
All of our fridges will be switched to difference to our communities and being a good neighbour.
environmentally friendly CO technology, which will With almost 150,000 colleagues throughout the UK, we are 2 cut our store carbon footprint by one third by 2030. a major contributor to local employment.
Whilst we clearly have a significant economic impact, as one of the major Sainsburys champions the Reduce, Re-use, Recycle local employers, of equal and increasing importance is approach both to minimise waste from its operations the social impact we have on local communities.
When as well as helping customers reduce waste in the home, developing plans for new stores or store improvement for example by packaging reduction and providing clear programmes, we always engage and consult with members recycling advice both on pack and in-store.
We now of the local community, council and key stakeholders and have all of our stores connected to our zero food they consider our local community activities as a key point waste to landfill programme, which results in food waste of difference from other retailers.
By engaging fully with going to Anaerobic Digestion or creating energy from this the communities in which we operate we ensure our stores waste.
During the year we have developed a new Climate mirror and reflect the local community and are at the Change Strategy which has further refined our strategy hub of the communities they serve.
We support local for managing our environmental impact.
The Climate communities through programmes such as local charity 14 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 Corporate responsibility review Corporate responsibility review Corporate responsibility review continued partnerships, food donation schemes, Comic Relief and Highlights from the year include: Sainsburys Active Kids.
You Can: You Can is our umbrella brand for the work we are doing to open Sainsburys to a wider range of new We aim to be known as More than a Store through the recruits, and help our colleagues to develop new skills.
offering of our space and facilities to be used by the local These range from offering apprenticeships, to job-related community.
We encourage community groups to use our qualifications, to more general Skills for Life.
We are stores as a meeting place and a number of groups meet making progress against our target of providing 10,000 and run events ranging from scouts meetings to speed colleagues with job opportunities, skills and qualifications dating for the elderly.
We have also trialled hosting through You Can.
To date, over 9,150 colleagues have community meetings in our stores giving key groups taken part in You Can.
within the community the opportunity to work with each other and discuss and support the needs of the Bakery college: We launched the UKs first supermarket community.
We plan to extend this further in 2010 11. bakery college representing a significant investment in training and skills to help develop the next generation of Highlights from the year include: bakers.
The college will take over 200 apprentices toward Local charity partnerships: We support over 750 local a level 2 NVQ qualification on the successful completion charities through colleague and customer fundraising and of the apprenticeship.
We now have all of our stores, depots and support centres linked to local charities.
Colleague bonus: 127,000 colleagues will earn a share of a bonus payment of over 80 million this year bringing Sport Relief: Customers and colleagues helped us to the total amount paid out over the last five years to over donate a record 5 million for Sport Relief 2010, more 290 million.
The bonus scheme is linked to the delivery than doubling the 2.3 million raised for Sport Relief 2008. of great service and product availability as well as overall sales and profit measures.
Active Kids: Over 43,000 schools and clubs have registered to our 6th Active Kids scheme.
To date we have donated Apprenticeships: We trained 300 apprentices for our over 86 million to schools and clubs.
bakery, butcher and fish counters and we plan to have apprentices in all our main stores.
Job creation: During 2009 10 we generated around 6,500 new Sainsburys jobs by opening 38 new supermarkets and 51 new convenience stores across the UK, meeting our 2009 10 target.
This was in addition to the 15,500 temporary jobs we created over Christmas 2009 to manage increased trade over the holiday season.
A Great Place to Work Being A great place to work is rooted in Sainsburys heritage and values.
It also plays a crucial role in achieving our business goals.
We rely on our colleagues to deliver great service to our customers every single day.
We are committed to championing equality, diversity, inclusion and flexible working options for our colleagues.
We remain committed to recruiting, retaining and engaging the best people, from backgrounds that reflect the communities we serve.
We believe that every colleague, no matter where they work or the role they perform, should be encouraged to develop and make best use of their skills.
We value the opinions of our colleagues and we communicate honestly with them.
We also believe in recognising and rewarding our colleagues for the vital part they play in making Sainsburys a great place to work.
All these things are important, whatever the economic climate: in an economic downturn theyre more vital than ever.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2010 J Sainsbury plc 15
