CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT The Company aims to be a central part of the local In August 2009, the Company was awarded a funding communities in which it trades, managing its contract with the Learning and Skills Council now the responsibilities from both corporate and social Skills Funding Agency to offer a level 2 apprenticeship perspectives.
The Companys corporate social and skills for life qualification numeracy and literacy.
responsibility CSR plan identifies key areas covering: By August 2010, the Company had 168 apprentices and people: responsible retailing: community and charity: 220 employees who had signed up for the numeracy environment: ethical working: health and safety: and literacy training.
As part of this process, the quality of food or drink products.
Company has signed the Skills Pledge a voluntary public commitment, made by the Company, to develop the skills of employees and support their working The CSR group meets to progress business initiatives towards nationally recognised qualifications.
The Company has increased the range of nationally recognised qualifications available to its employees.
From Highlights in the year August 2010, as well as the apprenticeship programme, 890,660 raised for CLIC Sargent a charity involved employees can gain access to two new qualifications in supporting families affected by cancer and a level 2 NVQ diploma in beverage services and a level 2 leukaemia in the year 3.5m in total NVQ diploma in kitchen services.
13,608 tonnes of material recycled 144 Loo of the Year awards for our pubs in 2010 The Company is committed to equal opportunities and the 1,000 training courses held for 15,000 staff elimination of discrimination, harassment and victimisation of employees.
This is achieved through the application of employment policies to ensure that individuals receive fair People and consistent treatment.
At the time of printing, 50% of The Company aims to be a highly regarded employer the workforce is female and 50% male.
through its investment in training and development, policies on equality, a competitive remuneration package The Company has also been recognised as an Age and the encouragement of employees to participate Positive employer, by the Department for Work and actively in our business strategy.
Pensions, and has been recognised by the Corporate Research Foundation, in association with The Guardian The Company created over 2,400 new jobs in 2009 10, newspaper, as one of Britains Top Employers, for seven through new openings and opening earlier, to offer consecutive years, including 2010. breakfast.
All of these jobs are made available to the governments New Deal clients a programme aimed at An analysis of the age profile of our workforce is below.
We are also working with other agencies to offer jobs to the long-term unemployed.
Employees by age Providing a good service to our customers starts with our employees, so high standards of training are vital.
8% 1% 15% 76% In relation to training, the Company held over 1,000 separate training courses in 2009 10, attended by 15,000 Under 20 delegates, and promoted 1,500 bar and kitchen staff to 2040 shift leader or management positions.
4160 In addition, the Professional Diploma in Leisure Retail 61 Management, run in conjunction with Leeds Metropolitan University, is offered to all pub managers and area managers in Wetherspoon.
We believe this diploma to have been the first in-house programme in the licensed trade which allows employees to gain a In addition to competitive pay rates, the Companys bonus professional qualification while working.
The programme and share scheme are widely available to employees, was extended to include a degree top-up, also in depending on their length of service.
In this connection, conjunction with Leeds Metropolitan University.
The the Company awarded bonuses and shares SIPs for degree programme, now in its fifth year, provides employees of 22.5m in the year, an increase of 10% managers with an alternative to full-time study.
Of the payments, 95% were made to employees below board level, with approximately 88% The quality and volume of the Companys training of payments made to employees working in our pubs.
courses help to create motivation and to provide In addition to this, all employees are able to join the employees with the necessary skills to carry out their Company health plan, pension plan and also obtain jobs to a high standard.
48 J D WETHERSPOON PLC CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Responsible drinks retailing 3.5 million to date, with a pledge to attempt to raise a The Company supports practices which promote further 600,000 annually.
During the past financial year, responsible drinking and has developed several initiatives Company employees and customers have raised 890,660. and policies to ensure that it acts in a responsible manner in this area.
The environment The Company encourages measures which promote recycling and reduced energy consumption.
It is the Companys policy to: minimise the extent of the environmental impact, The Company seeks to develop close partnerships with where reasonably practicable.
local authorities and the police.
All pubs are requested conserve energy through minimising consumption to become a member of the local pubwatch, if one exists, and maximising efficiency.
to assist in building relationships across the community.
promote efficient purchasing which will minimise Pubwatch is a voluntary scheme which aims to promote waste and allow materials to be recycled.
a safe and secure drinking environment, helping to adopt efficient waste-management strategies which reduce alcohol-related crime.
Where there is no pubwatch reduce the amount of waste going to landfill or other scheme, we are willing to work with the local police and disposal sites.
A Company representative sits seek to minimise any emissions or materials which on the National Pubwatch committee and the business may cause environmental damage.
financially supports the Drinkaware Trust, the British Institute of Innkeeping and the Portman Group.
Over the past 12 months, the Company has complemented its policy with several initiatives, including areas around energy-efficiency, recycling, ethical working, and health & safety.
The Company was the inaugural winner of the We were delighted to be awarded an Environmental Hero Responsible Drinks Retailing Award, jointly sponsored Award from David Bellamy, in the year.
by the Home Office, and is the only company to have received the award twice.
Energy-efficiency The Company has created an energy group which is responsible for improving our pubs energy-efficiency.
In the last two years, the Company undertook an installation In addition, we encourage our pubs to enter their programme, ensuring that 85% of the pubs in our estate local Best Bar None a scheme run by local authorities now have an AMR electricity meter smart meter or a and the police to encourage good behaviour in town half-hourly electricity meter.
This has provided the centres schemes, promoting a safe and secure Company with the information to report and environment, with a Company representative sitting on communicate energy consumption effectively.
The Company regularly communicates ideas and initiatives Community and charity to pubs about how they could reduce their energy Historically, pubs have always been a focal point of many consumption.
This is supported by weekly management communities.
The Companys aim is to continue that reporting to pubs, including energy consumption tradition by supporting and building relationships with the for the previous week, an energy-efficiency rating and local community, through employment and investment, energy-saving top tips.
Many of these top tips were while providing a convivial meeting place.
Ensuring that generated through a Company suggestion scheme.
Staff we provide full access for those with disabilities is a are reminded to participate in the Save It campaign priority.
The Company encourages the use of local switching off lights and equipment, when not in use.
suppliers and businesses, where it is practicable to do so.
We have been working with Carbon Statement a Charitable giving company which is committed to helping organisations, together with those within them, to tackle climate change, through reducing carbon emissions to measure each pubs carbon footprint.
Carbon Statement produces a weekly carbon emissions report for each pub.
This The Company is the largest single corporate fund-raiser for details the amount of carbon dioxide CO emitted by 2 the CLIC Sargent charity caring for children with cancer, each pub through energy usage and waste disposal, as a partnership now in its eighth consecutive year, raising well as the CO emission reduction through recycling.
2 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2010 49 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Carbon Statement has been assisting us in complying with In addition, the Company has a dedicated distribution the governments Carbon Reduction Commitment CRC centre for its food, bottled drinks and non-consumable Energy Efficiency Scheme, which started in April 2010. products.
This means that lorries returning from deliveries can recycle materials from the pubs, thereby saving road We are also working towards obtaining the Carbon Trust miles.
In 2009, the Company was awarded a Certificate of Standard this certifies that a company has measured, Environmental Achievement, by Daventry District Council, managed and reduced its carbon emissions.
in recognition of the excellent waste-minimisation progress achieved to date.
The Companys energy group has been trialling energyefficient LED lighting over the last year: we are now Food information and quality looking to install this in several locations.
The Company aims to improve the quality of its food offerings continually and to provide customers with the Sustainability reduce, reuse, recycle required information about our product range, to allow The Company aims to reduce the amount of waste which them to make informed decisions about their food it sends to landfill and other disposal sites, through a consumption.
This includes nutritional information for all combination of packaging reduction, reusing packaging dishes via our Web site and a printed leaflet, available in and the recycling of waste products.
This information also includes guideline daily amounts.
Several healthy dishes with fewer calories have been Reduce introduced and highlighted on the menu in the last year.
The Company has been working with suppliers, to reduce packaging materials brought into the pubs.
Through The menu is coded, so that customers can see those changing the size and type of packaging for onion rings, dishes which contain 5% fat or less or which count steaks, mixed grills and curries, we have been able to towards the governments five-a-day fruit-and-vegetable reduce the amount of packaging as follows: target.
Information on the Companys Web site also provides details for those with food allergies or intolerances.
Braille and large-print menus are also PLASTIC 47.8 tonnes available in the pubs.
CARDBOARD 66 tonnes The Company has strict specifications for all of its PAPER 1 tonne products, so that high standards of quality and safety are met.
For example, the sausages which the Company This leads to fewer deliveries and reduces the number of sources from the Welsh Sausage Company contain only road miles required.
British pork, with no artificial colours or flavours: the Company uses only dolphin-friendly tuna: the cod, Reuse haddock and salmon in our dishes are sourced from By reusing the crates in which our mushrooms are recognised, sustainable fisheries: all fishcakes are made delivered, 31.9 tonnes of plastic are being reused annually.
with oak-smoked, line-caught, sustainable haddock: we use only British Lion Quality free-range eggs and cook Recycle with virtually trans-fat-free oil.
The Company recycles ordinary materials, generated as a consequence of daily business.
During the financial year, The Company supports UK farming and uses 100% the Company recycled 6,457 tonnes of waste, an increase British chips: the beef used in the following products is of 11.5%, year on year.
This included 34 tonnes of 100% British: beef burgers, lasagne, chilli con carne, aluminium, 3,629 tonnes of cardboard, 2,118 tonnes of steak & kidney pudding and beef & Abbot Ale pie.
cooking oil, 419 tonnes of paper, 175 tonnes of plastic and 82 tonnes of steel.
All of the Companys food suppliers are accredited by the British Retail Consortium.
Glass-recycling will continue to be a major focus for the current year.
The business generates over 34,000 tonnes The Company has worked closely with the Food of glass per annum.
The Company has joined forces with Standards Agency FSA and our suppliers to reduce the Biffa, our waste-disposal partner, to roll out glasssalt, saturated fats and sugar levels in its menu offering, recycling across the estate.
The Company successfully in line with the latest FSA guidelines.
recycled 7,151 tonnes of glass in the year and aims to increase this to 75% of the glass supplied to pubs.
In 2010, the Company became Eat Out magazines winner in the best town & local pub category, in Year Tonnes of waste Year Tonnes of glass recognition of our work to improve the quality and range recycled recycled of healthy products on the menu.
50 J D WETHERSPOON PLC CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Working with suppliers The Company usually seeks to promote long-term relationships with its suppliers, working with them to maintain the service expected by customers.
Where practicable, the Company works with suppliers, contractors and partners to minimise environmental impact and to encourage sustainable sourcing and, where reasonably possible, to obtain products from across the UK and Ireland.
The Company believes that it is the largest buyer of microbrewery beer in Great Britain and Northern Ireland, so that customers can enjoy a diverse range of real ales a unique part of the UKs national heritage and culture.
There are 232 Wetherspoon pubs listed in the CAMRA Good Beer Guide 2011 193 were listed in 2010, a larger proportion than that of any other pub company.
The Company serves Tierra Lavazzas  sustainable coffee.
Also, at least 50% of the PG tips tea comes from 100%  farms.
The Rainforest Alliance honoured J D Wetherspoon with a Sustainable Standard Setter award, for 2010, in recognition of our ongoing dedication, innovation and leadership in environmental conservation.
Health and safety The Company aims to promote high standards of safety, throughout the estate, by ensuring that key employees attend appropriate training.
Providing the correct training helps to ensure that pubs are operated within the law.
