42 Corporate Social Responsibility review Corporate Social Responsibility review review of progress was completed Reporting to local and UK We aim to be a good corporate in December 2010 and plans were authorities.
citizen, supporting our people agreed for 2011.
These plans include and their communities, and a renewed focus on continuous Open and transparent minimising our environmental improvement and on making sure We have an open and transparent impact.
that all staff are aware of key HSEC culture, one that encourages people issues.
to report every incident, in order that we can learn from our experiences At JKX, we believe in running and improve our safety performance.
operations at a local level The highlights of 2010 include: If they prefer, workers are able to wherever possible.
Accordingly, report incidents anonymously via Improving our health and safety a nominated individual has post-boxes.
record, with a decrease in the executive responsibility within each AIFR All Injury Frequency Rate operating company for HSEC.
These Corporate CSR objectives Working for 1,000,000 man-hours representatives are fully trained and Protect people by providing at Koshekhablskoye, Russia with experienced as well as being familiar information and advice: promoting no Lost Time Injuries LTI with local culture, regulations and and assuring a goal-setting working practices.
For example, Working for 1,500,000 man-hours system of compliance.
for the Koshekhablskoye project at PPC, Ukraine with no LTI we have recruited and trained a full Influence stakeholder Achieving ISO 14001 team which is now delivering a high organisations to embrace Environmental accreditation standard of HSEC management.
high standards of HSEC Maintaining OHSAS 18001 Health To ensure Group-wide consistency, and to recognise the social & Safety accreditation our operationally-based teams and economic benefits.
report not only to the general Improvement plan for our Carbon Seek to optimise the use of Disclosure Project reporting director of the local operating resources to deliver our mission company but also liaise with the and vision, and enhance our Group HSEC manager.
reputation as a good corporate citizen.
Rigorously applying policies CSR informs everything that we do and standards Develop new ways to establish Our people, the environment and We have robust processes in place and maintain an effective HSEC the communities where we operate to oversee our CSR commitment.
culture in a changing economy, are the keys to our business.
Our aim is to comply with all local so that all employers take their We manage our business with due laws and regulations as a minimum responsibilities seriously, the regard to our stakeholders best and to exceed them where possible.
workforce is fully involved and interests, and are committed to We expect our partners to reach the risks are properly managed.
being recognised as a good same standards.
Our policies and Exemplify Oil and Gas sector best corporate citizen and neighbour.
standards cover: practice in managing our We strive to support our people at Safety reporting and incident resources.
work as well as in their broader lives management.
and also to minimise our impact on Achieve higher levels of the environment.
recognition and respect for HSEC as an integral part of a modern, Corporate Social Responsibility Occupational health provision and competitive business.
CSR informs all areas of our record keeping.
operations and is led by the Chief Continue to work with the business Environmental reporting and Executive Officer.
Our Health, Safety, to prevent catastrophic failures in incident management.
Environment and Community HSEC major hazard industries.
manager reports directly to the CEO Behavioural based safety Undertake and encourage and has responsibility for creating a programmes.
research, and enforce the law framework and maintaining the Continuing Professional where necessary.
HSEC Management System for the Development and implementation.
management of the Groups non-financial impacts.
Human resources practices, covering areas such as equal The Board is provided with opportunities.
quarterly updates relating to the major CSR issues.
A management Handling of charitable requests.
review of all HSEC systems is carried Local community relations.
out every year: a full Board-level JKX Oil & Gas pl JKX Oil & Gas pl JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 c Annual Report & Accounts 2010 c Annual Report & Accounts 2010 04 433 Targets 2010 Achievements 2010 Targets 2011 Reduce the AIFR by 5%.
The AIFR for 2010 was Reduce the AIFR to 0.4.
Meet or exceed the HSEC performance Achieved.
The OGP benchmark Meet or exceed the benchmark set by benchmark set by the Association of Oil was 3.4. the OGP for 2011. and Gas Producers OGP.
Prepare PPC for OHSAS 18001 Achieved, with the first assessment due Complete OHSAS 18001 accreditation for accreditation.
Prepare JKX for ISO 14001 accreditation.
Maintain and enhance ISO 14001 accreditation.
Maintain and enhance OHSAS 18001 accreditation.
Complete and implement the Carbon Achieved.
Our reporting standards were Carry out new baseline study in 2011 and Management Plan.
assessed by the Carbon Disclosure update the Carbon Management Plan to Project.
Introduce BBS Health monitoring COSHH In progress.
Continue to improve the systems and initiatives.
Identify opportunities to improve training In progress.
Continue to improve and identify and competence assurance.
opportunities for improvement in competence and training, with particular emphasis on the Koshekhablskoye and the Ukrainian LPG projects.
Identify opportunities to improve In progress, with high levels of Continue to improve and identify consultation and Community Liaison communication established at opportunities for improvement in Plans.
Community Liaison Plans with a particular focus on Koshekhablskoye.
Seek opportunities for improved In progress.
This is an ongoing initiative for 2011 and contractor selection and management beyond, as new contractors or processes support.
Improve contractor risk based approach Auditing and sampling have been This is an ongoing initiative for 2011 and to HSEC Management.
A programme of beyond as new contractors or processes management site visits and training are introduced.
This area is to be plans have improved contractor efforts managed carefully during prein 2010. commissioning and start-up at Koshekhablskoye.
Identify opportunities for improved Risk Achieved, with greater participation This is an ongoing initiative for 2011 and Management and Assessment activities.
from local staff in the HAZOP process beyond as new processes are introduced, during 2010. mainly on the Koshekhablskoye and the Ukrainian LPG projects.
Examine opportunities to improve waste Achieved, following discussions with This will continue to be monitored and disposal and recycling.
operational locations and the continuously improved throughout 2011 development of plans to identify and beyond.
Identify opportunities to improve the Achieved, with improvements to risk Continually improve the contribution of contribution of local HSEC staff.
assessment techniques matched by local HSEC staff.
better dissemination of information and consultation between locations by local HSEC staff.
Identify opportunities for improved hazard, Achieved.
Continue to improve reporting, using near-miss and incident reporting.
workshops, site campaigns, training sessions, tool-box talks and briefings.
Identify opportunities to improve Achieved, with improved emergency Further improve plans.
We have already Emergency Response plans.
response arrangements at PPC backed reviewed the plans for Hungary, and by closer collaboration with the Ministry enhancements are planned for Russia of Emergency Response in the Ukraine.
