44 Corporate Social Responsibility review CSR case study Koshekhablskoye, Russia Health and safety Environment Employment Community We will never Waste management We are bringing valuable We are keen to be good compromise the safety is a challenge in an jobs to the region.
The neighbours and to play of our people.
The area that has limited current number of YGE our part in the local project poses signi cant infrastructure for safe employees is 155, which community whenever challenges to our waste disposal.
In is expected to peak at possible.
In 2010, we workforce, including the addition to introducing over 250.
The project were pleased to provide presence of Hydrogen a reduce, reuse, is also generating financial and practical Sulphide H S. We recycle scheme at the employment for support to the town 2 enhanced the level of project, we are utilising contractors and supply of Maikops Harvest protection from H S temporary options such chain vendors: the Festival celebration, 2 during 2010 and worked as storage while working number varies but could which is an important more than 1 million with local industry to be up to 600 support and event in the lives of the man-hours without a create a permanent associated personnel.
solution to the issue of waste.
However, it is also an extensive consultation, which At Koshekhablskoye, some area of above average unemployincluded hosting a public meeting, 1,500km south of Moscow, we are ment.
The local people need jobs to gather opinions and provide the building a gas plant which has but they also need them to be good, community with information on the major implications for our four CSR long-term and well-paid jobs project.
In particular, we explained pillars: health and safety, provided within an effective HSEC how we can contribute to initiatives employment, community and the framework.
and events which support local environment.
A top priority for us companies and employment, is to deliver the project to its full Our goal is to be a net contributor to develop skills and encourage potential while also ensuring that the local community and to build a entrepreneurship.
it provides benefits to the local reputation as an important and people and their community.
We can help drive We also carried out an social and economic development in Environmental Impact Assessment The nearest town, Maikop, is the local communities through the use EIA with the Volgograd Design capital of the Adygea Republic and is of our resources and through our Institute.
Our activities will result in recognised as one of the most supply chain network.
We used higher-risk environmental attractive cities in the Northern JKX Oil & Gas pl JKX Oil & Gas pl JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual Report & Accounts 2010 c Annual Report & Accounts 2010 c Annual Report & Accounts 2010 0 45 45 challenges, particularly in terms of commercial gas production on which can cause fatalities if not water use and waste management.
YGE, our operating addressed correctly.
Although H S 2 To address this, we are company, currently employs 155 controls were already in place to implementing systems to ensure people, with this set to rise to over meet legal requirements, the JKX minimal water use, minimal waste 250.
The number of contractors and Technical Director and the YGE generation and that we have a clear supply chain vendors will vary but Managing Director demanded baseline against which to measure we expect it to peak at up to 600 greater protection for the workforce.
An Oil Spill support and associated personnel.
We have now carried out a full Contingency Plan OSCP has been review and introduced enhanced Their health and safety at work prepared to ensure rapid and precautions covering such issues is very important to us.
The appropriate action in the event of a as training, additional H S 2 Koshekhablskoye project poses spill.
Oil spill contingency training is monitoring, enhanced drills and a number of HSEC challenges, planned for 2011 for YGE employees.
evacuation plans, and emergency notably through the presence response plans.
Construction at Koshekhablskoye is of Hydrogen Sulphide H S, an 2 continuing at pace, with first extremely dangerous substance
