26 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2010 Corporate social responsibility Our people Growth from within We are committed to attracting, retaining The number of people working for the Group increased by 700 2% to and developing the highest calibre people.
This reflects growth in most areas, offset by some reductions in GTS.
We treat all our people fairly, responsibly and with respect, and help them to achieve their Attracting and retaining quality people potential.
We aim to offer competitive rewards, with a significant incentive element for those responsible for the performance and direction of the Group Our priorities for 2011 or its businesses.
In 2010 we were again recognised by the Corporate Deepening the pool of trained and experienced personnel Research Foundation as one of Britains Top Employers, based on a Broadening the recruitment capability worldwide broad assessment of rewards, development, working conditions and Expanding management training programmes culture.
Our annual voluntary turnover fell to 7% from 9% in 2009.
We attach great importance to employee communication and engagement, and continue to look to improve our channels for dialogue.
Our Chief Executive, other directors and the Group Communications team regularly use our intranet to keep people up to date with developments.
In 2011, we plan to implement further improvements to the intranet.
Regional Headcount North America Employee communication Europe In our 2010 employee communications survey, more than 89% of respondents were satisfied or very satisfied with communications Middle East & Africa across the Group.
The findings of the survey were published internally Asia Pacific and we will be working in 2011 to continue to improve communication.
Central & South America Training and developing quality people We provided more training in 2010, to develop management, technical and financial skills across the Group.
Our Management Development Programme continued to help senior managers build on their skills, using team-building projects to develop solutions to real business challenges.
We expanded our Managing People Effectively course Headcount for developing managers, and continue our Understanding Business Finance programme to improve financial awareness and understanding 2010 28,900 among our senior managers.
In addition to Group-led programmes, 28,200 2009 there are a range of other courses provided locally to focus on personal 2008 28,800 development, specific job-related skills, and vocational and professional 2007 24,700 qualifications.
20,900 2006 Our structured engineering graduate programme attracted over 2,000 applicants in 2010.
We look for ambitious individuals who are motivated and enthusiastic about their discipline and who have a strong academic background.
In 2010 we recruited 104 2009: 68 people from different countries and backgrounds into our graduate development and apprenticeships programmes to join the over 550 already engaged in such programmes within Wood Group worldwide.
Training and development Mustang encourages employees to take the initiative in developing their careers.
During a Career Navigation Workshop, they look at their skills, passions and interests as well as industry trends and market conditions to determine how these fit with the strategic vision of the company.
