At a glance Operational review Governance Financial statements go online at www.
com 27 : Corporate social responsibility Health and safety Initiatives Achieving and sustaining a safe and healthy The Frontline Focus campaign continued to ensure that our core workplace is central to our business.
We are health and safety initiatives are effectively implemented where such potential risks are greatest at the frontline of our operations.
Our committed to achieving the highest standards Behavioural Standard and Safety Culture programmes continued to of safety in everything we do, and continuous raise the awareness of the impact of human factors such as leadership, improvement is a key measure of our success.
behaviours and competencies on the delivery of safety performance across the Group.
We also implemented integrity management Our priorities for 2011 principles in our highest risk areas of operations.
Initiatives unique to We will focus on specific aspects of safety related to human factors individual businesses included the continuing HANDSAFE campaign run and reliability of our operations by GTS in the USA, UK, Dubai and Thailand.
We will keep promoting the benefit of a healthy balanced lifestyle and will raise awareness on occupational health risks Recognising success Our performance was recognised by a number of our clients including Chevron, who awarded WG Brazil a Gold Level HSE performance award and Woodside in Australia who awarded J P Kenny Pty the Oil and Gas TRCF Encouragement Award, part of the Government of Western Australia 2010 3.1 2010 Innovator of the year programme.
In Trinidad, Neal & Massy 2009 3.3 Wood Group was awarded the Chairmans Award by BP for Safety and 2008 3.3 Operational Integrity.
2007 3.9 2006 4.2 Regulators and industry bodies also recognised our health and safety performance.
In the UK, we received the Challenge Award for LWCF Environment from the Offshore Contractors Association.
In the USA, Mustang Engineering received the Clean Air Champion Award for their 2010 1.0 commitment to support voluntary measures that reduce air pollution 2009 0.9 2008 1.1 and improve air quality by the Houston & Galveston Area Council.
Wood 2007 1.5 Group Kenny was awarded the IFAP Gold Safe Way Achiever Award for 2006 1.2 2010 for the fifth consecutive year.
As a result of this success, Wood Group Kenny has also been awarded a Platinum Recognition award TRCF is the frequency of all reportable injuries, including medical treatment cases.
LWCF is the frequency of all injuries resulting in lost time away from work.
Both acknowledging their consistent performance.
frequencies are measured per million man hours worked.
Health Promoting awareness Safety We have implemented programmes promoting and enhancing the health Performance and well-being of our employees, their families and the communities In 2010 we reduced our total recordable case frequency TRCF by 6%, in which we work.
In addition to health fairs held across the different consistent with our trend over recent years.
Although our lost work case parts of our organisation, we also provide guidance, tools and support frequency LWCF increased by 11%, actions have been taken by senior to develop health programmes tailored and managed by our local management to correct this including safety stand-downs, identification businesses.
Examples in 2010 included the Health Surveillance of root causes of incidents and implementation of behavioural Programme introduced in Aberdeen to monitor employees health and programmes.
more rigorously control their exposure to health risks.
Global health challenge Fifty-five Wood Group teams from around the world took part in the 2010 Global Corporate Challenge.
This encourages people to be more active by measuring how much they walk, cycle or swim each day, and is the largest health challenge of its kind in the world.
