28 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2010 Corporate social responsibility Environment Minimising our energy use We will aim to minimise the adverse Building on our 2009 Carbon Footprint Pilot programme, in 2010 environmental impact of our activities, work we applied UK Carbon Trust methodology to measure our footprint across several of our businesses.
Our main CO emissions come from 2 with our customers to minimise their impact, energy use in our buildings, and business travel by employees: we are demonstrate our commitment with actions committed to improving performance in both these areas.
rather than words and remain focused on In 2010 we challenged each of our businesses to launch an energy further improvement.
efficiency campaign geared to its own needs and opportunities.
Campaigns were designed to engage employees individually, as well as Our priorities for 2011 applying more efficient technology and introducing broad initiatives such Improving awareness of the environmental impact of operations as rescheduling office cleaning to allow lights to be turned off earlier.
Rolling out carbon footprinting across the Group Engaging all personnel in environmental initiatives Mustang in the USA adopted the Government-sponsored NuRide programme for car sharing.
The NuRide members reduced their miles driven by 125,000 in 2010, reducing their emissions by 56 metric tons of CO equivalents.
In the UK, Production Facilities increased their recycling 2 by 10% with food waste composting a contributing factor towards this.
Rolls Wood Group used simulators to show employees how to drive more efficiently, providing economic as well as environmental advantages.
Using resources more efficiently Across the Group we recycle paper, mobile phones, IT equipment and printer cartridges.
We encourage double-sided copying and printing and have reduced the number of personal printers in our offices.
In a number of locations we also distributed personalised mugs and reusable water bottles and introduced more desk-side recycling bins.
Environment week We staged our first global Environment Week to coincide with the UNs World Environment Day on 5 June 2010.
Employees organised a wide range of events to raise awareness, share best practice and encourage behavioural change at both work and home.
Activities included cleaning beaches in Australia, learning about fuel-efficient driving in Aberdeen and a worldwide competition inviting employees children to design postcards illustrating their ideas about the environment.
Cutting customers impacts Our expertise in reducing emissions, improving energy efficiency, carbon capture and storage, and renewable energy can help our customers to develop cleaner energy solutions.
We have now completed over 40 3 downstream clean fuel projects, keeping over 5.9m of SO out of the 2 atmosphere each day, and are working on several projects for converting municipal waste to fuel.
Numerous firms use our E!CEMS software to help them monitor and reduce emissions from their operations.
Environmental Awareness Week During Environmental Awareness Week volunteers from Wood Group and 100 local schoolchildren joined forces with Aberdeen City Council Countryside Ranger Service to plant 1,500 trees.
This was part of an initiative by the City Council to plant 210,000 trees by the end of 2011.
