At a glance Operational review Governance Financial statements go online at www.
com 29 : Corporate social responsibility Ethics Our Business Ethics Policy Integrity and honesty are at the heart of our The Group has a culture that encourages ethical conduct and a business.
We expect our people to uphold our commitment to compliance with the law.
The Group Finance Director chairs the Business Ethics Committee, which comprises senior high ethical standards wherever our business management representatives from across the Group, and is tasked with takes them earning the trust and respect of monitoring the operation of the Business Ethics Policy and working on colleagues, customers, partners and suppliers.
ways to best promote compliance across the Group.
Our priorities for 2011 Our Business Ethics Policy is available in nine languages and is widely Continuing development of our business ethics training programme communicated to our people.
The policy is available on the Groups Ensuring compliance with new UK Bribery Act legislation website and third party agents, and other representatives are sent Induction training for new personnel copies and asked to indicate their continued compliance.
A new online web-based Business Ethics training programme was rolled out in 2010, with over 3,500 employees completing two separate training modules.
This training is mandatory for certain Group employees, who also confirm their continued commitment to compliance with the Business Ethics Policy by completing an annual electronic certification.
Support for concerned employees The Wood Group Ethics Helpline telephone helplines and an email address where concerns can be raised confidentially are used to encourage the reporting of suspected violations of the Business Ethics Policy as well as operating as a forum for employees to ask questions.
A register of ethics matters is maintained by the Groups Compliance Counsel and the Board receives regular reports and updates on business ethics as well as on the implementation of the policy.
Ensuring policy compliance During 2010, a number of internal investigations were undertaken into allegations of unethical behaviour.
Appropriate disciplinary action was taken based on the facts and circumstances and this included ten terminations for behaviour or actions that violated the Business Ethics Policy.
We will continue to take prompt action to deal with any known violations.
Forthcoming legislation The UK Bribery Act 2010 is expected to come into force mid-2011, capturing both bribery within the private sector and bribes paid to government or public officials to secure unfair or improper business advantages.
We do not anticipate any material change to our Business Ethics Policy or processes as a result of the new Act.
We will continue to provide training and guidance to ensure that the actions and behaviours of our people and companies, as well as intermediaries providing services on behalf of or for the benefit of the Group comply with all relevant legislation.
Business Ethics Roadshow Training sessions were conducted in person in key locations during 2010 and there will be an ongoing personal training programme in 2011.
For example, in November we conducted a Business Ethics Roadshow in Australia, Brunei and Indonesia with training sessions for 190 Wood Group personnel in Darwin, Melbourne, Perth, Brunei and Jakarta.
