BUSINESS REVIEW During the year we have continued to develop our strategy Sustainability to achieve carbon neutrality.
We have also introduced a more formal system of site and functional reviews to drive improved Sustainability is a key element of our strategy for the future performance.
Conducted by members of the Group Sustainability growth of the business.
The groups Sustainability 2017 Vision, team, the reviews aim to raise awareness of sustainability, launched in December 2007, sets out our aspirations for provide help and support with initiatives, identify and share building a more sustainable business and includes challenging examples of good practice and ensure that the principles of targets to support business growth.
Our aims are to at least sustainability are fully embedded across Johnson Matthey.
double our underlying earnings per share whilst achieving The site and functional reviews also focus on the progress carbon neutrality, zero waste to landfill and halving the key being made against local plans and on the alignment of local resources that we consume per unit of output by 2017, the targets with the 2017 goals.
This includes examination of the 200th anniversary of the founding of the company.
The full tools and metrics which can be used to understand the statement is available on the companys website at sustainability impacts and benefits of our operations and products.
Sharing information on successes, ideas and challenges There are two key drivers for our vision.
The first is to be across the whole group is also important to support continued more efficient with the resources we use as a business and the progress.
Employee engagement has remained a key priority to second is to design new products and services that help our ensure all staff have a clear view of the importance of customers to be more sustainable and competitive.
However, sustainability to the overall business strategy and to equip them growing our business through sustainability is not only about with the information they need to take forward their own ideas.
We are also committed to best A dedicated intranet site has recently been launched to provide practice in governance, to creating a positive working a means for everyone in the group to share good practice on environment for employees and to being a responsible partner sustainability and to offer a central source of information which for our customers, suppliers and communities.
Some of the employees can draw upon to support their initiatives.
progress we have made towards achieving the vision is During the year the Johnson Matthey Sustainability Awards presented in summary in this report.
Further details can be were introduced to recognise and share best practice across the found in Johnson Mattheys Sustainability Report 2009 10 which group.
The awards, which will be made each year, span five will be published on the companys website in July 2010. categories which were carefully chosen to reflect the breadth Sustainability is embedded into our routine management of our Sustainability 2017 Vision.
Last year a very strong set of processes.
All of the groups businesses are required to develop, around 90 entries was received, demonstrating the way in which implement and report progress on their own sustainability plans everyone in the group continues to embrace sustainability and as part of the groups annual financial budgeting processes.
embed it as part of the way of doing business.
Details of the These plans have the common corporate objectives as their seven winners can be found in the 2008 09 Sustainability Report.
foundation and are tailored to the businesses own specific Going forward the group will focus on accelerating operations.
This approach encourages commitment at a local performance towards the Sustainability 2017 targets through level and takes advantage of Johnson Mattheys culture and identifying and implementing operational process improvements methods of working.
and by developing new sustainable products for our customers.
Progress towards our Sustainability 2017 targets and the The global sustainability agenda continues to evolve at a groups other social, environmental and ethical targets is considerable pace presenting new challenges and opportunities summarised in the table on page 30.
We have developed for our industry.
Johnson Matthey will continue its ongoing appropriate key performance indicators KPIs to enable us to assessment of the current and likely future impacts on its business monitor performance and data is reported relative to a baseline and the identification of new markets to ensure the group is year which, unless stated, is taken as our performance in well positioned to respond and benefit over the years ahead.
In 2009 10 performance against our targets has improved relative to the baseline year.
Year on year progress 2009 10 Managing Sustainability versus 2008 09 has also been steady with improvement against Johnson Matthey has adopted the principles of corporate social all but three targets: earnings per share EPS, carbon neutrality responsibility and embedded them into its risk management and natural gas consumption.
During 2009 10, EPS growth has processes.
Since 2003 we have reported annually on our social, been held back by the impact of the global economic downturn environmental and ethical performance in a separate report.
The groups natural gas consumption and global Through the launch of Sustainability 2017 we have defined our warming potential GWP both increased this year resulting own vision and direction to manage our impacts and from the inclusion of data from three major new manufacturing opportunities with increasing efficiency.
The increase in GWP was also due in part to the Sustainability is managed across the group according to five geographical mix of production where this year, a greater elements: financial: governance: social: health and safety: and proportion of our total output originated in countries where environment.
the carbon intensity from grid electricity is high.
Much of our progress to date has been achieved by incremental improvements in operational and process efficiencies, the so called low hanging fruit.
We have recognised the need to focus further on the step change opportunities that will drive accelerated progress towards our 2017 targets and add real value to Johnson Matthey.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 29 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW Progress Towards Sustainability 2017 Baseline 2017 1 Sustainability 2017 Aspiration KPI 2006 07 2009 10 Target 2 At least double earnings per share Underlying earnings per share pence 82.2 86.4 164.4 3,4 Achieve carbon neutrality Total global warming potential tonnes CO equivalent 401,119 390,389 0 2 4 Achieve zero waste to landfill Amount of waste to landfill tonnes 16,555 4,998 0 4 5 Halve key resources per unit of output Electricity consumption GJ 000 1,469 1,389 735 4 Natural gas consumption GJ 000 2,146 2,084 1,073 4 3 Water consumption m 000 1,909 1,734 955 1 Other Targets KPI Baseline 2009 10 Target 6 Zero greater than three day accidents Annual accident rate per 1,000 employees n a 2.14 0 7 ISO 14001 implemented by all Number of manufacturing sites with ISO 14001 n a 41 45 manufacturing sites in 2010 registration 8 9 Incidence of occupational illness cases Annual incidence of occupational illness cases per 5.3 5.2 3.7 reduced by at least 30% by 2013 14 1,000 employees 1 Data presented is for the period 1st April 2009 to 31st March 2010.
2 Data presented is for the period 1st April 2006 to 31st March 2007.
4 Data presented is for the period 1st January 2006 to 31st December 2006.
5 The top three target resources were identified for each facility and from this electricity consumption, natural gas consumption and water use were most significant for the majority of the group.
8 Baseline is incidence of occupational illness cases per 1,000 employees in calendar year 2008.
Financial We continue to work towards obtaining more robust Financial viability is a key element of sustainability.
Continued evaluations of the financial benefits of our sustainability growth in profit is an important aspiration of our Sustainability programme and on establishing further metrics to monitor the 2017Vision and we have set a target to more than double our financial impact of sustainability initiatives on business underlying earnings per share by 2017.
Details of our progress performance.
are outlined in the Financial Review on pages 20 to 22, in the Group Key Performance Indicators section on pages 8 and 9 Governance and in the FiveYear Record on page 109.
Good governance is a cornerstone of sustainability and the The two major thrusts of our vision are about being more group has well established policies and management systems to efficient with the resources we use and designing new products support this which apply to all operations worldwide.
Legal that help our customers to be more sustainable.
Using fewer requirements are a minimum standard and in many cases our resources as a business will save us money.
It will enable us to policies and systems are in advance of these.
Johnson Matthey maintain or improve our margins and allow us to invest more in has policies in the areas of Environment, Health and Safety R&D and infrastructure.
We have started to evaluate the monetary EHS : Employment: and Business Integrity and Ethics which savings realised by our businesses through implementation of provide the framework for managing environmental, social and their Sustainability 2017 plans and estimate that savings of up to governance matters.
These are presented on the companys 12 million have been achieved in 2009 10.
These savings have website at www.
Further details of our policies, been achieved as a result of a large number of initiatives across initiatives and progress can be found in the Sustainability Report all our businesses.
For example, energy reduction projects in on our website and are presented here in summary.
Emission ControlTechnologies have saved around 170,000, As outlined in the Corporate Governance section page 42 solvent reduction programmes at Macfarlan Smith have delivered the board has embedded environmental, social and governance around 200,000 in savings and Catalysts and Chemicals in matters into its risk management processes and formally reviews Shanghai, China has saved over 140,000 through initiatives to the area once a year.
These matters are monitored by the CSR deliver reductions across its five key resources.
Compliance Committee, a sub-committee of the Chief Designing innovative new products for our customers will Executives Committee.
A description of the role of the allow us to maintain or strengthen our competitive position in Committee can be found on page 42. the markets we serve today and benefit from the growth opportunities in emerging markets within the sustainability sector.
In 2009 10 a significant proportion of profit was generated by products that directly benefit the environment.
30 - Johnson Matthey Policies and Management Systems Environment, Health and Safety Regulatory Matters and Product Stewardship Johnson Matthey is committed to providing the highest level of Johnson Mattheys corporate REACH compliance programme protection to the environment and to safeguarding the health is well advanced.
Projects to support substances subject to and safety of its employees, customers and communities.
This is registration in 2010 are on track and it is anticipated that all supported by policies, a comprehensive management system, dossier submissions will be made on time.
We continue to governance, careful risk assessment, auditing and training which participate in industry consortia collaborations as an efficient promote continuous improvement and ensure that high and cost effective method of managing current and future standards are achieved at sites worldwide.
In addition, all facilities registration requirements.
Our businesses are now engaged in have developed local policies to meet corporate requirements.
the transition to the Globally Harmonised System GHS for The EHS policy is a written statement, formulated and chemical classification and hazard communication and work is agreed by the Chief Executives Committee and approved by underway to ensure compliance with the European Union the board.
Signed by the Chief Executive, it is available at all sites, Classification Regulation.
As part of our continuous improvement is published on the website and forms the basis of the group programme for product stewardship, a comprehensive training EHS management system.
update programme on the USToxic Substances Control Act The group EHS management system is available to all TSCA is being delivered across the group and is over 80% employees via the group intranet.
It is regularly reviewed and, complete.
A further three product regulatory specialists have together with the corporate policies and objectives, it defines been recruited during 2009 10 to support our global efforts.
accountability and sets the standards against which conformance No notifications of significant health effects at end user level audits are assessed.
involving our products and no major incidents or environmental EHS compliance audits are vital to maintain continuous releases during product transportation and distribution were improvement and all Johnson Matthey operated manufacturing recorded in 2009 10.
During the year, there were no major and research and development facilities are included in the audit product related regulatory penalties or non-compliances.
Audit frequency for each facility is determined by Policies and Management Systems Human Resources the scale, inherent risk and past performance of the operation.
The groups human resources standards are progressive, Audits are carried out by experienced ISO qualified EHS consistent and aimed at bringing out the best in our people.
professionals and controlled by the Group EHS Assurance Group policies are supported by detailed regional and individual Director.
Health management reviews are undertaken every business procedures which are regularly updated to reflect both three to four years at all operational sites.
They are conducted by regional best practice and local legislation.
Site specific human the Director of Group Health who provides consulting advice resources policies and procedures are communicated to staff at to support the prioritisation and planning of programmes to inductions and through staff handbooks.
Human resources optimise workplace health and promote workforce sustainability.
policies and risks are examined by the Chief Executives In addition, all businesses undertake annual health management Committee and the CSR Compliance Committee.
improvement planning to adjust health programmes to meet changing business needs.
All audit reports, including health management reviews, are reviewed by the CSR Compliance Committee and appropriate follow up actions are taken on outstanding issues.
During 2009 10 30 detailed compliance audits and six one day audit Managing Sustainability action reviews were completed.
Health management reviews were conducted at 14 facilities.
Training is a vital element in ensuring continuous improvement in EHS performance and a variety of programmes are in place.
Regular meetings are held in Europe and North America to enable EHS professionals across the group to network, share best practice and discuss the impact of future EHS legislation.
SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Meetings have been extended to include the Asia region and its first meeting was held in May 2010.
Health and Safety Social Environment Governance Financial LOCAL ACTION IN BUSINESSES Putting principles into practice POLICIES AND MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS Key objectives for assessment and control of risks CSR COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE CHIEF EXECUTIVES COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE Setting standards and overseeing Policy setting and approval Monitors performance compliance Identify and monitor EHS, Addresses risk and control issues Annual review of CSR risks social and governance risks JOHNSON MATTHEY BOARD Responsibility for social, environmental and ethical matters Risk management processes and review Annual Report & Accounts 2010 31 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW The groups policies on equal opportunities and training are Compliance training is provided to employees to support published in full on the website and are detailed below.
their understanding of and commitment to group policies in Our Equal Opportunities Policy is to recruit, train and order to protect and enhance the companys reputation.
The develop employees who meet the requirements of the job role, training educates managers in their responsibilities for employees, regardless of gender, ethnic origin, age, religion, sexual orientation commercial contracts and company assets and is delivered or disability.
The policy recognises that people with disabilities globally via online learning programmes and seminars.
can often be denied a fair chance at work because of All facilities have established policies and procedures for misconceptions about their capabilities and seeks to enhance employees to raise employment related issues for consideration the opportunities available by attempting, wherever possible, and resolution.
A confidential and secure whistleblowing website to overcome obstacles, such as the need to modify equipment, and telephone helpline are also in place to give all employees restructure jobs or to improve access to premises, provided additional means to raise any issue of personal concern.
such action does not compromise health and safety standards.
Management of supply chain and contractor activities is a Similarly, employees who become disabled during their core component of the ISO 9000 and ISO 14000 series of employment will be offered employment opportunities standards.
Supply chain and contractor management consistent with their capabilities.
We value the diversity of our questionnaires are a requirement of achieving and maintaining people as a core component of a sustainable business and registration and as such, ISO registered Johnson Matthey employment applications are welcomed and encouraged from operations require the completion of appropriate questionnaires.
all sections of the community including minority groups.
For those operations without ISO registration, the group EHS The Management Development and Remuneration management system provides policy and guidance on supply Committee of the board takes a special interest in ensuring chain management and contractor control.
compliance with theTraining and Development Policy objectives During the year, procurement professionals from across in order to: Johnson Matthey have been working together to develop an Ensure highest standards in the recruitment of employees.
Ethical and Sustainable Procurement Policy.
The policy provides Assess training needs in the light of job requirements.
clear guidance on various topics including those relating to the Ensure relevance of training and link with business goals.
selection of suppliers, auditing against standards and ethical Employ and evaluate effective and efficient training methods.
Promote from within, from high potential pools of talent.
Johnson Matthey is confident of the human rights Understand employees aspirations.
performance of its own operations but recognises that business Provide development opportunities to meet employees practices in the supply chain are not always transparent and potential and aspirations.
represent a risk that must be managed.
Every effort is made to ensure the issues are managed effectively.
We support the Policies and Management Systems Business Integrity and Ethics principles defined within the United Nations Universal Johnson Matthey strives to maintain the highest standards of Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour ethical conduct and corporate responsibility worldwide to ensure Organisation Core Conventions including the conventions in we act with integrity, transparency and with care for the rights of relation to child labour, forced labour, non-discrimination, the individual.
The groups principles are set out in the Business freedom of association and collective bargaining.
Compliance Integrity and Ethics Policy and issues are further safeguarded with and respect for these core principles are integrated within through corporate governance processes and monitoring by the the risk assessment procedures and impact assessments which board and its committees.
The policy applies to all the groups are undertaken when entering into business in a new territory employees and is presented on the website.
and within the due diligence processes when making an acquisition or entering a joint venture.
Employees at Johnson Matthey Mexico Apprentice at Johnson Mattheys Redwitz joined children at a local kindergarten in site in Germany.
The sites apprentice planting trees.
The site also donated hoses, scheme combines company training with sprinklers and soccer equipment.
formal education at an occupational college.
32 - Johnson Matthey Total Employees by Region Total Employees by Division Gender by Region Average headcount for 2009 10 Average headcount for 2009 10 As at 31st March 2010 100 Rest of Corporate World 337 80 566 Fine Chemicals Asia 975 Europe 1,045 Environmental 60 4,579 Technologies 4,701 40 20 North Precious America Metal Products 2,385 2,562 0 Europe North Asia Rest of Group America World % Male % Female Social The groups gender balance remains almost unchanged this Recruitment, Training, Development and Diversity year at 79% male and 21% female.
The group recognises the Johnson Mattheys employees are respected as the groups most importance of creating an enhanced environment for the valuable resource and play a vital role in building a sustainable development of women in management and during the year has business.
We are committed to recruiting high calibre employees introduced an initiative to increase awareness of this issue.
As and providing them with the information, training and working part of this, managers have been encouraged to use the annual environment they need to perform to the highest standards.
appraisal with their female staff as an opportunity to understand All employees are encouraged to develop to their maximum aspirations, identify any perceived obstacles to progression, potential, supported by human resources policies and practices discuss opportunities for career development and highlight that are strategically linked to the needs of the business and our details of the groups family friendly policies.
Employee Relations and Communication The skills, qualities and wellbeing of employees underpin The quality of our employee relations is a priority for the the companys success.
An effective, streamlined recruitment company and Johnson Matthey is proud of the high level of procedure supports the steady requirement for high calibre commitment and loyalty from its employees.
We have a low graduates and career foundation training programmes are in voluntary staff turnover 5.4% in 2009 10, see page 9 with many place to engage new recruits.
We also offer training and employees staying with the company for their whole careers.
development programmes at middle and senior manager levels.
Effective communication with employees is important and Employees from acquired businesses are actively encouraged to in particular, face to face dialogue.
Communication is exchanged attend programmes to expose them to the wider group culture through the in house magazines, attitude surveys, regular news and help them integrate.
Our extensive portfolio of training is bulletins, presentations to staff and team briefings.
Employees are provided at our facilities around the world and programmes also encouraged to access the groups corporate intranet, include presentations from senior executives to anchor the sustainability intranet and website.
course content to the companys strategies and progress.
The company supports employee share ownership and Our aim is to retain high potential and high performing employees have the opportunity to participate in share staff.
Providing career development opportunities for employees ownership plans, where practicable.
Under these plans, assists in staff retention and in turn, succession planning and the employees can buy shares in the company which are matched sustainability of management.
Recruiting well qualified staff is by a company funded component.
Employees in six countries vital to support business development, particularly in new and are able to contribute to a company share ownership plan emerging markets such as in Asia, and this is achieved by or a 401k approved savings investment plan.
Through these appropriate manpower planning, local recruitment and the ownership plans Johnson Mattheys current and former encouragement of international and cross divisional mobility.
employees collectively held 1.83% of the companys shares at The group has a management skills inventory database to help 31st March 2010. to identify and match suitably qualified internal candidates to Johnson Matthey also sponsors pension plans for its promotional and development opportunities globally and or employees worldwide.
These pension plans are a combination of across our divisions as we strive to place the right people with defined benefit and defined contribution pension arrangements, the right skills in the right places.
Beyond satisfying the savings schemes and provident funds designed to provide immediate business needs, the company is committed to appropriate retirement benefits based on local laws, custom and developing a more internationally diverse workforce to support market practice.
In 2009 10 there was a major change to the its global business.
Johnson Matthey Employees Pension Scheme in the UK JMEPS.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 33 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW Following a full consultation exercise with around 2,000 with our employees.
At a group level, Johnson Matthey operates employees who were affected by the change, from 31st March a charitable donations programme which includes support for 2010 those employees ceased to accrue further benefits based organisations working in the areas of environment, medical and upon their final salary.
From 1st April 2010 those employees will health, science and education, social welfare and international accrue benefits based upon their career average salary and may development.
The programme includes an annual donations also make defined contributions to their pension which are scheme where a number of charities are selected triennially and matched by the company up to 3% of pensionable pay.
This receive a donation from the company each year for a three year is in line with the pension arrangements for UK employees who period.
In 2009 10 48 charitable causes received an annual joined JMEPS since 2006.
These actions were deemed necessary donation through this scheme.
The group's programme also to preserve the long term strength and integrity of the pension considers individual requests for support throughout the year funds and of the company itself.
Further details are provided on and a further 44 charitable organisations received donations page 22.
The design of the career average section of the scheme on this basis in 2009 10. is geared to providing overall benefits of a similar level to the The group also has a specific programme of support previous final salary section but has removed or reduced some focused on promoting the understanding and awareness of of the liabilities that the company could potentially face in the science among children and young people.
During the year we future.
The changes only affected UK based employees.
have worked with StemNet, a UK organisation that creates In 2008 09 the global economic slowdown had made it opportunities for young people in science, technology, engineering necessary to reduce employee numbers at some of our and mathematics STEM, to develop practical materials for use manufacturing sites and our monthly employee numbers in school STEM clubs.
The programme we have devised, called continued to fall during the early part of 2009 10.
A minimum Sustainability is Precious, has been trialled by several schools point was reached in June 2009 and since then, employee and will be rolled out nationally later this year.
numbers have increased by around 7%, as we have seen a Johnson Matthey continues to operate its annual charity of recovery in demand for our products.
the year programme and employee views are considered when Johnson Matthey continues to maintain good and deciding on the charity.
The group is supporting Alzheimers Society constructive relations with all recognised trade unions which in 2009 10 and further details on the partnership are available in collectively represent 33% of all group employees worldwide.
Johnson Mattheys sites around the world During 2009 10 no working time was lost within the group due also lend support to many other charities locally and nationally to employee action.
through donations, employee time or loans of company facilities.
The corporate sickness absence rate during 2009 10 was Royston, UK is home to Johnson Mattheys global 2.1% compared to 2.2% restated for 2008 09.
We continue to headquarters and is the companys largest site.
For several years increase investment in sustainable health and wellness programmes the company has supported the towns initiative to become to support the longer term health, wellbeing and performance a Business Improvement District BID and has provided of our employees.
management time and 50,000 of financial support.
Achieving BID status requires local businesses to vote in favour of making Community Investment a small increase in their business rate payments.
These are then Johnson Matthey has a strong tradition for good community directly reinvested to provide funds for the improvement of the relations and the company and its employees are actively involved towns facilities with the aim of creating a better place to live in programmes worldwide.
We have an important contribution and work.
Royston successfully gained its BID status in April 2009 to make to the economic development of our local communities, and Johnson Matthey continues to be involved in the not only as an employer but also through collaboration and implementation of the improvement plans.
investment, both financial and in kind.
Johnson Matthey is a member of the London Benchmarking Group LBG.
Guidance on site requirements is detailed in the group EHS management system and a review of community investment activities across the group is carried out each year.
In 2009 10, the review indicates that 98% of Johnson Mattheys operations with over 50 employees participated in activities within their local communities.
These activities are wide ranging and include charitable giving, support for educational projects, the advancement of science and economic regeneration projects.
Employees also participate in activities or hold community related roles outside of the work environment.
The company is supportive of this broader community engagement, allowing employees time off during working hours as appropriate.
The review also demonstrates that a higher proportion of sites have specific budgets for community Johnson Matthey is supporting Roystons BID investment and are setting objectives for their activities.
John Gourd of Johnson Matthey Johnson Mattheys long history of support for charitable centre with Oliver Heald, MP for causes continues today through group and business programmes.
Hertfordshire North East left and Geraint The causes we support reflect the areas in which the groups Burnell of Royston First right.
In the financial year to 31st March 2010 Johnson Matthey At regular meetings with the companys major shareholders, donated 458,000 to charitable organisations.
This figure only matters relating to sustainability and corporate social responsibility includes donations made by Johnson Matthey and does not may be discussed together with the performance and include payroll giving, donations made by staff or employee time.
development of the groups businesses.
The company made no political donations in the year.
We will During the year Johnson Matthey was awarded the Chemical continue to support a wide range of charitable causes in 2010 11.
Industries Association 2009 Award for Environmental Leadership.
It also received two awards at the inaugural Institute of Chartered Stakeholder Engagement Secretaries and Administrators ICSA HermesTransparency in Johnson Matthey has a wide range of stakeholders with an Governance Awards, one for Best Practice Disclosure on interest in hearing from or working with the company.
These Sustainability and a second for Best Practice Disclosure on include customers, employees, fund managers, shareholders, Stakeholder Engagement.
The company is committed to achieving communities, governments, non-governmental organisations high standards of reporting and disclosure to enhance openness NGOs and national and international trade associations.
We and dialogue between the companys board and its investors aim to provide meaningful and transparent communications to and other stakeholders.
Winning these two awards recognises meet the needs of all stakeholder groups and deliver our commitment to maintaining a well run company and to information to them in the most appropriate format.
These achieving best practice in our corporate governance reporting.
formats may include annual performance reports, participation in Throughout the year the company has sought to engage performance indices Carbon Disclosure Project, FTSE4Good, with its stakeholders to garner views on how we report our Dow Jones Sustainability Index, for example or one to one sustainability performance and the level of confidence it provides.
We communicate with our A structured survey was devised and input was received from stakeholders throughout the year and engagement is integrated suppliers, customers, NGOs and institutional investors.
This is into business decision making processes.
being used to direct the structure of our reports going forward.
The company is actively involved with the Chemical Industries Association CIA, the European Precious Metals Health and Safety Federation EPMF and plays a leading advisory role through We are committed to minimising the health and safety related participation in a number of sector trade associations and impacts for employees, customers and communities and of our government bodies.
The company is also engaged with national products in use.
In addition, many of our products and services and local government to inform the development of policy in make a contribution to enhancing general health and wellbeing areas where Johnson Mattheys technology and products can or provide safety benefits.
For Johnson Matthey, any accident is unacceptable and our Neil Carson, Chief Executive of Johnson Matthey, is a target is zero greater than three day accidents.
In July 2009 prominent member of the Corporate Leaders Group and is a however, an employee of a contractor company who was member of the Advisory Board for the Cambridge Programme engaged in work at Johnson Mattheys catalyst manufacturing for Sustainability Leadership.
A number of the companys senior site inTaloja, India received a severe electric shock whilst management are involved in the UK governments sustainability carrying out work at the site.
Regrettably, despite hospital and climate change initiatives.
Johnson Mattheys executives have treatment, his life could not be saved.
Investigations have been also made a contribution to a range of organisations and carried out by site personnel, supported by Group EHS committees during the year, such as the CarbonTrust, and the department staff.
A police investigation has also been conducted.
company continues to participate in numerous government consultations.
We have also continued to support the activities of Forum for the Future and the Green Alliance.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 35 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW Total Global Warming Potential GWP Total Acid Gas Emissions Tonnes CO equivalent 000 Tonnes SO equivalent 2 2 500 420 Tonnes million Tonnes sales 350 Tonnes CO excluding 400 2 million equivalent precious sales 000 metals 280 Tonnes excluding 300 SO precious 2 1 2005 390 355.5 equivalent metals 210 1 2006 401 299.6 1 200 1 2007 398 231.2 2005 480 0.4376 140 2 1 2009 380 211.5 2006 450 0.3362 2 1 2010 390 206.8 2007 416 0.2417 100 70 2 2009 334 0.1859 1 Calendar year.
0 0 1 1 1 2 2 1 1 1 2 2 2005 2006 2007 2009 2010 2005 2006 2007 2009 2010 GWP data has been recalculated to include country specific electricity usage 1 factors based upon the local published carbon intensity of electricity.
2 yields a more accurate reflection of GWP resulting from electricity use.
Accident Statistics Change 2010 2009 % 1 Incidence of greater than three day accidents per 1,000 employees 2.14 5.03 -57 1 Total number of accidents that resulted in lost time 60 106 -43 1 Total accident rate per 1,000 employees 6.77 10.83 -37 Total lost time accident incident rate per 100,000 hours worked 0.34 0.53 -36 1 Total number of days lost per 1,000 employees 64 124 -48 1 Restated.
Accidents are actively monitored and detailed statistics are A corporate reporting system is used to report and compiled monthly at group level.
Any accident is thoroughly investigate occupational illness cases arising as a result of investigated to determine root causes and appropriate exposure to workplace health hazards.
In 2009 10 the incidence preventative and corrective actions are assigned.
The groups five of cases reported was 5.2 cases per 1,000 employees 0.26 cases year performance is shown in the graph on page 35.
In 2009 10 per 100,000 employee work hours compared to 5.5 cases per Johnson Mattheys rate of occupational accidents involving lost 1,000 employees restated in 2008 09. time, shown in the table above, has fallen to its lowest reported The group has introduced a target to reduce the annual level.
Following our disappointing performance in 2008 09 the incidence of occupational illness cases by at least 30% by 2013 14 company took action to revitalise its accident prevention processes, from a baseline incidence of 5.3 cases per 1,000 employees in introducing an EHS Learning Events programme.
This group calendar year 2008 to 3.7 cases or less per 1,000 employees by wide programme has already led to improvements in safety 2013 14.
To help achieve this target, a new corporate chemical performance and a sharpened awareness and understanding of exposure management programme has been developed during workplace risks.
The EHS Learning Events programme will be 2009 10 which is now being implemented globally at all facilities.
updated and expanded in 2010 11 to incorporate the learning This aims to reduce the risk of chemical exposure related health acquired during its first year.
effects to as low a level as is reasonably achievable.
During Johnson Matthey has a mature system for reporting accidents 2010 11 training will be provided at all facilities to assist with and incidents that involve the groups employees.
However, it is implementation of the programme.
In addition, a programme not currently possible to determine the safety performance of to promote effective ergonomic risk management will be all contractors working at our facilities.
temporary workers typically to cover periods of long term Plans are also underway to pilot a sustainable health sickness absence, maternity leave or to manage seasonal variations leading metrics scorecard in 2010 11 which will enable facilities in workload.
During 2010 11, new safety performance metrics to continually improve the performance of preventive health specifically for contractors will be introduced which are similar initiatives.
to those already in place for group employees.
Environment Continued progress has been made to implement ISO 14001, Johnson Matthey has an impact on the environment in many in line with our target of achieving registration at all major ways: through the resources we use, the way we operate our manufacturing sites in 2010.
By the end of March 2010, 41 sites processes and the action of our products and services on had achieved ISO 14001 registration representing around 93% enhancing the environment for others.
of the groups manufacturing workforce.
The remaining four We undertake a comprehensive annual review of group manufacturing sites have plans in place to achieve registration environmental performance which covers all manufacturing and during 2010 11. research and development facilities.
Five key performance Johnson Mattheys EHS Learning Events initiative see page metrics energy consumption, global warming potential, acid gas 36 is the groups flagship occupational safety programme which emissions, water use and waste produced are reported here has delivered improved performance in its first year.
In 2010 11, and are shown in the tables on pages 35 to 37.
Where necessary, the programme will be extended beyond occupational safety past environmental data has been restated to reflect changes in matters and facilities will be encouraged to report environmental the business, for example divestments and site closures.
Additional and health related issues as well as those involving at-risk safety environmental performance metrics are presented in the behaviour.
2009 10 saw steady progress with reductions in energy and Verification and Assurance water use, acid gas emissions and waste produced, despite the The Board of Directors, Audit Committee, Chief Executives inclusion of data this year from three major new manufacturing Committee and CSR Compliance Committee review facilities.
Manufacturing sites across the group continued to make sustainability issues as part of the companys risk management progress against their individual environmental improvement processes.
The board believes that the internal measures taken targets in 2009 10 which has had a positive impact on overall to review the sustainability information provide a high level of group performance.
Third party assurance of our full Sustainability The groups total global warming potential GWP is based Report has also been commissioned.
The Sustainability Report on our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions.
Data relating to the 2009 10 will be published on the companys website at groups GWP has been recalculated to include country specific www.
com in July 2010. electricity usage factors based upon the local published carbon intensity of electricity.
This yields a more accurate reflection of Johnson Mattheys GWP resulting from electricity use.
The groups GWP increased by 3% in 2009 10.
This increase is due in part to increased production including that from the three new manufacturing facilities but also due to the geographical mix of production where this year, a greater proportion of our total output originated in countries where the carbon intensity from grid electricity is high.
Annual Report & Accounts 2010 37 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS REVIEW
