18 Keller Group plc Social responsibility Overview There is still a sense within some parts of our industry that The Board recognises that its responsibilities extend beyond workplace accidents are inevitable and therefore, establishing financial results and related matters.
Effective management of belief in our ultimate goal of zero injuries and an acceptance health and safety, environmental, ethical and other social risks that all accidents are preventable requires a change of mindset.
described together here as social risk is fundamental to the We see our safety programme as an ongoing process of changing Boards duty of care to our stakeholders, as well as being attitudes and firmly establishing the principle that we are all important to our corporate reputation and profitability.
responsible for correcting unsafe work conditions or unsafe behaviour: if necessary, at the expense of productivity.
The Boards role is to: provide effective leadership: establish overall policy for the Group: and monitor the performance of the During 2010 a new Safety, Health & Environment Committee was operating companies in relation to social risk, whilst the Chief formed, to promote continuous improvement in our health, safety Executive is ultimately accountable for the Groups social and environmental performance.
The Committee, which meets responsibility.
Within each of our businesses, line managers are twice a year, is chaired by the Chief Executive and also comprises charged with: delivering performance safely and with integrity: the Group Finance Director and the heads of the Groups four supporting Group policy: and providing leadership within their operating divisions.
All employees are responsible for following Group policy with the support, direction and commitment of line management.
Safety performance in 2010 Despite our endeavours, it is with great regret that we must report Our Code of Business Conduct, which can be found on our two fatal accidents involving employees at Keller worksites during website, comprises the guiding principles which govern our 2010: one in Spain in July and another in the US in November.
attitude to social risk and which promote honesty, fairness and These deaths, which had a profound impact on work colleagues integrity in our relationships with i employees: ii customers, and had resonance all around the Group, are the reason why suppliers and competitors: and iii the community environment.
we have to be relentless in our efforts to eliminate work-related accidents.
Both have been the subject of detailed internal During the course of 2011, we will roll out a Business Conduct investigations, one of which is ongoing.
As with all serious Compliance Programme, which will integrate our Code of incident investigations, our policy is to share any lessons learned Business Conduct with existing policies and procedures, including with other Group businesses and, where applicable, for these to those on competition, equal opportunities and whistle-blowing be acted upon in a timely way.
and will include anti-bribery and corruption guidelines.
Turning to our safety statistics for 2010, Keller uses the accident The rest of this report is organised under four headings, frequency rate AFR and accident incident rate AIR to track representing the main areas where our business impacts on safety performance, where AFR is the number of accidents per others and where we recognise our responsibilities to society: 100,000 hours worked and AIR is the number of accidents per 100,000 employees and where accidents comprise fatalities, Our workplace and people major injuries as defined by the Health & Safety Executive in Our environment the UK and injuries involving more than three days absence.
The AFRs and AIRs for 2010 in the table below show that all Our marketplace divisions improved their safety performance by these measures Our communities year-on-year.
Our workplace and people Keller Safety Framework Changes in the annual Accident Frequency Rate AFR The construction industry presents significant safety challenges, and Accident Incident Rate AIR particularly in some of our emerging markets, where the safety 2010 2009 culture within the industry, and indeed in society at large, is less AFR AIR AFR AIR well developed than in our mature markets.
In order to have a US 0.17 354 0.39 749 consistent approach across the Group and to raise the safety CEMEA 1.07 2,475 1.56 3,499 performance of all our businesses to the standard of the best, we have developed a safety framework, which we call our Australia 0.22 491 0.31 684 Think Safe, Work Safe, Go Home Safe programme.
This is a UK 0.76 1,519 0.88 1,764 system which links together different aspects of our safety Excludes: Waterway and Nilex, acquired June 2010 management including our Safety Goal, Principles, Policy and Minimum Standards.
Management of every business or operation is responsible for following the Safety Principles and implementing and maintaining the Minimum Safety Standards.
Keller Group plc 19 Comparisons with industry standards 2010 Performance against safety objectives US For 2010, we set two Group-wide safety objectives: i to roll out The common safety measure used in the US construction the Think Safe, Work Safe, Go Home Safe programme: and industry is the experience modification rating EMR.
The lower the ii for the businesses to carry out a baseline assessment of their score, the better the safety record.
In 2010, the EMR for KFI was health and safety arrangements and performance.
0.77, which continues to compare well with the industry standard rating of 1.00.
The new safety programme has been communicated to employees through written communications and local briefing An alternative safety measure used in the US is the total sessions and now forms part of our regular employee induction.
The 2010 RIRs for our US All four divisions have undertaken baseline assessments, although businesses are shown below, alongside the industry average one of the four divisions has yet to carry out these assessments for 2009 the most recent, published by the Bureau of Labor at the business level, which it will do during 2011.
All of our US businesses have a lower better RIR than the most recently published industry average.
2011 Safety objectives Group-wide safety objectives for 2011, relating to senior managers site safety tours and improved near-miss reporting, have been set.
In addition, individual objectives have been set for Business RIR to industry average each of our divisions, some examples of which are shown in the Anderson 2.9 box below.
Case Foundation Hayward Baker 3.7 HJ 1.3 McKinney Examples of divisional safety objectives for 2011 2.6 Suncoast 2.7 US review and update the New Hire Safety Orientation Construction special trade contractors US industry average 4.6 programme.
US introduce safety newsletters and weekly safety updates throughout all six businesses.
Australia In Australia, the closest available industry comparator is CEMEA improved near-miss reporting and analysis.
the construction industry incident rate published at CEMEA improved networking of health and safety www.
The preliminary data for 2008 09, professionals.
the most recent available, shows a rate of 2,180.
This rate only reflects occurrences resulting in absence of one week or more, Australia four businesses to achieve AS 4801 whereas the significantly better 2010 AIR for Keller Australia of Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems 491 reflects a broader category of incidents.
Waterway already has this accreditation.
Australia introduction of Safety Awards, with external UK assessment.
The 2010 average AIR for members of the Federation of Piling Specialists, the most appropriate comparator group for Keller in UK improve effectiveness of Safety Coaches.
the UK, was 911, indicating that our UK safety performance in UK improve effectiveness of Directors Safety Tours.
2010, based on an AIR of 1,519 was worse than the average for our sector of the industry.
However, we are encouraged that the AIR rating of our UK business did improve year-on-year from Being a responsible employer 1,764 in 2009 and that performance further improved in the As a Group, we aim to provide fair employment opportunity to second half of 2010, in which only one of an annual total of six all irrespective of gender, creed, ethnic origin, nationality, sexual reported accidents occurred.
We believe that managements orientation, age or disability, whilst not offending, or being sharp focus on safety in this business will underpin further and insensitive to, the traditions and cultures of countries in which sustained improvement.
We believe in treating all employees with dignity and respect and do not tolerate any form of harassment, CEMEA discrimination or bullying.
Eurostat the statistical office of the European Communities is working on a programme to give consistency to workplace injury Our businesses communicate regularly with their employees statistics in the European Union.
While work towards producing using a number of forums and media channels which provide statistics on non-fatal injuries that are comparable across Europe employees with an opportunity to express their views.
These is progressing, such statistics are not yet available.
Similar issues include company newsletters, consultative councils, suggestion arise with regard to national comparator data for our Middle East schemes, electronic messaging as well as informal, companyand Asia regions.
In view of this, we are currently unable to wide social events.
provide industry average statistics for the region.
2.1 20 Keller Group plc Social responsibility Continued We are committed to advancement based on merit and the Our Environmental Policy reflects the credentials of our most importance of providing training and development opportunities environmentally progressive businesses.
We expect all of our which enable employees to reach their highest potential and businesses to aspire to these credentials and to ensure that they increase their contribution to the Group.
In addition to technical become embedded in their business processes as soon as is and competency based training, management training reasonably practicable.
The policy can be found on our website programmes operate in all divisions.
For example, Keller UK, www.
which has been an Investors in People employer since 2005, has recently expanded its successful management development Two years ago, we identified five initial environmental objectives, programme called Keller Futures to include three management some of which we anticipated would be met by the end of 2010, leadership modules specifically aimed at improving skills, whilst others were expected to take up to three years to achieve.
competencies and behaviours of site supervisors, engineers and The progress made to date is summarised in the table below: middle managers.
At the Group level, we run a strategic development programme, Objective Progress made through which every two years some 20 to 25 senior managers from around the Group participate in three modules, each lasting Develop an energy Measurement and reporting of energy one week.
reduction plan used in principal office and workshop buildings, motor vehicle fleet and operational plant and equipment was established in 2010.
Some coverage Engaging with employees and data quality issues remain to be The Keller Academy trains young engineers from across resolved and accordingly, specific Continental Europe in Kellers specialist products and reduction targets will not be set until techniques and this model has recently been replicated later this year, when we have more in the Far East.
confidence in the robustness of the data.
In the meantime, various Keller Austria runs an annual ski competition the Keller energy-saving initiatives are underway Cup for colleagues from Group companies across Europe around the Group, some of which are and their families.
summarised on the next page.
In the UK, we recently introduced routine health screening Although we are not yet in a position for all employees and have the promotion of healthier to publish information on the carbon lifestyles as one of our future goals.
footprint of the whole Group, we have A number of our businesses provide employee assistance calculated the carbon footprint based programmes, which provide professional counselling and on Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions referral services and are available to employees and their only for Keller UK, using emissions immediate families.
They can seek assistance for a range factors published by the UKs of problems including addiction, financial or psychological Department for the Environment, Food concerns.
and Rural Affairs in September 2009 see the box on page 21.
Over time, In Germany, an annual social event for current and retired we will extend the scope of this employees and their families provides an opportunity for reporting to include other Group a regular open exchange of views.
Provide environmental Just under 40% of employees have Our environment awareness training now received environmental Environmental management is an essential part of our approach awareness training.
to good business management, particularly as our constructionAppoint environmental Environmental champions appointed related activities have direct environmental impacts.
Costs of champions in all divisions.
waste disposal, energy and construction materials are expected to continue to increase over the long term, so managing our Communicate Our businesses in the UK, Australia and environmental inputs and outputs is also integral to reducing site how we meet parts of CEMEA have made substantial operational costs and increasing efficiency.
our customers progress in communicating through environmental needs brochures and websites how they Group environmental programme can help their customers with their Over the past two years, we have developed a common environmental agendas.
One example framework for the management of both risks and opportunities is Sustainability and Keller Ltd a that are generated by the increased focus on the environment.
booklet published last year, which It is important that such a framework reflects the different drivers sets out what sustainability means economic and socio-political that determine where on the for our UK business.
spectrum of environmental best practice the different regions Implement an All of our businesses have well in which we operate are positioned.
Whilst, as with safety, our environmental developed environmental management ultimate goal is to raise the overall standard to that of the bestcompliance systems and, outside of the US, all have performing businesses, we know that this will take time.
programme rolling programmes of environmental inspections of sites and workshops.
Keller Group plc 21 2011 Environmental objectives Individual objectives have been set by division and some Energy saving initiatives around the Group examples of these are shown in the box below.
Electronic monitoring devices, to record fuel efficiency of individual items of plant, are fitted to all of our new vibro equipment and are being gradually retrofitted to older Examples of divisional environmental objectives for 2011 equipment in Germany.
CEMEA improved quarterly environmental reporting.
CEMEA division is conducting post-project reviews of fuel CEMEA and Australia energy reduction programmes consumption on large jobs to identify energy efficiency to be agreed for individual businesses.
Australia four businesses to achieve ISO 14000 Several of our businesses have introduced auto shut-off to Environmental Management Systems Waterway already eliminate engine idling across our heavy equipment: others has this accreditation.
regularly run switch it off campaigns.
UK achieve a 10% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions We have a policy of right sizing equipment, such that no by 2012 as measured at our fixed installations.
more than the required level of power is used.
UK reduce use of potable water by 10% by 2012 at our Suncoast has installed on a proportion of its motor fleet depots and offices: encourage the use of grey water on site.
an on-board monitoring device designed to reduce fuel consumption.
UK reduce dust and noise through improvements in site methods and machinery.
Most businesses have reduced their average motor fleet age and introduced more efficient and cleaner engine technology.
Products and services with environmental benefits By replacing personal company cars with a car and fuel In addition to trying to reduce our own operational environmental allowance, Hayward Baker believes that it has reduced both impacts, our businesses offer a variety of techniques and services its direct and indirect vehicle fuel consumption.
which can help their customers to meet their environmental needs.
In most of the regions where we work, we offer our customers a choice between traditional foundations and more sustainable Keller UK: Carbon footprint Scope 1 and 2 emissions alternatives.
Many of our ground engineering techniques have lower environmental impacts than the more traditional foundation We have estimated the Scope 1 and 2 absolute tonnes techniques with which they compete.
For example, our stone equivalent CO for our UK operations as shown below.
2 columns, using only inert stone, are generally considered to be environmentally friendly alternatives to the steel or concrete We are not subject to the Carbon Reduction Commitment products for which they are often substitutes.
CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme in the UK, as our energy usage falls well below the schemes threshold.
Apart from stone columns, we commonly use other displacement CO2e tonnes kWh systems, such as driven cast in situ piling and dynamic 2010 2009 2010 2009 compaction, which create no spoil and therefore eliminate transport movements to and from landfill sites.
The soft-facing Scope 1 reinforcing systems offered by our Phi business as an alternative direct emissions to sheet piling also reduce the need to remove soil and replace Fossil fuel use on-site 65 63 351,069 342,919 with expensive filling.
Instead, softwood timber can be used to Owned road vehicles 1,357 1,527 5,367,267 6,035,643 create steeper retaining walls, enabling greater land use.
All Phis Scope 2 timber is from a renewable material source, with a lower carbon footprint than sheet piling.
indirect emissions electricity and imports Electricity 432 401 793,934 737,033 Total 1,854 1,991 6,512,270 7,115,595 Absolute tonnes equivalent CO2 per m of revenue 37 35 22 22 Keller Gr Keller Group plc oup plc Social responsibility Continued We are also looking into ways of reducing the amount of carbon Our communities content in our foundations solutions, such as increasing the Companies within the Keller Group often play an important role proportion of recycled materials used, reducing our energy in their communities, typically by supporting their employees consumption where this is an option and increasing our use of when they engage with community groups and local charities.
Our UK business has made further The benefit of these activities is twofold: for the business there progress in finding alternative aggregate sources for its vibro is benefit in terms of company profile and employee satisfaction replacement products, having recently used crushed concrete, and development: then there is also the direct benefit to the recycled glass and bottom waste incinerator ash, and now uses communities concerned.
See the box below for some recent recycled aggregates in over 50% of its vibro foundations.
It has examples of what we have been doing.
also been providing support through the provision of equipment to Novacem, a spin out company from Imperial College, London, which has developed a carbon negative cement solution.
Community actions Carbon calculators and carbon offset 2010 presented an unusual opportunity for McKinney to In the UK, for some time we have been offering customers provide charitable support, when they were approached calculations of the embodied carbon associated with our to supply a drilling hammer to help in the rescue effort to solutions and the ability to offset embedded carbon through the release 33 trapped Chilean mine workers at the San Jose JP Morgan Climate Care scheme.
This scheme supports low mine near Copiapo, in Chile.
carbon sustainable developments, such as hydroelectric power, In the UK, support of local charities is given through our improved farming and techniques to reduce deforestation.
Future goals include a matching scheme, to support the charitable efforts of employees: and the We hope to progressively extend this offering to more customers designation of Work in the Community days, when of Group companies and, to ensure a consistency of approach, employees can give up some of their time to support our Carbon Committee has developed Group guidelines for worthwhile projects.
calculating greenhouse gas emissions emitted by Keller products.
When flooding in the Brisbane area brought some of Keller Australias sites to a standstill early in 2011, instead of Products to stabilise the natural environment and for the staying at home, a number of our employees volunteered environmental sector to help in the clean-up effort.
Some Keller products are designed specifically to stabilise ground environmental conditions, such as techniques for slope stabilisation, decontamination or containment of contamination and the preparation of brownfield sites.
We also continue to work on a significant number of land reclamation and dam remediation schemes.
In addition, Keller ground improvement products and services are often supplied to the environmental sector, such as wind energy and biofuel companies, and so are enabling the development of third parties environmentally beneficial technologies.
Our marketplace Group companies take a leadership role within their industry by providing employees, customers, suppliers and potential employees with technical papers, seminars, field trips and site visits.
Staff from companies throughout the Group maintain close contact with partner universities in order to share best practice and provide examples of their leading edge engineering.
For example, Hayward Baker is partnering with three US universities to assist in the development of rational design methods for using ground improvement for liquefaction remediation.
Many of our senior managers play key roles in the geotechnical construction industrys professional associations and activities around the world, getting involved in writing building codes, specifications, guidelines, and industry-wide safety initiatives.
