King sher plc Annual Report 18 Corporate responsibility and Accounts 2009 10 Future Homes As one of the worlds leading home improvement retailers, King sher A range of effective marketing campaigns have been run during the year.
is in a unique position to help consumers make their homes more For example: sustainable at lower cost.
At the same time, we aim to make our own Brico Dpt Frances offer on energy saving spiral light bulbs led business more sustainable, through more ef cient use of resources.
B&Q UKs price promotion on insulation in February, with a triple This is what King shers Future Homes strategy is all about: helping pack of insulation at just 2.50 83p per roll, saw 173,000 triple customers, employees and suppliers make the homes of the future more packs sold, making it B&Qs biggest week ever of insulation sales.
A comprehensive 166-point implementation plan is used to drive progress across the Group businesses.
Over the Further to this, B&Q is also participating in a new UK Government pilot past year, King sher has been working with Forum for the Future, the project to finance home energy makeovers through the Home Energy independent sustainability experts, to set key milestones for 2012.
This is a Government loan scheme for customers to make energy ef ciency improvements to their homes.
Sustainable homes Around 25% of carbon emissions come from the home and King sher Sustainable stores and operations can play a key role in tackling this whilst helping homeowners reduce King sher is committed to leading by example, and is therefore working their energy costs.
We are developing an own-label range of eco to embed sustainability into all aspects of its own operations.
products which will be progressively rolled out.
By using the Groups buying strength, we are driving innovation and reducing prices for The Group has set a number of environment targets to be achieved customers.
All operating companies have action plans on energy, transport and waste to drive progress.
The Group encourages the Over the past year we have run a number of high pro le marketing sharing of best practice through regular Group property workshops drives to increase eco product sales, including B&Q UKs One Planet and exchange visits.
Home and Castorama Frances La Maison co campaigns.
In 2009 10, sales of eco products totalled 1.07 billion accounting for 10% of As part of its commitment to One Planet Living, B&Q UK has an total retail sales across the Group up from 7% the previous year.
ambition to cut CO emissions by 90% by 2023 from 2007.
It also aims 2 for all new stores to be zero carbon by 2012 and existing stores to be zero carbon by 2023.
See page 17 for information on ethical sourcing.
B&Q UK has over 4,000 products in its One Planet Home range.
Environmental Key Performance Indicators KPIs At Castorama France, eco-ranges account for 11% of sales.
Issue KPI 2008 09 2009 10 Progress A key focus for us is to provide information and advice to customers Climate CO from store 79.8 72.3 9% reduction 2 about simple, low cost solutions that help reduce the environmental change energy kg CO 2 impact of their homes and save money.
For example: 2 equivalent m B&Q UK is launching eco stores within its stores which provide total sales area information, products and advice for customers in one place.
It is 2 Store Kwh m 209 198 5% reduction also introducing quali ed eco advisers in stores.
There are now over energy total sales area 4,000 One Planet Home accredited products.
ef ciency Castorama France is rolling out its La Maison co campaign, Waste Store waste 12.2 10.5 14% reduction promoting its range of over 5,000 eco products via product labels, disposed tonnes posters and store displays.
Regular energy saving workshops are per m retail sales organised for customers.
Kotas in Turkey has run its first TV commercials to promote energy Sustainable % reported 71.8 77.4 Increase of 5.6 timber timber volume saving light bulbs.
resourcing from proven, Brico Dpt Spain has launched the Eco Brico logo to identify eco well-managed products in store and worked with the Forest Stewardship Council forests or FSC Spain on a poster campaign to promote FSC certi ed timber.
UK gure See King shers full online CR Report at www.
