King sher plc Annual Report 16 People and Accounts 2009 10 In todays highly competitive home A total of 72 one-day product knowledge workshops were held in stores during the year.
In addition more than 2,500 product knowledge improvement marketplace a good workbooks have been distributed to customer advisers.
Each 50-page workbook is tailored to a different category, with kitchen, bathroom, experience in-store can play a vital paint & decorative, tiling, ooring and building covered so far and more to follow throughout 2010.
After completing the workbook employees role in building customer loyalty.
must sit an exam to test their understanding of it, with the first of these exams taking place from March 2010.
B&Q China has also developed Last year King shers businesses continued to provide tailored training its own 5-Step Selling training course, which has already been delivered to the people who are in the front line of delivering customer satisfaction to almost 2,000 customer advisers.
These programmes took a number of different guises across the world but all shared the common goal of improving The training focus has not been con ned to the shop oor, however: the service we provide.
more than 160 managers have received training in the core principles of project management, while members of the product buying team have B&Qs friendly experts build customer con dence attended bespoke range architecture and category management training In March 2009, B&Q UK began a national roll out of two vocational as well as getting the opportunity to improve their negotiating skills.
training programmes it launched in pilot form the previous year.
Both programmes offer quali cations backed by City & Guilds, the French businesses underline commitment to training UKs foremost vocational awarding body.
The first, the NVQ National Employees at our two French businesses, Castorama and Brico Dpt, Vocational Quali cation Retail Skills Level 2, has now been achieved have participated in a broad range of learning and development by 10,000 customer advisers.
The second, which is the UKs first fullyprogrammes.
At Castorama, almost 8,800 members of staff have accredited Home Improvement Knowledge Quali cation, has courses now taken part in half-day customer service workshops entitled Client tailored to decorating, gardening, building and room solutions.
Some Attitude, while around 4,000 took advantage of e-learning courses 5,500 employees had achieved this quali cation by year-end.
focusing on areas such as product knowledge and selling techniques.
Meanwhile Brico Dpt continued to roll out its established vocational Last year also saw 120 B&Q staff ranging in age from 18 to 70 training programmes, with more than 8,000 employees receiving begin their Retail Apprenticeship.
This is a new City & Guilds-accredited training in areas such as marketing, IT systems and management skills programme which brings together six  quali cations throughout the year.
and is designed to fast track high potential employees towards more senior positions within the Company.
Gallup engagement survey gains traction Two years ago King sher rolled out the Gallup Q12 survey a globallyIn September 2009 B&Q launched its Showroom Academy, aimed at recognised means of measuring employee engagement to more employees who work with customers seeking complete room solutions.
than 1,300 leaders across the Group.
In 2009 10 we began to see The Academy offers a range of courses focusing on product knowledge the surveys initial results being used to create targeted programmes and selling skills, with more than 10,500 places taken during the to boost engagement.
The effects of these initiatives could be seen in programmes first three months of operation a ratio of just under the final survey of last year, which saw our GrandMean score for the three courses for every member of the showroom team.
leadership population the biggest indicator of engagement levels reach 4.23.
This is fide ned as a statistically signi cant increase of 0.28 on Training underpins B&Q China transformation the final 2008 09 survey of the leadership population when measured B&Q China recognises the vital role its store staff will play in the drive on a like-for-like basis.
As stores are revamped and the customer interface shifts from vendor representatives to B&Qs own staff, a series of Last year also saw B&Q UK, which pioneered the Q12 process within bespoke training programmes have been implemented to help store King sher, record its highest-ever GrandMean of 4.26, a gure that teams to grow into their new roles.
01 01 City & Guilds training at B&Q UK Molly Motsi, from B&Qs En eld store, achieved her City & Guilds quali cation in January, one of over 15,000 staff to achieve this accreditation KF7225 AR 09 10 KF7225 AR 09 10 Front.
