are trained to support this commitment.
To check our Fair Play Corporate performance, we continually seek the views of our customers and encourage feedback on our employees responsibility at Ladbrokes andservices.
Our performance is also checked through third-party audits e. g. mystery shopper surveys and by monitoring customer complaints.
During 2010 our mystery shopper scores averaged 90% customer satisfaction.
Furthermore, our customer loyalty card OddsOn!
continues to grow with 250,000 new customers signing upin 2010 and a total of 1.1 million customers altogether.
we have given back to our customers over 3.4 million free bets, with 1.1 million of those in 2010.
Ensuring responsible gambling We continue to meet the regulatory requirements in all We are committed to countries where we are licensed to operate, including those of the UK Gambling Commission, the Gibraltar Regulatory beingaleader of our sector Authority, the governments of the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland, the Belgium Gaming Commission and the in responsible business regional governments in Spain.
Furthermore, we continue to support the UK Gambling Commissions three key licensing practice.
Maintaining a objectives to: reputation for fairness keep crime out of gambling: ensure gambling is conducted fairly and openly: and andintegrity, strengthening protect children and vulnerable people from being ourcustomer focus and harmed or exploited by gambling.
achieving high levels of All relevant personnel are trained to meet our high standards and our performance is monitored on a continual employee satisfaction are all basis by our Compliance Director and the supporting Compliance Committee.
vital to growing our business.
Ladbrokes continues to work with its peers and national governments to improve responsible gambling behaviour across the industry.
For many years we have supported the Association of British Bookmakers ABB and the Remote Gambling Association RGA in establishing industry-wide Our Corporate Responsibility CR programmes are in CR standards and promoting self-regulation.
linewith our broader business strategy.
We embed CR principles into our day to day operations, maintaining high We ensure that our customers are well informed about our ethical and socially responsible standards and remaining products, about problem gambling issues and for our online compliant with all relevant CR legislation.
customers, about their own gambling history.
The 7 pillars of our CR strategy represent the key CR issues We provide inherent protection to try to limit the possible for our business: financial impacts on our customers from excessive gambling e. g. daily and weekly deposit limits and 1. keeping our customers satisfied, well informed and appropriate customer due diligence.
interested in the products and services we offer: We protect the young and the vulnerable through clear 2. promoting responsible gambling behaviours across our marketing standards, strict age limits, online age verification business and the industry as a whole: checks and self-exclusion arrangements.
3. attracting a diverse workforce and sustaining high levels For most people, gambling is an enjoyable and harmless of competence, motivation and loyalty to the business: leisure pursuit.
However, for a small number of people 4. minimising the risks from our third-party relationships gambling can become a behavioural problem.
Ladbrokes business partnerships, joint ventures or within our has a responsibility to help tackle problem gambling, supply chain: understand its causes and promote its treatment.
We make 5. minimising health, safety and security risks to our our employees aware of the symptoms of problem gambling and train them in how to respond.
business, our employees and the general public from our operations: Ladbrokes was a founding member of the GREaT Foundation, formerly known as the Responsibility in 6. understanding global environmental agendas and minimising the impact of increasing environmental costs Gambling Trust RIGT.
Through our membership of GREaT, on our operations: and we support GamCare and the Gordon Moody Association formerly Gordon House.
A key role for GREaT is to develop a 7. being a good corporate citizen and a respected national public education and awareness strategy, as part of neighbour in our communities.
the overall prevention of problem gambling agenda.
The We monitor our performance through appropriate key gambleaware website continues to perform well and the logo performance indicators KPIs reflecting each pillar of our or website address www.
co. uk is carried on all CR strategy.
Our progress has been good and remains our websites and advertising.
aligned to our strategic aims.
Supporting our business with a strong Putting customers at the heart of our business workforce We are keen to drive brand loyalty and all that the brand During 2010, a new human resources People Plan has been stands for, including trust and integrity.
It is important to developed to meet the needs of our changing business.
provide our customers with an enjoyable, efficient, secure, fair and socially responsible service and all our employees Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 27 Business review Our development and reward programmes are designed with 2008 usage.
This is equivalent to a saving of more than tosupport our business objectives and pay dividends for 11,000 tonnes of CO per year.
The majority of this saving 2 enhanced performance.
As our business becomes more will be made in the retail estate.
All of our shop linear sophisticated, we need to ensure that we sustain a high fluorescent lighting has been upgraded to incorporate high level of competence across the business and increase our frequency technology, which has reduced our total energy capacity to respond to changing market needs.
We have also developed a new shopneed we have restructured our business management and fitting specification incorporating many of the new carbon made some key appointments at senior levels.
As a result our new shops are 30% more efficient.
So we are making steady progress.
We aim to be a modern, attractive and fair employer and tovalue and recognise employee loyalty.
We provide clear We have also been working hard to green our UK car fleet by opportunities for employee development and progression, offering qualifying lower emission cars.
Our car fleet now has all of which helps to maintain high levels of employee an average emission figure of 141g of CO per km, nearly 20g 2 satisfaction and minimise turnover.
per km less than the average for new cars in the UK.
Our incentive schemes and benefits programmes are Contributing to society and being a good proving to be best in class initiatives, having been corporate citizen shortlisted again for a number of prestigious awards.
We contribute positively to the societies in which we A rolling programme of employee engagement operate, through employment, payment of taxes, consultations is underway to provide robust information on contributions to growth in the economy and supporting the issues that matter most to our workforce.
The results of industries and by supporting our local communities.
these consultations, which include an annual engagement Werecognise the links our employees have to their own survey, will provide managers with data upon which they communities and through Ladbrokes in the Community can build action plans for improvement.
Charitable Trust LICCT we support their activities by giving something back.
LICCT has raised over 5.7 million for Minimising risks in our supply chain good causes since it was established in 2003.
The funds We assess the social, ethical and environmental risks have been raised by employees all around the UK and associated with our business partnerships, joint ventures and Ireland.
During 2010 LICCT donated over 750,000 to product sourcing.
This work is ongoing and by the end of 2010 charitable and community causes across the UK.
over 1,085 suppliers have now signed up to our Environmental, In addition, Ladbrokes has donated over 945,000 Socially Responsible and Ethical Purchasing Policy through to community safety, citizenship and problem our central procurement process.
Providing a safe environment for our A leader in our sector employees and customers During 2010 our high standards of CR were recognised by We aim for best practice health, safety and security many index and award bodies.
For the fourth time we have standards throughout all our operations and we support a been listed as one of Britains Most Admired Companies and proactive culture of risk management.
We also monitor and in October, we were Highly Commended at the pwc Building seek to minimise the financial impacts of health and safety Public Trust Awards BPTA.
The BPTA for Sustainability related claims from across our business.
Reporting recognises the greatest depth and relevance of One of the important risks to the health of our employees sustainability reporting in the FTSE 250.
For the eighth year and our customers comes from breaches of security on our insuccession we were pronounced one of the leaders in our premises, such as robbery and theft.
We have invested sector in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes DJSI and heavily in CCTV which is installed across all of our UK retail wereincluded in the FTSE4Good Indices.
estate, both to help reduce the number of incidents and to help protect employees and customers.
Managing our issues The Chief Executive is ultimately responsible for CR During 2010 we worked with the Safe Bet Alliance to matters.
The Chief Executive is supported by the CR develop and issue a Voluntary Code of Safety & Security Team who provides an overview and advisory function forBookmakers.
The Safe Bet Alliance is a collaborative for the business.
initiative which includes ABB, Metropolitan Police, Local Authorities Coordinators of Regulatory Services LACORS Overall governance of CR is the responsibility of the Board.
The Code sets out a single national CR and governance issues are given full consideration by standard for betting shop safety and security.
the Board when defining Group strategy.
Ladbrokes is the only bookmaker to have developed a CR risks are regularly reviewed by the business and are Primary Authority relationship in the UK under the new considered by the Board, as appropriate, as a part of the scheme for better regulation.
Liverpool City Council now corporate risk review process see page 24.
CR matters are acts as a single point of contact a Primary Authority for reported to the Board on a regular basis as a minimum all health and safety issues affecting Ladbrokes shops all quarterly thus forming part of the Board calendar, over the UK.
along with tailored director briefings and, where appropriate, training.
Our health and safety record in 2010 was good.
We had no reportable fatalities or major injuries across our business The Board reviews the key CR issues and agrees the annual and, following 180 health and safety inspector visits in the CR strategy.
Board members are provided with adequate UK alone, there were no enforcement notices or background information to support their decision making.
prosecutions for health and safety offences.
The Remuneration Committee also takes account of CR issues when determining executive remuneration Providing a greener future and benefits.
We seek to minimise the impact of increasing environmental CR governance and management processes are subject costs on our operations and have set up a green task force to internal audit and the reporting process is externally to help us achieve this aim, with representatives from reviewed by our CR advisors, Acona Limited.
We have identified and implemented a number of energy efficiency initiatives during 2010 in support of our aim to reduce our UK carbon footprint by 21% by 2013 compared Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 28 Highlights of the year 20 1 0 Awards activities Highlights High performing employees from across the business brought together through 1st Class Club the club to discuss future developments in the retail operation.
Again accredited as one of Britains Most Admired Companies.
Came 8th in the Britains Most Admired Leisure and Hotels sector.
Companies Received the International Safety Award for good health and safety performance.
British Safety Council Awards 2010 Highly Commended in pwcs prestigious BPTA for our Sustainability Reporting.
Building Public Trust The Sustainability Reporting in the FTSE 250 award recognises the greatest depth Award 2010 and relevance of sustainability reporting, through publicly available information provided to stakeholders.
48% of our workforce actively takes advantage of the Ladbrokes employee ClubLadbrokes benefits scheme www.
Achieved the Carbon Trust Standard in September in recognition of the progress Carbon Trust Standard made against our five year carbon plan to reduce our carbon footprint by 21% by 2013.
Included again in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices with an overall score Dow Jones Sustainability of 77%.
We are one of only two global betting and gaming companies to Indices be included.
Highly Commended for most effective motivation or incentive strategy.
Runner Employee Benets up in both the Compensation and Benefits Professional of the Year and Awards 2010 Communications Strategy of the Year.
We have been members since its foundation in 2002.
FTSE4Good Indices Founder member of the GREaT Foundation funding research, education and GREaT Foundation treatment of problem gambling.
Launch of the new 2010 Ladbrokes Serious About Service and employee incentive Ladbrokes 2010 Incentive campaigns, including Making it Happen and Raising the Stakes.
Campaigns A total of 2,693 employees were rewarded during the year.
Runner up in the Personnel Today Award for Reward and Benefits.
Personnel Today Awards 2010 The only bookmaker to develop a Primary Authority relationship in the UK.
Primary Authority for Better Liverpool City Council will act as a single point of contact a Primary Authority Health & Safety Regulation for all health and safety issues affecting Ladbrokes shops all over the UK.
RoSPA Silver Award for achieving a high level of performance underpinned by Royal Society for the a good management system and delivering consistent improvement.
Prevention of Accidents RoSPA Awards 2010 Launch of the Safe Bet Alliance Voluntary Code of Safety & Security Safe Bet Alliance for Bookmakers.
Our full CR report For further details of our CR policies and performance, please refer to our 2010 CR Report which is available on our website www.
The website also contains CR reports from previous years together with our CR policies.
Further information on our approach to responsible business is included in the Directors report.
Ladbrokes plc Annual Report and Accounts 2010 29 Business review
