Corporate Social Responsibility As a member of the FTSE4Good index, we recognise the need to balance our social and environmental impacts in a manner that best serves the needs of all our stakeholders, including investors, employees, customers, suppliers and local communities.
Laird PLC and its subsidiary to which the RMC reports.
The RMG Laird has an established set of Global undertakings Laird designs and is chaired by the Laird PLC Chief Values and Global Code of Conduct: supplies innovative, value-added Executive and reports to the Board.
the latter includes policies and products that advance performance The RMC and RMG each meet at least guidelines relating to human rights, and protection across the electronics twice a year.
equal opportunity, ethics, compliance, market, improving the quality of life for anti-harassment, conflicts of interests people who use them.
As a member of Business Ethics and regulatory compliance.
Our global the FTSE4Good index, a financial index Laird believes that high standards Ethics Hotline provides a confidential series that is designed to identify and of business ethics are critical in way for employees to raise concerns facilitate investment in companies that todays business world and therefore about inappropriate behaviour.
meet globally recognised corporate places high priority on compliance The hotline utilises an independent responsibility standards, we recognise with all legislative and regulatory telephone and internet provider, the need to balance our social and requirements, and on the maintenance off ering support in local languages environmental impacts in a manner of high ethical standards, within each and has an internal escalation and that best serves the needs of all our of the territories and jurisdictions in resolution process driven by the Risk stakeholders, including investors, which we conduct our business.
The Chief employees, customers, suppliers and our policy that our businesses should Executive, in his capacity as Chairman local communities.
compete enthusiastically and fairly of the Risk Management Group, takes in the marketplace and must comply the lead on Equal Opportunity matters.
GOVERNANCE with the relevant competition laws of each country in which we operate.
A copy of Lairds Business Ethics and Risk Management Conduct Policy statement is available The delivery of improvements Laird commits to conducting itself, on the Companys website or from the in controls and operational risk and expects all employees to conduct Company on request.
management, including health, themselves, in an honest, ethical safety and environment initiatives, is manner in all dealings on its behalf MARKETPLACE driven by the Laird Risk Management and to behave professionally and with Committee RMC, chaired by integrity and fairness.
We apply these Product Stewardship the President of one of Lairds same standards to all of our business As a forward-thinking business, we business divisions and with senior dealings with customers, suppliers recognise the need to behave as a representatives of both divisions and other stakeholders.
good corporate citizen and pursue and key corporate functions.
 design and Risk management strategy, risk manufacturing practices, via various performance monitoring and oversight strategies including maximising at corporate level rests with the Laird resource productivity and minimising Risk Management Group RMG, energy intensity.
28 Laird PLC Our  product products lighter, which in turn reduces suppliers are compliant with all our design strategies have recently overall raw material use.
requirements and systems before delivered Beryllium-free Recyclable approval.
We have established Clean Copper gaskets, EcoGreen Product-based initiatives in the Visual processes and practices in the fabric over foam gaskets which Metals product line include the use areas of labour, health and safety, off er a halogen-free option with of PVD chrome finishing and the laser environmental, management systems uncompromised EMI shielding engraving of metal surfaces, replacing and ethics with the goal of meeting, eff ectiveness, and halogen-free nickel chromium plating and chemical or have a road map for compliance casings for signal integrity products.
with, these requirements at all of our The Thermal unit has developed sites.
We regularly audit and review our thermoelectric generator assemblies Electronic Industry Citizenship processes and practices to ensure we that convert waste heat to electrical Coalition EICC Code of Conduct are in compliance and our operations energy and thermoelectric controllers The EICC Code of Conduct, a are using Best in Class processes, and have been redesigned to adjust code of best practice adopted and are audited several times a year by power for optimal eff iciency.
Laird implemented by some of the worlds various customers.
also actively develops products which major electronics brands and their encourage responsible energy use, suppliers, sets forth performance, Employees receive annual training including thermal management compliance, auditing and reporting on our Global Code of Conduct and products for customers working with guidelines across five areas of social written acknowledgement is required less energy-intensive LED lighting.
responsibility: as testimony of their understanding.
The Global Ethics Hotline has been In terms of process-based initiatives, Labour actively promoted and used around within our Metals business continued Health and Safety the world and has provided valuable eff orts are being made in Shenzhen, Environmental insight into processes requiring China and Chennai, India to eliminate Management Systems attention in our operations.
the need to degrease stainless Ethics steel gaskets by utilising improved Continuous Improvement evaporative oils and tool conditioning, Laird is committed to ensuring that We continued to see gains in consequently reducing water and its supply base complies with the our manufacturing processes, chemical use.
All metals are recyclable EICC Code of Conduct, and we product quality and customer and 100 per cent of metal process have therefore implemented these satisfaction ratings, alongside cost scrap is recycled.
In addition, in-house requirements into our business reductions, through our Six Sigma design technology is employed to systems and continue to audit and CIP Continuous Improvement optimise the strength of the metals, work with our suppliers to ensure Process programme during 2010, which in turn helps to reduce the compliance.
Current suppliers are which delivered approximately $14 amount required, thus making certified and we ensure all new million in savings by the end of the Laird PLC 29 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Laird recognises that the success of the business relies on the skill and dedication of its employees.
The combined Six Sigma and cover: commitment to freedom of assessment tool has been CIP approach has established a association and collective bargaining, implemented for relevant appointed foundation for best practice across equal remuneration for men and and or promoted candidates.
Total Laird for problem solving and since its women workers for work of equal spend on employee training in inception in 2005 has delivered solid value, the abolition of forced labour, 2010 was 774,194 and annualised results year on year.
A major emphasis the elimination of discrimination on employee turnover rate was 10.9%.
of the 2010 CIP programme was Lean grounds of race, colour, sex, religion, Manufacturing: a formal Four Phase political opinion, national extraction We communicate regularly with our Lean Development and Assessment or social origin, and the abolition of employees, including information process was launched at all key child labour.
Laird has expressed its on key events within the business, manufacturing sites with the goal support for the International Labour charity and community involvement of eliminating waste and improving Organisation eight Core Conventions, and employee achievements.
During performance on key indicators and we have stated our commitment the year we held global monthly site relating to quality, delivery and cost.
to the principles within these meetings and Town Hall meetings led Preliminary results show strong conventions.
During 2011 we will be by the executive team and conducted improvement in 2010 and this process implementing an audit, carried out by employee satisfaction surveys.
With a well an independent third party which is established system and infrastructure a specialist in this area, of our facilities Health, Safety and Environmental Policy in place, we will continue to expand in China.
and broaden the initiative across all of A copy of our Health, Safety and our facilities to support our strategies A copy of Lairds Employment and Environmental Policy statement is and strengthen our capabilities.
Human Rights policy statement is available on the Companys website or available on the Companys website from the Company on request.
WORKPLACE or from the Company on request.
We are committed to pursuing Human Rights Employee development high standards of environmental The International Labour Organisation, and communication performance including the a tripartite UN agency bringing Laird recognises that the success maintenance of safe and healthy together governments, employers of the business relies on the skill working environments and maintain and workers of its member states in and dedication of its employees.
a proactive communications strategy common action to promote decent Consultation is encouraged at amongst all employees to stimulate working conditions throughout local level and performance and continuous improvement and the world, has identified eight Core development reviews reinforce the promote and develop good health, Conventions as being fundamental link between business goals, an safety and environmental practices.
to the rights of human beings at employees contribution and his work.
These Core Conventions her remuneration.
A leadership 30 Laird PLC Lairds Beijing, China, facility received a 2010 Great Wall Award for Lean Manufacturing Excellence in December, presented at the Great Wall 2010 Ceremony and Annual Forum in Shanghai.
Through the setting of targets and the implementation of a corresponding measurement system alongside a comprehensive training programme, Laird was recognised for successfully instilling a Lean Manufacturing philosophy throughout the Beijing facility 2010 saw further progress in We record near misses, minor and 2010 Health and Safety overall performance in the areas of reportable accidents, based on a achievements Health, Safety and Environmental uniform reporting standard, at all Lairds facility in Schaumburg, USA management, driven by the facilities along with total hours worked reduced reportable workplace continuation of our ISO 14001 OHSAS which together provides an aggregate accident rates by 76% in 2010 18001 integrated Health, Safety and annualised minor reportable accident vs. 2009, to 0.4 100 employees Environmental management system rate per 100 employees.
annualised, on working hours up 9%.
accreditation programme: a joint Lairds Kunshan, China facility standard to which thirteen Laird There were no work-related fatalities in reduced reportable workplace facilities are certified, all of which 2010 2009, zero.
The total number of accident rates by 60% from 0.5 100 successfully completed re-certification reportable accidents increased 14% in employees annualised in 2009 to or surveillance audits during the year.
2010 but the reportable accident rate 0.2 100 employees annualised in This is in addition to the majority of our fell from 0.15 to 0.14 per 100 employees 2010, on an increase in working main manufacturing facilities being annualised, on a 17% increase in total hours of 14%.
Minor accident rates Lairds facility in Beijing, China increased 16% to 0.22 100 employees received an Administration of Work The results of the health, safety annualised.
These figures need to Safety Bureau 2010 Best Safety and environmental audits and their be seen against a background of Practice award.
follow up are monitored by the RMC.
Lairds Shenzhen, China facility Health, safety and environmental received positive recognition with training is provided, and reinforced via regard to safety performance from Average Reportable refresher courses where necessary, to the Shenzhen Social Insurance employee accidents per designated employees and focuses Bureau and the Administrator headcount 1 00 employees on the perceived risk within each of Work Safety of the Shenzhen annualised business.
Lairds Shunde, China facility was 16000 0.2 Health and Safety Management recognised by the local government 12000 Worldwide employee headcount for safety performance in 2010 8000 0.1 for our operations increased from c. and will be presented with the 12,290 at the end of 2009, to 12,577 at 2010 Model Company in Safety 4000 the end of 2010.
The average number Production award in Q1 2011.
Laird PLC 31 Corporate Social Responsibility continued After conducting a Health & Wellness survey across North American employees in 2009 Laird established a Health & Wellness programme in order to promote a work culture that supports the value of choosing a healthy lifestyle, through the provision of access to a wide range of fitness, health and nutritional resources.
The programme includes the organisation of activities, speaker events, on-site biometric screenings and regular newsletters on a dedicated Health & Wellness intranet site.
The programme has been rolled out in North America and is being shared with facilities in other countries.
ENVIRONMENT sent to landfill, sharing successful ideas and best practice wherever Environmental Management appropriate across all plants globally.
Detailed policies are developed, Environmental indicators for 2010 implemented and regularly reviewed reflect continued market driven by Laird and our businesses to reflect reduction in operations with a low their specific trading activities and energy and carbon profile such the associated risks.
Our minimum as handset assembly but strong requirements are for our businesses demand-driven growth in higher to comply with local legislation and impact operations, set against low to operate continuous improvement energy usage and emissions in 2009 programmes, to ensure that eff icient as a result of the global economic use is made of all resources, including downturn.
energy, water and raw materials, that emissions are restricted to within best Set against this context, Lairds CO2 practice levels, waste is minimised emissions per 1m of sales increased and accidents are prevented through by 8% to 74,345 kilograms, while comprehensive training.
power consumption increased 8% to 187,940 KwH per 1m of sales.
Laird undertakes a rolling programme Reductions were achieved in 2010 for of environmental audits covering all waste to landfill relative to sales, which of its manufacturing sites, the results decreased 6% to 1,251 kilograms total of which are monitored by the RMC.
waste to landfill per 1m of sales.
For The formalisation of environmental 2011, as part of our environmental management systems via the strategy, we have set a CO2 emissions certified Environmental and Health reduction target of 5% in total metric tonnes CO2-e relative to 100K hours and Safety standards promotes continuous improvement and allows worked for our 9 largest sites.
This consistent monitoring of energy target will be applied across smaller source reduction, waste treatment sites in 2012. and the re-use and reclamation of natural resources.
RoHS Restriction of Hazardous Substances Our environmental strategy targets RoHS is European Community reductions in energy usage, Regulation 2002 95 EC which came greenhouse gas emissions and waste into force on 1 July 2006.
The Directive 32 Laird PLC Non-financial Key Performance Indicators KPIs As demonstration of our commitment to continuous improvement in Energy consumption Total energy consumption for This measure evaluates how energy energy resource use, we participate KwH million of revenue the Group in KwH expressed eff icient the production processes in the annual Information Request as a % of revenue of Laird are by the Carbon Disclosure Project, an Greenhouse gas emissions Greenhouse gas emissions are This measures Lairds impact independent non-profit organisation kg million of revenue calculated by applying specific on the environment, as it tries which acts as an intermediary between factors to power consumption, to minimise the environmental shareholders and corporations on which is then expressed as a % impact of its operations of revenue all climate change related issues, providing primary climate change data Waste to landfill sites Total waste to landfill sites As Laird handles large amounts kg million of revenue expressed as a % of revenue of packaging for transportation from the worlds largest corporations a process to minimise packaging to the global marketplace.
waste has been established restricts the use of six substances in substance compliance with piloting a packaging engineering electronic products: lead, mercury, our customers.
programme aimed at design for cadmium, hexavalent chromium, transportability to eliminate waste polybrominated biphenyls PBBs REACH Registration, Evaluation, and risk and optimise shipped and polybrominated diphenyl Authorisation and Restriction of packages for air ocean transport ethers PBDEs.
Chemical substances using  REACH is a European Community materials.
This is one of various As part of our Restricted Substance Regulation on chemicals and their new recycling initiatives taking Management Plan, our facility in safe use EC 1907 2006 which came place across Lairds facilities, others Shenzhen, China utilises an in-house into force on 1 June 2007 and will be include precious metal recovery and RoHS testing facility to ensure product phased in over an eleven year period.
packaging material and pallet re-use.
This facility is testimony We are committed to being proactive in Improvements in resource to our proactive approach to RoHS the addressing of REACH compliance management are also being compliance, which is driven by a plan and will support implementation targeted globally: Lairds Cleveland, implemented at all manufacturing of the regulation as required.
We USA facility is outfitting an aluminium locations to manage processes have completed a REACH baseline panel scrubber with an auto shut-off and procedures associated with applicability assessment involving the system saving as much as 4,000 the Directive and other  and review of all products gallons of water a day.
The same specific restricted substance product and preparations and the identification site is installing forced shut-off s requirements.
We have also invested and survey of applicable suppliers in on curing ovens and replacing its in in-house RoHS testing laboratories the EU and internationally.
We continue shipping bay doors with insulated, in Kunshan, China, along with to eff ectively address customer energy-eff icient doors.
screening equipment in Tianjin, enquiries for REACH compliance data Exhaust air at the Laird Gothenburg, China and Cleveland, USA, to enable for our products and develop our Sweden facility is now routed internally verified RoHS and restricted supply chain to ensure it continues past incoming air to take substance product compliance.
to meet all REACH legal compliance advantage of heat transfer and obligations and supply products into reduce heating costs.
In 2010 over 10,500 samples were the EU without disruption.
Lairds Reynosa, Mexico facility tested for RoHS restricted substances received a Clean Industry in our laboratories, resulting in net 2010 Environmental achievements certification for legal environmental savings of approximately $1.5 million Lairds Schaumburg, USA facility requirement accomplishments from versus conducting the equivalent installed energy eff icient lighting the Mexican Environmental and testing at an accredited third party throughout the plant and earned Natural Resources Secretary.
To date there have been no Orion Energys Environmental instances of major non-conformance Stewardship Award.
with respect to RoHS restricted Lairds Shenzhen, China facility is Laird PLC 33 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Lairds San Marcos, USA facility employees donated funds and volunteered 100 man hours at the San Elijo Lagoon Conservancy, a grassroots organisation that supports the preservation and restoration of local wetland areas.
Laird employees have also been trained to lead educational tours of the lagoon for school children and the general public.
COMMUNITY Laird facilities in Asia also organised food donation drives and made Charitable Donations and personal donations to the Red Cross Community Aff airs aid eff orts in the earthquake-hit The well-being of the communities in Yushu County of Qinghai Province.
which we operate is important to our Employee donations were matched long term development and success.
through the companys charitable The Managing Director is responsible donation matching programme.
Our facility in Chennai, India donated INR 300,000 4,243 in January to the During the year Laird gave 5,460 Anasuya Foundation for Women and to UK charities 2009, 9,200 and Children in India, which is engaged 27,065 to charities worldwide, of in charitable activities providing which approximately 11,000 was education and medical relief.
donated to aid earthquake recovery A Laird PLC director and another eff orts in Yushu, China.
senior employee participated in a triathlon in June in aid of the Examples of charitable initiatives are: British Heart Foundation.
Another Lairds St Louis corporate off ice employee climbed Ben Nevis in aid conducted a Toy Drive and clothing of Heart UK: in both cases individual donation for its chosen charity, Youth colleague donations were matched in Need.
Employees also participated by the Company.
in sponsored walks for Juvenile Diabetes and Cystic Fibrosis charities.
Facilities in Asia continue to participate in events to help reinforce our commitment to the local community.
During the year blood donation drives were held at Kunshan, China and in August employees at the Penang, Malaysia facility participated in an Open Day for the local Salvation Army Childrens Home.
