Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 26 corporate social responsibility a commitment to the local to our customers whilst minimising community risks and maximising rewards to At Lamprell, we recognise the value our wider stakeholders.
of fulfilling our responsibilities as a corporate citizen, believing that by Accordingly, when we make all We are fortunate to doing so we will bring benefits to all our investment and operational have a local business our stakeholders.
Having been decisions, we take account of the based in Dubai since 1977, the social and environmental impacts with a global Company is rooted in a community that they may have, and minimising perspective, and a within which it has worked for over these is a central part of our thirty years and it has both decision-making process.
rich variety of cultures benefited from, and been a and backgrounds contributor to, that communitys As a publicly listed company our development during that period.
As aim is to ensure that our reporting from which to draw a result of both this history and the meets all the requisite levels of expertise and international nature of our scrutiny for a business of our size business, we believe we are and areas of activity.
fortunate to have a local business our reputation by aligning our with a genuinely global perspective, commercial goals with our ethical and a rich variety of cultures and standards is an essential part of backgrounds from which to draw achieving this aim.
social initiatives our principles In 2010, we continued to work Our commitment to act as a closely with local communities, responsible corporate player has business partners and regulatory long been reflected throughout the authorities to make a positive entire organisation, and the Group difference within the localities where has a formalised set of policies that we operate.
In particular we at state the principles by which we Lamprell are aware of the cultural seek to manage our operational mix of our employees with some activities, work with our staff and 80% originating from India.
host communities, and minimise our impact on the environment.
Don Bosco Snehalaya is a project focused on the street children and Our business, the provision of youth, living in the city of Vadodara.
construction services to the oil and With Lamprells support, the basic gas and renewables industry, objective of Snehalaya is to provide requires the highest standards of shelter to the young living on the engineering skill and Health, Safety railway platforms and in the streets, and Environment awareness.
Our and other vulnerable children who fundamental principle is to carry are in need of care and protection.
out these activities in a way that Snehalaya provides food, clothes, delivers the best possible product medicines, recreational facilities, company business corporate financial overview review governance statements Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 27 counseling, job placement, contact sets.
We are confident that this provided for airport and shopping with their families, and training in approach is the one most likely to trips etc.
trades according to their capacities enable us to achieve our business and individual circumstances.
They objectives by providing quality, medical and life insurance are given opportunities to interact continuity and growth.
Our policy is In addition to the in-house medical with the public, to express their to ensure equal opportunity in team, Lamprell provides private potential and their talents.
This career development, promotion, medical cover and life insurance for helps them to develop their self training and reward for all of our its workforce enabling them to take confidence and the awareness that employees.
We aim to ensure that advantage of locally available high they too can contribute something all our employees understand our quality medical facilities, whilst giving to society.
Ultimately, Snehalaya business goals and our business peace of mind to family dependants.
aims at enabling these street principles through ongoing children to return to a decent life communications programmes.
Health, safety, environment within mainstream society.
and security summary With a diverse range of nationalities Hses charity working within the group, we also Given the nature and demands of Each year we donate a cheque to respect and recognise the value of our business, ensuring a high level a worthy local establishment, with different cultures.
of performance in health, safety, the recipients this year being the environment and security is Dubai Center for Special Needs.
trade staff accommodation absolutely essential, and Lamprell The Center caters for children and Due to the rising cost and shortage has a strong track record in these young people with special needs of residential accommodation in areas.
We are very conscious and is run entirely on donations.
It the UAE, combined with a though that there is no room for offers a range of services to suit municipality directive forbidding complacency in HSES and we the needs of each child in all areas trade labour employees from living seek to continually improve our including education, social, speech in what are termed family performance.
and language, occupational communities, Lamprell decided to therapy, physiotherapy and provide purpose built community Health and safety behavioural management.
accommodation for its core trade Internal measures for health workforce.
This accommodation and safety performance are very people provides a secure and clean important to ensure focus on this Attracting, developing and retaining environment for our employees.
Our objective talented staff is a major challenge These facilities are capable of for 2010 was to maintain and for the oil and gas industry and at housing up to 400 people, improve the developed safety Lamprell we are fortunate to have complete with all amenities culture within the organisation, high quality people across the including an in-house laundry with all staff encouraged to report whole range of our services.
It is service, restaurants, cinema, any activities they perceive as therefore vital for our continued recreational equipment, communal not conforming to best practice success that we encourage our rooms with full access to internet, through the incentive linked staffs personal development and satellite TV and a medical centre.
in-house Safety Observation career progression, and treat our Lamprell provides transport Audit Programme so that any areas people with respect, maturity and between the accommodation of oversight can be rectified and openness.
We also invest facilities and its workplaces with brought up to the highest possible significantly in building their skill additional scheduled transport standard as quickly as possible.
For more information visit: www.
com Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 28 corporate social responsibility The facilities individually achieved LTI statistics as follows: pollution and reducing the overall impact of our operations on the Sharjah LTI 4 LTI Frequency Rate 1.79 environment.
In addition, we Jebel Ali LTI 2 LTI Frequency Rate 0.60 maintain an internal management Hamriyah LTI 8 LTI Frequency Rate 1.68 structure for the management of LOEF LTI 0 LTI Frequency Rate 0.00 environmental issues which Thailand LTI 0 LTI Frequency Rate 0.00 includes clearly defined responsibilities for environmental management capable of delivering this policy commitment.
A contributory factor again this year In 2010 Lamprell maintained the was the encouraged use of the accreditation with the management At all times Lamprell aims to centralised reporting system for system certificate ISO 14001: 2004 comply with, and where possible leading indicators under a Total and the updated Occupational, exceed, applicable legal and other Recordable Incident Ratio.
This Health and Safety Assessment requirements relating to the ratio facilitates the analysis of First Series, OHSAS 18001: 2007. organisation.
We are also Aid Cases, Medical Treatment committed to monitoring and Cases and Restricted Work Cases environment reporting of our environmental as well as Lost Time Incidents Across all our activities we seek to performance, setting objectives LTI and allows management to minimise the mark we leave on the and targets for improvement and at identify trends and take the sites at which we work.
A good all times provide appropriate appropriate action.
example is at Hamriyah where, as training and awareness we expand our existing facility, we programmes for our staff.
As a result of this approach, we are seeking ways to minimise our Feasibility plans are currently in have maintained a strong track impact on the local environment progress to join the Carbon record in the area of safety.
and increase our energy efficiency Disclosure Project.
Lamprell has established a safety and recycling capability.
record which is exceptional for the waste management policy oil and gas construction industry.
By delivering the best possible All businesses affect the In line with our standardise and product to our customers and environment through the use of centralise programme, the Lamprell utilising the most up to date resources and discharge of waste Group of companies achieved an technologies, we also have a direct products.
Our Waste Management overall performance LTI Frequency impact on the environmental Policy is therefore consistent with Rate of 1.33. performance of the rigs we refurbish our broader Environmental Policy, by improving their systems and which includes a stated However, whilst our own ensuring they conform to all relevant commitment to minimise the measurement of our safety international legislation.
environmental impacts of our performance is essential, we also operations and prevent pollution.
recognise the importance of Our policy is to strive to achieve Our aim is to limit our discharge of external analysis of our methods continual improvement in waste material wherever we can and have achieved relevant environmental performance.
We and the policy lays out how we accreditation by third parties of our are committed to preventing seek to achieve this goal.
company business corporate financial overview review governance statements Lamprell plc Annual report and accounts 2010 29 security During 2010, Lamprell maintained a high level of internal and external security controls of its assets on behalf of all stakeholders.
These controls were in the form of security procedures, a corporate wide security access system and continued physical security presence.
Quality Lamprell aims to achieve maximum customer satisfaction and quality of product.
In the pursuit of this objective the Company will comply with all national and international standards and requirements with respect to quality assurance.
Lamprell will also strive to optimise resources and reduce wastage in the development of our facilities and training of personnel.
Whilst aiming to meet these objectives the Company ensures cost effective jobs and services, and delivery on time.
Lamprell meets these objectives by understanding customer requirements, working together with our customers to meet those requirements, understanding our processes well and monitoring and measuring our activities.
Ultimately the Company strives to continually improve the Quality Management Systems and operations.
