Logica Annual report and accounts 2010 People planet profit Our corporate focus on people, planet and profit creates value that will lead to a sustainable future for all of us.
This is at the core of our strategy and the way we think about corporate responsibility.
Sustainable We continued to win new work in 2010: Our leadership position and reputation for the roll out of software for over 145,000 collaborative innovation in sustainability smart meters in the UK: delivering is based on years of delivering pioneering e-laads back o ce system for electric sustainability services.
Like our services car charging that will support 10,000 Think before and how for wind farm management with EDPs charging stations across the Netherlands, you travel renewables business, which now manages and helping reduce Daimlers carbon thousands of wind turbines in more than emissions by 25,000 tonnes.
We now Did you know that 55% of Logicas emissions in 2009 were generated by travel?
100 power plants across Europe and work with five Swedish utilities, providing Where possible, use technological alternatives North America.
a web service for their customers to such as Livemeeting and Video conferencing.
We continue to help clients look at cost manage their use of energy in the home.
and environmental e ciencies as well as Our public transport journey planner in at the growth prospects that sustainability Helsinki, Finland, is used daily by tens of o ers.
In 2010, we brought together our thousands of passengers to plan sustainability services more formally.
We established a practice in sustainability Our work has led to industry analyst business consulting to provide strategic Ovum identifying us as one of the leading insight to clients and also help shape the  integrators.
Green future of the communities in which we all IT consultant Verdantix has recognised live.
We helped clients to deliver commercial us as a leader in the global market for 1823 0910 outcomes as well as to transform their sustainable technology services.
businesses to run more e ciently.
We have a broad sustainability To see more on our sustainability, go to portfolio across di erent sectors, with annualreport.
com strengths in innovation, and the creation of solutions with our clients.
These range from sustainability strategy to sustainable energy, mobility and carbon management.
We build on Logicas strengths in industries that were first to demand sustainability solutions, for example, in utilities and transport.
6 Business review Sustainability and responsibility Responsible Our second Corporate Responsibility Increasingly, clients expect their suppliers We have a clear corporate responsibility report was published in October 2010 to be able to demonstrate how corporate strategy linked to our corporate strategy, using the Global Reporting Initiative GRI responsibility is embedded into their and supported from the Board down.
The GRI checked our report businesses.
As we have become more underpins our ability to act as a trusted as a level A.
It brought together the details fully integrated under the One Logica advisor on sustainability issues to our and metrics around what we are doing in banner, we have a clearer picture of the clients.
Our governance approach, which this area.
Our next report will be published activities going on across the Company.
is covered on pages 50 to 62 in this in April 2011.
Through the report, we want This means we are responding faster report, is key to ensuring we adequately to engage interested parties to help us to bids for new business and supplier manage our risks.
re ne and adapt our approach.
Keeping a close eye on environmental We are also running joint community metrics and hitting the targets weve set programmes with our clients in several You can read the full report at ourselves is key to demonstrating to our regions, deepening our client engagement www.
com Sustainability2009 clients that we practice what we preach.
In Brazil, for example, For more detail on the progress we We have continued to align our carbon we contribute to our clients EDP in made in 2010 against our corporate management and accounting more closely Schools programme.
Over the last eight responsibility KPIs, see pages 20 to 23. to global standards of reporting.
We take years, more than 148,000 students from insights and innovation from our own 500 schools across five states have environment programme into areas such benefited from tools for student learning as our carbon management services in subjects such as art and energy which save our clients money too.
We have plans to build Excess carbon equals excess cost further on our joint client community so by operating as e ciently as possible, programmes in 2011. we will deliver the best return on A strong corporate responsibility investment to our shareholders.
Over programme also motivates and engages GRI checked the last few years we have focused our many of our people, instilling a sense of people on the elements which have the pride in the organisation that they work The Global Reporting Initiative checked greatest impact.
This contributes to higher employee our 2009 report as a level A. emissions are generated by travel so satisfaction and more healthy levels of we focused on reducing our emissions, attrition.
Our community programme also enabling working at home and live creates volunteer opportunities for our meetings using advanced conferencing people where they can acquire skills and tools.
This has saved our UK business experience that they couldnt get from 10 million over two years and made classroom learning.
an important contribution to reducing absolute emissions by 7%.
By staying on top of our carbon emissions reduction programme, we also minimise future carbon tax payments through the Carbon Reduction Commitment regulation.
