SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REVIEW Overview of 2010 Highlights Challenges Development of an Integrated Safety strategy Failure to eliminate fatal accidents: regrettably we had reflecting a shift to a more proactive approach.
three mine accident fatalities during the year.
Development of a revised housing model, including The delays on the housing project slowed down the earmarking accommodation for women in mining.
delivery on our Social and Labour Plan SLP Developing an integrated real time water balance commitments.
system to measure and monitor water flows The effectiveness of our training and development throughout the Company.
School attendance and performance in the Greater Targeting the GLC with tertiary education bursaries.
Lonmin Community GLC have improved helped by To secure an adequate supply of water to sustain and our investments in the education and nutrition expand our operations.
Promoting awareness of energy efficiency.
43.3% of our managers are from designated groups, To reduce the amount of ground level fugitive SO 2 exceeding our target for this year.
We have reduced our total fresh water intake, per unit Behavioural and technological obstacles to further of production, by 25% compared to the 2007 reduce Noise Induced Hearing Loss NIHL cases.
We are managing our risks associated with HIV AIDS.
36 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc OUR APPROACH TO INTEGRATED REPORTING This section of the Annual Report and Accounts provides Reporting on our principal sustainable development risks an overview of the key elements of our sustainability Our Company operates in an increasingly turbulent performance, focusing in particular on our management environment and we face additional risks as a result of this approach and performance with respect to those issues uncertainty.
All of our productive operations are in South that we have identified as being our principal risks in the Africa which faces significant development challenges area of sustainable development.
relating to poverty and inequality, manifesting itself in Our separate web-based Sustainable Development unemployment, poor health, a lack of education and other Report SDR, available online at www.
provides a higher level of detail on our Sustainable The Company places high importance on identifying Development strategy and profile, management approach, and managing all risks that could have an impact on itself performance and case studies for those requiring more and allocates the necessary resources to adequately in-depth information.
The SDR is of particular interest manage our sustainable development risks.
It should be to a broader set of stakeholders, such as SRI analysts, noted that not all risks are significant and as such those sustainability professionals and civil society bodies.
risks that we have identified as our principal and key The Companys primary listing is on the London Stock sustainable development risks, as well as our Exchange and it is therefore subject to The Combined performance against targets to address these risks, are Code on Corporate Governance, published in 2008 by the provided on the next two pages.
Additional information on UKs Financial Reporting Council.
The Company also has our management approach and sustainability performance, a secondary listing on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange in addition to other sustainable development risks that we and whilst it is not subject to the provisions of King III, the have identified, is provided in the SDR.
Board has reviewed the recommendations in King III and Performance against our targets identified minor areas where adopting the provisions of This year we undertook a comprehensive assessment of the code on a voluntary basis is felt likely to confer what sustainable development means for the Company advantage to the Company and its shareholders.
and incorporated inputs from stakeholders at various As this report is specifically addressed to phases to establish our principal and key sustainable shareholders, we have concentrated on those principal development risks.
Governed by our Safety and issues necessary for an understanding of Lonmins Sustainable Development Policy we have targets in place business and the environment in which it operates.
Many in order to direct adequate resources to the effective of the initiatives underway in the business or planned for management of those risks.
2011 are therefore not reported on in this section on the grounds of significance, and the omission of the information should not be taken as implying any lack of commitment on the Companys part.
The Business Case for Sustainable Development We believe that there are sound business reasons for going beyond compliance in terms of our social and environmental performance.
Integrating sustainable development and social transformation issues in a strategic and coherent manner protects our legal licence to operate, enhances our social accountability, contributes to more effective risk management, improves operational efficiencies and so potentially creates valuable business opportunities.
Further, there are the obvious financial benefits associated with improving resource efficiency.
This has taken on greater significance in the context of recent and anticipated increases in energy prices, as well as growing concerns relating to the security of the longer term supply of energy, water and other resources.
We recognise that we need to be innovative not only in terms of securing the supply of these resources, but also in identifying opportunities to reduce the demand for these inputs.
In addition to these opportunities associated with protecting value, we believe that sound sustainability practices also present opportunities for creating value.
One of our most important value drivers is the productivity of our employees.
By investing in the health and safety of our employees, and by providing them with opportunities to further develop their careers, we are making direct investments in the longer term success of the Company and the South African nation as a whole.
Recognising these business case benefits, we are integrating many aspects of sustainability into the Life of Business Plan for our operations.
com 37 OUR APPROACH TO INTEGRATED REPORTING continued Table 1 Performance against our targets Target 2010 Our 2010 performance Targets beyond 2010 Disruption to our operations resulting from poor safety performance and culture We will have zero fatal injuries at Tragically, three fatalities occurred We continue to maintain a target of zero fatal 7 each of our operations each year.
at our operations in 2010. injuries across all of our operations.
page 43 We will improve our Lost Time LTIFR has improved by 5.5% We will improve our LTIFR by a further 5% by 7 Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR by relative to 2009. page 43 30 September 2011 to a total reduction of 10% by 30 September 2010 10% from the 2009 baseline.
Possible withdrawal of our Mining Licences resulting from failure to deliver commitments made in our SLP regarding housing and converting our hostel units.
We will convert five hostel We converted five hostel blocks, We will convert an additional 26 hostel 4 complexes into bachelor and or at Karee, Wonderkop and complexes into bachelor and or family family accommodation by Eastern Platinum at a total cost accommodation by 30 September 2011 30 September 2010. of US$2 million into family and at a cost of US$10.9 million.
bachelor accommodation in 2010. page 44 We will upgrade a further 252 houses at our Marikana operations by 30 September 2011.
Possible withdrawal of our Mining Licences resulting from failure to deliver commitments made in our SLP regarding training and empowerment of our employees and communities.
We will improve the literacy rates 793 employees enrolled in our The target will be reviewed in the light of the 4 of our employees by 2% by Adult Basic Education and revised mining charter.
30 September 2010 based on Training ABET course in 2010 our performance in 2009. with our rate of functional numeracy and literacy in the Company improving by 2% compared to 2009. page 45 We will increase the participation We have 43.3% employees from We will increase the participation of employees 4 of employees from designated designated groups within senior.
from designated groups within each level of 1 groups within senior and middle and middle management.
management to 40% by 30 September 2014. management to 53% by 2014. page 45 We will increase female participation We managed to increase women We will increase female participation at the 7 at the mine in line with our in core mining representation to mine by 11.6% by 30 September 2014 commitments under our Social 3.22% and women at the mine 2010 baseline year.
page 45 We will have 63% of our total We spent 69% of total We will have 65% of our total discretionary 4 discretionary spend with historically discretionary spend on HDSA spend with HDSA suppliers by disadvantaged South African suppliers.
Inability to secure an adequate electricity supply for our current operations and for the planned expansions in line with our Life of Business Plan.
We will reduce our aggregate Aggregate energy consumption We are still on track to achieve the committed 4 energy consumption per unit of has decreased by 6.9% on our target.
production by 10% by 2007 consumption to 30 September 2012, thereby 4.73 GJ PGM oz in 2010. reducing greenhouse gas emissions page 48 by 5% 2007 baseline year.
Inability to secure an adequate supply of water to sustain and expand our operations.
We will reduce our aggregate fresh We have reduced our aggregate We are still on track to achieve the committed 4 water intake by 15% per unit of fresh water intake by 25% per target.
production 2007 baseline year unit of production since 2007. by 30 September 2012. page 47 1 The target was reviewed in the light of the revised mining charter.
The target focuses on all levels of management and not just specifically on senior and middle management.
38 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Target 2010 Our 2010 performance Targets beyond 2010 Loss of sustainable fresh water for our operations and communities due to deterioration of surface and ground water quality.
No targets were in place for 2010 as the risk was only added We will prevent any discharges from our 4 as a key risk during 2010.
Marikana return water dams and Waste Water Treatment Plants into the environment by 2 30 September 2014.
Possible withdrawal of our licence to operate if we fail to meet the legislative requirements of SO emissions.
2 No targets were in place for 2010 as the risk was only added We will reduce the amount of ground level 4 as a key risk during 2010. fugitive SO emissions by 40% 2010 baseline 2 3 year by 30 September 2014. page 49.
Deterioration of the health of our employees and their reduced productivity due to the impact of HIV AIDS and Tuberculosis amongst our workforce.
We will increase participation of 498 employees were enrolled in We will increase participation of patients in our 7 patients in our wellness programme our wellness programmes as at wellness programme by a further 5% by by 20% by 30 September 2010 the end of this financial year.
This is 45 or 4% lower than the 2009 baseline.
page 50 We aim to maintain one active We have 311 active peer We aim to maintain one active workplace 7 workplace peer educator for educators for the workforce, peer educator for every 75 employees by every 75 employees by thus one active peer educator 30 September 2011.
page 50 Impaired hearing of our employees and the resultant impact on our safety performance due to the lack of adherence to our hearing conservation programme.
We will reduce our number of The number of NIHL cases has We will reduce our number of new NIHL cases 4 new Noise Induced Hearing Loss been reduced by 11.1%.
We have by a further 5% by 30 September 2011 NIHL cases by 10% by achieved our target of reducing 2010 baseline year.
30 September 2010 our number of new NIHL cases, 2009 baseline year.
by 10% September 2010. page 50 2 This target is dependent on the Government granting the Company an Integrated Water Use Licence and its continuing supporting thereafter of the Integrated Water Management Plan of which the Water Balance is an integral part.
3 Ground level fugitive SO emissions account for 57% of the total SO at full capacity.
com 39 WE CONTINUE TO FOCUS ON THE RECOVERIES AND EFFICIENCIES OF OUR CONCENTRATORS AS THIS IS VALUE ENHANCING.
KAJA TSHIMANGA LEADER, THE ENHANCERS Kaja Tshimanga leads the Process and Technical team the Enhancers which looks at process improvement and optimisation of the Rowland, 1 Shaft UG2, Merensky and K4 Concentrators.
The Enhancers were established as part of a MDWT Mission Directed Work Teams programme some two years ago by Natascha Viljoen, our Concentrators VP, to look at initiatives which would enhance and then sustain the performance.
The Enhancers all have an engineering background.
Under the leadership, coaching and mentoring of Kaja, this team has successfully defined the shortfalls in the production process, identified the lead indicators for good performance, analysed and improved the process and shared its findings with others.
All this has been achieved by applying a highly disciplined and focused methodology.
The team has journeyed along what we refer to as the S curve, from the basic principles of mineral processing to exploring and evaluating new application possibilities.
Kaja and his team use the six sigma approach and MDWT framework when considering ways of improving the efficiencies and recoveries.
Kaja is also focused on building an experienced team which will be equipped with the right skills for production and process management.
CASE STUDY: THE ENHANCERS CONCENTRATORS 40 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOVERNANCE WE ARE FULLY COMMITTED TO THE HIGHEST STANDARDS OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PRACTICE, WHICH WE BELIEVE IS NECESSARY FOR THE BUSINESS INTEGRITY REQUIRED TO DELIVER ROBUST AND SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS RESULTS.
Managing sustainable development at Lonmin Establishing integrity through auditing and assurance The Companys overall governance practices are Regular auditing and assurance processes are undertaken underpinned by the values set out in the Lonmin Charter to improve the integrity of our measurement and data and supported by the Lonmin Code of Business Ethics.
management systems and our external reporting activities.
Our commitments relating specifically to the governance The Boards Audit and Risk Committee approves the annual of sustainable development are defined in the Lonmin Company wide internal and external audit plans.
Audit Safety and Sustainable Development Policy.
findings are updated monthly and progress on corrective Implementation of these commitments is informed by our management plans are reviewed by the Executive Safety and Sustainable Development Management Committee on a monthly basis and by the Audit and Risk Standards and by the principles of the International Committee of the Board on a quarterly basis.
In addition to Council on Mining and Metals ICMM and the United the Company wide external assurance process conducted Nations Global Compact UNGC.
for our annual Sustainable Development Report SDR, this Ultimate responsibility for promoting sustainable year we have also conducted an internal audit on selected development within the Company rests with our Chief key sustainability indicators to monitor the effectiveness Executive Officer.
He is assisted by the members of the and inclusiveness of our systems.
External assurance is Executive Committee, which is responsible for reviewing provided on selected parameters in the SDR, the our progress and performance on safety and sustainability alignment of our policies and business practices with the issues.
During the year, the Executive Vice President for ICMM principles and our reporting in accordance to the Processing took over line responsibility for the sustainable Global Reporting Initiative GRI reporting principles.
development programme: further changes to the structures have been made and we are confident that these changes will translate into sustainable development being more firmly embedded throughout the Company.
com 41 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOVERNANCE continued External auditing of our ISO 14001, ISO 9001 and Public policy positions OHSAS 18001 management systems is designed to The Company made submissions to the Financial Reporting support continuous improvement of our performance at Council in the United Kingdom on their revision of the an operational level.
In 2010, all our operations have United Kingdom Corporate Governance Code.
Currently the Smelter, representative also belongs to two groupings of company BMR and PMR and Analytical Laboratories are OHSAS secretaries general counsel that undertake significant 18001 certified, with Lonmin Services, Marikana Mining, lobbying in the United Kingdom and Europe on corporate Limpopo Mining, Concentrators and the Training legal and governance matters on a cross-industry basis.
We found that the target for all In South Africa we have been engaging with the of our operations to be OHSAS 18001 certified by 2011 Department of Mineral Resources both directly and via to be challenging.
We are therefore aligning our the Chamber of Mines on the Mining Industry Growth, management systems so that we will be able to be Development and Employment Task Team.
Our focus audited for full OHSAS 18001 certification during 2012. has been on issues related to the MPRDA and our SLP We also generate regular Environmental Management requirements in particular.
Our Chief Executive Officer Programme Reports EMPRs which form part of the participates as an Executive Council member of the annual external Environmental Performance Assessment Chamber of Mines with our Chief Operating Officer as audits.
This is a legal requirement under the Minerals and his alternate.
Petroleum Resource Development Act 28 of 2002 Engaging our Stakeholders MPRDA under which our mining licences and We believe that developing sound relationships with prospecting rights are granted.
In 2011, we will update our stakeholders is a pre-requisite in creating robust our 2005 Environmental Management Programmes in operations, enabling us to achieve operational stability terms of the MPRDA and National Environmental and maximise the long term creation of value.
We are Management Act of 1998 taking into account all the committed to maintaining transparent, enduring and environmental legislation recently being promulgated.
In two way relationships with our stakeholders and to 2010, we achieved our target to receive no prosecutions incorporating their views into our decision making or fines relating to safety, health and environmental processes.
To manage our stakeholder relationships we management.
have developed the Lonmin Stakeholder Engagement Membership of external organisations and initiatives Protocol that is based on industry best practice.
We have been members of the International Council of We identify stakeholders as those groups or Mining and Metallurgy ICMM since 2004, and we are a individuals whose behaviour has an impact on the signatory to the United Nations Global Compact.
performance of the Company, or for whom the The ICMM International Council on Mining and Companys behaviour or decisions have consequences.
Metals was established to act as a catalyst for Part of analysing stakeholders is based on their stake in performance improvement in the mining and metals the Company for example ownership, or an economic or industry.
Today, the organisation brings together 19 social stake, as well as their level of influence which mining and metals companies as well as 30 national and could be formal, economic or political.
Significant issues regional mining associations and global commodity raised by our different stakeholders and how we have associations to address the core sustainable development addressed those issues is discussed in detail in the SDR.
challenges faced by the industry.
The ICMM Sustainable We also provide a detailed review of the nature of our Development Framework comprises three elements, a set stakeholder identification and engagement practices in of 10 Principles including a set of supporting position the SDR.
statements, public reporting and independent assurance: these have been developed systematically over the past 10 years.
More details on the ICMM can be found on their web-site www.
Through our participation in the ICMM, we support the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative EITI, a coalition of governments, companies, civil society groups, investors and international organisations that aims to strengthen governance by improving transparency and accountability in the extractive sector.
We are members of and, participate in, the International Platinum Group Metals Association IPA, International Chamber of Commerce, South African Chamber of Mines, Business Leadership South Africa, and a number of forums in a local context applicable to our individual operations.
In 2010 we continued to participate in the Carbon Disclosure Project and provided climate change related information to our shareholders.
We remain included in the FTSE4Good Index and the JSEs Socially Responsible Investment SRI index.
42 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc DEVELOPING A CULTURE OF SAFETY THE WELLBEING OF OUR EMPLOYEES AND THEIR FAMILIES, CONTRACTORS AND COMMUNITIES REMAINS IMPORTANT TO US.
OUR BUSINESS DEPENDS ON PEOPLE AND BY PROVIDING A SAFE AND HEALTHY ENVIRONMENT OUR PEOPLE CAN CONTRIBUTE TO CREATING AND SUSTAINING VALUE.
Our Safety and Sustainable Development Policy, Safety LTIFR and fatalities in 2010 and Sustainable Development Management Standards 15 6 and Fatal Risk Control Protocols provide a risk-based framework for Company wide safety management, continuous improvement and alignment with international 5 12 best practice.
This year we are developing a new Group wide Safety Strategy.
Up until now we had Safety 4 Strategies per business area.
9 The Safety Department specifies safety standards and training material: they further audit the implementation of 3 these Lonmin specific requirements.
Safety remains the 6 responsibility of each employee, with line management 2 accountable for delivering safe systems and places of work.
Ultimately, our Chief Executive Officer is accountable for 3 the safety of all of our employees and contractors on site.
1 Visible leadership is crucial to success in safety and in creating an interdependent safety culture.
We undertake 0 0 Safe Behaviour Observations as a lead indicator of our 06 07 08 09 10 safety performance, and we conduct risk assessments Financial year to address unsafe behaviour or conditions.
We rigorously LTIFR Fatalities investigate all serious incidents through the Incident Cause Analysis Method ICAM.
Findings from these incidents inform our drive for zero harm and are In 2010, we were issued with seventeen notifications, in communicated across our operations.
relation to Section 54 of the Mine Health and Safety Act 29 of 1996, compared to the 35 notifications in 2009.
All of Work related fatalities in 2010 these were at the Marikana operations.
We regret any injuries suffered in our operations, but tragically three of our employees were fatally injured this year: Key safety activities undertaken during the year Mr Siyabonga Tomose succumbed to his injuries on We have conducted a number of safety initiatives in 2010.
10 December 2009 following an incident involving a Those with the greatest impact were: fall-of-ground at K3 Shaft: We continued to implement the Laduma Score a Goal Mr Bavuyise Sganeko Bala was fatally injured on for Safety Campaign, a learning map with a soccer 1 March 2010 following in an incident involving a falltheme that reinforces the importance of safe behaviours of-ground in Newman Shaft: and and adherence to safety procedures.
Ms Betty Metsiapula Moekwa was killed on We rolled out our ten week Tsoka-Vuka-awake 19 August 2010 in an incident involving an awareness campaign, which we believe contributed underground locomotive at Rowland Shaft.
towards a united alignment towards tackling the common safety goals.
The entire Lonmin community extends our deepest The Safety Calendar Campaign to link safety talks to sympathies to the families and friends of our late colleagues.
specific safety incidents that are more likely to occur at different times during the year.
We believe that this is Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate contributing to a culture shift towards more preventative 1 The year-on-year LTIFR decreased by 5.5% from 6.21 in risk behaviour.
2009 to 5.87 in 2010, however this is below the target We performed a baseline assessment of the legal reduction of 10%.
We have set our target for 2011 to reduce compliance of our Safety and Sustainability Standards the LTIFR by a further 5%.
In 2010, the number of Lost Time and we have also determined the maturity level of the Injuries LTIs was 473, a year-on-year increase of 2.6%.
2 Severity rate was 267, a year-on-year increase of 6.5%.
3 The Company wide fatality rate remained constant at 0.04.
1 The total number of LTIs per million man hours worked.
An LTI is a It should be noted that in 2010 we have improved the work related injury resulting in the injured being unable to attend or accuracy for the man-hours worked and as a result it is return to work to perform the full or similar duties of his her regular work, as per advice of a suitable qualified medical professional, on possible that the man-hours have been previously the next calendar day after the injury.
understated and hence the LTIFR may have been overstated 2 The total days lost for the total lost time injuries per million hours worked.
We have been unable to quantify the impact of this on the prior years data: upon assessment we do 3 The total number of work related fatalities per total number of hours worked.
not believe the difference to be material and therefore we will not restate the previous years LTIFR.
com 43 Lost time injuries per million hours worked Number of fatalities HOUSING OUR EMPLOYEES AS PART OF OUR COMMITMENT TO ENHANCING EMPLOYEE WELLBEING WE HAVE UNDERTAKEN TO PROVIDE AFFORDABLE HOUSING TO OUR EMPLOYEES IN THE SURROUNDING COMMUNITIES.
Recognising the shortage of available and affordable implementing our existing strategy.
The new Integrated housing in the surrounding communities, in our Social Human Settlement Strategy will focus on: developing and Labour Plans SLP we committed to converting a strategic partnerships between the Company, property total of 114 hostel blocks into 2,718 family and bachelor developers and investors and financiers: promoting higher accommodation units and construct 5,500 houses within density of housing thereby developing more affordable the Greater Lonmin Community GLC, the GLC is the structures informed by successful government schemes.
communities situated within a fifteen kilometre radius of Hostel conversions and Housing our operations.
This year we have recommenced our hostel conversions Regrettably there have been several challenges that project that was put on hold in 2009 and we are currently have required us to review the target of 5,500 houses.
in discussion with the Department of Mineral Resources These challenges include a lack of readily available land, DMR and other interested parties to agree a practical insufficient water and electricity supply, financial and realistic timeframe to meet the SLP commitment.
Our constraints, affordability of the units that were to be commitment to convert all of our hostel accommodation constructed and the actual housing needs of our remains a goal for completion by 2014. employees, the majority of who require rental We have begun a campaign to promote home accommodation.
Given the challenges faced we have ownership.
To date of an available 1,149 houses in designed a new Integrated Human Settlement Strategy.
Marikana 103 houses have had ownership transferred Our housing stock currently comprises 1,798 houses, to the individuals.
We have also recognised and 544 family units and 92 bachelor units.
We have three responded to the need for awareness and training hostel complexes, all of which are available for our around home ownership.
A living out One of the most important considerations in this allowance is available as an alternative to Company process is the availability of land.
We have secured land provided accommodation.
So far, 860 stands have A revised strategy been serviced and 1,700 stands have been approved by We have recently revised the housing strategy, informed the Rustenburg Municipality for the two Marikana by a recent extensive survey that identifies the actual extention township establishment.
needs of our employees and by the experience gained in 44 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc INVESTING IN EMPLOYEE TRAINING AND EMPOWERMENT IT IS IMPERATIVE THAT WE ATTRACT, DEVELOP AND RETAIN A SKILLED WORKFORCE AND FOSTER DIVERSITY, PROVIDING A WORK ENVIRONMENT THAT ENABLES OUR EMPLOYEES TO REACH THEIR POTENTIAL AND ADD VALUE TO THE COMPANY.
The viability of our business is ultimately dependent on our Responsibility for the implementation of all ability to attract, retain and develop skilled talent.
This is employment equity policies rests with the Executive Vice becoming an increasing challenge in the context of the Presidents, supported by the Human Capital department escalating national and international demand for skilled and the Employment Equity Forum, with sub committees recruits in the mining industry.
It is also critical that we comprised of managers and representatives from all major strive to address the legacy on inequality in South Africa trade unions.
We are pleased to report that 43.3% of our by promoting empowerment opportunities, as well as senior and middle managers are from designated groups, further improving our employees productivity through exceeding our target for this year.
initiatives aimed at assisting them in managing their careers.
Promoting Women in mining Attracting, retaining and developing employees Although the revised mining charter does not have We aim to attract highly skilled and motivated employees, specific targets for women in the workforce, we have while at the same time seeking to develop a diverse continued to set relevant targets: workforce and empowering the GLC through the provision 10% women in core mining operations and applicable of employment and training opportunities.
We have to certain employment categories: and recruitment programmes in place to attract people from 11.6% women in all operations by 2014. our local communities particularly targeted at women.
As at 30 September 2010, 7.04% of our mine Managing talent and developing employees employees were women a year on year improvement of Our talent management programme comprises talent 0.24%.
We employed 3.22% of women in core mining review, performance management, career development, positions.
Women in mining exclude those women who succession planning and mentoring.
In 2010, we had 636 work in support functions.
Together with the International employees registered for the mentorship programme and Finance Corporation IFC, we developed a guide to 321 active mentees.
Career development plans are also integrating women into the workforce, which we reviewed annually and to date 6.1% of employees have presented and shared with other mining houses at the participated in the process.
We implement a range of Mining Indaba in Cape Town held in February 2010. targeted training initiatives, including induction courses, Investing in the Community annual refresher training and specific technical training through the Lonmin Training Academy.
We provide a Front Investment in education directly addresses our skills shortage, as it enables the Company to build capacity Line Supervisory Development Programme and Mission Directed Work Team training for our managers, and we in the GLC that should help us develop future workforce.
In building this capacity, we are able to meet our SLP provide opportunities for employees to study at independent institutions.
We also provide adult basic commitments to employ from our local community and invest in the economic sustainability of the GLC.
education and training initiatives ABET for employees, with the aim of facilitating functional literacy and numeracy.
In We focus our efforts in education at learners, educators, parents and the nutritional needs of learners.
We understand 2010, our rate of functional numeracy and literacy improved by 2% compared to 2009.
We also provide bursaries, the interrelated nature of these components.
Targeted investment in childhood development, primary and internships and sponsorships.
secondary education, and in tertiary education and training Promoting employment equity help build capacity in the GLC.
It also helps us identify and Our employment equity programme is intended to remove develop a pool of eligible learners for bursaries and tertiary any institutional barriers that may have historically existed level development, matched to our skills requirements.
on the basis of race, gender, ethnicity, age or disability.
These activities also support our efforts to develop small Our programme includes targeted recruitment, employee and medium enterprises and so create a set of viable and development, succession planning and adjustments to vibrant communities.
Employees classified as designated There is evidence of the positive impact that our groups are women, people with disabilities, and South investment in education and nutrition has had on GLC African citizens classified as of Asian, Coloured or school attendance and performance.
community members as Rock Drill Operators and 65 of We have had to revise our employment equity targets them have been found competent.
Fifteen men and two to align with the revised mining charter.
women from the GLC have been trained and found The following revised target, integrated into our SLPs, competent as Blaster Assistants and to date twelve of is now in place: these trainees have been employed by the Company.
40% designated groups participation in all levels of management by 2014. www.
com 45 IT IS IMPORTANT FOR US TO PUT SOMETHING BACK INTO OUR COMMUNITIES.
Tozama Kulati, Manager: Community Projects SILINDINI THUSONG SERVICE CENTER PROJECT EASTERN CAPE PROVINCE A significant percentage of our employees come from the Eastern Cape Province and we therefore consider this community to be very important to us.
A few years ago we partnered with the local municipality of Engcobo in this province to identify the needs of its community.
We consulted with the local authorities and identified that this community did not have adequate access to basic government services such as police, health and social services.
We committed to building what is now known as the Silindini Thusong Service Centre, a place where this community comprised of eight villages now has access to these essential government services.
The service centre also employs three people from the community.
As we planned the project we realised that access to the centre during the rainy season would be difficult, because of the river that runs through this community, so we decided to build a steel bridge across the river.
The bridge was completed and handed over to the community this year.
The bridge now also enables children to cross the river and attend school located on the same side as Thusong.
During the construction of the centre ten community members were provided with accredited training in portable skills such as brick laying, plastering, carpentry and painting.
The centre was built using some local labour.
It is an environmentally friendly building which uses solar panels for power and has a rainwater catchment system for water supply.
In October 2010, Lonmin jointly won the Nedbank Capital Green Mining Awards for 2010 in the Socio-economic category for this infrastructure project.
The award recognises the work done by our External Affairs team and in particular Tozama Kulati, the Community Manager who has been spearheading our community investment in the Eastern Cape.
CASE STUDY: COMMUNITY 46 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information MANAGING ACCESS TO QUALITY WATER OUR MINING OPERATIONS ARE LOCATED IN WATER SCARCE REGIONS OF SOUTH AFRICA.
SHIFTING RAINFALL PATTERNS AND INCREASING WATER DEMAND ARE LEADING TO A GROWING LIKELIHOOD OF WATER SHORTAGES, WHICH PRESENTS A SIGNIFICANT CHALLENGE FOR THE COMPANY AND LOCAL COMMUNITIES.
Our management of water resources is based on an Total freshwater intake and efficiency integrated three fold approach that: secures the availability of sufficient water for our 14,000,000 9 current and likely future mining operations: 8 reduces our freshwater consumption by improving 12,000,000 water use efficiencies and water recycling: and 7 prevents the contamination of ground and surface 10,000,000 6 water resources in the regions where we operate.
8,000,000 5 We are developing an integrated real time water balance system to measure and monitor water flows 4 6,000,000 throughout the organisation.
This will allow for wastewater 3 from certain processes to be used in other areas of our 4,000,000 operations that can tolerate lower quality water.
Other 2 outcomes include reduced mixing of different quality 2,000,000 1 waters and more efficient use of this scarce source for example by identifying and repairing leaking infrastructure.
0 0 We intend to finalise the integrated water balance within 06 07 08 09 10 the next financial year and, based on the outcomes, we Financial year plan to implement water saving and waste reduction 3 Total freshwater intake m initiatives within the next financial year and into 2012.
Total freshwater intake efficiency We are confident that further reductions to our overall 3 m PGM oz water demand can be achieved.
We have secured access to water resources that we At our Limpopo operations, the yield of the aquifer from expect to be sufficient for our current and planned mining which we obtain our freshwater is approximately 30,000 and processing needs at our Marikana operations, subject 3 m day, of which we are permitted to utilise 17%.
As our to no material change occurring in rainfall patterns.
We are Limpopo operations are still under care and maintenance in the process of securing further water resources for our water use was not significant, but on average, based our Akanani operations in the Limpopo Province.
While on four years of consumption, we utilise 5% of the yield of climate change may well have an impact on water the aquifer.
supplies, we will continue actively to manage our need In 2010, across our operations fourteen Level Three for security of supply of water resources over the medium unplanned discharges to surface water resources occurred to long term.
and were reported to relevant authorities as per legislative Managing the quality of ground and surface water requirements.
Volumes of these discharges are unknown.
resources We have undertaken various initiatives throughout the We aim to prevent pollution and environmental year aimed at maintaining access to quality water: degradation of surface and groundwater resources.
we have made investments to maximise water recycling We continue to monitor the impacts of our operations through closed system reticulation.
on water resources and the outcome of our remediation at our Marikana operations we are researching the efforts.
Freshwater usage at our operations in Marikana availability and practicality of reusing poorer quality and at our PMR is sourced from the regional water utility, water from our tailings facilities.
while our Limpopo operations access freshwater from a we are continuing with work on our static water balance regional well field.
Ground water consumption is limited model and on developing a Company wide dynamic to our exploration activities.
In 2010, our total fresh water intake from the regional storm water measures are being implemented over a water utility at the Marikana operations and from the five year period at our Marikana operations to comply 3 wellfield in Limpopo amounted to 8,005kilo-m, which with the National Water Act 36 of 1998. is a year-on-year decrease of 10%.
The total freshwater a guideline has been implemented for the lining 3 efficiency has improved by 14.7% from 7.14m PGM oz specification for all newly constructed dirty water storage 3 in 2009 to 6.09m PGM oz in 2010.
To date we have facilities to minimise seepage to the receiving environment.
reduced our total freshwater intake, per unit of production, by 25% compared to the 2007 baseline.
com 47 3 m 3 m PGM oz MAINTAINING ACCESS TO ENERGY AND MANAGING CLIMATE RISKS ENERGY IS INDISPENSABLE TO MINING AND WEALTH CREATION.
IN THE CONTEXT OF THE GROWING DEMAND FOR ENERGY AND INCREASING CONCERNS AROUND SECURITY OF SUPPLY, WE ARE COMMITTED TO USING ENERGY RESPONSIBLY.
In South Africa we face particular challenges relating both Total energy use and energy efficiency to the reliable supply of energy, especially electricity, and increased pressure to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
8,000 6 We expect these trends to contribute to higher energy 7,000 prices in the medium to longer term.
Hence, sound 5 energy management is vital for our operations to function 6,000 efficiently, to reduce energy demand and to minimise our 4 direct and indirect impact on the environment.
5,000 Our total energy consumption in 2010 was 6,215 TJ, a year-on-year decrease of 6.0%.
Our energy per unit of 3 4,000 production has decreased by 6.9% on our 2007 consumption to 4.73GJ PGM oz.
3,000 2 Electricity from the national grid represents 80% 2,000 of our total energy consumption.
The rest of the 20% of 1 our total energy consumption is from coal, gas and fuel.
1,000 Our approach to energy management is centred on securing the availability of sufficient energy for our 0 0 current and future mining operations, reducing our energy 06 07 08 09 10 consumption by improving energy use efficiencies and Financial year so ultimately minimising our carbon footprint.
Total energy Total energy efficiency TJ GJ PGM oz Reducing our energy use We committed to reducing our energy consumption per unit of production by 10% in the period from 2007 Operating in a changing climate to 2012.
Electricity is our most significant indirect energy We recognise our role, as a mining-to-metals company, in source.
In 2010, our Company wide electricity use mitigating and adapting to the impacts of climate change.
amounted to 1,380,218 MWh, which is a year-on-year We aim to contribute towards addressing this global decrease of 6.9% and 14.8% below our 2007 baseline.
challenge through energy efficiency initiatives, as well as The decrease in total energy per PGM oz in 2010 is through the supply of PGMs that can be used in cleaner encouraging but, with increased energy requirements burning technologies.
from conventional mining and the need to mine at greater We have set targets to improve our greenhouse depths, we are concerned that we may not meet our efficiency by 5% by 2012 based on our 2007 performance.
We therefore need to increase As this target was set in 2007 we will review it once our our efforts to reduce energy consumption whilst being Climate Change Strategy is in place.
In 2010 we emitted a pragmatic about what is feasible for our operations.
total of 1,534 kilotonnes of COequivalents.
This 2 During 2010 we implemented various initiatives aimed comprised of 102.1 kilotonnes of direct greenhouse gas at reducing energy and fossil fuel use: emissions Scope One and 1,428.2 kilotonnes of indirect We have launched two Demand Side Management emissions associated with the purchase of electricity DSM projects on compressed air optimisation with Scope Two and 4.1 kilotonnes of greenhouse gas the aim of offsetting the impact that will accrue from emissions Scope Three.
the deepening of our mines.
We are currently developing a Climate Change Strategy We have started to quantify energy saving guided by the ICMM.
The strategy seeks to identify and opportunities and we are in the process of revising address the key risks and opportunities presented by the Energy Efficiency Policy.
climate change and will guide the process of achieving our We have increased the awareness within each target of lower emissions through carbon reduction operation of their current energy consumption and improvement initiatives.
It includes an assessment of the their performance against the target.
corporate and operational impacts of climate change, and A power factor correction system at the Wonderkop provides for the development of an adaptation programme Substation.
and a carbon performance improvement strategy aligned Improved control philosophy for the coal fired Hot Gas with the Companys energy efficiency initiatives.
One of the biggest obstacles we face in reducing our energy consumption is changing peoples behaviour.
Energy efficient technology is not difficult to implement, but we have found that changing peoples attitudes and behaviour generally poses the biggest challenge.
48 TJ GJ PGM oz Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc MANAGING OUR ATMOSPHERIC EMISSIONS OUR OPERATIONS INFLUENCE THE AMBIENT AIR QUALITY.
WE ACKNOWLEDGE OUR RESPONSIBILITY TO MANAGE THIS CONTINUOUSLY AND REDUCE THE IMPACT.
WE AIM TO MINIMISE OUR RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH EMISSIONS FROM OUR MINING AND PROCESSING ACTIVITIES.
Our principal atmospheric emissions are SO, particulate Average tonnes of SO emitted from point and 2 2 matter and greenhouse gases.
Our air quality non-point sources management system ensures monitoring, reporting and 16 mitigation of these emissions emanating from sources across our operations.
We track our mitigation actions 14 at the operations on a monthly basis against our set performance indicators for both on and off site air quality.
12 South African legislation governing air quality management has undergone significant changes in recent 10 years.
2010 saw the implementation of the National Environmental Management Air Quality Act 39 of 2004 8 NEMAQA.
This shift in air quality regulation reflects a 6 source based control to that of a receiving environment effects based approach.
The main objective of the Act is 4 to ensure the protection of the environment and human health through reasonable measures of air pollution 2 control within a sustainable economic, social and ecological development framework.
We have drafted a 0 strategy to comply with the new requirements of the 06 07 08 09 10 NEMAQA.
Financial year We have an environmental community forum twice a year, where we present air quality projects and data and to respond to community expectations and concerns relating to air quality issues.
Reducing our SO emissions 2 A key aspect of the NEMAQA includes maximum emission standards to be imposed for our smelter operations with respect to SO emissions.
A component 2 of our alignment strategy identifies the compliance timeframes required by NEMAQA for the years 2015 and 2020.
In respect of ground level release of SO, we 2 have a developed an SO reduction strategy, which has 2 been submitted to the regulating authority.
The reduction strategy includes the management of ground level fugitive emissions.
Through extensive studies undertaken it was determined that these emissions influence the ambient environment.
The fugitive management plan entails capture, and if required cleaning and final release of emissions.
We will reduce the amount of ground level 1 fugitive SO emissions by 40% 2010 baseline year by 2 30 September 2014.
During 2010 our smelter operations emitted an average of 14.1 tonnes of SO per day, a year- 2 on-year increase of 3.0 tonnes of SO per day.
2 1 Ground level fugitive SO emissions account for 57% of the total 2 SO at full capacity.
com 49 Tonnes SO day 2 MANAGING HEALTH RISKS THE HEALTH OF OUR WORKFORCE HAS A DIRECT IMPACT ON OUR BUSINESS RESULTS AND IS THEREFORE MATERIAL TO THE SUCCESS OF THE COMPANY.
Our approach to managing health We are encouraged by the number of Lonmin We are committed to honouring our health and safety employees on our ART programme, but we failed to reach commitments and sustaining an environment that promotes our target of 620 employees in our wellness programmes the safety, health and wellbeing of our employees and their with only 498 employees enrolled.
A contributing factor of families, our contractors and the communities where we this is that some employees are redirected to participate operate.
in our ART programme on entry into the wellness Our CEO is ultimately accountable for the health and programme as a result of their CD4 counts.
Once an HIVwellbeing of our people, embodying our commitment to positive employees CD4 T-lymphocyte count is below promote this important issue.
Healthcare delivery, the acceptable limit, they are encouraged to join the occupational health and hygiene policies, standards, ART programme.
We make this available through the monitoring and the auditing thereof is the responsibility employees medical aid with no additional cost.
ART of the Companys Health Department.
Responsibility for are offered to employees for life.
the implementation of occupational health and hygiene Our partnership with global mining companies to fund in practice resides with line management.
Viraxs Southern Africa HIV Therapeutic Vaccine Project We partner with the government, our communities drew to a close in 2010.
Although this trial failed to yield and our peers to achieve the common goal of improved a proven therapeutic vaccine against HIV, we believe that health and wellbeing.
We participate in forums and there was an encouraging move in the right direction.
collaborate with industry peers and government nationally Eliminating Noise Induced Hearing Loss NIHL and internationally, including through the South African NIHL remains the most significant occupational disease in the Chamber of Mines Health Policy Committee and the platinum mining industry.
As such NIHL is a key occupational ICMM Health and Safety working groups.
This enables us health risk faced by our employees and contractors.
to benchmark our health and safety activities intervention We continue to support the directive issued by the and outcomes.
We comply with all relevant South African Department of Mineral Resources in 2007 to realise zero legislation and adhere to international conventions and new cases of NIHL.
We have a comprehensive hearing best practice.
We aim to reduce exposure to risk, and to conservation programme in place supported by a Groupeducate and to help affected employees and contractors wide risk management framework which builds on the to enable them to manage the impacts of ill health through guidelines of the South African mandatory Code of Practice risk assessments and surveillance.
This includes a workplace noise assessment, Managing HIV AIDS and Tuberculosis in the Workplace personal exposure monitoring, silencing of loud equipment, HIV AIDS has had a marked impact on illness rates, education and training, medical surveillance reporting and absenteeism and employee deaths as well as the general review.
As a preventative measure, employees and wellbeing of the communities where we operate.
From contractors who are exposed to noise levels risks are our HIV testing statistics we believe one in five of our screened annually and individuals exposed to high noise employees is HIV positive.
It presents a risk to our levels undergo audiograms every six months.
business but one that we believe can be managed.
We have focused on reducing the causes of NIHL by HIV prevalence accounts for the sharp increase in noise attenuation of equipment with sound pressure levels reported incidents of Tuberculosis.
Two new cases of exceeding 110dB A.
To date, we have silenced underground Extreme Drug Resistant Tuberculosis were reported in fans, pumps and loaders to below 110 dB.
We have achieved our target of reducing our number The table below provides a summary of our of new NIHL cases by 10% by 2010.
Newly diagnosed performance: cases of NIHL were reduced from 45 in 2009 to 40 in 2010 representing a 11.1% improvement.
28 cases were 2010 compensated including three cases from 2009.
Number of AIDS related deaths 88 Percentage of in service deaths as a result of AIDS 51% Number of Voluntary Councelling and 1 Testing VCT conducted 39,006 2 Number of active workplace peer educators 311 Number of employees enrolled in wellness programmes 498 Number of patients on Anti-Retroviral Treatment 1,349 1 This figure includes VCT offered to both employees and contractors daily and those in the wellness campaign and will therefore include employees tested more than once during the year.
2 One active workplace peer educator per 77 employees.
50 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc SCORECARD OF THE REVISED MINING CHARTER SCORECARD FOR THE BROAD-BASED SOCIO-ECONOMIC EMPOWERMENT CHARTER FOR THE SOUTH AFRICAN MINING INDUSTRY The Minister of Department of Mineral Resources published the revised Mining Charter in September 2010, along with it the amended Charter Scorecard.
The Scorecard is a scoring sheet on which companies monitor and record compliance with the Charter.
The Scorecard has nine elements of which three absolute elements see elements one, two and three that companies have to achieve but the remaining six elements companies are required to achieve a minimum score of 50% per element.
Progress achieved by Compliance Compliance Target Target Element Description Measure by 2014 by 2010 YTD Actual 2010 Weighting 1 Reporting Has the company reported the Documentary proof of receipt Annually Submit 2010 Annual reports were Y N level of compliance with the from the department audited annual submitted over the Charter for the Calendar year report by March 2011 past 3 years 2 Ownership Minimum target for effective Meaningful economic 26% 15% At least 18% Y N HDSA ownership participation Full shareholder rights 26% 15% 18% 3 Housing Conversion and upgrading of Percentage reduction of Occupancy rate 124 blocks 3.66% Y N and living hostels to attain the occupancy occupancy rate towards of one person as base-line of conditions rate of one person per room 2014 target per room which 34 have been converted to date.
Conversion and upgrading of Percentage conversion of Family units 70 bachelor units 52.48% hostels into family units hostels into family units established and 424 Family units 4 Procurement Procurement spend with Capital goods 40% 5% 68.71% 5% & Enterprise HDSA suppliers Services 70% 30% 67.54% 5% Development Consumable goods 50% 10% 71.51% 2% Multinational suppliers Annual spend on procurement 0.5% of 0.50% Awaiting guidelines 3% contribution to the social fund from multinational suppliers procurement from DMR value 5 Employment Diversification of the workplace Top Management Board level 40% 20% 33.33% 3% Equity to reflect the countrys Senior Management Exco 40% 20% 25.71% 4% demographics to attain competitiveness Middle Management 40% 30% 38.43% 3% Junior Management 40% 40% 50.57% 1% Core Skills 40% 15% Awaiting guidelines 5% from DMR TOTAL 43.3% 6 Human Development of requisite skills, HRD expenditure as percentage 5% 3% 4.6% 25% Resource incl.
support for South African of total annual payroll excl.
Development based research and development mandatory skills development initiatives intended to develop levy solutions in exploration, mining, processing, technology efficiency energy and water use in mining, beneficiation as well as environmental conservation and rehabilitation 7 Mine Conduct ethnographic community Implement approved community Up-to-date Implementation of WPL 1: Provision of 15% community consultative and collaborative projects project projects will serve Water and Sanitation NW development processes to delineate implementation to enhance WPL 2: Brick community needs analysis relationships amongst Making Factory stakeholders leading to communities WPL 3: Educational owing patronage Support & Upliftment to projects WPL 4: Housing & Hostel Conversion WPL 5: Provision of Access to Basic Services EC WPL 6: Institutional Support & Capacity Development EC www.
com 51 SCORECARD OF THE REVISED MINING CHARTER continued Progress achieved by Compliance Compliance Target Target Element Description Measure by 2014 by 2010 YTD Actual 2010 Weighting 7 Mine WPL 7: Multi-Purpose community Community Centre EC development & Silindini Bridge continued EPL 1: Improving Health Care Services EPL 2: Commercial Agri-Business EPL 3: Community Skills Development EPL 4: Sports and Recreation EPL 5: Provision of Water and Sanitation EC 8 Sustainable Improvement of the industrys Implementation of approved EMPs.
100% Annual progress EMP Performance 12% development environmental management achieved against Assessment Report & growth approved EMPs was submitted to DMR as required in terms of Regulation 55 of the MPRDA, 2002 in June 2010.
To report environmental performance against the amended Mining Charter scorecard, we need to seek direction from DMR on application of definitions and targets.
Improvement of the industrys Implementation of the tripatite action 100% Annual progress In 2003, Mine Health & 12% mine health and safety plan on health and safety achieved against Safety Council set an performance commitments in improvement target the tripatite action of 20% per annum.
plan on health The current improvement and safety requirement on fatalities is 0.05% and Lonmin is standing at 0.038%.
Utilisation of South African Percentage of samples in South African 100% establish baseline 0% 5% based research facilities for facilities analysis of samples across the mining value chain 9 Beneficiation Contribution of a mining Additional production volume Section 26 The beneficiation Beneficiation forum has company towards beneficiation contributory to local value addition of the strategy and its been established in this measure is effective beyond the base-line MPRDA modalities of this regard.
from 2012 percentage implementation above baseline outline the beneficiation requirements per commodity extracted in South Africa Legend 0-25% Gross non-compliance.
52 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information 2010 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc KEY SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE STATISTICS Marikana Group Group Group Group Measurement FY 2006 FY 2007 FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 Production 1 PGMs produced oz 1,520,812 1,464,235 1,331,493 1,244,709 1,314,772 Economic Net cash generated Customers, consumers and investment income Cash received for products US$ million Cash return on investment US$ million 1,611 2,016 2,270 1,138 1,442 2 Suppliers US$ million 1 16 13 33 Cash payments for materials and services purchased US$ million 429 395 445 486 473 Cost of borrowings US$ million 32 41 23 34 44 Net cash flows US$ million 1,151 1,596 1,815 621 928 Cash distributed Human capital salaries and benefits US$ million 406 492 557 501 659 Social capital US$ million 3.1 3.9 7.3 6.2 8.7 Government taxes US$ million 186 267 245 56 36 Directors remuneration US$ million 979 76 Shareholders distribution US$ million 124 171 186 Cash retained for sustainable growth US$ million 426 655 811 51 218 Net cash distributed US$ million 1151 1,596 1,815 621 928 Employees Employees Number 23,804 24,122 25,967 21,623 23,915 Contractors Number 6,932 8,580 7,758 10,497 9,131 Designated groups employed in management on a LA permanent basis Percentage 36.0 37.9 42.3 41.3 43.3 Women employed LA in mining Percentage 1.4 1.4 1.8 2.9 3.22 Women employed LA at mining Percentage 4.1 4.9 6.1 6.8 7.04 Employee turnover rate Percentage 1.1 4.1 6.6 23.3 6.6 Employees and contractors trained in ABET Number 1,681 1,389 2,866 1,139 793 Occupational Health and Safety RA Fatalities Number 633 33 LTIFR Incidents million 3 RA hours worked 12.50 10.80 6.27 6.21 5.87 4 New NIHL cases diagnosed Number 862 624 236 45 40 RA NIHL cases compensated Number 570 490 229 45 28 Diagnosed and treated 5 LA tuberculosis cases Number 338 504 533 472 528 HIV AIDS related deaths Number 154 112 95 110 88 6 Employees for VCTs conducted Number 3,236 13,761 18,692 4,680 39,000 Patients on ART 7 excludes PMR Number 587 836 989 962 1,349 Patients on the wellness programme Number N. D. A N. D. A 1150 518 498 www.
com 53 KEY SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE STATISTICS continued Marikana Group Group Group Group Measurement FY 2006 FY 2007 FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 Environment 3 RA Total freshwater intake m 10,858,464 11,795,482 9,256,244 8,885,360 8,005,092 3 Total freshwater intake efficiency m PGM 7.14 8.06 6.95 7.14 6.09 RA Electricity MWHr 1,617,771 1,619,922 1,575,917 1,481,744 1,380,218 Electricity efficiency MWHr PGM 1.06 1.11 1.18 1.19 1.05 RA Energy Terajoules 7,348 7,434 6,555 6,613 6,215 Energy efficiency GJ PGM 4.83 5.08 4.92 5.31 4.73 Greenhouse gas emissions Kilotonnes RA CO equivalent 1,775 1,673 1,659 1,595 1,534 2 Greenhouse gas efficiency Kilotonnes CO equivalent 2 PGM 1.17 1.14 1.25 1.28 1.17 Tailings disposed 8 to tailings facilities Kilotonnes 15,519 14,487 12,649 11,478 11, 038 Waste rock disposed to rock dumps Kilotonnes 1,376 1,203 1,128 1,343 1,602 Hazardous waste disposed 3 of to landfill and by incineration m 8,973 7,038 N. A N. A N. A Hazardous waste disposed of to landfill and by incineration Tonnes N. A N. A 42,857 55,906 50,562 3 General waste to landfill m 52,559 53,110 N. A N. A N. A Tonnes N. A N. A 8,279 7,199 9595 LA Average sulphur dioxide emissions Tonnes day 7.4 11.3 9.1 11.1 14.1 Communities Percentage spend of our financial commitments on local economic development projects 9 as per the SLP by 2010 Percentage N. A N. D. A 24 41 57.11 Rand Value spent on RA Approved SLP Projects Rand N. A N. D. A 42,120,000 28,768,000 28,175,000 N. D. A No data available.
Where it is indicated that no data is available, this is primarily as a result of low confidence in the accuracy of the data or an absence of measurement of the data.
LA Limited Assurance provided by KPMG.
RA Reasonable Assurance provided by KPMG.
RA Reasonable Assurance by KPMG was only provided on Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions which equals 1,529 CO equivalent Kilotonnes.
2 1 A correction was required to the PGM production data to align to the data released in the Annual Report.
As a result, the efficiencies have been adjusted for water, electricity, energy and greenhouse gas.
2 We have a 30 day payment policy on services and procurement.
3 In 2010, we have improved the capturing of man-hours worked at our operations, the denominator used for calculating LTIFR.
As a result the LTIFR in prior years may have been overstated, but we believe the difference to not be material.
It is not possible to restate the previous data.
4 In 2006, audiogram baselines for all employees were determined.
5 This was incorrectly published prior to 2009 the data represents total tuberculosis cases and not only pulmonary tuberculosis cases.
6 This figure includes VCT offered to employees daily average of 2000 tests a month, the wellness campaign and does not exclude those employees tested twice.
7 PMR patients access ART through their membership of the private medical aid schemes.
8 This figure was incorrectly reported in 2009 as 17,068 kilotonnes.
9 A full reconciliation will be carried out at the end of the five year period.
For further details on the assurance provided by KPMG please refer to the web-based Sustainable Development Report for the full assurance opinion.
54 Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Operating Statistics Shareholder Information WE ASPIRE TO CONTINUE IMPROVING THE DEPTH AND VALUE OF OUR ANALYSIS, THEREBY SUPPORTING LONMIN AS IT INVESTS FOR THE FUTURE.
Troye Brady MARKET INTELLIGENCE SUPPORTS FUTURE INVESTMENT DECISIONS Mining is a capital intensive business that requires making significant long term financial commitments such as sinking the next shaft or building the next smelter.
Access to market intelligence that provides clear and detailed information to support the companys decision making is crucial to such long term commitments.
Since 2007, Lonmin has reorientated its marketing function from a sales and logistics department to one that also focuses on collating, interpreting and forecasting the PGM markets.
Over the last three years we have grown the expertise within the department and altered our interaction with our customers to a symbiotic relationship where the exchange of supply demand information helps both Lonmin and our customers keep abreast of market dynamics.
As a department we process, dissect and put into context the information and data shared by our customers, media and other sources and translate it to a core set of information tools that can be used by the various departments from long term business planning and Capital Projects through to our Process division who all utilise our market intelligence to guide their thinking.
Our annual markets day sessions at which we share our insights and PGM market views, attended by analysts, fund managers and other market stakeholders, have grown in prominence over the last few years.
