Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 127 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 during the construction phase, until such time as the assets are substantially 1. accounting policies continued ready for their intended use or sale which, in the case of mining properties, is when separately presented from continuing operations.
Comparative information they are capable of commercial production.
Where funds have been borrowed is reclassified so that net profit and cash flows of prior periods are also specifically to finance a project, the amount capitalised represents the actual separately presented.
Where the funds used to finance a project form part of Environmental restoration and decommissioning obligations general borrowings, the amount capitalised is calculated using a weighted average An obligation to incur environmental restoration, rehabilitation and of rates applicable to relevant general borrowings of the Group during the period.
decommissioning costs arises when disturbance is caused by the development All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statement in the period or ongoing production of a mining property.
Such costs arising from the in which they are incurred.
decommissioning of plant and other site preparation work, discounted to their net present value, are provided for and capitalised at the start of each project, Share-based payments as soon as the obligation to incur such costs arises.
These costs are recognised The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment.
in the income statement over the life of the operation, through the depreciation of In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all the asset and the unwinding of the discount on the provision.
Costs for restoration grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that had not vested as at of subsequent site damage which is created on an ongoing basis during 1January 2005. production are provided for at their net present values and recognised in the income statement as extraction progresses.
The Group makes equity settled share-based payments to certain employees, which are measured at fair value at the date of grant and expensed on a straight Changes in the measurement of a liability relating to the decommissioning of line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of shares that plant or other site preparation work that result from changes in the estimated will eventually vest.
For those share schemes with market related vesting timing or amount of the cash flow or a change in the discount rate, are added to conditions, the fair value is determined using the Monte Carlo method at the grant or deducted from the cost of the related asset in the current period.
The fair value of share options issued with non-market vesting conditions in the liability exceeds the carrying amount of the asset, the excess is recognised has been calculated using the Black Scholes model.
For all other share awards, immediately in the income statement.
If the asset value is increased and there is the fair value is determined by reference to the market value of the share at the an indication that the revised carrying value is not recoverable, an impairment date of grant.
For all share schemes with non-market related vesting conditions, test is performed in accordance with the accounting policy set out above.
the likelihood of vesting has been taken into account when determining the relevant charge.
Vesting assumptions are reviewed during each reporting period For some South African operations annual contributions are made to dedicated to ensure they reflect current expectations.
environmental rehabilitation trusts to fund the estimated cost of rehabilitation during and at the end of the life of the relevant mine.
The Group exercises full Black economic empowerment BEE transactions control of these trusts and therefore the trusts are consolidated.
The trusts Where the Group disposes of a portion of a South African based subsidiary assets are disclosed separately on the balance sheet as non-current assets.
or operation to a BEE company at a discount to fair value, the transaction is The trusts assets are measured based on the nature of the underlying assets considered to be a share-based payment in line with the principle contained in accordance with accounting policies for similar assets.
in South Africa interpretation AC 503 Accounting for Black Economic Empowerment BEE Transactions.
The discount provided or value given is Foreign currency transactions and translation calculated in accordance with IFRS 2 and included in the determination of the Foreign currency transactions by Group companies are recognised in the profit or loss on disposal.
functional currencies of the companies at the exchange rate ruling on the date of transaction.
At each reporting date, monetary assets and liabilities that are Employee benefit trust denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on Shares held by the employee benefit trust are recorded as treasury shares, the reporting date.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in and the carrying value is shown as a reduction in retained earnings within the income statement for the period and are classified as either operating or shareholders equity.
financing depending on the nature of the monetary item giving rise to them.
Financial instruments Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical Financial assets cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date Cash and cash equivalents of the transaction.
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and on demand deposits, together with short term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations a known amount of cash and that are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in are translated into the presentation currency of the Group at exchange rates value.
Bank overdrafts are shown within short term borrowings in current prevailing on the reporting date.
Income and expense items are translated at liabilities on the balance sheet.
Cash and cash equivalents in the cash flow the average exchange rates for the period where these approximate the rates statement are shown net of overdrafts.
Cash and cash equivalents are measured at the dates of transactions.
Any exchange differences arising are classified at amortised cost.
within the statement of comprehensive income and transferred to the Groups cumulative translation adjustment reserve.
Exchange differences on foreign Trade receivables currency balances with foreign operations for which settlement is neither Trade receivables do not incur any interest, are short term in nature and are planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future and therefore form part measured at their nominal value with the exception of receivables relating to of the Groups net investment in these foreign operations are offset in the provisionally priced sales as set out in the revenue recognition accounting cumulative translation adjustment reserve.
policy net of appropriate allowance for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Such allowances are raised based on an assessment of debtor ageing, past experience Cumulative translation differences are recycled from equity and recognised or known customer circumstances.
as income or expense on disposal of the operation to which they relate.
Investments Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity Investments, other than investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and are treated as assets of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
associates, are financial asset investments and are initially recognised at fair Presentation currency value.
At subsequent reporting dates, financial assets that the Group has the As permitted by UK company law, the Groups results are presented in US dollars, expressed intention and ability to hold to maturity held to maturity as well as the currency in which its business is primarily conducted.
loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost, less any impairment losses.
The amortisation of any discount or premium on the acquisition of a held Borrowing costs to maturity investment is recognised in the income statement in each period Interest on borrowings directly relating to the financing of qualifying capital using the effective interest method.
projects under construction is added to the capitalised cost of those projects
