30 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW: Strategy in action continued Donation to earthqUake relieF soCial investMent eFFort in Chile expenDitUre $ 10 m $ 111 m 2010 GLOBAL SOCIAL an algal synthesiser process that involves Producing guidance materials, such as our INVESTMENT EXPENDITURE entrapment of CO from power station flue acclaimed Socio-Economic Assessment 2 $m gases see case study on page 29.
Toolbox, for social practitioners and other managers to enable them to understand Adaptation and operationalise social performance In 2008, Anglo American commissioned objectives Imperial College, London, to conduct a high A series of specific social performance level three year climate change impactinitiatives, including enterprise development assessment study for selected operations.
programmes, social investment, HIV AIDS This has since been followed by a report issued counselling, testing and treatment and in 2010 on the expected impacts of climate employee housing change on the Olifants River catchment shared between the Gauteng, Mpumalanga, Ensuring that our core businesses, and in and the Limpopo Provinces in South Africa.
particular procurement and recruitment, A similar study on the area immediately are managed in a way that both manages surrounding the Sishen iron ore mine in potential risks and identifies opportunities, Health and welfare 6.5 Education and training 21.3 SouthAfricas Northern Cape is currently especially with respect to community Environment 3.2 under way.
In addition, the UK Met Office development Community development 38.9 has completed a climate model study for our Water sanitation 2.9 Engaging with key stakeholders on a Disaster and emergency relief 9.6 Minas-Rio project in Brazil on future water proactive basis, including communities, Other 20.9 availability and potential sea level changes.
Sports, arts, culture and heritage 7.8 governments, academics and NGOs, to ensure that Anglo American is aware of The new climate change strategy requires that emerging issues, trends and best practice all operations and projects complete climate and able to respond appropriately change vulnerability assessments, after which 2010 GLOBAL SOCIAL INVESTMENT all high risk sites will undergo detailed climate A clear performance monitoring framework, EXPENDITURE BY REGION change impact-assessments.
including appraisal of mine performance $m against the Anglo American Social Way requirements, recording the outputs of social soCial anD CoMMUnity investments in a consistent manner and recording and reporting on stakeholders Overview and complaints and grievances In 2010, we made good progress towards our objective of being a partner of choice for host Performance monitoring governments and communities.
We recognise During 2010 all Anglo American operations that this objective requires the companys implemented Social and Community operations to adhere to the highest social Improvement Plans to address any performance standards in our industry.
Anglo non-compliances against the Social Way Americans definition of social performance standards, which were launched in 2009. is broad and includes, inter alia: respecting These plans resulted in a significant increase and promoting human rights: supporting in compliance: 2% significant gaps to close South Africa 65.9 sustainable community development: down from 10% in 2009 : 13% minor gaps Rest of Africa 4.2 proactive stakeholder engagement: and to close 21% in 2009 : 39% fully compliant United Kingdom 1.1 Rest of Europe 0.8 minimising or eliminating negative social 42% in 2009 : 33% good practice 17% in The Americas 37.6 impacts from our operations.
2009: and 14% best practice up from 10% Australia Asia 1.0 Other 0.5 in 2009.
During 2011 the objective is to Our approach is driven by Anglo Americans eliminate remaining non-compliances.
corporate values, our Business Principles and the Anglo American Social Way, the In 2010, we launched a comprehensive suite companys social performance standards.
of performance indicators to capture the These standards have led to the development results of our social investment programmes.
of a series of inter-linked initiatives, all of Fourteen categories of social investment were which are aimed at achieving the partner of identified by reviewing the range of social choice objective: investment projects supported across the Group.
The categories include health, Training and educating community relations education, community development, managers and other executives whose environment, disaster response and matching decisions have a significant impact on our employee fundraising.
For these categories, social performance
