Overview Operating and financial review Governance Financial statements Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Other information 35 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 nUMBer oF woMen in proportion oF FeMales in ManageMent the workForCe 2 1% 1 4% Transformation and diversity The number of occupational disease Community and public health We continue to make good progress in cases reported for 2010 was 268, a 45% We have gained a great deal of experience relation to transformation in South Africa.
reduction from 489 in 2009: while the total through administering our workplace The number of managers who are from occupational disease incidence rate fell to HIV AIDS and health programmes, which we Historically Disadvantaged South African 0.282 from 0.483. build on to support community outreach communities increased to 46% 2009: 44%.
Anglo American has also We believe we are now well placed to achieve In 2010, we launched two important started to use its knowledge to spread good the enhanced targets for 2014 set out in the documents, which support the Anglo practice in a way that helps to strengthen revised Mining Charter introduced during the American Occupational Health Way: namely, community health systems.
year and are putting clear plans in place to the Respiratory Protection Standard and the achieve this objective.
A recent example is our sponsorship of an Audits looking at the management of noise in initiative in partnership with the Eastern Cape In the Group as a whole, the number of women the workplace and on the health impacts of Department of Health, which will deliver a in management rose to 21% 2009: 19%.
Our dust were also conducted.
business plan to revitalise the funding and organisation continues to grow in strength and provision of primary healthcare in four diversity as it supports initiatives such as HIV AIDS and TB sub-districts of the province, which is one of Women in Mining, and the overall proportion Anglo American continues to drive a leading our key labour-sending areas in South Africa.
of women in the workforce continues to rise, HIV AIDS response.
In South Africa, during The intention is to create models of excellence increasing to 14% at year end 2009: 13%.
2010, we achieved our highest ever annual in primary healthcare delivery that can be Further improvement in the representation uptake of HIV counselling and voluntary replicated throughout the province.
of women will continue to be a priority.
testing at 94% far exceeding our 85% target.
During the year we conducted more than Investing in healthcare is fundamentally 100,000 HIV tests 69,313 tests on important both to national interests and the people employees and 32,176 on contractors.
private sectors long term business goals.
If developing countries are to achieve their full Health HIV testing leads to ongoing prevention potential, the role of quality healthcare cannot At Anglo American, we take a holistic programmes for those who are HIV-negative be underestimated.
In light of this, Anglo approach to health by protecting our and to care, support and treatment for those American has pledged $3 million of funding employees from hazards at work and helping who are HIV-positive.
Regular HIV testing over the next three years to the Global Fund to them to lead healthy personal lives, as well as ensures that we achieve early diagnosis of fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, with our using our expertise and resources to improve HIV infection and timely access to care.
chief executive Cynthia Carroll urging other community health and public health systems.
We estimate that just over 12,000 16% Occupational health of our employees in our core businesses in Our aim is to prevent harm to our employees South Africa are HIV-positive.
During 2010, by eliminating their exposure to health we documented 712 new HIV infections, hazards.
To achieve this, we constantly giving an annual incidence rate of monitor all health hazards in the workplace, approximately 1.2%.
This rate of new with the aim of eliminating their source or infections is unacceptably high: as a result, ensuring that adequate controls such as the we continue to put a lot of effort into our use of personal protective equipment are in HIV-prevention response.
Our operations run extensive medical surveillance programmes to monitor the We achieved our 2010 target of enrolling well-being of employees who are potentially 60% of the estimated HIV-positive employees exposed to such hazards.
However, we hope to significantly improve on In 2008, we introduced the concept of this figure.
We had nearly 4,000 employees on health-incident reporting to measure the anti-retroviral therapy at the end of 2010. effectiveness of occupational health programmes in real time.
During 2010, The escalating tuberculosis TB epidemic is a we began to see a rise in the number of source of great concern in South Africa, where low-level incidents being reported, our TB incidence rate continues to decline, investigated and corrected by operations.
with a figure of 1,070 per 100,000 employees Sister Toekie Schoeman of the Ulysses Over the coming years, we hope to see a which is similar to the incidence rate for South Gogi Modise Wellness Clinic in Kathu, in consequent drop in disease and the early Africa overall.
We recorded 727 new TB cases the Northern Cape, with a patient.
This medical signs of exposure.
and, sadly, 86 deaths due to TB.
Although both community healthcare facility in one figures are significantly lower than in 2009, we of South Africas poorest provinces, is are putting in a concerted effort to reduce funded by Sishen Mine to facilitate access them further.
to VCT and treatment for the families of employees and contractors.
