32 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW: Strategy in action continued Our ability to operate is built not just on physical assets, but on our people.
They are the ones who determine how effectively we uphold our values and upon whom we build our reputation.
STrATEGy iN AcTiON First Class people to MatCh oUr worlD Class assets eMploying the Best people The AIDS epidemic is a serious threat to victims of the disease.
Every year she shares Silvias greatest wish is to stop the spread of workplaces in many countries.
According to her experience and knowledge of AIDS HIV AIDS, but until that day arrives, she will go the UN International Labour Organisation prevention and treatment with countless on partnering with stakeholders to prevent ILO, it killed 28 million workers between schools, companies and communities.
Since HIV transmission and help others like her 1981 and 2005.
This number could reach 2003 more than 20,000 people have heard enjoy productive and fulfilling lives.
diagnosed AIDS cases occur in productive adults between 20 and 59 years old.
Silvias willingness to openly discuss her life Adults like Silvia Aparecida Domingues fide story, whether in person or in the media, Almeida pictured.
inspires others to overcome their fears and 94% enquire about testing and anti-retroviral Silvia has been living with HIV since 1994 therapy.
As our operations in Brazil expand, nUMBer oF eMployees in and today heads up Nickels HIV AIDS Silvia continues to forge partnerships to teach soUthern aFriCa partiCipating programme in Brazil.
She understands that people about sexually transmitted diseases in volUntary hiv aiDs partnerships are crucial to winning this battle.
STDs, alcohol and drug abuse, sexual CoUnselling anD testing That is why she spearheads diverse initiatives exploitation and human rights.
She is also with a broad range of NGOs, government helping our iron ore business develop training bodies, churches and organisations engaged and education programmes.
in raising HIV AIDS awareness and helping For more information on HIV AIDS counselling and testing turn to page 35
