48 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW: Risk continued Health and safety Failure to maintain the Impact: In addition to injury, health and Root cause: Mining is a hazardous industry high levels of safety environmental damage, impacts could include fines and working conditions such as weather, altitude management can result and penalties, liability to employees or third parties, and temperature can add to the inherent dangers of in harm to the Groups impairment of the Groups reputation, industrial mining, whether underground or in open pit mines.
employees, contractors, action or inability to attract and retain skilled communities near our employees.
Government authorities may force Mitigation: Anglo American sets a very high operations and damage closure of mines on a temporary or permanent priority on safety and health matters.
basis or refuse mining right applications.
risk management process, global standards and a safety and environment assurance programme Occupational health The recruitment and retention of skilled people form part of a consistently applied robust approach to mitigating safety risk.
risks to employees required to meet growth aspirations can be and contractors include impacted by high rates of HIV AIDS.
Anglo American provides anti-retroviral therapy noise-induced hearing to employees with HIV AIDS and undertakes loss, occupational lung education and awareness programmes to help diseases and prevent infection or spread of infection.
HIV AIDS in subSaharan Africa in particular is a threat to economic growth and development.
Environment Certain of the Groups Impact: Potential impacts include fines and Root cause: The mining process, including blasting operations create penalties, statutory liability for environmental and processing orebodies, can generate dust and environmental risk in the remediation and other financial consequences noise and will require the storage of waste materials form of dust, noise or that may be significant.
leakage of polluting substances from site Governments may force closure of mines on a Mitigation: The Group implements a number operations and temporary or permanent basis or refuse future of initiatives to monitor and limit the impact of its uncontrolled breaches mining right applications.
of tailings dam facilities, generating harm to the Groups employees, contractors, the communities near the Groups operations, air quality, water purity and land contamination.
Exploration Exploration and Impact: Failure to discover new reserves of Mitigation: The Group invests considerable sums development are costly sufficient magnitude could adversely affect future each year in focused exploration programmes to activities, with no results and the Groups financial condition.
enable resource discovery and development to guarantee of success, reserves.
This investment includes the use of but are necessary for Root cause: Exploration and development are leading technology in exploration activity.
speculative activities and often take place in challenging or remote locations from a climate, altitude or political perspective.
Political, legal and regulatory The Groups businesses Impact: Potential impacts include restrictions Root cause: The Group has no control over may be affected by on the export of currency, expropriation of assets, local political acts or changes in local tax rates.
political or regulatory imposition of royalties or other taxes targeted It recognises that its licence to operate through developments in any of at mining companies, and requirements for local mining rights is dependent on a number of factors, the countries and ownership or beneficiation.
Political instability including compliance with regulations.
jurisdictions in which can also result in civil unrest, nullification of existing the Group operates, agreements, mining permits or leases.
Mitigation: The Group actively monitors regulatory including changes to and political developments on a continuous basis.
fiscal regimes or other Any of these may adversely affect the Groups regulatory regimes.
operations or results of those operations.
