52 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2010 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW: Risk continued Critical accounting judgements and key Sensitivity analysis in respect of currency and commodity prices sources of estimation and uncertainty Set out below is the impact on underlying earnings of a 10% fluctuation In the course of preparing financial in certain of the Groups commodity prices and exchange rates statements, management necessarily makes 1 6 Average price 10% judgements and estimates that can have a sensitivity Commodity 2010 2009 US$ million significant impact on the financial statements.
2 The most critical of these relate to estimation Platinum $1,610 oz $1,211 oz 185 3 of the useful economic lives of assets and ore Metallurgical Coal $176 t $141 t 181 reserves, impairment of assets, restoration, 3 Thermal Coal $82 t $64 t 187 rehabilitation and environmental costs and 4 Copper 342 c lb 234 c lb 277 retirement benefits.
These are detailed 4 Nickel 989 c lb 667 c lb 46 below.
The use of inaccurate assumptions 5 Iron Ore $125 t $65 t 180 in calculations for any of these estimates 2 Palladium $527 oz $266 oz 33 could result in a significant impact on ZAR USD 7.32 8.41 400 financial results.
AUD USD 1.09 1.26 198 CLP USD 510 559 42 Useful economic lives of assets and 1 oz denotes ounces, t denotes tonnes, c denotes cents, lb denotes pounds.
ore reserve estimates 2 Source: Johnson Matthey plc.
The Groups mining properties, classified 3 Group average realised FOB price of metallurgical Australia and thermal coal South Africa.
within property, plant and equipment, are 4 Being the average LME price.
5 depreciated over the respective life of the Average price represents average iron ore export price achieved.
6 Excludes the effect of any hedging activities.
Stated after tax at marginal rate.
Sensitivities are the average of the positive and mine using the unit of production UOP negative and the impact of a 10% change in the average prices received and exchange rates during 2010.
Increases in commodity method based on proven and probable prices increase underlying earnings and vice versa.
A strengthening of the South African rand, Australian dollar and Chilean peso reserves.
When determining ore reserves, relative to the US dollar reduces underlying earnings and vice versa.
assumptions that were valid at the time of estimation may change when new information becomes available.
Any changes could affect and any changes could affect prospective Subsequent changes to the CGU allocation or prospective depreciation rates andasset depreciation rates and asset carrying values.
to the timing of or assumptions used to carrying values.
determine cash flows could impact the Impairment of assets carrying value of the respective assets.
The calculation of the UOP rate of The Group reviews the carrying amounts amortisation could be impacted to the of its property, plant and equipment and Restoration, rehabilitation and extent that actual production in the future intangible assets to determine whether environmental costs is different from current forecast production there is any indication that those assets Provision is made, based on net present based on proven and probable mineral are impaired.
In making the assessment for values, for restoration, rehabilitation and reserves.
Factors which could impact useful impairment, assets that do not generate environmental costs as soon as the obligation economic lives of assets and Ore Reserve independent cash flows are allocated to an arises.
Costs incurred at the start of each estimates include: appropriate cash generating unit CGU.
project are capitalised and charged to the The recoverable amount of an asset, or CGU, income statement over the life of the project Changes to Proved and Probable Reserves is measured as the higher of fair value less through depreciation of the asset and the The grade of Ore Reserves varying costs to sell and value in use.
unwinding of the discount on the provision.
significantly from time to time Costs for restoration of subsequent site Management necessarily applies its damage are provided at net present value Differences between actual commodity judgement in allocating assets that do not and charged against profits as extraction pricesand commodity price assumptions generate independent cash flows to progresses.
Environmental costs are usedin the estimation of mineral reserves appropriate CGUs, and also in estimating the estimated using either the work of external Renewal of mining licences timing and value of underlying cash flows consultants or internal experts.
Management within the value in use calculation.
Factors uses its judgement and experience to provide Unforeseen operational issues at mine sites which could impact underlying cash flows for and amortise these estimated costs over Adverse changes in capital, operating, include: the life ofthe mine.
mining, processing and reclamation costs, Commodity prices and exchange rates discount rates and foreign exchange rates used to determine mineral reserves Timelines of granting of licences and permits The majority of other property, plant and Capital and operating expenditure equipment is depreciated on a straight line basis over their useful economic lives.
Available reserves and resources Management reviews the appropriateness of assets useful economic lives at least annually
