40 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2010 Directors report Our people Being an employer of choice our people are fundamental to the delivery of our core values.
It is their talent M&S number of employees that drives innovation and their commitment that upholds the high standards 76,267 of quality and service our customers expect.
attracting and retaining talent is essential to our long-term growth and will ensure the business is in the best employee turnover rate possible position to capitalise on opportunities as we emerge from recession.
despite ongoing economic uncertainties, we have continued to invest in our 1 4.0% people this year.
we have improved our benefits package with a new wellbeing percentage of our people who have been offer, set out plans to engage colleagues in plan a and provided tailored training with us for over five years programmes.
our aim is to uphold our reputation as an employer of choice, ensuring M&S remains a great place to work.
45.5% percentage of our people who have been with us for over ten years training and development experience places each year.
We have worked with schools, universities and the 26.5% Providing meaningful development opportunities Fashion Retail Academy to help bridge the is critical to our talent strategy.
We want to world of education and work and provide identify and nurture our future leaders, as more young people with meaningful work plan a HOME EnERGy SERvICE well as provide engaging and relevant experience.
To mark the launch of our new Home Energy Marks & Start Launched in 2004, Marks & Service, M&S employees were offered free loft Start is our work experience scheme for the our development programmes include: or cavity wall insulation.
We expect to insulate homeless, disabled, lone parents and young over 30,000 homes, saving around 13,000 lead to Succeed This year over 100 of our unemployed.
Participants are paired up with tonnes of carbon dioxide each year.
most senior employees have completed our an M&S buddy, providing a rewarding flagship leadership programme, Lead to development opportunity for employees.
This programme is built around This year we have also reviewed our our brand values Quality, value, Service, head office induction programme and since Innovation and Trust and aims to identify February 2010 all new joiners are required and develop our pipeline of talent for to complete a weeks store attachment to the future.
provide a better insight to the business.
Managing for Success and leading with Impact Last year we launched the first rewards and benefits phase of this training programme for the 2000 line managers across M&S.
M&S continues to offer a competitive reward your M&S Career path Employees across package, with a generous retirement plan, the UK and Republic of Ireland benefit from Sharesave options and bonus scheme.
For more information about plan a see your M&S Career Path training and learning Its important to recognise and reward hard p36 or visitmarksandspencer.
Section and Store managers work and excellent customer service, even receive tailored workshops and all newly in a difficult trading environment.
This year, hired customer assistants complete a our customer assistants were awarded a thorough 26 week induction.
Sharing in Success bonus, receiving Graduate schemes Our graduate scheme between 200 and 500 each.
is an essential part of our talent pipeline.
We take a holistic approach to Designed to fast track candidates to employee benefits, encouraging a happier, management, the two year scheme is one of healthier workforce.
Our WorkWell scheme the most popular in the sector.
This years supports staff with a stress management scheme attracted over 9,300 applicants for programme and we continue to provide two 165 places.
year breast screening cycles for female work experience Through Business in the employees and female partners of employees.
Communitys Work Inspiration Campaign, We have introduced a your Wellbeing we have pledged to offer 2,000 work website, a dedicated portal that provides all TRUST staff with access to health and wellbeing above: the european works Council ewC information, as well interactive tools to help was set up so representatives from the European monitor their progress.
stores we trade in can communicate directly with the M&S leadership team on behalf of their colleagues.
To find out more, visit marksandspencer.
com annualreport2010 41 overview p01 performance & KpIs p14 Brand & marketplace p20 operating & financial review Governance p50 Financial statements p78 InnOvATIOn above: our your wellbeing website for work-life balance or even getting a better nights employees was developed by Russel Turner, from sleep.
Launched as part of Wellbeing Week, M&S Occupational Health: The website provides where colleagues were offered free head massages easy to use tailored programmes designed to help and advice from fitness experts, the site received employees achieve personal goals, be that improving over 1,600 employee pledges in the first four days.
Getting involved Communicating with employees your M&S employee magazine Research has told us that increasingly Against a backdrop of continued economic Bi-monthly magazine that people make a decision about the company uncertainty, its vital that we maintain an provides employees with they want to work for based on its social open dialogue with all employees.
We do features on the latest M&S and environmental agenda.
Employees need this through a number of channels including: initiatives and employee to trust their employer to act responsibly stories.
towards them as individuals and increasingly Business Involvement Group BIG they want to be able to trust a business to is made up of over 3,500 elected staff your Say Survey act in the best interest of society.
BIG provides an excellent platform for M&S to represents employee views on matters Launched in 2006, our annual employee demonstrate its ethical and eco commitment relating to work and employment, leading your Say Survey provides us with a to current and future employees.
As part consultation processes on behalf of stores comprehensive view of employee opinion.
of this years relaunch we set out to further and head office.
Response rates for our most recent poll engage colleagues in Plan A and encourage director Breakfasts were up 3% to 94% participation and our them to lead greener lifestyles.
Informal Q&A sessions overall positivity score increased to 74% All M&S employees are now entitled for store colleagues with demonstrating the progress we have made to a paid day off to volunteer in their local business unit leaders.
communities and we have introduced Plan A In-store listening This year, we added questions to the targets into the bonus framework for senior groups Regularly survey to help individual line managers executives.
We continue to recognise the hosted by store managers so any issues identify what they are doing well and where work employees do across the community can be communicated to Head Office they need to improve.
Following the survey, and in the workplace with our annual Plan A M&S Intranet Our employee portal, each line manager will now receive a volunteer awards.
updated daily with announcements from Managers Personal Report.
the business, as well as regular news a year of celebration from the wider retail sector.
looking ahead Quarterly results broadcast A regular Last year M&S celebrated its 125th A great business is founded on great financial update to all employees, outlining anniversary and our people were at the heart people.
As we look forward we will continue the Companys performance of the celebrations.
To mark the occasion to harness the full potential of all of our top 100 briefing A monthly cascade of we set colleagues a 125 Challenge, to raise employees so we can emerge as a stronger Head Office information to top managers.
1.25m for local community charities in and more competitive business.
125 days between May and September.
We will do this through ongoing M&S stores and offices up and down the investment in our people, ensuring that our country got involved from bake sales employees have the right skills to support to cycling challenges and even hiking 84 our growth ambitions and that they have the miles along Hadrians Wall our colleagues opportunity to fully understand the plans and rose to the challenge and smashed priorities of the business.
Our 125th year was topped off with a gala party, with colleagues across the country coming together to celebrate.
