PerForMaNCe BUsINess revIeW CoNtINUeD Corporate social responsibility We want employees to be proud of who they work for, suppliers to be keen to do business with us and customers to choose Marstons for its value and quality.
Marstons believes that conducting ourselves in a socially Within hours of the floods we made a clear commitment to responsible manner goes to the very heart of what we do.
our local employees that the brewery would be returned to full Our philosophy is that we should act in ways that ensure our production as soon as possible.
We supported our tenants and employees are proud to say who they work for, our suppliers are lessees with capital injections to rebuild and redecorate their keen to do business with us, and our customers choose Marstons premises, and provided rent concessions while they were unable beers and pubs for their value and quality.
to trade or their trade was severely restricted.
To support the local community we donated 10p from every pint of Jennings beers sold in our pubs to the Cumbria Flood Relief Fund whilst The underlying principle that guides delivery of this these beers were temporarily being brewed at one of our other philosophy is our aim to be FIt in our dealings with breweries.
The result was the single biggest donation to the Fund employees, customers, suppliers and the communities in of 178,497. which we operate.
FIt represents the three fundamental behaviours practised throughout the business: We were delighted to be recognised in the industrys Publican Awards 2010 when Jennings Brewery won the CSR award for Fairness Any action, decision or policy adopted community work described by the judges as... nothing short of within the Marstons Group should be both equitable miraculous.
It should not result in one particular group of stakeholders gaining an unjust advantage or Clearly, we hope that a problem on this scale will be a one-off.
benefit at the expense of another.
Week in, week out, however, our pub staff and tenants raise Integrity If a commitment is made it should be kept.
significant sums of money for charitable causes through local If it cannot be delivered or circumstances change so pub-based activity, supported by contributions from Marstons that an alternative course of action is appropriate this Inns and Taverns Charitable Foundation, part of which comes should be clearly explained.
from the divisions other employees.
Marstons Beer Company transparency Wherever there is the freedom also makes prize donations for charitable activities run by its to do so, the Group should act in a manner that is Free Trade customers and the Head Office supports a variety of open to the scrutiny of our employees and the wider charitable causes by way of donations.
Our employees also run their own Marstons Employee Charity Fund, which the Group is proud to support by matching their To oversee our approach to Corporate Social Responsibility contributions.
In the year to 31 July 2010, the fund donated over CSR, the Group has an Environmental & CSR Committee 8,000 to a range of local good causes nominated by our staff.
The Committee has day-to-day responsibility for the implementation of CSR policies within our people the Group and reports to the Board.
We employ about 12,000 people, offering opportunities throughout England and Wales.
In addition, our lessees, Retail Community commitment Agreement operators and tenants also employ significant Community involvement and localness are at the very core of numbers of people.
Many of our staff work on a flexible part-time our business.
Where appropriate we source locally, recruit locally basis to suit their personal circumstances offering excellent and we seek to be our customers local choice.
We see playing a and growing opportunities for students and people returning to positive part in our local communities as being the very essence the work environment.
In November 2009, the devastating floods in Cockermouth, home of our Jennings brewery and beers, showed this commitment in action.
MarstoNs PLC Annual Report 2010 21 www.
co. uk Stock Exchange Code: MARS 18528.04 3 12 2010 Proof 7 BUsINess revIeW CoNtINUeD Corporate social responsibility CoNtINUeD Around half of our workforce are women and about one third of provide assistance to tenants and lessees on important legal employees with management responsibilities are women.
We have requirements such as fire risk assessments.
a long history of excellent consultative and collective bargaining relationships with our trade unions.
Employee representatives, alcohol awareness both trade union officials and lay members, have a significant and The Group is a long-standing member of the British Beer and recognised role to play in developing our business.
We are committed to pursuing the BBPAs objectives of supporting the interests of the British pub Marstons operates a full Equal Opportunities policy and a and beer industry, including working closely with Government to whistleblowing policy.
Both of these can be seen on our promote responsible drinking.
Marstons also actively supports both the Drinkaware Trust and We are committed to staff training and development and have the industrys own alcohol awareness campaign Why let good been continuously accredited with the Investor in People standard times go bad?.
This Campaign for Smarter Drinking represents since 1995.
While the range of academic and professional a 100 million commitment by the industry over five years to qualifications relevant to our business continues to increase, we funding the responsible drinking message and has the support of also have a growing number of internal development programmes.
These are designed to encourage staff who have been out of an academic environment for some time to reconsider their personal responsible retailing development potential.
We also run an extensive range of courses We have made a significant investment in e-learning tools which for our tenants, lessees, Retail Agreement operators and our free all pub staff joining Marstons Inns and Taverns must complete.
trade and national account customers.
A core part of this programme is the identification of potential under-age drinkers.
As well as running training to ensure Health and safety tenants, lessees and Retail Agreement operators are aware of The Group has a health and safety policy endorsed by the Board.
their responsibilities in this area, Marstons Pub Company runs Health and Safety Committees, involving both managers and a customised drinks and drugs awareness programme to assist employees, are established throughout the Group to assist with operators in adopting a best practice approach.
The Board receives an annual presentation from the Group Health and Safety Manager giving Marstons actively supports the Challenge 21 initiative in both its detailed statistics on health and safety issues and the progress managed and leased pub estate and maintains close links with made in improving our performance where required.
Year on year licensing and other enforcement bodies to help ensure that our we aim to improve upon these statistics.
pubs operate in a responsible and considerate manner.
Managed pubs monitor its use via the till system, recording each time All managed pubs, breweries and supply chain sites undergo health service is refused.
In addition, we operate our own test purchase and safety audits by external assessors.
The measures by which we programme to further reinforce the compliance message.
judge a satisfactory outcome are continually reviewed and where standards are recorded as consistently high we then amend the Where Pubwatch and Best Bar None initiatives are in place process to make the standard even tougher and so ensure that we expect our pub managers to play an active part in these we continue to improve.
This year, for example, our pub hygiene arrangements, and no pub within the managed or tenanted estate and safety audit was upgraded both as part of our continuous operates a 24 hour licence.
We have established operating improvement process and to ensure the outcomes better procedures and promotion policies within those pubs we manage complement the new National Food Hygiene Rating system.
to ensure that they comply with the Mandatory Code of Practice relating to the retailing and promotion of alcohol that came into Tenants and lessees of Marstons Pub Company are also force in 2010. provided with the opportunity to receive health and safety training, and can use our documentation in their own pubs.
We also 22 Find out more online www.
co. uk 18528.04 3 12 2010 Proof 7 PerForMaNCe We are determined to ensure that the goods we buy are produced ethically, and are socially and environmentally sustainable.
Healthy eating Food safety and supply Food represents a significant area of growth for Marstons, In 2010 we spent 45 million on purchasing food 2009: 45 particularly in Marstons Inns and Taverns.
A core part of our million, sourcing over 1,200 lines from more than 70 suppliers.
strategy is offering healthier and more sustainable food choices We are determined to ensure that the goods we buy are produced without compromising quality or value for the customer.
ethically, and are socially and environmentally sustainable.
Within Marstons Inns and Taverns, we promote food sustainability All of our purchasing professionals abide by the Chartered in a number of different ways: Institute of Purchasing and Supplys Professional Code of Ethics Statement.
In the period we sold 266 tonnes of sustainably sourced fish, reducing the quantity of haddock and cod we use by 45% to To maintain consistently high standards of food quality and allow these endangered stocks to replenish.
The remaining hygiene, all of our suppliers are either British Retail Consortium haddock and cod used on our menus is sourced only from approved, complete a self audit or are audited by an independent sustainable fisheries.
As part of this process, suppliers must be We use Prep High Performance cooking oil which supports able to demonstrate full traceability of all products supplied to all the production of sustainable palm oil via the Green Palm Marstons managed pubs.
We source 4,000 tonnes of chips from a responsible supplier One of the advantages of retaining local breweries within the who uses the potato remnants for animal feed, fertiliser and Group is that it minimises the carbon footprint we generate in renewable energy.
producing and distributing our beers.
Similarly, by sourcing locally wherever possible and keeping our external suppliers under Similarly, we are committed to offering customers healthier meals review we are able to minimise food and delivery miles.
and in Marstons Inns and Taverns, for example: 74% of new products launched in 2009 met the Food Standards Agencys 2010 salt targets.
Battered fish now meet Department of Health 2012 targets for sodium content, and saturated fat content has been reduced by 36%.
All beefburgers now meet the 2012 sodium target.
Hydrogenated vegetable oils have been removed from all products.
Where vegetables are an accompaniment to a main meal they provide two portions of an adults 5-a-day requirement.
We do not add salt to chips and we grill rather than fry our sausages.
All of our meals are free from genetically modified ingredients and monosodium glutamate.
MarstoNs PLC Annual Report 2010 23 www.
co. uk Stock Exchange Code: MARS 18528.04 3 12 2010 Proof 7 BUsINess revIeW CoNtINUeD Corporate social responsibility CoNtINUeD environmental impacts Key environmental data Marstons produces an Environment Report each year which is Unit 2010 2009 Pubs Breweries available on our corporate website www.
co. uk together with our Environmental policy.
We recognise that our activities gas gWH 165.8 159.7 Over two thirds of the Groups electricity and gas is consumed in our pubs.
affect the environment in a number of ways: electricity gWH 95.8 89.8 Control is enhanced by smart meters in the majority of pubs which give Use of raw materials and agricultural products: half-hourly meter readings.
Use of energy gas, electricity, fuel and water: Emission of greenhouse gases, odours and noise: Our pub new-build programme includes design innovations for heat conservation, use of outside cooling for our cellars and low wattage lighting.
Transportation, delivery and distribution of our products: Packaging waste bottles, card, plastic, food waste, spent 3 Water 000 m 659.2 660.8 Water usage is a key area of our pub environmental management system.
grains and waste yeast: breweries It is addressed through engineering solutions for our washrooms and Production, disposal, collection and processing of our waste kitchens, and through staff training.
Fossil fuel 000 gallons 465.3 526.9 Our distribution vehicles cover over 4.3 million miles a year operating at 9.31 miles per gallon.
Mileage and fuel efficiency is monitored diesel monthly, routes are planned to optimise fuel usage and the vehicles are tracked via GPS.
Where possible we have consolidated deliveries and collections to our pubs.
Our draymen collect over 20,000 litres of cooking oil each week for recycling, part of which is turned into fuel for our retail vehicles.
emissions 000 tonnes 82.2 78.9 Marstons is registered under the Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Co Efficiency Scheme.
From 2011 the Group will report its energy usage within 2 its pubs to the Environment Agency and have to acquire carbon allowances from 2012.
Image required In April 2010 Marstons was awarded the Carbon Trust Standard after taking action on climate change by measuring, managing and reducing its carbon emissions by 2% from October 2006 until September 2009.
The Carbon Trust Standard is the worlds first award that recognises organisations for real carbon reduction.
Based on a rigorous, independent assessment, it certifies that organisations have measured, managed and reduced their carbon emissions across their own operations, and are committed to reducing them year on year www.
Comparing carbon footprint data from financial year 2009 to the average of the previous two financial years.
total Waste 000 tonnes 36.9 43.5 From an initial trial involving 35 pubs three years ago, over 400 of our pubs now recycle glass, card and cooking oil.
Waste Percentage 65.3% 60.5% recycled Company car fuel usage is not currently measured and is excluded from the calculation of carbon dioxide emissions and fuel usage.
The fuel figures shown are for the distribution fleet.
co. uk 18528.04 3 12 2010 Proof 7 PerForMaNCe Marstons is committed to minimising emissions by increasing the efficiency of its operations.
Marstons encourages all parts of the business to ensure the efficient use of materials, energy and fuel, to reduce emissions where possible and to reuse and recycle wastes.
Key environmental data Unit 2010 2009 Pubs Breweries As part of the brewing industrys climate change agreement, gas gWH 165.8 159.7 Over two thirds of the Groups electricity and gas is consumed in our pubs.
Marstons is committed to reducing emissions by increasing electricity gWH 95.8 89.8 Control is enhanced by smart meters in the majority of pubs which give the efficiency of its operations.
This includes meeting energy half-hourly meter readings.
efficiency targets which were split between the breweries as follows: Wolverhampton had to increase its efficiency by 32% Our pub new-build programme includes design innovations for heat from 1999 levels, Burton by 51% and Cockermouth by 2%, conservation, use of outside cooling for our cellars and low wattage lighting.
3 Burton uses up to 6.61 barrels of water for every one Water 000 m 659.2 660.8 Water usage is a key area of our pub environmental management system.
barrel of product brewed and bottled.
This ratio is 2.93 at breweries It is addressed through engineering solutions for our washrooms and Wolverhampton and between 2.46 and 3.32 at the other kitchens, and through staff training.
The difference in ratios is the result of a more modern brewing process at Wolverhampton, whereas Burton uses larger numbers of small oak barrels in our more traditional Burton Union System process.
Production at our largest breweries in Wolverhampton and emissions 000 tonnes 82.2 78.9 Marstons is registered under the Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Burton complies with the requirements of the Integrated Co Efficiency Scheme.
From 2011 the Group will report its energy usage within 2 Pollution Prevention and Control IPPC permit, as regulated its pubs to the Environment Agency and have to acquire carbon allowances by the Environment Agency.
The permit is given once a from 2012. year and allows the sites to process, ferment and package beer and associated products.
It sets out the authorised emissions to the air and sewers, and the controls expected to reduce any environmental impact.
In April 2010 Marstons was awarded the Carbon Trust Standard after taking action on climate change by measuring, managing and reducing its carbon emissions by 2% from October 2006 until September 2009.
total Waste 000 tonnes 36.9 43.5 From an initial trial involving 35 pubs three years ago, over 400 of our pubs 96% of the waste from the breweries is recycled.
After now recycle glass, card and cooking oil.
brewing, malt and hops are recycled as animal feed and other production waste such as glass, metals and card is Waste Percentage 65.3% 60.5% collected by recycling contractors.
recycled MarstoNs PLC Annual Report 2010 25 www.
