Corporate social responsibility CSR report Our aim is to build a long-term Energy used fell by successful and sustainable business based on strong, positive relationships with all our stakeholders.
We recognise the importance of social responsibility in our business and the contribution 1% it makes to our success.
Water usage efficiency improved by 2% Our priorities Summary of performance in 2009-10 Improvements in efficiency of use 1.
Sustainability of water and waste We aim to continuously reduce the environmental impact of our operations and products.
Health & Safety closure of two factories We provide safe working environments with comprehensive Accidents down by 2% safety management procedures.
People practices 1.31 per 100,000 hours worked We strive to retain and develop our people to full No product safety issues during their potential.
Communities Coaching programme introduced We make a positive contribution where possible to the across Group communities in which we operate.
Ethics Vision and Principles We have a strong code of ethics and expect all employees to behave with honesty, discretion, integrity and respect at all times.
McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 50 Introduction CSR principles McBride is committed to achieving a long-term successful and There are a number of core principles in McBrides CSR policy sustainable business as Europes leading provider of Private Label framework: Household and Personal Care products.
We acknowledge that a pre-requisite of CSR is our willingness to look beyond our legal Environment and Sustainability we aim to continuously obligations and commercial focus to take account of wider social reduce the environmental impact of our operations and and environmental factors.
We believe in the importance of social products.
responsibility in our business and we are very conscious of our role Health and Safety we aim to provide safe working in relation to the community and the impact of our operations on environments underpinned by comprehensive internal safety the environment, the marketplace and the workplace.
Our approach management procedures and external verication.
to the environment, product safety and health and safety in our Employment Practices we strive to develop, motivate and operations, to how we treat our people, our customers, our engage our employees to help them give of their best and fulll suppliers, our local communities and other key stakeholders is their potential.
We provide equal opportunity for all and do not embedded in our Company culture and values and outlined in the tolerate discrimination and unacceptable behaviours.
Policy on Social Responsibility and Business Ethics, published on Community we work closely with the communities where the Groups website at www.
co. uk we have our operations to make a positive contribution where possible, recognising there is economic interdependence McBride recognises its obligations to all those with whom it has between ourselves, local businesses and local government.
We recognise that our reputation and the trust and Business ethics we have a strong code of ethics and expect confidence of those with whom we deal are key to our long-term all employees to behave with honesty, discretion, integrity and success, and the protection of these is of fundamental importance.
respect for all related parties.
We believe this approach helps to ensure that we have no material social issues of concern.
As a minimum, the Group seeks to comply with existing laws, regulations and best practice guidelines governing its activities in Further details are set out in our seventh Sustainability Report, each of the markets in which it operates, and in many areas published on the Groups website at www.
co. uk, which standards exceed minimum compliance requirements.
We have includes detailed information on the activities, data, objectives, senior management representation on various trade association compliance status and achievements during the past year.
bodies and we adhere to industry association guidelines.
Our policies and principles apply to every Director, manager and employee in all our businesses across our global operations.
They also extend to our supply chain.
For example, suppliers are selected not only on the basis of specication, quality, service and economic factors but also on their own commitments to minimise the impact of their operations on the environment and to CSR more generally.
The antibacterial u kill cleaner team The McBride product launch team kicked into action to ensure the new product introduction was a success.
The team, from left to right, of Claire Wright Development Chemist, Val Robinson Product Control Manager, Jacquie Costello Product Manager, Carole Craggs Filling Supervisor, Darren Greenwood our Regulatory Affairs Specialist along with Suzie Jones the Category Executive worked closely with the Sainsbury team to ensure that all packaging, labelling and legal issues were properly reviewed and the product launch was accelerated to be ready in time for the impending u season.
Within four weeks, all approvals had been given and the new antibacterial cleaner with u kill the first Private Label product to have the u kill claim on the front of the pack was launched one month ahead of the impending u season.
In recognition for the responsiveness to changing consumer needs and being in line with Sainsburys Key Goal of Promoting a safer environment for our customers, Sainsburys voted this product best own label development of the year in 2010.
McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 51 The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Passionate about Private Label Corporate social responsibility report Continued Management and governance of the Groups CSR activities Another key measure of eco-efficiency is production per cubic metre The Board has overall responsibility for maintaining and enhancing of efuent produced: this improved by 6% and has improved by over the Groups CSR policies, guidelines and code of conduct which 60% in the last five years.
We are targeting a reduction of a further are published on the Groups website at www.
Groups Chief Executive is accountable for ensuring that the Group operates in accordance with these policies.
The Group monitors the The total amount of waste decreased by 1%.
The proportion of waste performance of its three divisions through rigorous performance recycled and recovered increased from 69% to 74%.
management systems and key performance indicators that enhance its ability to monitor and improve performance.
Health, safety and Health and safety environment managers are present at all sites.
Detailed reports McBride strives to maintain a safe workplace at all locations in which are prepared by the three divisions and submitted to the Groups it operates.
We continue to ensure that our business activities are executive Directors who report any issues of major signicance undertaken in a responsible manner and in accordance with relevant to the Board.
statutory legislation and that all employees participate in the development, promotion and maintenance of a safe and healthy Environment and sustainability working environment for employees, visitors and the public.
The Group is committed to making continuing progress in minimising the environmental impact of its operations and achieving a We have comprehensive internal safety management procedures long-term and sustainable business.
We endeavour to comply with that include maintenance of health and safety policy manuals, and surpass all relevant legislative requirements and industry verication of regulatory compliance, risk assessment, individual site standards and use the best practicable means to continually action plans, safety audits, training, formal incident investigation improve our environmental performance.
This is supported by and provision of occupational health services.
There is also a strong comprehensive internal environmental management systems, focus on the use of key performance indicators, external auditing the use of key performance indicators and achieving external and achieving exacting external health and safety accreditation for environmental accreditation for our operations.
Twelve sites now its operations.
Internal training is provided to ensure compliance hold the ISO 14001 accreditation and our intention is for all with McBrides standards, and this training includes our Competency our manufacturing sites to achieve this accreditation.
This years environmental performance has been reported with the All sites work closely with local enforcing inspectors who make assistance of an external consultancy, EQ2.
Improvements have regular visits, not simply to investigate accidents, but also to plan been seen in water efficiency and waste efficiency: however energy compliance audits and agree priorities.
Major exercises are efficiency was slightly worse as we commenced the closure of undertaken at our sites, together with local authorities, to test two factories.
action plans for dealing with site emergencies.
Such tests are useful learning exercises for all parties and help to underpin the disaster Energy consumption and CO emissions fell by 1%.
Water recovery plans developed for each site.
Five factories hold the 2 consumption reduced by 5% year on year.
Water efficiency is OHSAS 18001 occupational health and safety accreditation.
monitored based on tonnes of production per cubic metre of water used by the business.
This measure improved by 2% in the year ended 30 June 2010 relative to the prior year.
Aerosol emergency exercise 1 July 2010 On 1 July 2010, 70 of our staff at our aerosol factory in Rosporden, Northern France, and 50 representatives from the local police, re service, the ambulance service and local authorities undertook a full aerosol emergency exercise at the site.
This is required under the Seveso legislation to be undertaken every five years.
All the external authorities commented on the improvement and the efficiency in communications of our evacuation and procedures compared to 2005.
McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 52 Human safety and environmental assessments for Household and Personal Care products are carried out before launch under Our Sustainability report the Dangerous Preparations and Cosmetic Products Directives respectively.
It is our policy not to sell products involving risks to can be found at... human safety and or the environment under normal and www.
co. uk our-responsibilities  foreseeable conditions of use.
The REACh Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals regulation, regarding the safe use of chemicals, All accidents and major incidents are reported internally and are investigated fully to determine appropriate corrective and came into force across Europe in 2007.
Since then we have checked regularly with our suppliers to ensure that all raw materials were preventative measures.
Incidents that result in more than three days lost time are monitored.
In the year ended 30 June 2010, the number pre-registered.
We are now checking that our uses are covered by supplier registrations and making our own registrations for high of lost time accidents improved by 3% to 121 and the frequency per 100,000 hours worked fell to 1.3 2009: 1.4. tonnage chemicals produced in situ during the manufacture of some products.
Product safety Employment practices McBride is committed to understanding safety issues related to its products and for ensuring that they are suitable and safe for their The success of our business is dependent upon the quality, commitment and behaviour of our employees.
Our product safety policy statement is published on the Groups website at www.
This is supported by provide clear policies and direction to our managers and strive for the highest standards in management practices.
We aim to retain comprehensive management systems that reect legal and regulatory compliance as a minimum standard and cover raw and develop our employees and to help them to full their career potential.
material use and product assessments, labelling and packaging requirements.
McBride contributes to voluntary initiatives on We provide equal opportunities for all in recruitment, selection, product safety by industry associations such as AISE International Association for Soaps, Detergents and Maintenance Products.
promotion, employee development, training and reward policies and procedures.
We are committed to adherence with international Product safety evaluations are made in our operations without human rights standards.
We have no involvement in the use of child labour or forced labour in our business and check the status tests on animals.
Our animal testing policy statement is published on the Groups website at www.
We support the of our overseas suppliers in this respect.
We do not tolerate unfair discrimination of any kind.
We also comply with applicable national development and acceptance of alternative product safety evaluation methods that reduce or replace the use of animals.
We laws and industry standards on working hours and insist on high standards of personal behaviour from our employees.
do not request animal testing of products or ingredients by suppliers and we maintain contact with our suppliers to ensure that our values on this subject are shared and specic requirements of individual retailers are met.
Increasing use of renewable electricity and solar power Energy consumption summary Absolute energy use GJ Energy use 2008-09 2009-10 Electricity 497,675 488,416 Standard grid 416,742 337,472 Renewable electricity 79,709 147,687 Solar power 1,224 3,257 Natural gas 219,697 219,308 Oil 7,325 6,897 Total energy use 724,697 714,621 McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 53 The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Passionate about Private Label Corporate social responsibility report Continued We have a well-developed appraisal system, which feeds into a A whistle-blowing policy statement provides a procedure for thorough Company-wide talent review process, used to put in place employees to air concerns about any suspected serious malpractice effective personal development plans.
Our own Management including fraud, corruption, bribery, criminal offence or other failure Development Programme is highly successful and innovative.
to comply with legal obligations.
In 2010 we commenced a major campaign to communicate our Mission, Vision and Principles to all our employees.
However, we operate and encourage openness and honesty in all our internal relationships and have systems for colleagues to highlight Regular opinion surveys are undertaken of all staff to measure and shortfalls and to suggest improvements to anything in the business.
monitor employee satisfaction within the Group.
The results of these We also have robust procedures for handling all types of issues surveys are used to develop action plans to improve communication, and grievances.
Our managers all received training to form effective motivation and engagement across the business.
The next survey relationships with their teams which is based on respect and will be completed in the 2010-11 financial year.
honesty with openness to new ideas and challenge.
Business ethics and relationships Insider dealing is illegal and not tolerated within the Group: We expect employees to operate to high ethical standards in clearance to deal in the Companys shares must be sought by all compliance with our Policy on Social Responsibility and Business senior management from the Chief Executive or the Company Ethics which outlines the principles behind our approach to Secretary prior to dealing.
Detailed guidelines on insider dealing business.
All business dealings are expected to be conducted with are available from the Groups website at www.
co. uk utmost discretion, integrity and respect for all parties as well as in compliance with local and national legislation.
We are committed Community activities to providing high quality products and service in line with our McBride seeks to play an active role in the local communities in customers expectations: customer service is measured daily and which it operates.
As well as providing significant employment considered to be the primary operational performance indicator opportunities, we aim to make positive contributions to these across the Group.
communities, building goodwill and a reputation as a good neighbour and employer.
We employ purchasing procedures that select suppliers on the basis of specication, quality, service and economic factors and The Group is involved in a wide range of local community activities favour those who operate in an ethical and socially responsible including undergraduate sponsorships and support of the UK SIFE manner and who are committed to minimising their impact on the programme, which works to mobilise university students to make environment.
All contracts are based on fairness and equality of a difference in their communities while developing the skills to treatment for potential suppliers.
Under no circumstances are become socially responsible business leaders.
The Group also financial inducements or bribes permitted, made or accepted provides support for the local statutory authorities via voluntary regardless of amount, whether direct or indirect, or to or from work and advice, sponsors specic educational awards, provides third parties.
careers advice for students and school children provides mentoring support to assist ethnic minority students into employment, Procedures are in place to prevent unauthorised disclosure of provides work experience placements, supports local charities, condential information about the Group to competitors and to and hosts a wide range of factory visits for educational purposes prevent any attempt to improperly acquire trade secrets or any or to exchange best practice.
other condential information from competitors.
Waste recycling performance 2009-10 Recycled or reused Not recycled 26% 74% McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 54 Our focus Our performance Energy Eco-efficiency worsened by 0.6% to 1,619kg Gj.
Our target is to deliver a 20% improvement in our eco-efficiency in terms impacted by the closure and decommissioning of kgs per Gjoule Gj of energy consumed by 2020. of two factories during the year.
CO CO emissions reduced by 1%, but eco-efficiency 2 2 Our target is to achieve a 20% improvement in the eco-efficiency measure fell by 1.2% to 17,565kg production tCO2.
Energy from solar panels more than doubled.
2 We will invest more in energy saving capital equipment.
Researched the potential for renewable energy We will target further sources of renewable energy supplies to achieve sources for the Estaimpuis factory in Belgium.
a minimum of 20% of energy sourced from renewable sources by 2020.
Renewable electricity usage increased from We will look to external advisors on assisting us achieve these targets.
Water Water usage improved 2.8% on an 3 Continue to rene our products and processes to reduce water consumption.
eco-efficiency basis to 1,089 kgs m. Review signing up to the UN, CEO Water Mandate.
Waste Recovered, recycled and re-used waste now Continue to increase the level of recovered, recycled and re-used waste by accounts for 74% of waste generated up from 1% per annum.
To achieve a 1% waste level as a percentage of production volume by 2012.
Total waste generated decreased from 1.3% to 1.2%.
NPD During the year we launched low temperature Objective: to focus on developing more environmentally friendly products.
laundry liquids and gel products.
We focused our efforts on reducing packaging of many of our products.
Health and safety During the year we achieved a 3% reduction in Continue to focus on our Health and safety processes to reduce risks and the number of LTIs compared to the prior year.
Eco-efficiency KPI performances worsened by worsened by 0.6% 1.2% improved by improved by 2.8% 4.6% Energy efficiency CO efficiency Water usage efficiency Efuent discharge 2 2009: 1,628kg 2009: 17,774kg 2009: 1,059kg 2009: 5,977kg 3 3 production Gj production tCO e production m of water production m of efuent 2 McBride plc Annual report and accounts 2010 Passionate about Private Label 55 The figures Our governance Business review Overview of the year Passionate about Private Label
