Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Barclays UK home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 23 Barclays UK Our performance in the UK With 30,000 colleagues and 24 million customers and clients, Barclays UK strives to help people move forward by providing personalised and perfect experiences, delivered by passionate colleagues n 2, we hae ade significant progress in establishing the ring-fenced bank, protecting our customers and clients and transforming our business through digitisation and automation.
Overview of products, services and clients Market and environment in which the Our future ring-fenced bank, Barclays UK, is a division operates personal and business banking franchise, built Against the background of a prolonged around our customers needs with innovation uncertain political and economic climate in at its core.
Our Personal and Premier Banking the UK, we continue to deliver solid financial financial solutions help customers move performance and provide innovative solutions forward by putting them at the heart of for our customers and clients.
The operating everything we do, connecting the different environment continues to be challenging aspects of their lives to their financial lives, at including rapidly changing customer a time that suits them.
Barclaycard Consumer behaviours: increasing expectations of society UK is a leading credit card provider, offering and regulators: and significant technological flexible borrowing and payment solutions, disruption amid the threat of dis-aggregation while delivering a market-leading customer from competitors and new entrants.
Wealth, Entrepreneurs Business we have a leading brand, a solid customer Banking serves a spectrum of clients, from base and we remain well positioned in the those who manage their own investments to current environment.
small and medium-sized enterprises SMEs who need specialist advice, products and services.
Barclays UK operational model Customers Products Value Contribution and Clients and services creation to Group Individuals Personal banking services To our customers and 7.4bn Businesses SMEs Credit cards and clients Building Income transactional lending meaningful relationships to Investment products and provide relevant financial 1.7bn services solutions Profit before tax Business banking solutions To society Helping 9.8% communities move forward RoTE To Barclays Ring-fenced UK-focused bank with 66% sustainable returns and Cost: Income ratio prudent balance growth 70.9bn Risk Weighted Assets 24 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Educating our customers in Digital Safety In May 2017, we launched our UK-wide consumer engagement campaign to highlight the importance of digital safety and our role in helping people move forward in this digital age.
The digital age has made our lives much easier in many ways.
We now share information, shop online, pay bills, and keep in touch with each other in cyberspace.
For many people, this is their way of life and they feel confident in navigating the digital world.
However, having the confidence to be able to work and play in the digital age isnt the same as knowing how to keep safe while doing so.
Our campaign resulted in over 4.8 million people taking action off the back of this outreach, resulting in our leadership role being recognised by Government ministers and the media.
Innovation at our core We are committed to ensuring Half a century after launching the worlds first Over 10 million customers are Automated Teller Machine the ATM, we continued growth of Barclays now actively engaged with developed new contactless cash withdrawal UK, and are cognisant of the our digital services, including options in 2017, fit for the digital age.
In addition, we extended our cheque imaging pilot rapid pace of technological our award-winning Barclays programme to other banks, allowing more change in todays environment.
than 243,000 customers the ability to pay in cheques instantly from wherever they are, 24 hours a day.
We also achieved an industry Risks to the operating model Delivering on shared growth first with Insurance Instant Price our first We continue to monitor leading indicators to Our signature citizenship programme, mobile insurance proposition, allowing instant identify trends in UK economic performance LifeSkills, aims to inspire young people to price quotes from our providers to in particular, trends caused by low interest develop the skills they need for a better future.
rates, Brexit uncertainty, as well from the In less than five years, it has reached over impact of the increase in zero hour contracts.
5.5 million young people and more than Key highlights this year in delivering our We aim to remain conservative and well 16,000 colleagues are now registered as strategy positioned post-Brexit with stable trends in LifeSkills volunteers.
This year we have built the Barclays UK impairments supported by our strong risk ring-fenced bank and a diverse, highlyWe expect 2018 to be a pivotal year for the management framework and oversight.
experienced board has been appointed by the financial services industry with the Barclays UK Chairman.
We have also migrated We are committed to ensuring continued introduction of PSD2 and Open Banking but over 600,000 customers onto new sort codes growth of Barclays UK, and are cognisant of we believe Barclays UK has a significant with minimal customer impact.
the rapid pace of technological change in opportunity to thrive in this environment.
In order to continue to positive we will continue our lead in Alongside this, we have made good progress provide exciting and relevant solutions for our innovation in an Open Banking environment, building meaningful relationships with our customers and remain competitive against as a new ring-fenced bank.
24 million customers and significantly new entrants, we are investing significantly in reducing the number of customer complaints new technology, while simplifying and - one of our key objectives for 2017 - by automating our existing platforms.
developing our colleagues and tackling the Ashok Vaswani Unrelenting growth and sophistication in root causes.
Interactive tools are now available CEO, Barclays UK organised crime remains a concern.
In order to enable colleagues to more effectively own, to reduce the risk of cyber threat and protect manage and collaborate in the timely our customers and clients, we continue to resolution of complaints.
Reducing customer invest heavily in cyber risk, improving complaints further will continue to remain one detection and response capability and of our top priorities for 2018. implementing new resilience standards and testing approaches.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 25
