Wealth, Entrepreneurs Business Banking Our performance in Wealth, Entrepreneurs & Business Banking This year, we launched the Multi-Impact Within Wealth, Entrepreneurs & Business Banking, Wealth & Growth Fund, the first impact-investing Investments serves a spectrum of clients, from those who vehicle of its kind from a major UK bank, offering mainstream investors the opportunity manage their own investments and require an execution to generate long-term capital growth while service, to those who require a dedicated and holistic service making a positive contribution to society.
through our Wealth Management services.
Business Banking Overview Our Business Banking unit provides coverage Business Banking offers specialist advice, products and for clients across the UK at every stage of their business cycle in every industry, delivering services to over 1 million business clients across the UK, distribution models which match clients helping them to run and grow their business, from start-ups needs and sophistication.
This year, we launched our SmartBusiness Dashboard and App and now have over 12,000 clients benefiting from this unique client experience.
With all their key business data in one handy place, our business clients are now spending more time within SmartBusiness and reaping the benefits.
The roll-out of Direct, our unique telephony relationship model for small business and Wealth & Investments Overview Smart Investor provides clients access to a wide start-up customers, has vastly increased the Wealth Investments is formed of two range of investment products, educational number of conversations and in-depth client businesses: Wealth Management and Smart resources to help build their confidence in reviews we are able to have, which directly Investor, both of which are supported by our investing, and tools to assist in planning for benefits over 900,000 customers already on in-house investment and asset management their future.
The focus of the business this year this new, interactive model.
Clients of our Wealth has been launching Smart Investor and In 2017, we supported more clients, reduced Management business benefit from holistic migrating over 225,000 existing Stockbrokers account opening times, lent more money and advice in Banking, Credit, Wealth Planning, clients onto the new platform.
This allows our generated more income than in 2016 through and Investments through their dedicated clients to leave the day-to-day management of targeting sustainable, long term growth.
Our Wealth Manager and access to specialists their investments to our experts, thereby taking aim in 2018 is to empower our colleagues across Wealth Investments and the wider the complexity out of investing.
through continuing to invest in technology Barclays UK division.
investment in regulations required, Wealth Management has achieved a strong performance, and achieved year on year growth in client acquisitions.
Despite significant investment in regulations required, Wealth Management has achieved a strong performance, and achieved year on year growth in client acquisitions.
Investing in change The Multi-Impact Growth Fund invests primarily in specialist third party funds which have been identified and blended by our experienced in-house fund and manager selection team.
These funds have been chosen as best-in-class based on both their potential for strong financial returns and the consideration of their impact around key social and environmental issues such as climate or demographic changes.
The Fund is the first Barclays product in the wider impact investing proposition being developed and is available to clients in Wealth Management and Smart Investor.
28 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
