Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Governance: Directors report Who we are Board of Directors Tim Breedon CBE Board of Directors Non-executive Barclays understands the importance of having a Board with the right balance of skills, Appointed: experience and diversity, and the composition of the Board is regularly reviewed by the Board 1 November 2012 Nominations Committee.
The skills and experience of the current Directors and the value they bring to the Barclays Board are highlighted below.
Full biographies can be accessed online via www.
barclays investorrelations Relevant skills and experience Tim joined Barclays after a distinguished career with Legal & General, where, among other roles, he was the group chief executive until June 2012.
Tims experience as a CEO enables him to provide challenge, advice and support to the executive on performance John McFarlane Sir Gerry Grimstone and decision-making.
Chairman Deputy Chairman and Senior Tim brings to the Board extensive financial services Appointed: experience, knowledge of risk management and UK Independent Director 1 January 2015 and EU regulation, as well as an understanding of the Appointed: key issues for investors.
1 January 2016 Other current appointments Marie Curie: Chairman, Apax Global Alpha Limited: Chairman, The Northview Group Relevant skills and experience Relevant skills and experience Committees John is Chairman of Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank Sir Gerry brings to the Board a wealth of investment Audit, Nominations, Remuneration, Risk Chairman PLC.
He is a senior figure in global banking and banking, financial services and commercial experience financial services circles having spent over 40 years gained through his senior roles at Schroders and his Sir Ian Cheshire in the sector.
Sir Gerry has global business Non-executive experience across the UK, Asia, the Middle East and John is currently chairman of TheCityUK and a the US.
Sir Gerry has significant experience as a Appointed: member of the Financial Services Trade and non-executive director and chairman.
He is currently 3 April 2017 Investment Board and the European Financial Round the chairman of Standard Life Aberdeen plc, Table.
Other current non-executive directorships independent non-executive board member of Deloitte include Westfield Corporation, Old Oak Holdings NWE LLP, board adviser to the Abu Dhabi Commercial Limited and The International Monetary Conference.
Bank and the lead non-executive at the Ministry of John was previously chairman of Aviva plc where he Defence.
oversaw a transformation of the company FirstGroup Relevant skills and experience plc, and the Australian Bankers Association.
He was Other current appointments Sir Ian joined Barclays in April 2017 as a non-executive also a nonexecutive director of The Royal Bank of Financial Services Trade and Investment Board Director and the Chairman of Barclays UK.
From his Scotland, joining at the time of the UK government Committees lengthy executive career including his time as Group rescue.
Prior to that he was CEO of Australia and Nominations, Reputation Chairman Chief Executive of Kingfisher plc, Sir Ian brings to the New Zealand Banking Group Limited for 10 years, Board substantial business experience particularly in group executive director of Standard Chartered and Mike Ashley the international retail sector, as well as experience in head of Citibank in the UK.
Non-executive sustainability and environmental matters.
He holds Other current appointments strong credentials in leadership as well as being highly Appointed: Member of Cranfield School of Management Advisory regarded by the Government for his work with various 18 September 2013 Board: Member of Institut International dEtudes Government departments.
Bancaires: Member of the Presidents Committee Other current appointments Confederation of British Industry Business Disability Forum Presidents Group: Committees Debenhams plc: Maisons du monde: Menhaden plc: Nominations Chairman lead non-executive director for the Government Relevant skills and experience Jes Staley Committees Mike has deep knowledge of auditing and associated Nominations Group Chief regulatory issues, having worked at KPMG for over Executive 20 years, where he was a partner.
Mike was the lead Mary Francis CBE engagement partner on the audits of large financial Appointed: Non-executive services groups including HSBC, Standard Chartered 1 December 2015 and the Bank of England.
While at KPMG, Mike was Appointed: Head of Quality and Risk Management for KPMG 1 October 2016 Europe LLP, responsible for the management of professional risks and quality control.
He also held the role of KPMG UKs Ethics Partner.
Relevant skills and experience Jes joined Barclays as Group Chief Executive on Other current appointments 1 December 2015.
He has nearly four decades of ICAEW Ethics Standards Committee: International Relevant skills and experience extensive experience in banking and financial services.
Ethics Standards Board for Accountants: Chairman, Mary has extensive board-level experience across He worked for more than 30 years at JP Morgan, initially Government Internal Audit Agency: Charity a range of industries.
She is a non-executive director training as a commercial banker, later advancing to the Commission of Swiss Re Group and Ensco plc and was formerly leadership of major businesses involving equities, private Committees senior independent director of Centrica and a banking and asset management and ultimately heading Audit Chairman, Nominations, Risk, Reputation non-executive director of the Bank of England, Aviva the companys Global Investment Bank.
Jes is currently and Alliance & Leicester.
She held senior executive a member of the Institute of International Finance and positions in the UK Treasury and Prime Ministers formerly served as managing partner at BlueMountain Office and in the City as Director General of the Capital.
These roles have provided him with a vast Association of British Insurers.
She brings to Barclays experience in leadership and he brings a wealth of strong understanding of the interaction between investment banking knowledge to Barclays Board.
public and private sectors and skills in strategic Other current appointments decision-making and all aspects of board governance.
None Other current appointments Committees Advisory Panel of The Institute of Business Ethics None Committees Remuneration, Reputation home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 47 Governance: Directors report Who we are Board of Directors Crawford Gillies Tushar Morzaria Mike Turner CBE Non-executive Group Finance Non-executive Director Appointed: Appointed: 1 May 2014 1 January 2018 Appointed: 15 October 2013 Relevant skills and experience Relevant skills and experience Relevant skills and experience Crawford has extensive business and management Tushar joined Barclays in 2013 having spent the Mike has considerable business and board level experience, gained with Bain & Company and previous four years in senior management roles experience gained from his lengthy career with Standard Life plc.
These roles have provided him with JP Morgan Chase, most recently as the CFO BAE Systems PLC where he was CEO as well as his with experience in strategic decision-making and of its Corporate & Investment Bank.
He has a strong commercial knowledge of company strategy across various time with JP Morgan he gained strategic financial background and experience in strategy and sectors and geographical locations.
management and regulatory relations experience.
Mike brings Since joining the Barclays Board he has been a driving significant leadership and strategic oversight Crawford has also held board and committee influence on the Groups cost reduction programme experience to the Board, particularly from his roles chairman positions during his career, notably as and managing the Groups capital plan, particularly as chairman of Babcock International Group PLC chairman of the remuneration committees of in response to Structural Reform.
Standard Life plc and MITIE Group PLC and is senior independent director at SSE plc.
Other current appointments Other current appointments Member of the 100 Group main committee Member of the UK Governments Apprenticeship Other current appointments Ambassadors Network Chairman, The Edrington Group Limited Committees None Committees Committees Reputation Audit, Nominations, Remuneration Chairman Dambisa Moyo Non-executive Reuben Jeffery III Company Secretary Non-executive Appointed: 1 May 2010 Appointed: Stephen Shapiro 16 July 2009 Appointed: 1 November 2017 Relevant skills and experience Dambisa is an international economist and Relevant skills and experience commentator on the global economy, having Reuben has extensive financial services experience, completed a PhD in economics.
Dambisa has a particularly within investment banking and wealth background in financial services and a wide management, through his role as CEO and president Relevant skills and experience knowledge and understanding of African economic, of Rockefeller & Co. Inc. and Rockefeller Financial Stephen was appointed Company Secretary in political and social issues, in addition to her Services Inc. and his former senior roles with November 2017 having previously served as the experience as a director of companies with complex, Goldman Sachs, head of the European Financial Group Company Secretary and Deputy General global operations.
She served as a non-executive Institutions Group.
His various government roles in Counsel of SABMiller plc.
Prior to this, he practised director of SABMiller plc 2009-2016 and Seagate the US, including as chairman of the Commodity law as a partner in a law firm in South Africa, and Technology 2015-2017.
Futures Trading Commission and as undersecretary of subsequently in the UK.
Stephen has extensive state, provides Barclays Board with insight into the US Other current appointments experience in corporate governance, legal, regulatory political and regulatory environment.
Chevron Corporation: Barrick Gold Corporation and compliance matters.
Stephen has also previously served as Chairman of the ICC UKs Committee on Other current appointments Committees Anti-Corruption as well as on working groups of the Advisory Board of Towerbrook Capital Partners LP: Remuneration, Reputation GC100, providing business input into key areas of Financial Services Volunteer Corps: The Asia legislative and policy reform.
Diane Schueneman Foundation Non-executive Committees Nominations, Risk Appointed: 25 June 2015 Matthew Lester Non-executive Appointed: 1 September 2017 Relevant skills and experience Diane joined Barclays after an extensive career at Merrill Lynch, holding a variety of senior roles, including responsibility for banking, brokerage services and technology provided to the companys Relevant skills and experience retail and middle market clients, and latterly for IT, Matthew joined Barclays as a non-executive Director operations and client services worldwide.
She brings in September 2017 and contributes strong financial a wealth of experience in managing global, management and regulatory experience to the Board, cross-discipline business operations, client services having held a number of senior finance roles across a and technology in the financial services industry.
range of business sectors, including financial services.
Diane is a member of the board of Barclays US LLC, Most recently was chief financial officer of Royal Mail Barclays US intermediate holding company and chair Group.
Matthews financial expertise enables him of Barclays Services Limited.
to analyse effectively complex reporting and risk management processes.
He is currently a nonOther current appointments executive director of Man Group plc and Capita plc, None where he also chairs the audit and risk committees of Committees both companies.
Audit, Risk Other current appointments None Committees Audit, Risk 48 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Governance: Directors report Who we are Group Executive Committee Group Executive Committee Biographies for Jes Staley, Group Chief Executive, and Tushar Morzaria, Group Finance Director, who are members of the Group Executive Committee, which is chaired by Jes Staley, can be found on pages 47 and 48.
Paul Compton Tim Throsby Group Chief President, Barclays Operating Officer International and Chief Executive Officer, Corporate and Investment Bank Bob Hoyt Ashok Vaswani Group General CEO, Barclays UK Counsel Laura Padovani C S Venkatakrishnan Interim Group Chief Chief Risk Officer Compliance Officer Tristram Roberts Group Human Resources Director Group Executive Committee meetings are also attended on a regular basis by the Chief Internal Auditor, Sally Clark, and by an ex-officio member, drawn from senior management.
The current ex-officio member is Barry Rodrigues, Head of Barclaycard International.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 49
