10 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 1 2 3 4 5 Our business model Intrinsic strengths and challenges We have several distinctive competitive strengths, which enable us to create sustainable value for our stakeholders.
We will look to build upon these UKs largest digital Prudent, low Market leading strong foundations in the next phase of our strategy, thereby bank, branch reach risk participation efficiency position creating new competitive Our simpler operating model and customer choices with strengths.
Implementation will andfocus on operational ensure we can compete effectively franchise strong capital efficiency provide a cost and create value in adigitalworld.
advantage which benefits both Our scale and reach across the UK position customers and shareholders.
means that our customer franchise Further detail is available on Being low risk is fundamental to extends to around 27million page14.
Our low risk customers with more than Rigorous appetite is reflected through the 13million active online users.
low level of non-performing loans execution and and run-off assets, as well as our credit default swap spread, which Multi-channel management is amongst the best in the banking approach discipline sector worldwide.
Our financial Operating in an integrated way Experience of delivering change strength has been transformed through a range of distribution in recent years with our capital and transformation in recent years channels ensures our customers provides benefit as we further position amongst the strongest in can interact with us when and how the sector worldwide.
transform the business they want.
Multi-brand proposition Offering our services through a number of recognised brands enables us to address the needs of different customer segments more effectively.
Due to the nature of our business as a large, UK focused financial services provider, we face external and internal challenges.
EXTERNAL INTERNAL As previously discussed on pages 89, the main external We also face a number of internal challenges, which are being challenges we face are: addressed as part of the next phase of our strategy.
Evolving and uncertain economic environment Operating as efficiently as possible while remaining the best bank for customers Ever increasing levels of regulation Ensuring we have the right people and culture to meet Evolving customer needs evolving customer needs Responding to technology innovations Ensuring IT systems are effective and resilient and that we Managing pressure from increased competition are prepared for the threat of cyber risk g n i k il a a Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information t t e R t i I s n o s p u e r a D n c e g n i I d n n v e e L s t m C S e S o A n E T t m R m C A e U r S c i Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 11 1 2 3 4 5 Creating value for our stakeholders Our simple, low risk, customer focused business model is driven by our competitive positioning.
As we enter the next phase of our strategy we will enhance our competitive strengths to further transform the business, help Britain prosper and continue delivering for customers, colleagues and shareholders.
Running a OUR PURPOSE responsible Helping Britain Prosper business OUR AIM for all our Best bank for customers, stakeholders colleagues and See pages 2127 shareholders OUR PURPOSE OUR AIM PRODUCTS BUSINESS AREAS Helping Britain Prosper Best bank for customers, colleagues and shareholders We are a responsible business, Doing the right thing for our Our product range is driven by our Our business areas are structured focused on succeeding over the customers, colleagues customers needs and is informed according to the products and longer-term, and we believe that and shareholders by meeting their through comprehensive customer services we provide to best serve helping to make Britain a more financial needs, helping them analysis and insight.
inclusive and prosperous country succeed, improving our service Lending We currently have three is fundamental to that aim.
proposition and creating value Mortgages, credit cards, business areas: for them, is fundamental to our We are proud to take a leading role personal and business loans Retail business model and the long-term in helping the UK economy, sustainability of the business.
Deposit taking Commercial Banking whether through supporting Current accounts and housing, trade and business Insurance and Wealth savings accounts growthor by tackling disadvantage.
Insurance Read more: Our Helping Britain Prosper Home insurance, motor insurance Retail see pages 2829 Plan, launched in 2014, takes us and protection Commercial Banking well beyond business as usual see page 30 by setting measurable targets in Investment Pensions and investment products Insurance and Wealth the areas where we can make the see page 31 biggest difference.
Commercial financing Term lending, debt capital markets For more about our approach to and private equity responsible business and the Plan Risk management see pages 1820 Interest rate hedging, currency and liquidity S D a E C l N O B o I a S n R m U k i P n B m g e r c i t a n l e fi m n e a g n c a i n n a g m h t k l a s i e R W d n a e c n a r u s n I
