Governance: Directors report How we comply accessed from the Securities and Exchange Chief Executive.
The Group Chief Executive is UK Corporate Governance Code the Code Commissions EDGAR database or via our supported in this role by the Group Executive As Barclays is listed on the London Stock website, home.
Further information on Exchange we apply the main principles of membership of the Group Executive the Code and comply with the Codes Committee can be found on page 49.
A copy of the Code can be As a Board we have set out our expectations found at www.
Corporate As highlighted earlier in this report, the Board of each Director in Barclays Charter of Governance in Barclays contains a full of Directors is responsible for promoting the Expectations.
This includes role profiles and description of our corporate governance highest standards of corporate governance the behaviours and competencies required for practices and is available online at home.
We act in a way that we consider each role on the Board, namely the Chairman, barclays corporategovernance.
For the promotes the success of Barclays for the Deputy Chairman, Senior Independent year ended 31 December 2017, and at the benefit of shareholders as a whole, and are Director, non-executive Directors, executive date of this report, we are pleased to accountable to the shareholders for creating Directors and Committee Chairmen.
The confirm that we complied in full with the and delivering sustainable value.
We are Charter of Expectations is reviewed annually 2016 Code.
responsible for setting strategy and overseeing to ensure it remains relevant and up-to-date.
its implementation, and also ensuring that It is published on home.
barclays management maintains an effective system Disclosure Guidance and corporategovernance to ensure that there is of internal control.
Transparency Rules complete transparency of the standards we By virtue of the information included in this For further information about the role of the set for ourselves.
Governance section of the Annual Report Board and its responsibilities, together with we comply with the corporate governance the Board governance framework, please see Attendance statement requirements of the FCAs page 50.
As members of the Board of Directors we are Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
expected to attend every Board meeting.
In Certain additional information that is required Roles on the Board 2017, we attended both scheduled and to be disclosed pursuant to DTR7.2.
6 can be Executive and non-executive Directors share additional Board meetings, as recorded in the found on pages 85 to 88. the same duties and are subject to the same table below.
The Chairman met privately with constraints.
However, in line with the the non-executive Directors ahead of each New York Stock Exchange NYSE principles of the Code, a clear division of scheduled Board meeting, and if, owing to Barclays is permitted by NYSE rules to follow responsibilities has been established.
The exceptional circumstances, a Director was not UK corporate governance practices instead of Chairman is responsible for leading and able to attend a Board meeting they ensured those applied in the US.
However, any managing the work of the Board, while that their views were made known to the significant variations must be explained in responsibility for the day-to-day management Chairman in advance of the meeting.
Barclays Form 20-F filing, which can be of Barclays has been delegated to the Group Scheduled Additional Meetings Scheduled Meetings Additional eligible Meetings % eligible meetings % Board Attendance Independent to attend attended attendance to attend attended attendance Group Chairman John McFarlane On appointment 8 8 100 7 7 100 Executive Directors Tushar Morzaria Executive Director 8 8 100 4 4 100 Jes Staley Executive Director 8 8 100 4 4 100 Non-executive Directors Mike Ashley Independent 8 8 100 7 7 100 Tim Breedon CBE Independent 8 8 100 7 6 86 Sir Ian Cheshire Independent 6 5 83 4 4 100 Mary Francis CBE Independent 8 8 100 7 7 100 Crawford Gillies Independent 8 8 88 7 7 100 Sir Gerry Grimstone Senior Independent Director 8 8 100 7 7 100 Reuben Jeffery III Independent 8 8 100 7 7 100 Matthew Lester Independent 3 3 100 1 1 100 Dambisa Moyo Independent 8 8 88 7 7 100 Diane Schueneman Independent 8 8 100 7 7 100 a Mike Turner CBE Independent - - n a n a Former Directors Diane fide Saint Victor Independent 3 3 100 3 3 100 Steve Thieke Independent 3 3 100 3 3 100 Secretary Stephen Shapiro 2 2 100 n a Former Secretaries Lawrence Dickinson 1 1 100 1 1 100 Claire Davies 5 5 100 6 6 100 Note a Mike Turner CBE joined the Board with effect from 1 January 2018.
As part of his induction programme, he attended the December 2017 board meeting.
80 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Board Committee cross-membership The table below shows the number of cross-memberships of our non-executive Directors across our Board Committees.
Board Audit Board Nominations Board Remuneration Board Reputation Committee Committee Committee Committee Board Risk Committee 4 3 1 1 Board Reputation Committee 1 2 2 Board Remuneration Committee 2 2 Board Nominations Committee 3 Our biographies containing our relevant skills The Chairman must commit to expend Effectiveness and experience, Board Committee membership whatever time is necessary to fulfil his duties Composition of the Board and other principal appointments can be and, while this is expected to be equivalent to In line with the requirements of the Code, found on pages 47 and 48.
Details of changes 80% of a full time position, his Chairmanship a majority of the Board are independent to the Board in 2017 and year to date are of the Group, and leadership of the Board, non-executive Directors.
The Board currently disclosed on page 85. has priority over other business commitments.
comprises a Chairman, who was independent In exceptional circumstances, we are all The service contracts for the executive on appointment, two executive Directors and expected to commit significantly more time Directors and the letters of appointment for eleven non-executive Directors.
We consider to our work on the Board.
the Chairman and non-executive Directors are the independence of our non-executive available for inspection at our registered office.
Directors annually, using the independence Induction criteria set out in the Code and by reviewing On appointment to the Board, all Directors Time commitment performance against behaviours that we have receive a comprehensive induction which is We are expected to allocate sufficient time identified as essential in order to be considered tailored to the new Directors individual to our role on the Board in order to discharge independent.
As part of this process, the requirements.
The induction schedule is our responsibilities effectively.
This includes Board keeps under review the length of tenure designed to quickly provide the new Director attending, and being well-prepared for, all of all Directors, which is a factor that is with an understanding of how the Group Board and Board Committee meetings, as well considered as part of its deliberations when works and the key issues that it faces.
The as making time to understand the business, determining independence of our nonCompany Secretary consults the Chairman meet with executives and regulators, and executive Directors.
The independence criteria when designing an induction schedule, giving complete ongoing training.
As stated in our can be found in Corporate Governance in consideration to the particular needs of the Charter of Expectations, time commitment is Barclays at new Director.
When a Director is joining a agreed with each non-executive Director on home.
Board Committee the schedule includes an an individual basis.
Set out below is the induction to the operation of that committee.
The Board Nominations Committee considers average expected time commitment for the Board succession planning and regularly role of non-executive Directors and the other On completion of the induction programme, reviews the composition of the Board and the non-executive positions on the Board.
For the Director should have sufficient knowledge Board Committees to ensure that there is an these additional positions there is an and understanding of the nature of the appropriate balance and diversity of skills, expectation that, in order to effectively fulfil business, and the opportunities and experience, independence and knowledge.
extra responsibilities, additional time challenges facing Barclays, to enable them to The size of the Board is not fixed and may be commitment is required.
effectively contribute to strategic discussions revised from time to time to reflect the and oversight of the Group.
Role Expected time commitment changing needs of the business and the Board Following their appointment in 2017, Sir Ian Chairman 80% of a full time position Nominations Committee will consider the Cheshire, Matthew Lester and Mike Turner Deputy At least 0.5 days a week balance of skills and experience of current CBE received induction programmes on Chairman Directors when considering a proposed joining the Board.
In line with normal practice, Senior As required to fulfil the role appointment.
they met with the Company Secretary, the Independent Each year we carry out an effectiveness review current non-executive Directors and members Director in order to evaluate our performance as a of the Group Executive Committee and certain Non- 30 days a year membership of Board, as well as the performance of each of other senior executives.
executive one Board Committee included, the Board Committees and individual Director increasing to 40 days a year Directors.
This annual review assesses if a member of two Board whether each of us continues to discharge Committees our respective duties and responsibilities Committee At least 60 days a year effectively and is considered when deciding Chairmen including non-executive whether individual Directors will offer Director time commitment themselves for election or re-election at the AGM.
More information on the 2017 Board effectiveness review can be found on page 78. home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 81 Governance: Directors report How we comply Risk management and internal Training and development Accountability In order to continue to contribute effectively control framework Risk Management and Internal Control The ERMF is the Groups internal control to Board and Board Committee meetings, The Directors are responsible for ensuring that Directors are regularly provided with the framework, which is refreshed annually.
management maintains an effective system There are eight Principal Risks under the opportunity to take part in ongoing training of risk management and internal control and and development and can also request ERMF: Credit risk, Market risk, Treasury and for assessing its effectiveness.
Such a system capital risk, Operational risk, Model risk, specific training that we may consider is designed to identify, evaluate and manage, necessary or useful.
As part of our annual Reputation risk, Conduct risk and Legal risk.
rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to performance review with the Chairman, we The BAC formally reviews the system of achieve business objectives and can only discuss any particular development needs that internal control and risk management provide reasonable and not absolute can be met through either formal training or annually.
Throughout the year ended assurance against material misstatement meeting with a particular senior executive.
In 31 December 2017 and to date, the Group or loss.
2017, Directors received ongoing training in has operated a system of internal control that relation to legal and regulatory developments, Barclays is committed to operating within a provides reasonable assurance of effective including in relation to the requirements of, strong system of internal control that enables operations covering all controls, including and responsibilities under, the UK Senior business to be transacted and risk taken financial and operational controls and Managers Regime.
without exposing itself to unacceptable compliance with laws and regulations.
potential losses or reputational damage.
Processes are in place for identifying, Conflicts of Interest Barclays has an overarching framework that evaluating and managing the Principal Risks In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 sets out the Groups approach to internal facing the Group in accordance with the and the Articles of Association the Board has governance, The Barclays Guide, which Guidance on Risk Management, Internal the authority to authorise conflicts of interest.
establishes the mechanisms and processes by Control and Related Financial and Business Directors are required to declare any potential which management implements the strategy Reporting published by the Financial or actual conflicts of interest that could set by the Board to direct the organisation, Reporting Council.
interfere with their ability to act in the best through setting the tone and expectations interests of the Group.
The Company The review of the effectiveness of the system from the top, delegating its authority and Secretary maintains a conflicts register, which of risk management and internal control is assessing compliance.
is a record of actual and potential conflicts, achieved through a four-step approach which A key component of The Barclays Guide is together with any Board authorisation of the is centred on reviewing the effectiveness of the Enterprise Risk Management Framework conflict.
The authorisations are for an The Barclays Guide and its component parts: ERMF.
The purpose of the ERMF is to indefinite period but are reviewed annually by 1.
Control meetings of the Business and identify and set minimum requirements in the Board Nominations Committee, which also Functional Executive Committees monitor, respect of the main risks to achieving the considers the effectiveness of the process for review and challenge the effective Groups strategic objectives and to provide authorising Directors conflicts of interest.
The operation of key risk management and reasonable assurance that internal controls Board retains the power to vary or terminate control processes, including the results of are effective.
The key elements of the Groups the authorisation at any time.
audits and reviews undertaken by BIA system of internal control, which is aligned to which include assessments of the Control the recommendations of The Committee of Information provided to the Board Environment and Management Control Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway The Role Profile for the Chairman, as set out in Approach and examinations and Commission, Internal Control Integrated our Charter of Expectations, confirms his assessments undertaken by our primary Framework 2013 COSO, are set out in the responsibility for ensuring that members of regulators, on an ongoing basis as part of risk control frameworks relating to each of the Board receive accurate, timely and the system of risk management and the Groups Principal Risks.
In particular, we internal control.
The remediation of issues as incorporating our internal requirements, require information about Barclays identified within the Control Environment these reflect material Group-wide legal and performance to enable us to take sound is regularly monitored by management and regulatory requirements relating to internal decisions, monitor effectively and provide the BAC.
advice to promote the success of the Company.
Working in collaboration with the 2.
Testing of the Control meetings, held by Effectiveness of internal controls Chairman, the Company Secretary is the Executive Committees, provides Key controls are assessed on a regular basis responsible for ensuring good governance and assurance that the committees are for both design and operating effectiveness.
consults Directors to ensure that good effectively overseeing the Control Issues arising out of business risk and control information flows exist and that the Board Environment and associated risk assessments and other internal and external receives the information it requires in order to management and internal control sources are examined to identify pervasive be effective.
Where appropriate, control issues are Throughout the year both the executive 3.
The owners of the key governance reported to the Board Audit Committee BAC.
processes which comprise The Barclays Directors and senior executives keep the In addition, the BAC receives regular reports Board informed of key developments in the Guide undertake a review to confirm that from management, Barclays Internal Audit processes have been implemented.
business through regular reports and updates.
BIA and the Finance, Compliance and Legal These are in addition to the presentations that functions covering, in particular, financial 4.
The annual review of the system of risk the Board and Board Committees receive as controls, compliance and other operational management and internal control brings part of their formal meetings.
together the results of the activities able to seek independent and professional completed in steps 1 to 3 to ensure that advice at Barclays expense, if required, to each of the key processes has been enable Directors to fulfil their obligations as effectively reviewed.
82 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Internal control systems, no matter how well Regular reports are made to the Board covering risks of Group-level significance.
designed, have inherent limitations and may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, The Board Risk Committee and the Board Reputation Committee examine reports projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that covering the Principal Risks as well as reports on risk measurement methodologies and risk internal controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the appetite.
Further details of risk management procedures and potential risk factors are given degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
in the Risk review and risk management sections on pages 117 to 204.
Management has assessed the internal control over financial reporting as of Controls over financial reporting 31 December 2017.
In making its assessment, A framework of disclosure controls and management utilised the criteria set out in the procedures is in place to support the approval 2013 COSO framework and concluded that, of the Groups financial statements.
Specific based on its assessment, the internal control governance committees are responsible for over financial reporting was effective as of examining the Groups financial reports and 31 December 2017. disclosures to ensure that they have been The system of internal financial and subject to adequate verification and comply with applicable standards and legislation.
operational controls is also subject to regulatory oversight in the UK and overseas.
These committees report their conclusions to the BAC which debates its conclusions and Further information on supervision by the financial services regulators is provided under provides further challenge.
Finally, the Board scrutinises and approves results Supervision and Regulation in the Risk review announcements and the Annual Report, and section on pages 197 to 204. ensures that appropriate disclosures have been made.
This governance process ensures Changes in internal control over that both management and the Board are financial reporting given sufficient opportunity to debate and There have been no changes in the Groups challenge the Groups financial statements internal control over financial reporting that and other significant disclosures before they occurred during the period covered by this are made public.
report which have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect the Managements report on internal control Groups internal control over financial over financial reporting reporting.
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control Remuneration over financial reporting.
Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed under The Board has delegated responsibility for the supervision of the principal executive and the consideration and approval of the principal financial officers to provide remuneration arrangements of the Chairman, reasonable assurance regarding the reliability executive Directors, other senior executives of financial reporting and the preparation of and certain Group employees to the Board financial statements for external reporting Remuneration Committee.
The Board as a purposes in accordance with International whole, with the non-executive Directors Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as abstaining, considers annually the fees paid adopted by the European Union and issued by to non-executive Directors.
Information on the International Accounting Standards Board the activities of the Board Remuneration IASB.
Internal control over financial reporting Committee in 2017 can be found in the includes policies and procedures that pertain Remuneration report on pages 93 to 116, to the maintenance of records that, in which forms part of the corporate governance reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect statement.
transactions and dispositions of assets: provide reasonable assurances that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS and that receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorisations of management and the respective Directors: and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition of assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 83 Governance: Directors report How we comply Stakeholder engagement Investor Engagement quarterly breakfast briefing for sellside home.
Voting on the analysts, with a transcript of the discussions resolutions will again be by poll and the The Board is committed to promoting effective channels of communication with uploaded to our website.
For fixed income results will be announced via the Regulatory investors we held conference calls at our full News Service and made available on our our shareholders and upholding good corporate governance as a means of building year and half year results, hosted by our website on the same day.
We encourage any Group Finance Director and Group Treasurer.
shareholders who are unable to attend on stronger and more engaged relationships with them.
Our comprehensive Investor the day to vote in advance of the meeting via The Investor Relations section of our website home.
barclays investorrelations vote or Relations engagement with the market helps is an important communication channel that us to understand investor views about through Shareview www.
enables the effective distribution of Barclays, which are communicated regularly information to the market in a clear and to the Board.
Executive management communication guidelines, which underpin presentations, speeches and, where possible, 2017 engagement timeline all investor engagement, are available on our webcast replays are uploaded to our website website at home.
Reporting events Stakeholder engagement Institutional Investors Private Shareholders Q1 Corporate Governance In 2017, our Investor Relations engagement engagement ahead of During 2017, we continued to communicate with institutional investors took place 2017 AGM with our private shareholders through our throughout the year, both following our shareholder mailings.
Shareholders can also quarterly results as well as outside of the choose to sign up to Shareview so that they reporting cycle.
This allowed the opportunity 2016 full year results 2016 full year receive information about Barclays and their for existing and potential new investors to results presentation shareholding directly by email.
On a practical and fixed income engage with Barclays regularly, promoting level, over 60,000 shareholders did not cash conference call dialogue on longer-term strategic webcast their Shares Not Taken Up SNTU cheque developments as well as on the recent following the Rights Issue in September financial performance of the Group.
In 2017, we continued the tracing Analyst briefing on 2016 results The Directors, in conjunction with the senior process to reunite these shareholders with executive team and Investor Relations, their SNTU monies and any unclaimed dividends and by the end of the year, we had participated in varied forms of engagement, Q2 including investor meetings, seminars and returned approximately 200,000 to our shareholders, in addition to the 1.65m conferences across many geographic locations, reflecting the diverse nature of our returned in 2016 and 2.2m in 2015.
Each Q1 2017 results Q1 2017 results year we launch a Share Dealing Service equity and debt institutional ownership.
announcement conference call Divisional management also presented aimed at shareholders with relatively small webcast shareholdings for whom it might otherwise extensively to investors, promoting greater awareness and understanding of our be uneconomical to deal.
One option open to Analyst briefing on shareholders is to donate their sale proceeds operating businesses.
As a result of this initiative, During 2017, discussions with investors were more than 61,000 was donated in 2017, 2017 AGM focused on the completion of our taking the total donated since 2015 to over restructuring, including the sell down of our 299,000. interest in Barclays Africa Group Limited to 14.9% and the closure of Non-Core in June, Q3 Our AGM Corporate Governance as well as our revised Group financial targets The Board and the senior executive team engagement ahead of and our plans to achieve them within the continue to consider our AGM as a key date 2018 AGM specified timelines.
Investors were also kept for shareholder engagement.
The AGM informed about progress on structural provides us with our main opportunity to 2017 half year results 2017 half full year reform, in particular the set up of the UK engage with shareholders, particularly our announcement results and fixed ring-fenced bank, which we expect to take income conference private shareholders, on the key issues facing place in the second quarter of 2018. call webcast the Group and any questions they may have.
A number of Directors, including the Investor meetings focused on corporate governance also took place throughout the Chairman, were available for informal Analyst briefing on 2017 half year discussion either before or after the meeting.
year, with the Chairman, Senior Independent results Director, other Board representatives and the All resolutions proposed at the 2017 AGM, which were considered on a poll, were Company Secretary.
passed with votes For ranging from 85.67% Q4 We held conference calls webcasts for our to 99.95% of the total votes cast.
quarterly results briefings and an in-person presentation for our 2016 full year results in The 2018 AGM will be held on Tuesday March 2017, all hosted by the Group Chief 1 May 2018 at the QEII Conference Centre in Q3 2017 results Q3 2017 results announcement conference call Executive and Group Finance Director.
The Notice of AGM can be found in webcast addition, the Group Finance Director held a a separate document, which is sent out at least 20 working days before the AGM and also made available at Analyst briefing on Q3 2017 results 84 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
