Business structure Our enhanced structure empowers our business model Products and services designed for our larger In 2017, Barclays made significant progress corporate, wholesale and international banking reorganising the business to enable a sharper focus clients will continue to be offered by Barclays International from within Barclays Bank PLC.
on our strengths as a transatlantic consumer and Barclays Bank UK PLC and Barclays Bank PLC wholesale bank with global reach.
will operate alongside, but independently from one another as part of the Barclays Group under the listed entity, Barclays PLC.
In September 2017, in preparation for the separation of the Barclays UK business into its separate legal entity, we created our Group Service Company, Barclays Services Limited, as a subsidiary of Barclays PLC.
The Group Service Company will deliver critical infrastructure services to businesses within the Barclays Group and will enhance operational continuity In March 2016, we announced our intention for our business units, facilitating the execution to operate through two principal business Barclays Bank UK PLC and of recovery and resolution plans in the event of divisions: Barclays UK and Barclays Barclays Bank PLC will operate financial difficulty.
It will also become a centre International.
As well as accelerating the of excellence for services required by the alongside, but independently delivery of our strategy, this change helped business, such as fraud management and enable Barclays to fulfil the requirements of from one another.
cyber security, reducing duplication and our UK regulators in regard to ring-fencing.
promoting best practice across our businesses.
Ring-fencing of essential retail banking Both Barclays UK and Barclays International The new organisational structure, illustrated services is one of the reforms introduced by currently operate within the legal entity of below, brings complementary businesses the UK government to strengthen the UK Barclays Bank PLC.
Barclays UK offers everyday more closely together: creates an enhanced financial system following the financial crisis products and services to retail and consumer focus on our client proposition and offering that began in 2007.
It requires the larger UK customers and small to medium sized across all target sectors: and, through the high street banks, including Barclays, to enterprises based in the UK, and Barclays creation of the new Group Service Company, separate certain retail and smaller corporate International delivers products and services establishes a centre of service excellence that banking activity and products, like savings designed for our larger corporate, wholesale will drive efficiency and increase the Groups accounts, current accounts and payments, and international banking clients.
from more complex, wholesale and first half of 2018, we will formally separate the investment banking activity and from certain Further information on Structural Barclays UK division into a new legal entity activities outside of the UK and European Reform can be found on page 204.
Barclays Bank UK PLC which will become Economic Area.
This separation must be Illustrative unaudited pro-forma our UK ring-fenced bank, subject to court and completed by 1 January 2019. financials for Barclays Bank UK PLC and regulatory approvals.
Barclays Bank PLC are available at home.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Barclays Bank PLC Barclays International Barclays Services Limited Group Service Company Barclays Bank UK PLC Barclays UK Ring-Fenced Bank 08 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
