E S I M I X A M T R A N S 14 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our next chapter Transforming the Group for success in a digital world Our new strategy will enable us to seize new opportunities by building on our existing competitive advantages.
The transformation planned will ensure we become a digitised, simple, low risk, customer focused, UK financial services provider.
OUR PURPOSE Helping Britain Prosper OUR AIM Best bank for customers, colleagues and shareholders OUR BUSINESS MODEL Digitised, simple, low risk, customer focused, UK financial services provider Our strategic priorities Leading customer experience Driving stronger customer relationships through best-in-class propositions while continuing to provide our customers with brilliant servicing and a seamless experience across all channels.
Digitising the Group Deploying new technology to improve our efficiency LEADING and make banking simpler and easier for customers.
CUSTOMER Maximising the Groups capabilities EXPERIENCE Aligning the Groups capabilities as the sole UK banking and insurance provider to deepen customer relationships and grow in targeted segments.
Transforming ways of working Enhancing colleague skills and processes, investing in agile working practices and embracing new technology to drive better outcomes for customers.
Enhancing our competitive strengths Differentiated Market leading Largest digital Prudent, low risk Rigorous execution multi-brand, efficiency through bank, branch reach participation and management multi-channel tech-enabled and customer choices with strong discipline focusing propositions productivity franchise with capitalposition on key skills of with data-driven improvements leading integrated the future customerexperience propositions Aiming to deliver for our stakeholders Customers Colleagues Shareholders Market leading digital proposition with UKs Evolved culture Sustainable and low risk growth largest branch network Transformed ways of working Market leading efficiency Single home for our customers banking Enhanced colleague skills and capabilities Superior returns and lower cost ofequity and insurance needs Compelling colleague proposition Strong capital generation and attractive Personalised customer propositions distribution policy Better experience across channels For more about our 2018 2020 For more about our purpose strategic priorities see pages 1517 see pages 2021 F O R M E S I T I G I D Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 15 Leading customer experience Why this is important Key objectives for 2020 In order to be the best bank for customers, To achieve our aim of being best bank for we recognise that we must continue to customers, we will deliver best-in-class adapt to changes in customer behaviour, propositions while continuing to provide technology-driven competition and our customers with brilliant servicing and a regulation.
Our propositions must be seamless experience across all our channels.
reflective of heightened customer Remain number 1 UK digital bank with open expectations for ease of access, banking functionality personalisation and relevance, as well as the Unrivalled reach with UKs largest branch needs created by changing life patterns.
network, serving complex needs Data-driven and personalised customerpropositions Tailoring our multi-channel approach Building a market leading digital experience We will build on the strength of our multiThe recent introduction of open banking channel model by responding to the evolving regulation has provided an opportunity to ways in which our customers are choosing to enhance our propositions and engage our interact with us, ensuring that they continue to customers in new ways, whilst keeping them benefit from seamless multi-channel services safe.
We are the largest digital bank in the UK in a way that best fits their needs.
and aim to build on this position by creating a market leading digital financial services Our customers are increasingly choosing experience with open banking functionality.
digital channels to meet their simple banking Indoing this, we recognise that customers want needs.
We will therefore continue to invest in to be in control of their finances in a secure and the development of new digital technologies, trusted way.
to enable the delivery of best-in-class selfserve functionality for these simpler needs.
Personalising our customer propositions We will also provide new customer tools to As the UKs largest banking franchise, we increase confidence and trust in using our willinvest in developing our data capabilities, digital channels.
withthe aim of delivering more personalised and data-driven propositions and services for While basic transaction volumes within ourcustomers.
branches continue to decline, there remains strong demand for face-to-face interaction for more complex needs and advice.
We will therefore maintain our leading branch marketshare.
As part of this approach, we will tailor the format of our branches to the needs of the customers and communities they serve.
16 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Digitising Maximising the Group the Groups capabilities Why this is important Key objectives for 2020 Why this is important Our market leading cost position and By digitising the Group, we are expecting To better address our customers banking customer franchise are sources of to transform our cost base as well as the and insurance needs as an integrated competitive advantage.
However, we must experience of our customers and colleagues.
financial services provider and improve their not be complacent and must further digitise overall experience, we will make better use of Deeper end-to-end transformation the Group to drive additional operational our competitive Group strengths and unique targeting 70 per cent of our cost base efficiencies, improve the experience of our business model.
Simplification and progressive customers and colleagues and allow us to invest more for the future.
In addition, we modernisation of our data and ITinfrastructure must continue to simplify and progressively transform our IT architecture in order to Technology enabled productivity use data more efficiently, enhance our improvements across the business multichannel customer engagement and create a scalable and resilient infrastructure.
Broadening the digital transformation of Leveraging new technologies Opportunties exist across the Group with our processes To support our transformation and deliver those in financial planning and retirement Over the past three years we have transformed further efficiency savings, we will simplify and and Commercial Banking described in further a number of key customer journeys on an modernise our IT architecture while deploying detail below.
This has led to significant new technologies such as cloud computing to Meeting our customers growing improvements in the experience of our enhance our capabilities and increase resilience.
financialplanning and retirement needs customers, as well as delivering significant To generate additional efficiencies and The ageing population and recent regulatory operational efficiencies.
Looking ahead, we will improve customer experiences we will also changes are leading to greater customer materially scale-up our transformation, going increase our use of machine learning and demand for long-term savings and investment deeper in the transformation of the customer cognitive engines, such as chatbots to help products as well as for high quality, low cost journeys we have already addressed to cover both colleagues and customers.
To enable us advice and personalised solutions.
additional brands and segments, as well as to tailor our propositions to our customers more activities along the value chain.
Given our business model, comprising banking specific needs, we will need to be able to and insurance operations and leading digital Over the next three years we will also bring a access customer data more effectively.
We will capabilities, we are uniquely positioned to number of new customer journeys into scope therefore invest to create a single, scalable and respond to this demand.
We are therefore for transformation as well as a number of our modern data platform through which this data aiming to capture the significant opportunity internal processes, or enterprise journeys, can be accessed more easily.
This will enable arising from the growing financial planning within our central functions.
us to provide personalised experiences based and retirement market.
We recognise that on deeper insight and analysis, greater security Overall, we expect this next phase of our customer needs vary and will offer a range and resilience as well as enabling further digital transformation to lead to a better of solutions from an execution only level of innovation to our platforms.
experience for our customers and colleagues service to full specialist advice, ensuring that as well as improvements to risk management our customers enjoy a seamless experience and the resilience of our business.
In addition, regardless of the channels they use.
Given our we expect to achieve further structural wealth of customer data and the investment efficiency gains, which will enable us to we are making in technology, we will be able to maintain our competitive advantage and offer a single customer view capability across compete with emerging new competitors, our customers financial holdings, including including digital disruptors.
Inaddition, we will seek to capture the significant opportunities arising from auto-enrolment and the increased demand for digitised service.
We will therefore strengthen our corporate pensions proposition, leveraging our existing commercial banking relationships and the enhanced capabilities that we will gain through Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 17 Transforming ways of working Key objectives for 2020 Why this is important Key objectives for 2020 By maximising the Groups capabilities and Our colleagues are crucial to the success We are making our biggest ever investment sources of competitive advantage more of our business.
In order to deliver our in people and by transforming our ways of effectively, we expect to deepen customer transformation over the next three years, and working, we are aiming to achieve a culture relationships and grow in targeted segments.
beyond, our colleagues will require new skills of inclusiveness and collaboration, while also and capabilities to reflect the changing needs upskilling our colleagues for future needs and 50 billion financial planning and of the business as it adapts to the evolving new career paths.
retirement open book assets under operating environment.
At the same time, administration growth 50 per cent increase in training and colleague expectations of their employers development to 4.4 million hours per annum 1 million new pensions customers are changing.
As a result, we must devise solutions to continue to attract, develop Up to 30 per cent change efficiency 6 billion of additional net lending to improvement and retain these skills and capabilities, while startups, SMEs and Mid Markets fostering a culture that supports a way of working that is agile, trust-based and reinforces the Groups values.
the acquisition of Zurichs UK workplace Transforming our approach to people Developing a compelling colleague pensions business.
To access faster growing To develop the new set of skills and capabilities proposition segments and improve customer experience, we will need our colleagues to have in the In order to attract, develop and retain the we will enhance our distribution model across future, we will launch a significant upskilling skills we need in the future as well as embed both intermediary and direct channels.
programme, using new technologies and our desired culture, we will also make a tailored content to deliver appropriate training number of positive changes to the processes, Transforming our Commercial Banking in the most efficient way.
For certain skills, we systems and the physical environment proposition will need to recruit externally, with a number that directly affect our colleagues.
This will We will strengthen our simple, low risk and of these future requirements relating to very include the simplification of the organisation relationshipled Commercial Banking offering specific technical capabilities that are in short to make it less hierarchical, providing our to reflect our clients evolving expectations supply in the market, and for which there will be colleagues with clearer career paths, more as a result of the continued innovation in intense competition.
We will therefore transform flexibility and greater mobility across the ourbusiness.
our recruitment and onboarding processes, Group.
Other initiatives to support this aim while also developing a compelling colleague include improvements to our performance We will enhance our digital capabilities to proposition and building on the strength of the management process to create a better enable our clients to selfserve their simpler Groups brands to attract future employees.
balance between past performance banking needs while ensuring that they evaluationand future development.
continue to have relationship manager support In addition to meeting our future skills for their more complex needs.
requirements, we will seek to achieve a shift in the Groups culture to ensure our values and We will develop these enhancements to behaviours around simplicity, collaboration, our client offering according to the specific agility and trust are fully embedded.
As needs of our different client segments, with part of this, we will change the way that we the expectation of achieving growth in our communicate with our colleagues to increase SME and Mid Markets client segments and engagement and will develop our leaders as deepening our relationships with our Global role models for the required change.
Corporate and Financial Institutions clients.
Through this approach, we will improve the Adopting new ways of working and an agile customer experience by shortening the approach to change time clients have to wait for simple banking In order to deliver the digital transformation decisions and broadening our product range.
of the Group more effectively and efficiently, At the same time, the role of our relationship we will embrace new ways of working, managers will evolve, with better access to including automated software engineering data, new digital tools and analytics.
These will processes and agile change methodologies enable them to create more value in strategic that will improve our responsiveness to conversations with their clients.
To foster greater collaboration and innovation, we will also colocate our change teams whereappropriate.
