Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Key performance indicators A holistic approach to measuring success trategic nonfinancial perforance easures Our approach reflects the wa in which anageent Non-financial measures are an important onitors the perforance of the roup, allows for a element of how we evaluate our progress towards achieving our ambition of delivering a holistic assessent and sets out our progress towards sustainable business for all our stakeholders.
We the strategic goals of the organisation focus on the impact we have on our customers and clients, colleagues, and the benefit we bring to society via our citizenship activity.
These incorporating a broad range of financial and measures are underpinned by how we behave nonfinancial easures, our fraework is focused on towards all our stakeholders, through our conduct and our culture.
To assess our achieing positie and sustainable outcoes for our performance, progress towards delivering dierse group of stakeholders, and influences incentie positive outcomes for our stakeholders is informed by a number of sources including outcoes for arclas eploees internal dashboards, regular management reporting and external measures, to help provide Read more on our remuneration framework in the Remuneration Report a balanced review of performance.
We have a range of policies and guidance that can support our key outcomes for our customers and clients, colleagues and Approach and goernance Financial performance metrics citizenship activity.
Performance against our Perforance Measureent The financial metrics are aligned to Barclays PLC strategic non-financial performance measures is In the 2016 Barclays Annual Report, we Group financial targets, updated in 317, and one indicator of the effectiveness and outcome introduced our revised performance are reported quarterly as part of our financial of aspects of certain policies and guidance.
Our measurement framework to assess progress results.
Achieving our targets is consistent with policies and guidance are refreshed regularly.
For against our strategy, across our diverse our aim of generating long-term sustainable further details, please see our Customer and stakeholder groups.
The framework reflects a returns for the shareholders of Barclays PLC Client, Colleague and Citizenship sections.
balance of key financial performance metrics Group.
and broader strategic non-financial measures.
arclas PLC roup Perforance Measureent raework Financial performance metrics roup RoT 9% in 2019 10% in 2020 CT ratio 150-200 bps above the end point regulatory minimum level roup costs 13.6 13.9bn in 2019 Tar geting cost: income ratio below 60 excluding litigation and conduct, and based on a CET1 ratio of c. 13 excluding litigation and conduct trategic nonfinancial perforance easures Delivering positive outcomes for our stakeholders Custoer and Client Colleague Citizenship Building trust with our customers Promoting and maintaining:Making decisions and doing and clients, such that they are business that provides our clients, A diverse and inclusive workforce in happy to recommend us to others customers, shareholders, which colleagues of all backgrounds colleagues and the communities Successfully innovating are treated equally and have the which we serve with access to a and developing products and opportunity to be successful and prosperous future, through our services that meet their needs achieve their potential Shared Growth Ambition Offering suitable products and Engaged and enabled colleagues Proactively managing the services in an accessible way, A positive conduct and valuesenvironmental and societal ensuring excellent customer and based environment impacts of our business client experience Underpinned by how we behave towards all our stakeholders through our conduct and culture home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 15 Key performance indicators A holistic approach to measuring success Approach and goernance Reuneration The ratio expresses Barclays capital as a Financial performance metrics Performance against our financial metrics and percentage of risk weighted assets RWAs, as strategic non-financial performance measures defined by the PRA, in the context of Capital e outcoes we will look to achiee include is directly linked to executive remuneration, Requirements Directive I CRD I an EU Achieving our financial targets, consistent and also influences incentive outcomes for directive prescribing capital adequacy and with our aim of generating long-term Barclays employees more broadly.
This liquidity requirements, and is part of the sustainable returns for the shareholders of approach supports us in our work to deliver regulatory framework governing how banks Barclays PLC Group.
positive outcomes for all our stakeholders.
and depository institutions are supervised.
Please refer to the Remuneration Report on How we easure success Barclays views operating expenses as a key pages 93 to 116 for further information.
strategic area for banks: those which actively The financial performance metrics are aligned to Barclays PLC Group financial targets, manage costs and control them effectively will gain a strong competitive advantage.
updated in 317: Restructuring the cost base is a key execution Group Return on Tangible Equity RoTE of priority for management and includes a greater than 9% in 2019 and greater than review of all categories of discretionary 10 in 2020, excluding litigation and spending and an analysis of how we can run conduct, and based on a CET1 ratio of c. 13 the business to ensure that costs increase at a CET1 ratio of 150200 bps above the end slower rate than income.
point regulatory minimum level The cost: income ratio measures operating Group costs, excluding litigation and expenses as a percentage of total income and conduct, of 13.613.9bn in 2019, and to is used to assess the productivity of the have a target cost: income ratio below 60 business operations.
How we are doing RoTE measures our ability to generate pdating the Return on Tangible uit etric acceptable returns for shareholders.
It is Significant strategic progress was made in roup Return on Tangible uit calculated as profit after tax attributable to 2017 with the closure of Non-Core and sell ordinary shareholders, including an adjustment down of our stake in Barclays Africa, marking 3.6 % 2016 3.6 for the tax credit recorded in reserves in respect the completion of our restructuring.
of other equity instruments, as a proportion of Coon uit Tier CT ratio With the closure of Non-Core, we no longer average shareholders equity excluding have a Core and Non-Core distinction within non-controlling interests and other equity the Group, and hence our prior target of 13.3% 2016 12.4 instruments adjusted for the deduction of Group RoTE to converge with Core RoTE no intangible assets and goodwill.
The RoTE target has been Cost ncoe ratio This measure indicates the return generated updated to reflect our commitment to by the management of the business based on continuing to execute at pace against our plan 73% 2016 76 and we are confident in asserting when shareholders tangible equity.
Achieving a target RoTE demonstrates the organisations Barclays will start to deliver the economic Operating xpenses performance that the Group is capable of.
ability to execute its strategy and align managements interests with the 14.2bn 2016 15.0bn How we are doing shareholders.
RoTE lies at the heart of the Groups capital allocation and performance roup Return on Tangible uit excluding litigation and conduct 2017 reflected a number of one-off items management process.
including losses related to the sell down of The CET1 ratio is a measure of the capital BAGL of 2.5bn and a net charge of 0.9bn strength and resilience of Barclays.
The Groups due to the re-measurement of US DTAs in capital management objective is to maximise 417, as well as litigation and conduct of shareholder value by prudently managing the 1.2bn.
These items drove a Group RoTE of level and mix of its capital.
This is to ensure the negative 3.6 2016: positive 3.6.
Group and all of its subsidiaries are Excluding these material items, Group RoTE appropriately capitalised relative to their was 5.6. minimum regulatory and stressed capital requirements, and to support the Groups risk appetite, growth, and strategic options while seeking to maintain a robust credit proposition for the Group and its subsidiaries.
16 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Colleague: We remain focused on increasing the diversity of our workforce and continuing to build an inclusive culture.
We are proud of the progress we have made on the multicultural, multigenerational, LGBT and Disability pillars, and we continue to receive external recognition for our diversity and inclusion work.
We also continue to focus on the positive engagement of our workforce, and are encouraged to see a 3 point improvement in our annual employee engagement survey score.
Citizenship: We are conscious of our wider stakeholders and the communities in which we operate and have performed well against our citizenship agenda, meeting our internal objectives on all six of our Shared Growth Ambition metrics.
Areas of continued focus Customer and Client: Further transformation of our customer and client experience remains a key priority for Barclays, particularly as customer and client expectations continue to CRD full loaded CT ratio evolve rapidly.
Although we are encouraged by trategic nonfinancial The Groups CRD I fully loaded CET1 ratio the reductions in the number of complaints perforance easures increased to 13.3 2016: 12.4 driven by a we received in 2017, this remains an ongoing decrease in RWAs of 53bn to 313bn, which area of focus for management and the Board.
was partially offset by a reduction in CET1 Colleague: Our commitment to increasing capital to 41.6bn 2016: 45.2bn.
The 90bps How we are doing suar female representation at all levels of Barclays We assess progress towards the delivery of improvement was driven by organic capital remains firm.
Although we have achieved an generation from continuing operations, the positive outcomes our customers and clients increase in the percentage of women at our page 18, colleagues page 19, and benefit of the proportional consolidation of a Managing Director and Director levels, we BAGL and the rundown of Non-Core, partially citizenship activity page 21, all underpinned recognise that there is still progress to be by conduct and culture.
offset by an adverse movement in reserves made regarding senior female representation.
and the net impact of the re-measurement of In addition, although we have made progress, Areas of encourageent US DTAs.
we recognise there is still more to do to Customer and Client: In 2017, we continued to further reduce obstacles to efficiency and focus on delivering excellent customer and Operating expenses and Cost incoe ratio enable our colleagues to achieve excellent Group operating expenses were 15.5bn client experience, by offering products and performance.
We remain committed to driving services to meet their needs in an appropriate 2016: 16.3bn.
Excluding litigation and the right culture throughout all levels of the conduct charges, Group operating expenses and accessible way.
We are encouraged by the organisation and continuing to enhance the performance of our Relationship Net Promoter were 14.2bn 2016: 15.0bn, in line with effective management of Conduct Risk.
The reduction in operating Scores NPS, while our client ranking and market share indicators remained broadly expenses was primarily driven by lower Citizenship: We have made good progress in Non-Core related operating expenses.
stable across many of our international delivering access to sustainable finance and business areas, which we believe reflect the developing new green products.
We see The Group cost: income ratio was 73 2016: relevance of our customer and client further opportunity in this space and are 76. proposition.
Digital solutions can enable a working to develop broader sustainability and For further information on the financial convenient and secure everyday banking sensitive sector guidelines.
In addition, we experience for customers and clients, and we performance of the Group, please see continue to focus on enhancing disclosures, page 47. believe this is reflected in a 7 year on year particularly on climate change, and improving increase in the number of Barclays UK our Environmental, Social and Governance customers using our digital services.
ESG ratings and benchmark scores on an absolute and relative basis.
Net Promoter, Net Promoter System, Net Promoter Score, NPS and the NPS-related emoticons are registered trademarks of Bain Company, Inc. Fred Reichheld and Satmetrix Systems, Inc. Notes a 2016 restated on an ex-Africa basis home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 17 Key performance indicators A holistic approach to measuring success Client rankings and market shares Digital engagement Custoer and Client With the repositioning of the Corporate and Digital solutions can enable a convenient and Investment Bank largely completed in 2017, we secure everyday banking experience and over e outcoes we will look to achiee include believe the business is well-positioned to 10 million customers and clients in the UK are Building trust with our customers and deliver for our clients in our two home markets.
using our digital services on a regular basis clients, such that they are happy to Our Corporate and Investment Bank achieved a 2016: nearly 9.5m.
Barclays Mobile Banking recommend us to others 6th place ranking by fee share 2016: 5th in has now been chosen by 5.5 million customers Successfully innovating and developing our UK and US home markets across MA, as a bank in their pocket, to access key services products and services that meet their needs equity and debt capital markets, and whenever and wherever they need them.
syndicated loan transactions, and we were Offering suitable products and services in We are also mindful that while we have highly encouraged by the 1st place ranking in an accessible way, ensuring excellent customers who fully embrace digital channels, the UK Dealogic.
In 2017 Barclays ranked 4th, customer and client experience we serve a wide customer base.
We continue based on Global Fixed Income market share to work alongside communities to help our Greenwich Associates, unchanged from 2016.
How we easure success customers feel comfortable in the digital 88 of our largest UK corporate clients Measures used in our evaluation include, environment and we also launched our Digital considered the service they receive from but are not limited to: Safety campaign which aims to heighten Barclays to be good, very good or excellent, a Net Promoter Scores NPS awareness and educate our customers on the b 2 point decrease on 2016 Charterhouse.
Client rankings and market shares risks posed by cyber crime.
We also processed more than a third of all card Lending volumes provided to customers payments made in the UK.
In 2017, Barclaycard US customers logged into and clients our website and mobile apps over 230 million Digital engagement Please refer to the Consumer, Cards and times, up 12 on 2016.
Of our over 8 million Complaints performance Payments section on page 33 for digitally active customers in Barclaycard US, Conduct indicators further information on our market 57 are mobile active and they expect instant, presence across our international businesses.
relevant and safe access to their most important banking needs including account How we are doing Lending volumes provided to customers management, rewards, and payments.
In 2017, Areas of encourageent and clients a we continued to leverage consumer insights Net Promoter Scores NPS Barclays continues to be an important provider and feedback to build innovative experiences Improvements to our customer experience of financial services to UK businesses.
We for our customers as evidenced by our 3rd and customer value proposition, as well as our provided around 66bn of lending, down 6 place in the JD Power 2017 Mobile Banking campaign to educate customers about how on 2016, as we continued to exert high levels of Credit Card evaluation and the launch of our they can take steps to protect themselves discipline in capital allocation decisions to mobile-first Uber co-branded credit card.
See from fraud, have all contributed to customers strengthen the long-term sustainability of the our case study on Uber on page 34. advocating our brand.
Barclays Relationship business for all our stakeholders.
We continue NPS ended the year with an improved score c to support UK SME customers in achieving Areas of continued focus of 14 2016: 10, while Barclaycard UK their ambitions, with new lending of 2.8bn Complaints performance Relationship NPS remained relatively flat year 2016: 2.5bn.
We also extended or renewed In Barclays UK, we continue to focus on on year with a score of 9 2016:7.
Our mortgage facilities worth nearly 20bn 2016: customer journeys and our underlying Barclaycard International business also nearly 19bn to nearly 88,000 UK households.
complaint volumes Barclays UK, excluding continued to perform well on Relationship Our Mortgage business continued to focus on PPI reduced 13 year on year, however we NPS, supported by a continued focus on enhancing the customer experience, with have seen a small increase in PPI complaints d customers and improvements in our products Barclays winning eight awards in 2017. up 2 year on year driven largely, we and digital experiences.
believe, by the FCA deadline announcement.
Barclays UK complaint volumes, including PPI, e were down 7% year on year.
Barclays International complaints reduced by 19% year on year, largely driven by a strong Notes performance in the Barclaycard US business, a NPS measures customer experience and facilitates benchmarking.
It is widely used in banking and other industries.
as we continued our focus on improving In this reporting year, the basis of Barclays Relationship NPS has been revised from a 3 month rolling average to a 12 customer experience.
Complaints reduction month rolling average, to reduce fluctuations in the data.
On a 3 month rolling average basis we reported Barclays Relationship NPS of 13 in 2016, which remained unchanged at 13 in 2017. remains a priority across the Group and, Source: GfK FRS, 12 months ending December 2017.
Adults interviewed: 8,568 Barclays main Current Account despite improvement in 2017, we have more holders Barclays Relationship NPS, and 4,754 Barclays main Credit Card holders Barclaycard UK Relationship NPS.
work to do, as can be seen from our position b Charterhouse Research Business Banking survey: 820 interviews with businesses in the UK, turning over 25m-1bn in the H1 2017 FCA complaints tables in the year end 2017.
Data is weighted by region and turnover to be representative of the UK business market.
Share-based f on bank named as main bank.
c SME Customers reflects our Business Banking customers.
In 2016, we reported on UK SME lending across Barclays according to the UK Finance definition of SME 2016: just over 3.6bn.
Business Banking has now been established as part of Barclays UK and we believe that moving to report on this basis ensures we provide strategic clarity, while continuing to cover the majority of customers who would be classified as SMEs.
d Best Lender for first-time buyers with family support Moneywise : Best Lender for Large loans Moneywise : Best Online Lender What Mortgage : Best Help to Buy Mortgage LenderEquity Loan What Mortgage : Best Intermediary Lender Mortgage Finance Gazette : Best Overall Lender Mortgage Finance Gazette : Best National Bank Mortgage Finance Gazette : Best Large Loans Mortgage Lender our Mortgage e In 2016 we reported complaint volumes for Barclays UK which reflected total UK FCA reportable complaints including complaints which now sit within Barclays International.
Following preparation for the formal separation of the Barclays UK division into a new legal entity we are now able to accurately split UK FCA Complaints between our Barclays UK and Barclays International divisions.
f For further information on Barclays complaint volumes, the FCA publishes firm-level complaints data on their website 18 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information We therefore remain focused on areas We are proud of our achievements in 2017, Colleague requiring our attention including, for example, across the following pillars of our global the recent issues we have experienced with Diversity and Inclusion strategy: e outcoes we will look to achiee include our Smart Investor proposition, and we are LGBT: Our Spectrum Allies programme is Prooting and aintaining working to improve our service as a result of A diverse and inclusive workforce in which growing, with an estimated over 8,000 customer feedback.
colleagues 2016: over 7,000, who have employees of all backgrounds are treated equally and have the opportunity to be pledged to challenge homophobia, biphobia In 2017, Barclaycard US and transphobia and provide support to LGBT successful and achieve their potential colleagues.
Engaged and enabled colleagues customers logged into our Disability: This year, alongside PwC, we have A positive conduct and values-based culture website and mobile apps over further scaled the This is Me in the City 230 million times.
initiative along with the Lord Mayor of the City How we easure success of London.
Measures used in our ealuation include, but are not liited to Multicultural: The number of apprentices who Conduct indicatorsidentify as Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic Diversity and Inclusion statistics Barclays has operated at the overall set was 19 in 2017 2016: 30, 8 points Employee sustainable engagement survey tolerance for Conduct Risk throughout 2017. above the national apprenticeship average.
scores The tolerance is assessed by the business Multigenerational: Since the Barclays Armed Conduct and culture measures through Key Indicators which are aggregated Forces Transition, Employment and and provide an overall rating which is reported Resettlement AFTER programme began in to the Board Reputation Committee as part of How we are doing 2010, the programme has assisted over 5,500 the Conduct Dashboard.
veterans in employment transition and since Areas of encourageent We remain focused on the continuous A diverse and inclusive workforce 2013 we have hired over 500 ex-military improvement being made to manage Conduct personnel 2016: nearly 400.
We remain focused on increasing the diversity Risk effectively, with an emphasis on of our workforce and continuing to build an Our Dynamic Working campaign is relevant to enhancing governance and management inclusive culture.
In 2017, we have placed colleagues at every life stage and encourages information to facilitate the identification of additional focus on upskilling our leadership the integration of personal and professional risks at earlier stages.
For further information through a range of initiatives including our responsibilities through smarter work on the management and performance of Unconscious Bias Training, which has been patterns.
The campaign is having a positive Conduct Risk, please refer to the Risk Review delivered to over 10,000 leaders to date.
effect on colleague engagement, with 59 of section on page 117. colleagues actively working dynamically in 2017 with an average overall sustainable engagement score of 83 among this group.
Policies and guidance can support delivery towards the key outcomes for our customer Gender: Our commitment to increasing and clients.
The Barclays Way contains female representation at all levels remains statements on how we strive to deliver firm.
Please see Areas of continued focus How we are doing excellent customer service, and respect and below for details on our progress.
protect the personal information we hold.
It arclas Relationship NP Throughout 2017, our work was recognised defines Conduct Risk outcomes as guiding externally, including: Stonewall recognising principles and contains statements on privacy 14 Barclays as one of only 12 Top Global and data protection that colleagues must 2016: 10 Employers: the Human Rights Campaign adhere to.
The Barclays Way is available to awarding Barclays 100% on their corporate view at: home.
barclays citizenship ourustainable engageent equality index: Working Families UK approach.
Performance against our of colleagues recognising Barclays as one of the top ten strategic non-financial performance measures Employers for Working Families in 2017: and for our customers and clients is one indicator 78% the City of London and the Social Mobility of the effectiveness and outcome of certain 2016: 75 Commission acknowledging Barclays as a Top policies and guidance.
Policies which support 50 Employer through the Social Mobility our customer and client strategic nonAccess to financing Employer Index.
financial measures include aspects of our Customer Complaints Global Policy.
31.7bn 2016: 30.5bn Our customers and clients are at the heart of our purpose and strategy.
For further information on our two divisions, Barclays UK and Barclays International, please refer to pages 23 to 34. home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 19 Key performance indicators A holistic approach to measuring success Engaged and enabled colleagues Areas of continued focus We continue to see improvements in conduct a An engaged workforce is critical to the A diverse and inclusive workforce performance and are committed to continuing success and delivery of our strategy.
Our Our commitment to increasing female to drive the right culture throughout all levels principle measurement of employee representation at all levels remains firm and we of the organisation.
Barclays will continue to engagement is through our employee opinion are mindful of the need to remain focused on enhance the effective management of survey our iew.
This year, sustainable improving our gender diversity with goals to Conduct Risk and appropriately consider the engagement of our employees improved by improve the percentage of female Managing relevant tools, governance and management b 3 points to 78, with the majority of key Directors and Directors to 26 by 2018 2017: information in decision making processes.
c survey question results recording 23, a 1 point improvement year on year : improvements compared to 2016, and the rest 33 female representation on our Board by remaining stable.
2020 2017: 21, 2016: 31 : and 33 female Policies and guidance can support delivery representation among the Group Executive towards the key outcomes for our colleagues.
Areas of particular strength from the Committee and their direct reports 2017: 25, The Barclays Way contains statements on how annualised our iew results include I would flat year on year.
Recognising the importance we aim to create and promote a culture that is recommend Barclays as a good place to work of strengthening our talent pipeline, we also diverse and inclusive and create the positive 82 favourable, up 6 points on 2016, have an ambition for 50% female graduate and respectful environment all employees are Barclays is truly focused on achieving good hires 2017: 40, 2016: 39. entitled to enjoy.
It also contains requirements customer and client outcomes 88 for employees to: inform their line managers favourable, up 5 points on 2016 and Engaged and enabled colleagues of changes in circumstances, including, for colleagues believe strongly in the goals and Although it is pleasing to note that we have example, any conflict of interest or outside objectives of Barclays 90 favourable, up made progress across areas identified for business interest: take reasonable care of their 3 points on 2016. opportunity, including eliminating obstacles own and others health and safety: and the In addition, by supporting internal mobility to efficiency and ensuring colleagues have responsibility to protect Barclays assets.
It across Barclays, we hope to successfully the tools and resources to achieve excellent also contains statements on: physical security: attract, retain and develop internal talent.
In performance, there is always more to do.
Group Resilience Policy and Standards: and 2017, our rate of internal hiring was 40 Enabling our employees to achieve excellence communication with the media and public 2016: 48. remains a key priority and throughout 2018 speaking appearances.
Performance against new initiatives will be identified that will our strategic non-financial performance A positive conduct and values-based culture continue to improve the simplicity and measures for our colleagues is one indicator In 2017, we focused on embedding the culture efficiency of our tools, processes and systems.
of the effectiveness and outcome of certain measurement framework we developed in policies and guidance.
Policies which support 2016, and using the insights to stimulate A positive conduct and values-based culture our colleague strategic non-financial senior management discussion.
Within our culture measurement framework, measures include aspects of our Employee which is anchored in our values, Excellence Opinion Survey Policy.
We have made good progress in continuing to remains the biggest opportunity for embed the value of Integrity, highlighted by Please refer to the section on improvement, as the Enable component results to the questions it is safe to speak up Our People and Culture on page 36 and within the colleague survey continues to be 83 favourable, up 2 points on 2016 and the People section on pages 89 to 92 the lowest scoring measurement of I can report instances of dishonest or for further information on our progress.
sustainable engagement 64, up 4 points unethical practices to the appropriate level of on 2016.
A set of improvement initiatives authority without fear 86 favourable, flat were identified in 2017 and will continue in on 2016.
Stewardship also remains a 2018 to drive progress in this area.
strongly embedded value with 89 of colleagues stating that they are proud of the Barclays has operated at the overall set contribution Barclays makes to the tolerance for conduct risk throughout 2017. community and society up 1 point on The tolerance is assessed by the business 2016.
Service and Respect remain strong through Key Indicators which are aggregated with 90% of colleagues believing strongly in and provide an overall rating which is reported the goals and objectives of Barclays up 3 to the Board Reputation Committee as part of points on 2016 and 91 of colleagues the Conduct Dashboard.
agreeing that leaders at Barclays support diversity in the workplace up 2 points on 2016.
Notes a Under the Companies Act 2006, Barclays is required to report on the gender breakdown of our employees and senior managers.
Of our global workforce of 79,900 45,100 male, 34,800 female, 555 were senior managers 401 male, 154 female, which include Officers of the Group, certain direct reports of the Chief Executive, heads of major business units, certain senior Managing Directors, and directors on the boards of undertakings of the Group, but exclude individuals who sit as directors on the Board of the Company.
The definition of senior managers within this disclosure has a narrower scope than the Managing Director and Director female representation data provided above.
b Previously called female representation across senior leadership c Based on 2016 actual 24 restated on an ex-Africa basis 22.
20 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Citizenship e outcoes we will look to achiee include Making decisions and doing business that provides our clients, customers, shareholders, colleagues and the communities which we serve with access to a prosperous future, through our Shared Growth Ambition Proactively managing the environmental and societal impacts of our business How we easure success Measures used in our evaluation include, but are not limited to: Supporting sustainable ventures Delivery against our Shared Growth Barclays and the Unreasonable Group hosted the first Unreasonable Ambition Impact World Forum in 2017, bringing together 27 innovative Colleague engagement in citizenship companies from Asia, the US and Europe working to solve some of activities the worlds most pressing problems.
Held in London, the Forum External benchmarks and surveys included elevator pitches from entrepreneurs and panel sessions on themes such as scaling businesses and raising capital through impact investors.
Over 400 representatives from a range of How we are doing stakeholder groups, including investors, clients, NGOs and Areas of encourageent government agencies attended in person, with the event broadcast Delivery against our Shared Growth Ambition live on select social media channels globally.
We met our internal objectives on all six of our Unreasonable Impact is an innovative multi-year partnership between Shared Growth Ambition metrics.
Barclays and Unreasonable Group to launch the worlds first Performance was on-track against our internal international network of accelerators focused on scaling-up milestones for three initiatives around access entrepreneurial solutions that will help employ thousands worldwide to financing, access to digital and financial while solving some of our most pressing societal challenges.
empowerment and access to employment.
We also met or exceeded our 2017 annual See https: unreasonableimpact.
targets for The Barclays Way training, carbon emissions reduction and payment of suppliers on time.
ccess t financial an iital emerment Access to employment Inclusive financial systems are key to Barclays is committed to helping people gain ccess t financin achieving economic and societal progress, but access to skills, and supporting entrepreneurs We continued to deliver financing solutions in there can be several barriers to access.
We helped upskill over areas including renewable energy, water and believe digital offerings can help break down 2.1 million people in 2017 2016:1.7 million, low carbon technologies: social infrastructure: these barriers.
We helped empower around driven by a range of regional employability development institutions: and small business 205,000 people in 2017 2016: 249,000 partnerships and our flagship LifeSkills financing.
Barclays delivered 31.7bn in through initiatives such as Barclaycard Initial programme in the UK.
financing for specific social and environmental for those with a limited credit history: our segments across our business lines 2016: Digital Eagles network, comprised of specially a Barclays delivered 31.7bn in 30.5bn.
trained Barclays employees working to provide free technology support to customers and financing for specific social There has been significant momentum across non-customers: and the continued the Barclays franchise in 2017, including the and environmental segments.
launch of a range of new Green Loans, Asset Finance and Deposit products: the issuance of We work closely with partners in the free debt We held Accelerators for the 2nd cohort of the Barclays inaugural Green Bond see case study advice sector and collaborate on a number of on page 7 : an industry-first Multi-Impact Unreasonable Impact programme in projects including research and colleague partnership with Unreasonable Group, focused Growth Fund for retail investors: a range of training on financial vulnerability, and how we innovative transactions such as solar project on scaling ventures that solve environmental can best match customers to the advice and societal problems.
57 ventures have bonds and green asset backed securities: and service that suits them.
continued coverage from our Research teams participated to date in programmes across the UK, US and Asia.
on ESG and Sustainability themes.
Note a Financing volume based on a use of proceeds framework.
2016 actuals have been restated from 21.1bn due to the inclusion of new qualifying categories such as national development banks.
Further detail available in the ESG Report.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 21 Key performance indicators A holistic approach to measuring success Business conduct and environmental impact Supporting  ventures to Barclays Group Statement on Human Rights The Barclays Way outlines the Purpose and scale-up is one way in which Barclays is aims to achieve a consistent and Values which govern our way of working.
supporting the Sustainable Development comprehensive approach to respecting 99.9% of our colleagues completed annual Goals SDGs, and we will continue to review human rights.
We are committed to operating training on The Barclays Way in 2017 2016: and improve our core focus on raising access in accordance with the Universal Declaration 99.6 ahead of our target of above 97. to financing for social and environmental of Human Rights and we take account of segments, building skills and supporting other internationally accepted human rights We reduced carbon emissions by 26.1 empowerment.
We respect and promote human a against the 2015 baseline 2016: 14.3, rights through our employment policies and making good progress towards our 30 External benchmarks and surveys practices, through our supply chain and target by 2018.
Barclays strategy and performance on a range through the responsible provision of our We also achieved 89 2016: 88 on-time of ESG factors is evaluated by external products and services.
payment by value to our suppliers Target: agencies on an annual basis.
The Barclays Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption 85 and have published an updated In 2017, we broadly maintained our ABC Policy and Standards and the Barclays Statement on Modern Slavery which includes performance scores in key ratings and indices.
Introducer Policy and Standard extend to all additional information on the work we are Although methodologies vary and continue to Barclays business dealings globally.
Barclays doing with our clients and customers, as well evolve, we believe there is an opportunity to takes a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and as our suppliers.
continue to enhance our performance on an corruption and we are committed to Please see the statement on our website absolute and relative basis.
conducting our global activities free from any home.
barclays citizenship our-approach form of bribery and corruption.
We also We maintained membership of both the Dow human-rights.
html expect the same from any third parties c Jones Sustainability Index series, where our providing services for or on behalf of Barclays.
score reduced by 1 point to 83 points Colleague engagement in citizenship activities Employees who fail to comply with the against an industry average of 58 points Colleague participation is essential to the requirements of our policies and standards 2016: 61 points, and the FTSE4Good Index success of our citizenship strategy.
More than may face disciplinary action, up to and d series, with our absolute score up to 4.3 5 50% of our colleagues participated in including dismissal or termination of 2016: 3.9 5 and our position relative to the volunteering, fundraising or regular giving employment.
banks sector improved to the 91st percentile activity with 43,700 unique participants 2016: 2016: 78th percentile.
Barclays was rated Performance against our strategic nonb almost 44,000.
We also have active internal e BBB by MSCI ESG Ratings 2016:BBB and financial performance measures for citizenship Digital and LifeSkills, Environmental, Social f scored 61 points in Sustainalytics ESG Ratings is one indicator of the effectiveness and Innovation and Intrapreneur networks.
outcome of certain policies and guidance.
Policies which support our citizenship Areas of continued focus strategic non-financial measures include Shared Growth Ambition Policies and guidance can support delivery aspects of our policy statement on We will continue to focus on improving towards the key outcomes for citizenship.
integration with our product suite and Barclays Way contains statements on: respect developing innovative sustainable financing The full details of our policies and position for society - our Shared Growth Ambition: solutions.
We intend to focus on enhancing statements are available at home.
barclays respect for human rights: respect for the the impact of our employability programmes citizenship our-approach policy-positions.
environment and supporting the communities and providing compelling opportunities for html in which we operate.
our colleagues to participate in citizenship We provide additional information in activities.
Our activity is supported by policies and the Environmental, Social, Governance position statements on a range of material In addition, we are developing wider ESG Report 2017 available at home.
barclays issues including: environmental sustainability: sustainability and sector guidelines for annualreport modern slavery: human rights: and antibusiness activity in 2018, and will increase our bribery and anti-corruption.
These are contribution to policy initiatives and multiavailable at home.
Notes a 2016 carbon reduction actuals have been restated due to improved billing data replacing estimates and restatements to travel emissions.
Further detail available in the ESG Report b Unique participants measures colleague involvement in eligible volunteering, matched fundraising, regular giving initiatives.
Data sourced from internal reporting systems including several manual sources c Source: SP Dow Jones: Sustainable Asset Management SAM d Source: FTSE Russell e Source: MSCI ESG Inc f Source: Sustainalytics Inc 22 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
