Governance: Directors report What we did in 2017 Board report The Role of the Board The Board of Directors is responsible for promoting the highest standards of corporate governance in Barclays.
Further details about our corporate governance framework, policies and Board responsibilities can be found online at home.
barclays corporategovernance We act in a way that we consider promotes reputation, the materiality of financial and and the Board Risk Committee.
Pursuant to the success of Barclays for the benefit of other risks and the relevant costs and benefits authority granted under our Articles of shareholders as a whole, and are accountable of implementing controls.
See page 82 for Association, each Board Committee has had to the shareholders for creating and delivering further details on those systems of controls.
specific responsibilities delegated to it by the sustainable value.
It is our responsibility as the Board.
Further information on the role and The Board is the decision-making body for Board to ensure that management not only activities of each of the Board Committees matters that, owing to their strategic, financial delivers on short-term objectives, but can be found in this report on pages 53 to 79 or reputational implications or consequences, promotes the long-term growth of Barclays.
and in their individual terms of reference, are considered significant to the Group.
Our corporate governance framework embeds which have been approved by the Board A formal schedule of powers reserved to the what we believe are the right culture, values and are available at Board ensures that our control of these key and behaviours throughout the Group and home.
A summary of the supports our role in determining strategic In addition, the Regulatory Investigations matters reserved to the Board can be found objectives and policies.
It Committee was formed in 2012 and focused on providing Board-level oversight of In addition to setting strategy and overseeing includes the approval of appointments to the its implementation, we are also responsible Board, Barclays strategy, financial statements, regulatory investigations.
In 2017, this Committee was disbanded with residual for ensuring that management maintains an capital expenditure and any major effective system of internal control.
An acquisitions, mergers or disposals.
matters being brought under the oversight of the Board Audit Committee or falling effective system of internal control should provide assurance of effective and efficient Board Committees directly under the Boards oversight, as appropriate.
operations, internal financial controls and The main Board Committees are the Board compliance with law and regulation.
In Audit Committee, the Board Nominations You can read more about what the Board and Committee, the Board Remuneration meeting this responsibility, we consider what each of the Board Committees did during 2017 is appropriate for the Groups business and Committee, the Board Reputation Committee on the following pages.
Board Governance Framework Barclays Board The Board is responsible for creating and sustaining shareholder value, through setting and overseeing the implementation of Barclays strategy Board Audit Board Nominations Board Remuneration Board Reputation Board Risk Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Reviews accounting policies Reviews the composition Sets principles and Considers Barclays conduct Monitors and recommends and financial reports of the Board parameters of remuneration and reputational risk issues financial and operational for Barclays and exposures risk appetite Monitors the internal Recommends the control environment appointment of new Considers and approves Reviews and approves Monitors the financial and Directors remuneration for Executive Barclays overall citizenship operational risk profile Considers the adequacy and Directors and senior strategy scope of the internal and Considers succession plans Reviews limits for types of executives external audit for the Chairman and Group Oversees Barclays approach financial and operational Chief Executive Oversees employee share to customer and regulatory risk Reviews and monitors the schemes matters Groups whistleblowing Oversees the annual Board policies effectiveness review See page 53 for See page 75 for See page 93 for See page 69 for See page 64 for further information further information.
50 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information During 2017, the Board focused on a number of specific areas, outlined in the table below, Board allocation of time % in line with Barclays three strategic goals and eight Principal Risks: 4 1 Strategic goals St Have strong foundations in place Ac Accelerate the completion of restructuring Bu Build the Barclays of the future Principal risks 3 2 Cr Credit Ma Market Tr 2017 2016 Treasury and capital Op 1 Strategy formulation and 47 55 Operational implementation monitoring Mo Model 2 Finance incl.
capital and 15 17 Re Reputation liquidity Co Conduct 3 Governance and Risk 35 26 Le Legal incl.
compensation 3 2 Based on scheduled Board meetings Strategic goals Principal risks Strategy formulation and monitoring Debated and provided input to management on the formulation of overall Group strategy, and St Ac Bu Cr Ma Tr Op Mo Re Co Le reflected on the Group strategy with longer term views on what could be done to accelerate returns and build capital.
The topics covered include: potential growth opportunities, and key trends and risks, for Barclays UK and Barclays International constraints and risks to strategy execution, including economic assumptions, expected regulatory requirements on capital and solvency ratios, anticipated changes to accounting rules including IFRS 9, investor expectations, and potential impacts for clients and customers a strategic approach to costs optimisation, including analysing the impact on costs of different structural initiatives such as product redesign and automation impact of continuing legacy conduct issues on capital requirements and profit targets options for the location of Barclays operations in Europe, driven by the EU Referendum result.
Discussed regular updates from the Group Chief Executive on the progress being made against St Ac Bu Cr Ma Tr Op Mo Re Co Le the Groups 2017 execution priorities and capital targets, received insights on stakeholder, employee and cultural matters including results from employee opinion surveys, and updates on items of focus for the Group Executive Committee.
Considered the strategy, and assessed the progress of execution of strategy, in the businesses St Ac Bu Cr Ma Tr Op Mo Re Co Le within each of Barclays UK and Barclays International.
Monitored the progress of the sell down of the Groups remaining interest in Barclays Africa Ac Bu Tr Op Re Le Group Limited.
Monitored the progress of the rundown and subsequent closure of Barclays Non-Core.
Ac Bu Tr Op Re Le Monitored the progress of the Groups execution of its structural reform programme see the St Ac Bu Tr Op Re Le case study on page 52 for further details.
Monitored the potential implications of the UKs preparations to leave the EU following the EU St Ac Bu Ma Tr Op Re Le Referendum result: approved and monitored progress of the expansion of Barclays Bank Irelands operations in preparation for Brexit see the case study on page 52 for further details.
Finance, including capital and liquidity Debated and approved the Groups Medium Term Plan for 2017-2019.
St Ac Bu Cr Ma Tr Mo Co Le Regularly assessed financial performance of the Group and its main businesses through reports St Ac Bu Cr Ma Tr Mo Co Le from the Group Finance Director.
Reviewed and approved Barclays financial results prior to publication, including approving final St Bu Cr Ma Tr Re and interim dividends.
Discussed market and investor reaction to Barclays strategic and financial results St Bu Re announcements, with insights provided by the Head of Investor Relations.
Provided input, guidance and advice to senior management on the high-level shape of Barclays St Ac Bu Cr Ma Tr Mo Co Le 2018-2020 Medium Term Plan and subsequently approved the final plan.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 51 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2017 Board report Strategic goals Principal risks Governance and risk, including regulatory issues Debated and approved the 2017 risk appetite for the Barclays Group.
St Bu Cr Ma Tr Mo Co Regularly assessed Barclays overall risk profile and emerging risk themes, hearing directly from St Bu Cr Ma Tr Op Mo Re Co Le the Chief Risk Officer and the Chairman of the Board Risk Committee.
Received reports on Barclays operational and technology capability, including specific updates St Bu Op Mo Re Le on cyber risk capability and the strategy for technology and infrastructure services.
Approved the Groups 2017 Recovery Plan and US Resolution Plan.
St Bu Ma Tr Invited representatives of Barclays UK and US regulators to meetings to enable the Board to St Ac Bu Tr Op Re Co Le hear first-hand about regulatory expectations and their specific views on Barclays.
Considered and debated proposals for the establishment of a programme to further enhance St Bu Op Mo Barclays management information framework across all businesses and entities within the Group.
Discussed and received regular updates directly from the Chief Controls Officer on the Groups St Bu Op Mo Re Co Le internal controls and framework, and monitored progress of the Barclays Internal Control Enhancement Plan the programme for remediation of identified risk and control issues.
Considered regular updates from the Group General Counsel on the legal and regulatory risks St Ac Bu Tr Re Co Le and issues facing Barclays refer to note 29 in the financial statements.
Considered matters relating to Board succession and approved appointments to the Board and Board Committees.
Received and considered regular updates from the Chairmen of the Boards principal Board St Ac Bu Cr Ma Tr Op Mo Re Co Le Committees on the matters discussed at Board Committee meetings.
See the reports of each Board Committee set out on the following pages for further details.
Received regular updates following the establishment of each respective board from the Chairs St Ac Bu Re of the Barclays UK and Barclays International divisional boards and the Group Service Company.
Considered updates on views of major shareholders, particularly in the period leading up to the St Bu Re 2017 Annual General Meeting.
Discussed the Board and Committee governance framework in the context of structural reform, and considered significant developments in UK corporate governance and other corporate governance matters.
Considered the results of the 2016 Board effectiveness review and proposed action plan, and St Ac Bu Op Co considered the process for and findings of the 2017 Board effectiveness review.
See page 78 for further details of this process and the findings for 2017.
Other, including compensation Considered progress on Barclays talent and succession planning and hosted receptions for key St Bu Op Re Co talent within the Group, and received updates on the Banks diversity and inclusion initiatives, including from the Chairman of the Board Nominations Committee.
Considered and approved the 2017 incentive funding pools for the Group and allocation among St Bu Op Re Co each business and function see the Remuneration report on pages 93 to 116 for further details.
Governance in Action Structural reform and Brexit Execution of structural reform overseeing and approving various transfers European operations and decided to pursue The execution of our structural reform of assets and liabilities among Barclays expansion in Ireland where we have been programme was a significant focus for the Group entities including establishing a operating for over 40 years and have an Group in 2017 as we move towards the legal Committee to provide appropriate existing banking licence held by Barclays entity stand up of our ring-fenced bank in Board-level oversight of the processes Bank Ireland.
Building on from the work carried out involved the Board included debating the feasibility of in 2016, the Board continued to closely a significant expansion of Barclays Bank with the support of the Board Nominations monitor and evaluate progress on the Irelands operations, the transfer of capital Committee, debating the composition of, execution of the programme in 2017.
Specific and resources to Barclays Bank Ireland and and appointments to each of, the boards matters addressed by the Board included the assessing the progress being made with of Barclays UK, Barclays International and following: applications for the necessary regulatory the Group Service Company and licensing requirements with the relevant overseeing the establishment of the Group discussing the appropriate governance authorities.
Service Company, which was launched on arrangements for the new Group structure.
1 September 2017 The successful completion of the Groups Preparations for Brexit monitoring the stakeholder structural reform programme and further Another area of focus for the Board was progress on our Brexit plans will continue to communications plan including, in preparations for the impact of the UKs exit particular, the communications plan for be areas of focus for the Board in 2018. from the EU.
Barclays has created an internal customers and employees programme specifically in relation to the considering regular updates on migrating planning and preparation for Brexit.
The sort codes with a focus on any potential Board debated potential EU hubs for Barclays impact on customers and clients 52 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Governance: Directors report What we did in 2017 Board Audit Committee report Solid progress has been made in turning the controls enhancement programme into a business as usual activity, with an emphasis on achieving sustainable progress.
internal audit functions to be carried out at Dear Fellow Shareholders continue to be an area of focus in 2018 as In writing this report I have reflected on how management develops a more detailed, least every five years and during 2017, the granular self-assessment process which Committee commissioned an independent Barclays has been working to embed the significant strategic changes put in place should assist in proactively identifying controls external quality assessment of BIA, further which require remediation.
Further details details of which may be found on page 61. during 2016 while responding to new challenges driven by the external landscape, may be found in the Risk Management and The Committee was satisfied with the Internal Control section on page 82. conclusions drawn in the report, while noting in particular the delivery of Structural Reform and preparation for Brexit.
that there were a number of areas for The Committee has continued to engage with potential development.
The Committee As I reported in 2017, the Committee senior management regarding areas of considered that the need for a period of continues to consider a critical part of its role controls weaknesses in their businesses and stability and consolidation within BIA would to be ensuring that the commitment to has received presentations from a number of be particularly important to embedding strengthening Barclays control environment is different areas of the organisation on the existing initiatives and the Committee will maintained throughout this transformational actions taken to address unsatisfactory audit continue to monitor this and other period.
My Committee colleagues and I have reports.
In preparation been encouraged by the increased rigour In assessing control issues for disclosure in for Structural Reform, BIA has aligned its audit applied to oversight of the Group control the Annual Report, the Committee has planning and reporting to the new legal entity environment following the creation of the continued to apply similar definitions to those structure.
Chief Controls Office at the end of 2016.
This used for assessing internal financial controls has given the Committee greater clarity and The Committee continued to exercise its for the purposes of Sarbanes-Oxley.
The transparency regarding thematic control responsibility for ensuring the integrity of conclusion we have reached is that there are environment issues impacting the Group, and Barclays published financial information by no control issues that are considered to be a debating and challenging the critical has helped to highlight areas of the business material weakness, which merit specific where there may be a concentration of issues judgements and estimates made by disclosure.
The exercise of appropriate and where focus on remediation is required.
Regular updates on the overall control The Committee has continued to oversee judgement in preparing the financial statements is critical in ensuring that Barclays environment framework have also continued the performance and effectiveness of internal to be provided to the Board over the course of and external audit, the main independent reports to its shareholders in a fair, balanced and transparent way.
During the course of the year, underlining the importance that the assurance mechanisms that serve to protect Board of Barclays places on this programme shareholders interests.
2017, the Committee oversaw Barclays transition to KPMG as Barclays statutory of activity.
I continue to hold regular meetings with the auditor which was approved by shareholders Solid progress has been made in turning the Chief Internal Auditor and members of her at the 2017 annual general meeting.
The lead senior management team to ensure I am controls enhancement programme into a audit partner is Guy Bainbridge who has held business as usual activity, with an emphasis aware of current work programmes and any this role since KPMGs appointment as the emerging issues.
I also agreed the Chief on achieving sustainable progress.
KPMG has brought fresh Committee has observed heightened focus Internal Auditors objectives and the challenge and insight not only on accounting outcomes of her performance assessment and attention across the organisation on the judgements and policies but also on financial importance of having robust processes in and remuneration.
The Committee also held controls which the Committee has found a networking event with Barclays Internal place across the business to self-identify valuable.
The report that follows sets out controls issues and ensure that there are Audit BIA during 2017, enabling Committee details of the material matters considered by members to meet on a less formal basis with effective remediation plans in place for which the Committee since my last report.
One of senior management are accountable.
The senior members of the BIA management the key developments in accounting policy in team.
embedding of the Chief Controls Office as part 2017 has been Barclays preparation for the of the first line of management within the implementation of the IFRS 9 impairment During 2017, the Committee continued to organisation has also been helpful in monitor closely the implementation of the standard on 1 January 2018.
The Committee delineating more clearly for the organisation reviewed the guidance note to non-executive action plan to address the recommendations the respective roles of the second and third arising from the review undertaken by the PRA Directors from the PRA in relation to IFRS 9 lines of defence.
The controls office has taken implementation and was comfortable that of BIA to increase its effectiveness.
over the co-ordination of the Risk and Control The Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors the areas highlighted by the PRA were being Self-Assessment process and this will addressed.
Further details of the Committees requires an independent external review of home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 53 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2017 Board Audit Committee report Last years review commented on the need consideration of the judgements and financial Committee allocation of time % impacts relating to the implementation of the to strengthen the depth of financial and accounting expertise on the Committee via 1 new standard may be found in the 6 Governance in Action section of the new appointments, which I am pleased was 5 2 addressed through the appointment of Committee report on page 63.
Matthew Lester to the Committee when he I have continued to hold the role of 3 joined the Board of Barclays in September Whistleblowers Champion, a position 2017.
The review also highlighted the need to required by the FCA to be held at Board level.
4 ensure that the way in which the Committee As champion, I continue to have specific works with the Board Reputation and Board responsibility for the integrity, independence 2017 2016 Risk Committees continues to capture all and effectiveness of the Barclays policies and 1 Control issues 11 23 significant issues effectively while minimising procedures on whistleblowing, including the 2 Business control environment 15 19 any overlap.
I continued to work closely with procedures for protecting employees who 3 Financial results 33 36 my fellow Board Committee chairmen during raise concerns from detrimental treatment.
4 Internal audit matters 25 11 2017, particularly with the Board Risk As Whistleblowers Champion and as 5 External audit matters 8 6 Committee chairman in order to clarify the Chairman of the Committee, I have been 6 Other 8 4 responsibility of the respective committees for involved in overseeing the implementation of incl governance operational risk issues, which each Committee and compliance the suggested enhancements following the has a role in overseeing.
benchmarking review undertaken in 2017 at The time allocation in 2017 has reduced following the request of the Board of Barclays.
You can read more about the outcomes of the the streamlining of the reporting of control issues Board effectiveness review on page 78. through the Chief Controls Office.
Responsibility for the oversight of litigation, The increased time allocation to internal audit investigation and competition matters has matters in 2017 reflects the role of the Committee Looking ahead in i overseeing the recommendations arising transitioned to the Committee, in line with the In 2018, in addition to overseeing from the review undertaken by the PRA of Barclays Committees existing responsibility for the managements progress in continuing to Internal Audit to increase its effectiveness, and oversight of matters related to disclosure and ii the independent external quality assessment of embed the role of the Chief Controls Office provisioning.
The Committee has received Barclays Internal Audit which was commissioned and the Groups management of controls by the Committee in 2017. regular updates on these matters from the remediation, the Committee will be focusing Group General Counsel, with matters of on some significant accounting issues, particular significance to the Group continuing Committee composition and meetings including in particular, monitoring the impact to be subject to oversight by the Board The Committee is composed solely of of IFRS 9 and the resultant disclosures.
independent non-executive Directors, with Committee is looking forward to working with membership designed to provide the breadth I attended meetings of the IHC audit the audit committees of Barclays UK and of financial expertise and commercial acumen Barclays International as we discharge our committee to gain a first-hand insight into the it needs to fulfil its responsibilities.
Its issues being addressed by that committee and responsibilities and focus on ensuring efficient members as a whole have experience of the and effective coverage of the business under have held regular meetings with the chairmen banking and financial services sector in elect of the Barclays UK and Barclays the new group structure.
We have already addition to general management and agreed an allocation of responsibilities, and International audit committees.
Mike Ashley, who is or chairmen elect of all those entities have embedding the necessary reporting and the designated financial expert on the information flows across the three audit attended at least one Committee meeting Committee for the purposes of the US during 2017.
I also met frequently with other committees to ensure all of them can Sarbanes-Oxley Act, is a former audit partner discharge their responsibilities efficiently will members of senior management, including who during his executive career acted as lead the Group Finance Director, and continued be a key area of focus.
engagement partner on the audits of a my engagement with Barclays regulators both number of large financial services groups.
I have reported regularly on Following the Boards finding that the Mike Ashley the activities of the Committee to the Board Committee could be strengthened by the of Barclays.
Chairman, Board Audit Committee appointment of an additional member with 21 February 2018 direct accounting and auditing experience, Committee performance Matthew Lester was appointed to the Board The Committees performance during 2017 and Committee with effect from 1 September was assessed as part of an internal committee 2017.
During his executive career, Matthew effectiveness review.
The conclusion of my held a number of senior finance roles across a Board colleagues and standing attendees at range of business sectors, including financial Committee meetings was that the Committee services, and most recently was the Chief is regarded as operating effectively and the Financial Officer of Royal Mail Group.
You can Board takes assurance from the quality of the find more details of the experience of Committees work.
It is considered well Committee members in their biographies on constituted with the right balance of skills and pages 47 and 48. experience.
The main area identified for improvement was the need to manage a The Committee met 10 times in 2017 and the demanding agenda efficiently so that time is chart above shows how it allocated its time.
allocated to the most significant items for Meetings are generally arranged well in discussion.
advance and are scheduled in line with Barclays financial reporting timetable.
One additional meeting was arranged to select an appropriate service provider for the independent review of Barclays Internal Audit and to undertake an early review of particular issues relevant to the financial statements.
Committee meetings were attended by management, including as required the Group 54 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information fundamental change in approach to Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Chief Financial statement reporting issues Internal Auditor, Chief Controls Officer, Chief The Committees main responsibility in impairment.
The Committee discussed with management the key technical decisions and Risk Officer, Chief Operating Officer, General relation to Barclays financial reporting is to Counsel and Head of Compliance, as well as review with both management and the interpretations required and Barclays approach to these.
Further details of the representatives from the businesses and other external auditor the appropriateness of functions.
The lead audit partner of KPMG Barclays financial statements, including Committees role in overseeing the Groups IFRS 9 preparations can be found on page 63, the Groups external auditor, Guy Bainbridge, quarterly results announcements and attended all Committee meetings since half-year and annual financial statements and Governance in Action.
The Committee held a number supporting analyst presentations, with its of private sessions with each of the Chief primary focus being on: Financial reporting regulators and Barclays The Committee from time to time considers Internal Auditor or the lead audit partner, the quality and acceptability of accounting which were not attended by management.
comment letters and papers from external policies and practices bodies including the SEC and the Financial The lead audit partner of PwC, the Groups any correspondence from financial previous external auditor, attended meetings Reporting Council FRC.
In that regard, the reporting regulators in relation to Barclays Committee considered the following: until the end of February 2017 to deliver its financial reporting final audit report to the Committee on the The FRCs Year-End Advice Letter to Audit material areas where significant judgements 2016 financial statements before PwC Committee Chairs and Finance Directors have been made, along with any significant resigned as the Groups statutory auditor.
which highlighted key developments for assumptions or estimates, or where 2017 18 annual reports.
Member Meetings attended eligible to attend significant issues have been discussed with The FRCs Annual Review of Corporate Mike Ashley 10 10 or challenged by the external auditor Reporting which summarised key Tim Breedon 10 10 an assessment of whether the Annual characteristics of good corporate reporting Crawford Gillies 10 10 Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced for the 2017 18 reporting year.
Diane Schueneman 8 10 and understandable and provides the Matthew Lester from 1 September 2017 1 3 The PRA note of advice to Non-executive information necessary for shareholders to Directors regarding IFRS 9 implementation assess Barclays position and performance, Did not attend due to personal circumstances.
which set out a series of questions for Did not attend owing to existing commitments with business model and strategy.
other boards the Committee meeting dates were set consideration to ensure audit committees before Matthew joined the Board.
were well prepared for the transition and its Accounting policies and practices implications.
The Committee discussed reports from Committee role and responsibilities management in relation to the identification The Committee sought to ensure that Barclays The Committee is responsible for: of critical accounting judgements and key took due account of the matters raised in the assessing the integrity of the Groups sources of estimation uncertainty, significant letters and papers described above in its financial reporting and satisfying itself that accounting policies and the proposed external reporting and has sought to enhance any significant financial judgements made disclosure of these in the 2017 Annual Report.
by management are sound Following discussions with both management The Committee from time to time considers evaluating the effectiveness of the Groups and the external auditor, the Committee comment letters from the SEC in relation to its internal controls, including internal financial approved the critical accounting judgements, reviews of Barclays Annual Report and other controls significant accounting policies and publicly filed financial statements.
Such disclosures, which are set out in note 1, scrutinising the activities and performance comment letters and Barclays responses are Significant accounting policies, to the of the internal and external auditors, made publicly available by the SEC on its consolidated financial statements.
including monitoring their independence website, www.
gov, once it has closed each and objectivity There was one significant change in such review.
Barclays received one comment overseeing the relationship with the Groups accounting policy during the period which letter from the SEC during 2017 requesting external auditor was the early adoption of IFRS 9 Financial clarification from the SEC in relation to its Instruments in relation to own credit, reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness 2017 half year filing.
Barclays responded to resulting in the recognition of fair value of the Groups whistleblowing procedures clarify the queries raised by the SEC.
The letter movements through the Statement of did not raise any material concerns or overseeing significant legal and regulatory Comprehensive Income.
investigations, including the proposed regarding this change can be found in note 1, litigation statement for inclusion in the to the consolidated financial statements.
Two Significant judgements and estimates statutory accounts.
new significant accounting standards became The significant judgements and estimates and The Committees terms of effective from 1 January 2018, IFRS 9 actions taken by the Committee in relation to reference are available at Financial Instruments and IFRS 15 Revenue the 2017 Annual Report and financial home.
Further information regarding statements are outlined below.
The significant these changes can be found in note 1, to the judgements and estimates are broadly The Committees work consolidated financial statements.
During comparable in nature to prior years.
Each of The significant matters addressed by the 2017, the Committee was regularly updated on these matters was discussed with the external Committee during 2017 and in evaluating Barclays preparations for the implementation auditor during the year and, where Barclays 2017 Annual Report and financial of IFRS 9, in particular in relation to the new appropriate, have been addressed n the statements, are described on the following expected loss model which represents a Auditors Report on pages 228 to 233. pages.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 55 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2017 Board Audit Committee report Area of focus Reporting issue Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Conduct provisions Barclays makes certain Regularly analysed the judgements and The Committee and management refer to Note 27 to the assumptions and estimates, estimates made with regard to Barclays continue to monitor closely any financial statements analysis of which underpins provisioning for PPI claims, taking into changes in customer or claims provisions made for the costs of account forecasts and assumptions management companies behaviour in customer redress, such as for made for PPI complaints and actual light of the FCA timebar and marketing Payment Protection Insurance claims experience for Barclays and the campaign and the ongoing impact of PPI.
industry as a whole, including the the Plevin case.
Having regard to the volume of invalid PPI claims.
actual claims experience over 2017 the Committee agreed with managements Debated the impact on the future range assessment that the current provision of provisions arising from i the FCAs of 1,600m was appropriate.
The introduction of August 2019 as the Committee noted that this estimate timebar on claims, ii the PPI marketing remains subject to significant campaign, and iii the progress of the uncertainty in particular regarding the proposed fee cap on the submission of level of valid customer claims that may PPI complaints by Claims Management be received in the period to August Companies which is being considered by 2019.
In this context the Committee the UK Parliament.
was satisfied that sensitivities to the Evaluated proposed additional provisions key variables were appropriately for PPI, considering whether the total disclosed.
provision is within the modelled range of future outcomes, and whether the external auditor agreed with managements analysis and approach.
Monitored the position on provisions for alternative PPI card protection and payment break plan insurance and considered whether further provisions were required.
Legal, competition Barclays is engaged in various Evaluated advice on the status of current The Committee discussed provisions and regulatory legal, competition and regulatory legal, competition and regulatory and utilisation.
Having reviewed the provisions matters.
The extent of the impact matters.
information available to determine refer to Notes 27 to on Barclays of these matters what was both probable and could be Assessed managements judgements 29 to the financial cannot always be predicted, but reliably estimated, the Committee and estimates of the levels of provisions statements matters can give rise to agreed that the level of provision at the to be taken and the adequacy of those provisioning for contingent and year end was appropriate.
The provisions, based on available other liabilities depending on the Committee also considered that the information and evidence.
disclosures made provided the Considered the adequacy of disclosure, The level of provisioning is subject appropriate information for investors recognising that any decision to set to management judgement on the regarding the legal, competition and provisions involves significant basis of legal advice and is regulatory matters being addressed by judgement.
therefore an area of focus for the Group.
Valuations Barclays exercises judgement in Evaluated reports from Barclays The Committee discussed these refer to Notes 14 to 18 the valuation and disclosure of Valuations Committee, with particular matters and agreed that a minor to the financial financial instruments, derivative focus on the matters below.
modification be made to the valuation statements assets and certain portfolios, of the specific long dated derivative Monitored the valuation methods particularly where quoted market portfolio where there existed significant applied by management to significant prices are not available, including valuation disparity.
This did not result valuation items, including the ESHLA the Groups Education, Social in a material change to the fair value portfolio, a valuation disparity with a Housing and Local Authority recorded by the Group.
The Committee third party in respect of a specific long ESHLA portfolio.
noted that, following efforts by dated derivative portfolio, and the management to restructure derivative approach to the marking of Own Credit.
agreements impacted by negative Monitored and discussed the impact of interest rates, any residual uncertainty negative interest rates on derivative was now insignificant.
Considered the treatment of the re-integration of Non-Core residual operations into the core business.
56 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Area of focus Reporting issue Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Impairment Where appropriate, Barclays Assessed impairment experience against The Committee reviewed model refer to Note 7 to the models potential impairment forecast and whether impairment adjustments made by management to financial statements performance, allowing for certain provisions were appropriate.
ensure that impairment allowances assumptions and sensitivities, were set at appropriate and adequate Evaluated credit impairment reports to agree allowances for credit levels.
The Committee reviewed the reviewed by the Group Impairment impairment, including agreeing impairment charge in Barclaycard US Committee presented by the Chief Risk the timing of the recognition of arising in the third quarter from the Officer.
any impairment and estimating asset sale in the first quarter.
The Considered a report from the Chief Risk the size, particularly where Committee also reviewed three Officer on the position in the US Cards forbearance has been granted.
material single name charges in the portfolio and monitored the position to Corporate Bank.
determine whether increase in impairment would be required.
The Committee agreed that the provision levels for impairment were Considered a report from the Group appropriate.
Impairment Committee on the adequacy of loan impairment allowances as at 31 December 2017, including assessing internal and external trends, methodologies and key management estimates.
Tax Barclays is subject to taxation in a Evaluated the appropriateness of tax risk The Committee reviewed Barclays refer to Note 10 to the number of jurisdictions globally provisions to cover existing tax risk.
global tax risk and associated financial statements and makes judgements with provisions for the full year and noted Confirmed the forecasts and regard to provisioning for tax at that the level of tax provisions assumptions supporting the recognition risk and on the recognition and remained at about the same level, and valuation of deferred tax assets was measurement of deferred tax although the amount of gross tax risk in line with Barclays Medium Term Plan.
was assessed as slightly reduced.
Monitored the impact to Barclays of the new US framework for tax legislation In relation to the treatment of deferred covering a broad range of tax proposals tax assets the Committee noted that which was enacted on 22 December those due to US tax losses 1,520m 2017 and which had a substantial impact are forecast to be utilised by 2019 on the measurement of the Groups US which is significantly earlier than the deferred tax assets.
The Committee also first expiry date of 2028. considered the potential impact of the The Committee agreed with Base Erosion Anti-abuse Tax BEAT managements view that it was which was introduced as part of the new appropriate not to take account of any legislation.
potential future BEAT liabilities in the measurement of the deferred tax assets.
It noted that this would be in line with recent US GAAP pronouncements and as disclosed management is also continuing to assess the full impact to the Group of the complex provisions in the new US legislation.
Long-term viability The Directors are required to make Evaluated at year end a report from The Committee agreed that the refer to Note 41 to the a statement in the Annual Report management setting out the view of appropriate timeframe for the viability financial statements as to the long-term viability of Barclays long-term viability.
This report statement continued to be three years.
The Committee provides was based on Barclays Medium Term Taking into account the assessment by advice to the Board on the form Plan MTP and covered forecasts for the Board Risk Committee of stress and content of the statement, capital, liquidity and leverage, including testing results and risk appetite, the including the underlying forecast performance against regulatory Committee agreed to recommend the assumptions.
targets, outcomes of the stress test of viability statement to the Board for the MTP and forecast capital and approval.
liquidity performance against stress hurdle rates, funding and liquidity forecasts and an assessment of global risk themes and the Groups risk profile.
Considered the viability statement in conjunction with Barclays risk statements and strategy business model disclosures.
Addressed feedback from investors, the FRC and other stakeholders on viability statements in general.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 57 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2017 Board Audit Committee report Area of focus Reporting issue Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Fair, balanced and Barclays is required to ensure Assessed through discussion with and Having evaluated all of the available understandable that its external reporting is fair, challenge of management, including information and the assurances reporting balanced and understandable.
the Group Chief Executive and Group provided by management, the including country-byThe Committee undertakes an Finance Director, whether disclosures in Committee concluded that the country reporting and assessment on behalf of the Board Barclays Annual Report and other processes underlying the preparation Pillar 3 reporting in order to provide the Board with financial reports were fair, balanced and of Barclays published financial assurance that it can make the understandable.
statements, including the 2017 Annual statement required by the UK Code Report and financial statements, were Evaluated reports from Barclays on Corporate Governance.
appropriate in ensuring that those Disclosure Committee on its assessment statements were fair, balanced and of the content, accuracy and tone of understandable.
Established through reports from In assessing Barclays financial results management that there were no statements over the course of 2017, the indications of fraud relating to financial Committee specifically addressed and reporting matters.
provided input to management on the disclosure and presentation of: Evaluated the outputs of Barclays internal control assessments and the classification of Barclays holding Sarbanes-Oxley s404 internal control in Barclays Africa as an available for process.
sale asset with effect from 1 June 2017 Assessed disclosure controls and procedures.
the closure of Barclays Non-Core business and the reintegration of the Confirmed that management had remaining businesses and portfolio reported on and evidenced the basis on which representations to the external the Group Finance Directors auditors were made.
presentations to analysts the level of segmental reporting.
The Committee recommended to the Board that the 2017 Annual Report and financial statements are fair, balanced and understandable.
58 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Other significant matters Apart from financial reporting matters the the performance, objectivity and Committee has responsibility for oversight of independence of the external auditor.
The the effectiveness of Barclays internal controls, most significant matters considered during the performance and effectiveness of BIA and 2017 are described in the table below.
Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Internal control The effectiveness of Evaluated and tracked the status of the most The Committee welcomed the positive change Read more about the the overall control material control issues identified by in approach that the BICEP programme had Barclays internal environment, including management via regular reports from the driven across the business, notably that the control and risk the status of any Chief Controls Officer, assessed against the first line of defence was now more focused on management material control issues new Controls Maturity Model created as part proactively self-identifying control issues processes on page 82. and the progress of of the Barclays Internal Controls rather than waiting for them to be highlighted specific remediation Enhancement Programme BICEP.
by the second or third lines of defence.
Committee continued to emphasise the Evaluated the status of specific material importance of a disciplined self-assessment by control issues and associated remediation management.
plans, including in particular those relating to model risk, resilience, cyber, compliance, The Committee provided feedback on the technology, credit risk, transaction operations reporting of material control issues, and data management which remained open requesting further detail regarding completion as at December 2017 and which were dates, key milestones and current status for reported as on track to return to satisfactory significant remediation projects to enable status within agreed timeframes.
closer monitoring and help drive Considered the second line of defence role in accountability at the appropriate management level.
the oversight of operational risk controls, including financial controls over operational The Committee challenged the application of risk.
the lessons learned process in view of the low Evaluated reports on the internal control level of coverage of significant control environment from the external auditor.
Management has taken steps to Discussed lessons learned from specific enhance the process and ensure compliance.
Going forward this will be tracked by the Chief control incidents and how these could be applied to Barclays business globally.
Assessed the progress of the enhancements The Committee has continued to use the being made to Barclays risk and control output from the RCSA process in its review of self-assessment RCSA process.
While providing a reasonable overview of the control Clarified the role and responsibilities of the environment, the Committee welcomes Committee in relation to the split of managements plans to put in place a more responsibility for operational risk between the granular process which should provide greater Committee and the Board Risk Committee.
visibility on controls requiring remediation and associated risks.
This approach was piloted in 2017 and will be rolled out across the Group in 2018.
The effectiveness of the Assessed reports on individual businesses The Committee received deep dive control control environment and functions on their control environment, environment presentations from Barclays in each individual questioned the heads of the relevant International and Barclays UK.
These provided business, including the businesses or functions on control concerns further detail of managements assessment of status of any material and scrutinised any identified control failures the business unit control environment and key control issues and the and closely monitored the status of areas of focus, including key controls hot progress of specific remediation plans or workstreams to enhance spots for the businesses.
The Committee also received a number of Received updates directly from senior presentations from business heads following management, and scrutinised action plans, unsatisfactory audit reports.
The Committee in relation to remediation plans following challenged the business regarding their role in unsatisfactory audit findings.
identifying the control issues and requested Reviewed updates from management on the confirmation from management regarding the Designated Market Activity DMA remediation programme, timeframe and remediation plan which addresses Barclays accountability for delivery and which are regulatory commitments to the Fed and other subsequently monitored.
US and UK regulators in relation to sales and The Committee was encouraged that the level trading practices across the FX, Rates and of resources being devoted to the DMA other markets related business areas.
programme now shows that it is on track to meet its milestones.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 59 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2017 Board Audit Committee report Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken The effectiveness of the Scrutinised on a regular basis the COO The Committee was pleased to note control environment control environment, taking the opportunity continuing progress over 2017 to address in the Chief Operating to directly challenge and question functional control issues in accordance with the agreed Office COO and the leaders, including the Chief Operating Officer timescales.
status and remediation on the progress of remediation plans.
of any material control Clarified the Committees ongoing issues.
responsibility for the oversight of controls matters relating to the Group Service Company.
The Committee received a deep dive control environment presentation from the Chief Information Officer regarding Technology control issues.
The adequacy of the Considered the results of the Your View The Committee discussed the importance of Groups arrangements Survey in relation to employee views on their ongoing dialogue and regular training to to allow employees ability to safely speak up in their business ensure that the route for escalations was clear to raise concerns in function and whether they could report and cases were directed to the relevant team confidence without instances of dishonest or unethical behaviour for investigation and resolution.
fear of retaliation and without fear.
The Committee supported the focus on the outcomes of any Received an update on enhancements to training both to colleagues on the channels substantiated cases.
Barclays whistleblowing programme available, and also managers on how to following the announcement of the PRA FCA handle, whistleblowing issues.
The Committee investigations and the outcome of the also emphasised the importance of sharing independent review that was commissioned positive outcomes of whistleblowing incidents by the Board.
Monitored instances of retaliation reports and The Committee was pleased to note that whether any instances had been substantiated.
volumes of cases remain proportionate to Monitored whistleblowing metrics, including Barclays size and footprint.
case load and case ageing.
As Whistleblowing Champion, the Chairman of the Committee made an annual report to the Board on whistleblowing matters.
Internal audit The performance of Scrutinised and agreed internal audit plans The Committee received semi-annual BIA and delivery of the and methodology and deliverables for 2017 thematic controls reports from BIA and a internal audit plan, and the first half of 2018, including reviewing quarterly operational report during 2017. including scope of the number of audits for delivery following the The Committee reiterated its support for BIAs work performed, the alignment of the Audit Universe to Barclays recruitment plans which reflected significant level of resources and new structure following Structural Reform.
activity during 2017 to ensure appropriate the methodology and Monitored BIAs response to feedback audit coverage to support the focus on BIA coverage of the received from the PRA as part of its review of quality across the audit cycle.
The Committee internal audit plan.
internal audit, including independence and Chairman provided input into the recruitment impact, quality and weight of resources, of the two key roles of Head of Internal Audit productivity and methodology.
in Barclays UK and Barclays International.
Monitored delivery of the agreed audit plans, The Committee observed that the issues arising including assessing internal audit resources from unsatisfactory audits indicated that there and hiring levels and any impacts on the audit was still work to do in embedding the required plan and reviewing the reasons for the level of control consciousness across the Group postponement of audits in greater depth.
and ensuring that control exceptions were Debated audit risk appetite and issue highlighted clearly in management reporting.
The Committee also requested that senior management support BIA in holding Tracked the levels of unsatisfactory audits, including discussing the time taken to issue individuals accountable for failure to remediate risks effectively where they had failed BIA audit reports and the reasons for any delays.
Discussed BIAs assessment of the management control approach and control The Committee confirmed that it was satisfied environment in Barclays UK, Barclays with the outcome of the self-assessment of BIA International and the functions.
performance and the independent external review, both of which evidenced that the Evaluated the outcomes from BIAs annual function generally conforms to the standards set self-assessment.
by the Institute of Internal Auditors.
It further Commissioned an independent external confirmed that it felt able to rely on the work of review of BIA.
The reviewer was selected as a BIA in discharging its own responsibilities.
result of a tender process also run by the Committee.
The Committee is providing oversight over the actions arising from the external review.
See page 61 below for further details of the review.
60 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken External audit The work and Met with key members of the KPMG audit The Committee approved the audit plan and performance of KPMG team to discuss the 2017 audit plan and agree the main areas of focus.
The Committee also approved the principal Assessed regular reports from KPMG on the services agreement and terms of engagement progress of the 2017 audit and any material in connection with KPMGs appointment as accounting and control issues identified.
Discussed KPMGs feedback on Barclays Read more about the Committees role in critical accounting estimates and assessing the performance, effectiveness and judgements.
independence of the external auditor and the Discussed KPMGs draft report on certain quality of the external audit below.
control areas and the control environment ahead of the 2017 year end.
Discussed the approach to KPMGs annual report to the PRA which will be issued following completion of the 2017 audit.
Considered the draft SOX controls report and the draft audit opinion.
The Committee also covered the following BIAs purpose and remit is clearly defined Assessing external auditor effectiveness, matters: and the function is positioned appropriately auditor objectivity and independence and within the governance framework of the non-audit services tracked the progress of specific work being organisation its role as an objective third The Committee is responsible for assessing done to enhance Barclays financial crime line of defence.
This role has been the effectiveness, objectivity and controls, including the functions supported by the clearer delineation of the independence of the Groups Auditor, KPMG investigation capabilities, in particular in first line role of the newly created Chief and in 2017 the Committee was particularly relation to prevention and detection Controls Office.
concerned to ensure that the external auditor activities.
The Committee also assessed the transition period was managed effectively.
Group Money Laundering Officers annual The focus on increased headcount in BIA This responsibility was discharged throughout report will help drive audit capacity and capability the year at formal Committee meetings, through enhanced specialist skills assessed the status of the programme in during private meetings with KPMG and via knowledge.
Deloitte reported that BIA cares place to ensure Barclays compliance with discussions with key executive stakeholders.
about its people and has created a client assets CASS regulatory In addition to the matters noted above, during supportive environment in which to work.
requirements, including approving the 2017 the Committee: annual client assets audit report and While there are opportunities to improve approved the terms of the audit discussing the potential impact of Structural BIAs impact, they are able to deliver engagement letter and associated fees, on Reform on client assets effective feedback on the operation of behalf of the Board controls that address key risks.
evaluated the outcomes of the assessment discussed and agreed revisions to the Group of the Committees performance and any The report paid close attention to the matters policy on the Provision of Services by the areas of Committee performance that raised in the 2016 PRA letter regarding BIA, Group Statutory Auditor and regularly needed to be enhanced and Deloitte met with the PRA as part of its analysed reports from management on the reviewed and updated its terms of review.
The Committee was satisfied with the non-audit services provided to Barclays.
reference, recommending them to the conclusions drawn in the report, while noting evaluated and approved revisions to the Board for approval.
the potential development areas identified, in Group policy on Employment of Employees particular, extending the use of data analytics.
In addition to these matters, as highlighted or Workers from the Statutory Auditor and BIA has drawn up an action plan in response above in the section of the table headed ensured compliance with the policy by to the review and the Committee will continue Internal audit the Committee commissioned regularly assessing reports from to monitor the delivery of this plan.
an independent review of BIA which was management detailing any appointments undertaken by Deloitte during the second half made External auditor of 2017.
The Chartered Institute of Internal Following an external audit tender in 2015, was briefed by KPMG on critical accounting Auditors requires an independent external PWC was replaced in 2017 as Barclays judgements and estimates review of internal audit functions to be carried statutory auditor by KPMG.
Guy Bainbridge of assessed any potential threats to out at least every five years.
Following a KPMG is Barclays senior statutory auditor independence that were self-identified and selection process, the Committee with effect from the audit for the 2017 reported by KPMG commissioned Deloitte to conduct this review financial year.
reporting directly to the Committee.
The reviewed the report on KPMG issued by the report concluded that: FRCs Audit Quality Review team.
BIA demonstrates general conformance with the relevant standards and guidelines.
BIA has an effective core audit methodology which reflects investment in Agile ways of working and data analytics which has helped to drive continuous improvement.
In this respect it is aligned with or ahead of peers.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 61 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2017 Board Audit Committee report begin.
Services where the fees are expected to KPMGs performance, independence and quality assurance: support in connection objectivity during 2017 were formally assessed be 250,000 or higher must be approved by with reports on the internal controls the Committee as a whole.
All expenses and at the beginning of 2018 by way of a applicable to IBOR submission processes questionnaire completed by key stakeholders disbursements must be included in the fees transaction support: ongoing attestation calculation.
The thresholds remained the across the Group.
The questionnaire was and assurance services for treasury and designed to evaluate KPMGs audit process same following the annual review of the Policy capital markets transactions to meet in 2017. and addressed matters including the auditor regulatory requirements, including regular transition, quality of planning and reporting obligations and verification During 2017, all engagements where expected communication, technical knowledge, the reports.
fees met or exceeded the above thresholds level of scrutiny and challenge applied and were evaluated by either the Committee The fees paid to PwC for non-audit work KPMGs understanding of the business.
In Chairman or the Committee as a whole who, during 2017, in the period before they resigned addition KPMG have nominated a senior before confirming any approval, assured as the Groups statutory auditor, and after partner on the audit team reporting to the themselves that there was justifiable reason they had resigned but before they were Senior Statutory Auditor to have specific for engaging the auditor and that its non-independent of certain Group entities responsibility for ensuring audit quality.
The independence and objectivity would not be and therefore still fell within the Policy, were Committee therefore met with the partner threatened.
No requests to use KPMG were 3m 2016: 8m.
Significant categories of concerned without the Senior Statutory declined in 2017 2016: one.
On a quarterly engagement approved in 2017 included: Auditor in order to receive a report on his basis, the Committee scrutinised details of transaction support: ongoing support for assessment of audit quality.
individually approved and pre-approved treasury and capital markets transactions, services undertaken by KPMG in order to Taking into account the results of all of the including providing comfort and accounting above, the Committee considered that KPMG satisfy itself that they posed no risk to letters to meet trust deed and regulatory independence, either in isolation or on an maintained their independence and objectivity obligations this ongoing support and the audit process was effective.
For the purposes of the transitioned to KPMG during 2017.
Policy, the Committee has determined that any The Committee also reviewed the level of Non-audit services pre-approved service of a value of under consultancy spend with PwC during 2017, 50,000 is to be regarded as clearly trivial in In order to safeguard the Auditors which it had asked to be monitored in the independence and objectivity, Barclays has in terms of its impact on Barclays financial immediate period after they stepped down as statements and has required the Group place a policy setting out the circumstances in the Groups auditors.
Work with an estimated which the Auditor may be engaged to provide Financial Controller to specifically review and value of 1m was awarded to PwC during the confirm to the Committee that any preservices other than those covered by the year this was in addition to the 3m in fees Group audit.
The Group Policy on the Provision approved service with a value of 50,000- paid to PwC for non-audit services referred to 100,000 or up to 25,000 for tax advisory of Services by the Group Statutory Auditor the above.
Policy applies to all Barclays subsidiaries and tax planning services may be regarded as clearly trivial.
The Committee undertook a and other material entities over which Barclays The Statutory Audit Services for has significant influence.
The Policy therefore review of pre-approved services at its meeting Large Companies Market Investigation in December 2017 and satisfied itself that included Barclays Africa Group Limited up Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender until the point of accounting deconsolidation.
such pre-approved services were clearly trivial Processes and Audit Committee in the context of their impact on the financial The core principle of the Policy is that Responsibilities Order 2014 non-audit services other than those legally statements.
An external audit tender was conducted in required to be carried out by the Groups The fees payable to KPMG for the year ended 2015 and the decision was made to appoint Auditor should only be performed by the 31 December 2017 amounted to 48m of KPMG as Barclays external auditor with effect Auditor in certain, controlled circumstances.
which 10m 2016: 17m was payable in from the 2017 financial year, with PwC The Policy sets out those types of services that respect of non-audit services KPMG was resigning as the Groups statutory auditor at are strictly prohibited and those that are appointed as the Groups statutory auditor the conclusion of the 2016 audit.
Any service types that from the financial year beginning 1 January do not fall within either list are considered by Barclays is in compliance with the 2017.
A breakdown of the fees payable to the the Committee Chairman on a case by case requirements of The Statutory Audit Services auditor for statutory audit and non-audit work basis, supported by a risk assessment for Large Companies Market Investigation can be found in Note 42.
Of the 10m of provided by management.
Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender non-audit services provided by KPMG during Processes and Audit Committee Under the Policy, the Committee has 2017, the significant categories of Responsibilities Order 2014, which relates to pre-approved all allowable services for which engagement, i. e. services where the fees the frequency and governance of tenders for fees are less than 100,000, or less than amounted to more than 500,000, included: the appointment of the external auditor and 25,000 for tax advisory and tax planning audit-related services: services in the setting of a policy on the provision of services.
However, all proposed work, connection with Client Asset Sourcebook non-audit services.
regardless of the fees, must be sponsored by a Rules CASS audits while the CASS audit senior executive and recorded on a centralised fell within the auditors scope of services, online system, with a detailed explanation of the fees for such services did not form part the clear commercial benefit arising from of the global fee arrangements and engaging the auditor over other potential therefore required separated Audit service providers.
The audit firm engagement Committee approval pursuant to the Policy partner must also confirm that the engagement has been approved in accordance with the auditors own internal ethical standards and does not pose any threat to the auditors independence or objectivity.
All requests to engage the auditor are assessed by independent management before work can commence.
Requests for allowable service types in respect of which the fees are expected to meet or exceed the above thresholds must be approved by the Chairman of the Committee before work is permitted to 62 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Governance in Action Preparation for IFRS 9 A significant activity for the Committee transition to the new standard, in particular during 2017 has been overseeing the Groups the delivery into production of the models preparation for the implementation of IFRS and controls which are required for its 9. implementation.
Throughout the process, the Committee emphasised to management IFRS 9 Financial Instruments is effective from the importance of developing the models to 1 January 2018 and replaces the IAS 39 support business decision making to accounting standard.
The new standard sets manage risk and ensure appropriate out the recognition and measurement customer outcomes.
The Committee requirements for financial instruments and reviewed the internal governance and has three parts: classification and validation processes in Risk and Finance and measurement of financial assets, the received regular updates from KPMG on requirements for impairment of financial their assurance work.
The Committee also assets and a hedge accounting model that is received reports from BIA following the designed to more closely reflect risk audits undertaken in respect of the IFRS 9 management.
As permitted, Barclays intends programme, with a number of further audits to continue with the existing IAS 39 hedge planned for 2018.
The Committee also accounting model.
The new impairment reviewed the key estimates made by accounting model however has a significant management in considering future impact on Barclays and the changes are economic scenarios and the criteria for complex and wide ranging: classification and determining when significant credit measurement also results in a number of deterioration is observed.
IFRS 9 has therefore been the subject of significant In line with its terms of reference, the regulatory and market focus.
Barclays has Committee has been closely involved in the worked with the industry and regulators to review of all material external financial agree a transitional framework for regulatory reporting relating to IFRS 9 and is focussed capital and on disclosures and has taken on ensuring clarity, completeness and note of the best practice recommendations appropriateness of the Groups disclosures, they have issued for the management of the particularly given the complexity and transition to the new standard.
technical challenges of this standard.
The Committee reviewed the best estimate The Committee received regular updates on impact on the Group which was disclosed in the status, judgements and financial impacts Barclays third quarter results and the relating to the implementation of IFRS 9 updated IAS 8 disclosures included in the during 2017 and the first quarter of 2018.
has overseen the steps required for Barclays home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 63 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2017 Board Risk Committee report The Committee continued to monitor UK economic trends, consumer behaviour and portfolio performance, and a prudent approach to lending was maintained.
the financial and capital impacts of Dear Fellow Shareholders Banks capital position, the Committee took The focus of the Committee during 2017 has into account current financial performance, the operational risk.
The Committee has noted, and encouraged, the efforts by Management continued to be on assessing the impact of impact of expected regulatory developments important macro-economic and market including structural reform, and estimates of to improve the Risk and Control Selfthe costs of resolving past conduct and Assessment programme in Operational Risk.
developments on the risk profile of the Group.
Credit risk management during 2017 was litigation issues.
Likewise, the Committee is This work is important in an environment of pleased that the liquidity risk in the Bank has heightened cyber risk and increased primarily concerned with the level of exposure to consumer debt both in the UK and US.
In been closely monitored and strengthened over operational complexity as the Bank the past year.
the UK, the Committee in 2016 had accepted the recommendation of Management to An important role of the Committee each year As in past years, the Committee reviewed the pursue a conservative approach to managing is to recommend the risk appetite of the Bank execution by Management of material growth and balances in credit card debt.
This to the Board: its ability to earn an appropriate regulatory programmes and initiatives.
These had been prompted by the rising level of return while being able to withstand shocks in included the BCBS239 effort to improve the personal debt in the UK and concerns of the market and economic environment.
In quality and reliability of data and information, weaker growth and higher inflation resulting addition, the Committee monitors closely the and IFRS 9, a new standard for the estimation from the countrys vote to leave the European assessment of the Banks performance under of credit impairment.
This theme persisted in 2017, as the a variety of regulatory stress tests.
We Committee continued to monitor UK economic evaluate not just the outcome of these Committee performance trends, consumer behaviour and portfolio analyses but the means by which they are The performance of the Committee during performance, and a prudent approach to performed, particularly the assessment of 2017 was assessed as part of an internal lending was maintained.
In the US, in late model risk.
These efforts increased in 2017, as annual Committee effectiveness review.
The 2016, there had been nascent signs of the Bank prepared for the first stress test of conclusion of my Board colleagues was that weakness in the consumer credit portfolio.
The the US Intermediate Holding Company, in the Committee is considered to operate Committee had requested Management to effectively and that the Board continues to addition to completing the newly introduced perform detailed analyses of the balances and, Biennial Exploratory Scenario for the Bank of have a high degree of confidence in the based on this work, approved in early 2017 the diligence and coverage of the Committee.
sale of a proportion of the weaker segments of Feedback from the review indicated that the the portfolio.
This action, along with increased The Committee assesses external conditions Committee was both effective and influential as part of establishing risk appetite.
These conservatism during the year in lending and in identifying areas of risk where Barclays portfolio quality, has moderated the impact on remain challenging and our objective was to needs to change its performance or adjust its position the Bank conservatively to deal with Barclays of increasing delinquencies among US risk profile.
credit card borrowers being seen among US economic uncertainty.
Key themes that developed during 2017 with potential to have One of the areas identified for improvement credit card lenders.
a significant first order impact on Barclays was to consider whether the Committee While the impairment performance of the businesses included heightened political and would benefit from deeper expertise by Bank was largely within plan, wholesale credit economic risk in the UK in the backdrop of including a member with a risk function performance in the UK was slightly weaker Brexit negotiations, increased geo-political risk management background and we will give than in the US.
The Bank experienced higher impacting the delicately poised global further consideration to this in 2018.
The impairment in its corporate lending book in economy, and a shortage of new transaction review also highlighted the need to ensure the UK from the default of certain borrowers flow in Leveraged Finance underwriting that the way in which the Committee works in the service sector.
In the US, improved driving tighter terms.
Other emerging risks with the Board Reputation and Board Audit economic conditions, and higher energy with potential to impact Barclays include UK Committees continues to capture all prices resulted in favourable corporate property price stress and volatility in financial significant issues effectively while minimising impairment trends compared to 2016. markets after a long period of quiescent asset any overlap.
I continued to work closely with appreciation.
The Committee maintains my fellow Board Committee Chairmen during In recent years, the Committee has been closely supervising the strengthening of the capital regular oversight of exposure to the key risk 2017, particularly with the Board Audit themes it has identified and actions taken by Committee Chairman in order to clarify the position of the Bank.
Progress continued in 2017 as the Banks capital ratios continued to Management in response.
responsibility of each committee in relation to operational risk matters during the year which improve.
In assessing the adequacy of the During the year, the Committee also evaluated 64 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information each Committee has a role in overseeing.
We Member Meetings attended eligible to attend Committee allocation of time % will work to embed this further in 2018.
The Tim Breedon 9 9 1 Committee will also focus on ensuring there is 4 Mike Ashley 9 9 a framework in place to ensure clear allocation Reuben Jeffery 9 9 3 of responsibilities regarding the Committees Diane Schueneman 9 9 interaction with the risk committees of Matthew Lester from 1 September 2017 3 3 Barclays UK and Barclays International under Steve Thieke to 10 May 2017 3 3 the new Group structure.
2 Committee role and responsibilities You can read more about the outcomes of the The Committees main responsibilities include: Board effectiveness review on pages to.
2017 2016 1 Risk profile risk appetite 53 52reviewing and recommending to the Board Looking ahead incl capital and liquidity the Groups financial and operational risk 2018 is important for Barclays as it completes management appetite 2 Key risk issues 26 26 the restructuring required under the structural monitoring the Groups financial and reform programme.
As a result, the firm will 3 Internal control risk policies 12 8 operational risk profile 4 Other incl remuneration and 9 14 have two important subsidiary legal entities in governance issues commissioning, receiving and considering Barclays UK, the core domestic franchise in the reports on key financial and operational risk UK, and Barclays International, the Corporate issues and Investment Banking and international Committee composition and meetings consumer businesses of the firm.
These will be The Committee is composed solely of The Committees terms of reference in addition to the US Intermediate Holding are available at independent non-executive Directors.
Details Company, which is part of Barclays of the skills and experience of the Committee home.
The Committee will pay close members can be found in their biographies on attention to the executives management of pages 47 to 48. risk within and across these entities.
The Committee met nine times in 2017, with We expect that credit and employment two of the meetings held at Barclays New conditions in the UK will continue to be ork offices.
The chart above shows how the uncertain, as future trade and economic Committee allocated its time during 2017. arrangements with the EU take shape.
In the Committee meetings were attended by US, the impact of the corporate tax reform on management, including the Group Chief the health of companies and consumers will Executive, Group Finance Director, Chief need assessment.
Lastly, the Committee will Internal Auditor, Chief Risk Officer, Barclays continue to monitor the risk to Barclays from Treasurer and Group General Counsel, as well volatility in financial markets, which have as representatives from the businesses and experienced many years of steady asset other representatives from the Risk function.
Representatives from Barclays external auditor, KPMG, and until March 2017, representatives from the outgoing external auditor, PwC, also attended meetings.
Tim Breedon Chairman, Board Risk Committee 21 February 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 65 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2017 Board Risk Committee report The Committees work The significant matters addressed by the Committee during 2017 are described below: Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Risk appetite and The risk context to Assessed the risk context for the 2017 MTP, The Committee recommended the stress testing, i. e. the Medium Term Plan including general economic and financial proposed risk appetite for 2017 to the Board level of risk the Group MTP, the financial conditions and how these had been reflected for approval, although noted that this may chooses to take in parameters and in planning assumptions.
need to be revisited to take account of the pursuit of its business constraints and mandate impact of IFRS 9 in due course.
It Debated the assumptions, parameters and objectives, including and scale limits for encouraged management to make further results of the internal stress test of the risk testing whether the specific business risk progress on enhancing infrastructure used appetite of the 2017 MTP.
Groups financial exposures: the Groups to conduct the internal stress test.
The Discussed and agreed mandate and scale position and risk internal stress testing Committee approved the 2017 annual stress limits for Credit, Market and Treasury and profile provide exercises, including test results for submission to the BoE, capital risk.
sufficient resilience to scenario selection and including the range of management actions Evaluated the BoE annual cyclical stress test withstand the impact financial constraints, and overlays designed to mitigate risk results, and the results of a stress test under of severe economic stress testing themes and impacts.
the BoE biennial exploratory scenario.
the results and Similarly, the Committee approved the implications of stress Observed and debated regulatory and market results of the stress test under the BoE tests, including those run reaction to the publication of BoE stress test biennial exploratory scenario and by the Bank of England results.
recommended that the results should be BoE.
Considered and approved internal stress test taken into consideration for strategy themes and the financial constraints and projections.
scenarios for stress testing risk appetite for In recommending the internal stress test the 2018 MTP.
and risk appetite for the 2018 MTP, the Considered the Federal Reserve Boards Committee noted and considered that the feedback on the US Intermediate Holding severity of the internal stress test had been Companys Comprehensive Capital Analysis higher than normal, which provided added and Review CCAR capital plan following resilience to the various challenges for the the submission of the CCAR stress test results.
MTP, such as macroeconomic issues.
Capital and funding, The trajectory to Debated, on a regular basis, capital The Committee supported the forecast i. e. having sufficient achieving required performance against plan, tracking the capital capital and funding trajectory and the capital and financial regulatory and internal trajectory, any challenges and opportunities actions identified by management to resources to meet the targets and capital and and regulatory policy developments.
manage the Groups capital position.
It Groups regulatory leverage ratios.
approved the proposed capital and liquidity Assessed, on a regular basis, liquidity requirements and its processes for Barclays UK for submission to performance against both internal and obligations as they fall the regulator as part of its banking licence regulatory requirements.
due, to maintain its application.
Regularly monitored capital and funding credit rating, to requirements on a legal entity basis.
The Committee considered and approved support growth and the Group capital adequacy assessment Assessed the possible implications of strategic options.
together with the methodologies and litigation and investigations on the Groups results of the reverse stress testing for the liquidity position, including a review of the submission of the 2017 Internal Capital Banks liquidity risk control framework.
Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP as Monitored the funding risk and capital well as the Groups 2017 Individual Liquidity volatility associated with the Barclays Adequacy Assessment Process ILAAP.
Political and economic The potential impact on Following the further sell-down of the Monitored progress on actions to mitigate risk, i. e. the impact on the Groups risk profile of the risk of the potential impact of negative equity stake in Barclays Africa and the the Groups risk profile political developments, interest rates in the UK on Barclays.
subsequent proportionate regulatory of political and such as elections in other deconsolidation, the Committee agreed that Monitored the potential impacts of Brexit, economic European countries, as South Africa should be removed as an including a hard Brexit.
developments and well as continuing to ongoing risk theme, although it continued Considered trends in the UK economy, macroeconomic monitor the impact of the to maintain oversight of any emerging risk.
including risk of inflation amid negative real conditions.
aftermath of the UKs EU It also agreed to remove negative interest wage growth.
rates as a key risk theme on the basis that Continued to monitor the risks relating to the actions previously identified and agreed South Africa while Barclays still had control to mitigate the risk were nearing of Barclays Africa Group Limited BAGL.
Monitored Barclays exposures to certain The Committee suggested that monitoring products, and with particular focus on geo-political risks in Europe should be redenomination risk, and the risk of a single broadened to include other regions, but country leaving the Euro.
requested that China continue to be reported as a separate geo-political risk theme.
66 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Credit risk, i. e. the Conditions in the UK Continued to assess and monitor conditions The Committee focused on effective potential for financial housing market, in the UK property market in case of signs of collections capability as an important tool loss if customers fail to particularly in London and stress.
fulfil their contractual the South East: levels of Evaluated how management was tracking The Committee encouraged management obligations.
UK consumer and responding to rising levels of consumer to carry on with its conservative approach indebtedness, particularly indebtedness, particularly unsecured credit in to UK lending.
in the context of the risk both the UK and US.
of inflation and negative The Committee approved changes to the Discussed the PRAs statement on consumer real wage growth: and the risk appetite levels for US Cards.
credit and unsecured lending in the UK, and performance of the UK considered Barclays response to the PRA The Committee requested more granular and US Cards businesses, statement.
detail of the impact of strategy changes on including levels of risk limits and oversight.
Scrutinised the performance of the UK and impairment.
US Cards businesses, including the level of impairment.
Reviewed and approved proposals for frameworks relating to Securities Financial Limits and Maximum Exposure Governance.
Scrutinised a strategic review of business activity in the Corporate and Investment Bank CIB.
Operational risk, The Groups operational Tracked operational risk key indicators via The Committee focused its attention on the i. e. costs arising from risk capital requirements regular reports from the Head of Operational financial and capital impacts of operational human factors, and any material changes Risk.
In relation to fraud, it encouraged inadequate processes to the Groups operational management to further integrate strategy, Debated specific areas of emerging risks, and systems or risk profile and models and operations.
including conduct risk, cyber, execution risk, external events.
performance of specific technology and data, including the controls operational risks against that had been put in place for managing and agreed risk appetite.
Risk framework and The frameworks, policies Monitored progress on the implementation The Committee requested a gap analysis governance and talent and tools in of an enhanced modelling framework, together with an action plan to remediate place to support effective including receiving updates from Barclays specific weaknesses identified in the risk management and Internal Audit on findings in relation to internal audit in relation to modelling.
The Committee assessed during the year Tracked the progress of significant risk the Groups risk management capability in management projects, including the progress the form of a Risk Capability Scorecard and on achieving compliance with the Basel reviewed and approved proposals for the Committee for Banking Supervision 239 external third party evaluation which was BCBS239 regulation for risk data scheduled to be performed in early 2018. aggregation principles as well as the roll out of the Risk and Control Self Assessment RCSA process across the Group.
Please see the Governance in Action box on page 68 for further details about the Committees role in overseeing the RCSA process.
Assessed risk management matters raised by Barclays regulators and the actions being taken by management to respond.
Endorsed Legal risk and Model risk, as new Principal Risks under the ERMF, forming part of the Committees roles and responsibilities in future.
Reviewed the implementation of the Enterprise Risk Management Framework during 2017 which had been designed to address feedback from the PRA following a review of the EMRF.
Remuneration The scope of any risk Debated, in a joint meeting with the Board The Committee discussed the report of the adjustments to be taken Reputation Committee, the Risk functions Chief Risk Officer and considered the into account by the Board view of 2017 performance, making a proposal put forward in relation to the Remuneration Committee recommendation to the Board Remuneration impact of relevant risk factors in when making Committee on the financial and operational determining 2017 remuneration decisions, remuneration decisions risk factors to be taken into account in noting that it should also include positive for 2017. remuneration decisions for 2017. events such as the 2017 Banking Standards Board report which had reported improvements on 2016. home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 67 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2017 Board Risk Committee report In addition, the Committee also covered the Governance in Action following matters in 2017: assessed Barclays exposures to the Risk and Control Self leveraged finance market, general Assessment Programme conditions in that market and approved an updated leveraged finance framework A key focus of the Committee in 2017 was which would be submitted annually to the oversight of the implementation of a revised Committee for approval Risk and Control Self Assessment RCSA programme.
The RCSA enhancement was briefed by PwC on main risk issues programme was established as part of identified during the 2016 year-end audit, Barclays commitment to the effective specifically impairment, post-model management the Groups Operational risk adjustments, forbearance control issues, and extend both the scope of coverage key valuation judgements including in across a wider range of risks, and also relation to the ESHLA portfolio, and key improve the granularity of managements assumptions used in the pension scheme risk and control assessments of business liabilities processes.
The programme is the firm-wide requested and evaluated a report on process led approach for management to partnership programmes in the US Cards identify and regularly assess material business with a focus on risk profile and inherent risks and their associated controls, credit quality in order to mitigate these risks and reduce considered a report on the effectiveness of the likelihood and or severity of losses to the Committee and any areas of the the firm from a Risk event.
Committees performance that could be In 2017, a number of pilot RCSAs were rolled improved out across the Group in addition to the reviewed and updated its terms of regular RCSA process, which was also reference, recommending them to the enhanced.
Improvements were also made in Board for approval.
the assessment of inherent risk values and the aggregation process for risk and control assessments across risk types.
During the year, the Committee reviewed progress in terms of the RCSAs completed across the Group, and also considered the next steps in the review process and the results of the residual risk assessments.
Based on the results of the pilot RCSAs undertaken, the Committee was satisfied that the process will improve managements understanding of the risk and control environment, so they can prioritise and remediate ineffective controls where required.
Following completion of the pilot RCSA programme, the Committee considered the ways in which the RCSA programme could be enhanced for the wider implementation of the programme in 2018.
The Committee considered specific revisions of the 2017 RCSA programme with the aim of: improving the identification of inherent risk, control effectiveness and residual risk by going into detail at a more granular process level increasing the degree of independent challenge provided by all three lines of defence increasing the granularity of assessments for a further set of pilot RCSAs to estimate inherent risk at activity level by risk type, together with the identification and assessment of detailed operating controls by activity and residual risk.
The Committee will continue to work with management in 2018 on further refining and enhancing the RCSA programme.
68 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Governance: Directors report What we did in 2017 Board Reputation Committee report The Committee has been well positioned during 2017, a tie of significant organisational change for the roup, to ensure that our people, whether within Barclays UK, Barclays International or the Group Service Company, continue to demonstrate behaviours and conduct that are consistent with the Barclays Values.
Committee performance Dear Fellow Shareholders One of the key challenges faced by the This is my second report to you as Chairman of Committee is how to maintain oversight of Through the process of the annual Board effectiveness review, which confirmed the the Board Reputation Committee.
At the Group Conduct and Culture matters as a conclusion of my last report I commented that whole, without overlooking the cultural continued effectiveness of the Committee, the ongoing evolution of the Committees role and the Committee, by way of its membership, differences that, naturally and quite rightly, executive engagement and reporting exist between our different operating the increased impact that it had during the last year was clearly acknowledged.
An area processes, had built a strong foundation on businesses and support functions.
During the which to base its future operations and drive year the Committee actively discussed this that the review identified for further consideration was the continued oversight of Barclays to be a governance leader in conduct, challenge and, in an attempt to address this, culture and reputation matters.
This strong I rebalanced the Committees agenda by Conduct and Reputation risk matters in the post-structural reform corporate structure, foundation has ensured that the Committee introducing business and functional Deep has been well positioned during 2017, a time of Dive sessions into each meeting.
The Deep which I will ensure is addressed by the Dives allow the Committee to understand the Committee ahead of April 2018. significant organisational change for the Group, to ensure that our people, whether within conduct, culture and customer satisfaction issues being faced in specific areas of the Looking ahead Barclays UK, Barclays International or the Group Service Company, continue to demonstrate business and the actions undertaken to Finally, I would like to record my thanks to address them.
Whilst consideration of our Mike Roemer, who stepped down as Group behaviours and conduct that are consistent with the Barclays Values.
well-refined dashboards and Reputation risk Chief Compliance Officer in October 2017, for reports ensure that Group-level metrics, his outstanding contribution to the work of On two occasions during 2017 the Committee challenges and initiatives remain clearly visible the Committee during his tenure in that role.
I extended an invite to representatives of the and subject to Committee consideration and would also like to thank Diane fide Saint Victor, Banking Standards Board BSB to present and challenge.
You can read about some of the who stepped down from the Committee on discuss the outcomes of their 2016 and 2017 Deep Dives undertaken by the Committee her retirement from the Board in May 2017.
As an independent during 2017 on the following pages.
look forward to working with our new third party with insights across the banking Committee member, Mike Turner and, subject industry as a whole, the Committee attaches A significant output from the Committee to regulatory approval, our new Group Chief significant value to the insights offered by the during 2017 resulted from discussions around Compliance Officer, Laura Padovani, as we BSB and I would like to extend my personal Barclays historic commitments to the continue to support the delivery of the Boards thanks to Dame Colette Bowe and her team at financing of certain fossil fuels projects, which collective vision of the Barclays Values.
the BSB for their continuing work to promote resulted in a decision to develop a more the highest standards of behaviour in UK proactive approach to the management of banking and restore public trust in the sector.
sustainability issues across the Barclays Sir Gerry Grimstone We were encouraged to hear that the results business.
I would encourage you to refer to Chairman, Board Reputation Committee had generally improved between 2016 and the Governance in Action box on page 74 for 21 February 2018 2017 and were particularly pleased to see how further details on this initiative.
strongly the Barclays Values still resonate with our colleagues.
The Committee also carefully considered the BSBs feedback on results relating to colleague resilience and you will find an outline of our discussion on colleague well-being on page 71. home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 69 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2017 Board Reputation Committee report Committee composition and meetings Committee role and responsibilities Committee allocation of time % The Committee is composed solely of The principal purpose of the Committee is to: 1 independent non-executive Directors.
During support the Board in promoting its 5 2017, Diane fide Saint Victor stepped down collective vision of Barclays purpose, values, from the Committee and the Barclays Board culture and behaviours with effect from 10 May 2017. ensure, on behalf of the Board, the efficiency 4 The Committee met four times during 2017 of the processes for identification and 2 and the chart to the left shows how it management of Conduct and Reputation 3 allocated its time.
Committee meetings were risk attended by representatives from 2017 2016 oversee Barclays conduct in relation to its management, including the Group Chief 1 Conduct and compliance 36% 33% corporate and societal obligations, including Executive, Chief Compliance Officer, Chief 2 Culture 20% 21% setting the guidance, direction and policies Internal Auditor, Chief Risk Officer, Group 3 Customer satisfaction 14% 6% for Barclays approach to customer and General Counsel, Group Chief of Staff, Group 4 Citizenship 16% 13% regulatory matters and Barclays Citizenship HR Director and the Heads of Corporate 5 Brand & other Reputation risk 14% 27% Strategy, including advising the Board and Communications, Citizenship and Reputation, 2016 figures have been rebased according to the management on these matters.
as well as senior representatives from the significant matters considered by the Committee in The Committees terms of reference 2017. businesses and other functions.
A are available at representative from KPMG, Barclays external home.
barclays corporategovernance auditor, attended each Committee meeting during the year and representatives from the BSB attended two meetings during 2017.
Member Meetings attended eligible to attend Sir Gerry Grimstone 4 4 Mike Ashley 4 4 Mary Francis 4 4 Dambisa Moyo 4 4 Diane fide Saint Victor to 10 May 2017 1 1 The Committees work The significant matters addressed by the Committee during 2017 are described below: Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Conduct risk Monitoring the risks that can arise Discussed updates from management In line with its re-categorisation under from the inappropriate supply of on Conduct risk and considered the ERMF, the Committee adopted Board-level oversight of financial crime financial services, including performance against Conduct risk risk and conducted a Deep Dive into this instances of wilful or negligent indicators at each meeting.
The Conduct dashboard report was misconduct.
Discussed the specific Conduct risks updated to include financial crime associated with certain business areas information and metrics, and the and the status of initiatives in place to Committee was encouraged by address those risks and further managements open and transparent strengthen the culture of the business.
approach to engaging with regulators on Received reports from Barclays Internal financial crime matters.
Audit BIA in respect of internal audit The Committee considered the differing activities on conduct risk management regulatory requirements placed on the matters, including details of any UK and US Cards businesses and have unsatisfactory audit reports and suggested that a Barclays view should remediation steps identified.
overlay the requirements of local Discussed and approved the Conduct regulations to ensure that all retail facing Risk Framework, with Conduct risk businesses within the Group operate having been identified as a Principal Risk within a framework that prioritises the under the Barclays Enterprise Risk concept of Treating Customers Fairly.
During discussion of the realignment of Received forward looking information on businesses between Barclays UK and regulatory developments, including the Barclays International, the Committee issuance of new consultations by encouraged management to take regulators, that might have a Conduct advantage of opportunities presented by risk impact on Barclays in the future.
structural reform to address some areas Approved the annual Compliance Plan.
of Conduct risk by harmonising policies and operations, in areas such as Considered and approved the proposed collections and affordability assessments.
methodology for calculating Conduct risk adjustments to incentive pools.
The Committee considered an update from BIA on the use of Conduct risk information by legal entities within the Group and their assessment of reporting mechanisms and the escalation of issues up the organisational hierarchy.
70 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Cultural progress Reviewing managements Debated culture dashboards presented at Through consideration of the Culture progress on embedding a each meeting and the progress being dashboards and YourView results, values-based culture across the made to embed cultural change across the Committee was encouraged by the organisation.
consistently strong sustainable engagement scores achieved Received regular updates on colleague throughout 2017.
Improvements have engagement metrics and the results of been made in the area of colleague employee YourView surveys and enablement, however the Committee considered proposed changes to the appreciated managements YourView methodology.
acknowledgement that further Approved the adaption of the Culture improvement is still required in this dashboard to include the monitoring of area, notably in terms of reducing cultural attributes across the firm.
perceived bureaucracy throughout Considered and discussed with the organisation.
representatives of the BSB the results of The Committee discussed the their 2016 and 2017 Annual Reviews of importance of a culture in which Barclays.
colleagues feel able to speak up and Considered a Deep Dive analysis on raise concerns.
Particular attention has culture within Barclaycard UK, including been paid to whistleblowing metrics the process and challenges of integrating throughout the year and, on the UK Cards business into Barclays UK.
recommendation of the Committee, Considered feedback from the FCA on the YourView survey system now the Conduct and Culture dashboards.
contains a direct link to Barclays whistleblowing resources with the Received information on managements intention of further encouraging and initiatives to improve colleague supporting employees to report well-being and resilience, including instances of unethical or inappropriate actively encouraging employees to work behaviour.
dynamically and providing a supportive environment in which colleagues feel Additional and more detailed able to talk about the impacts of stress information is becoming available to and mental health concerns.
the Committee, by way of reporting on Considered draft disclosures on the cultural attributes, on what employees Gender Pay Gap within the Group and perceive to be the most prevalent industry comparators.
facets of Barclays organisational culture.
It is intended that this information be used to monitor attainment of a set of desired attributes and facilitate further discussion and action in order to achieve this.
By way of discussion of the FCAs feedback on Barclays dashboards, the Committee acknowledged that the dashboards are just one of a number of key management information tools used to set its agenda and facilitate an ongoing discussion with management on culture which leads, in some cases, to deliberate actions being taken by the Group and business executive committees.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 71 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2017 Board Reputation Committee report Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Customer satisfaction Ensuring fair outcomes for Debated complaints dashboards and The Committee was pleased to see a customers by monitoring performance against key indicators at general downward trend in the number complaints volumes, the standard each meeting.
of complaints received by Barclays and quality of complaints handling during 2017.
Gave consideration to the impact that processes and other relevant matters, such as an effective While the Committee still receives a metrics.
communication channel, have on Group-wide report on complaints, customer complaints volumes.
underlying reporting has been refined Considered the quality of the processes in line with organisational changes to in place to address and resolve customer ensure the Committee receives a clear complaints.
view on the complaints metrics of Barclays UK and Barclays International Monitored trends in the underlying respectively.
The Committee made causes of complaints and considered recommendations to management, in forward looking analysis to identify the context of the structural reform events both industry-wide and programme, in respect of ensuring a Barclays-specific which could influence consistent Barclays customer the volume and timings of complaints.
experience is received by retail clients Considered the differing complaints whether they are being serviced by profiles of the Barclays UK and Barclays Barclays UK or Barclays International.
International businesses and the actions being undertaken to positively improve The Committee developed its understanding of how complaints MI is the customer journey by utilising complaints management information mapped by Barclays UK in order to identify root causes and received MI.
information on the strategic initiatives Requested further insight into the first being undertaken to address them.
The line management of customer Committees Deep Dive also led to complaints and conducted a Deep Dive further refinement of the Barclays UK into Barclays UKs complaints handling Complaints dashboards to include processes Barclays UK receives the complaints volumes by channel.
The majority of Barclays customer analysis of the data revealed a high complaints given its retail focus.
level of customer satisfaction with Requested additional Deep Dives on Barclays online bank offering.
areas of the Barclays International The Committee was pleased to see an business that have a retail customer base increase in Barclays UKs NPS during and considered the complaints profiles the course of 2017 and support of those businesses.
managements objective of further Considered the progress being made by increasing NPS to ensure Barclays UK relevant businesses to improve their remains competitive against challenger respective net promoter score NPS.
In relation to Barclays Internationals business areas, the Committee was encouraged to hear that complaints volumes were at an all-time low within Barclaycard US BCUS but noted managements desire to improve the businesss net promoter score against key US competitors.
The Committee also considered the approach being taken by Barclays Partner Finance BPF to identify potential areas of future complaints and proactively reaching out to customers to resolve issues before complaints arise.
72 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Citizenship Monitoring progress against the Considered the Citizenship dashboards The Committee was very pleased to see Shared Growth Ambition presented at each meeting and assessed that Citizenship metrics demonstrate a Barclays Citizenship Plan for status updates on the Shared Growth high level of colleague pride in the 2016-2018 and the effectiveness Ambition.
contribution Barclays makes to the of policy statements on Citizenship community and society.
Reviewed Barclays ratings and relative matters.
peer ranking in external Environment, The Committee is very encouraged by Social, Governance ESG benchmarks managements decision to dedicate and tracked external perceptions on resource to financial crime, skills and Citizenship through stakeholder and employability and digital empowerment media analysis.
initiatives that provide benefits not only Received information on new Citizenship to Barclays and its customers, but to initiatives such as the #Digisafe the banking industry and UK campaign which aims to educate population more generally.
individuals to better protect themselves Read more about Barclays approach against digital fraud.
to Citizenship on pages 21 to 22.
Received an update from Barclays Global Head of Financial Crime in respect of the functions development of intelligenceled initiatives to combat fraud.
Reviewed and recommended the approval of Barclays statement on modern slavery.
Reputation and brand Ensuring that the Barclays brand Reviewed Reputation risk updates from The Committee approved the is proactively managed and management, receiving specific Reputation Risk Framework, confirming Reputation risks and issues are information on those issues deemed to that Reputation risk is now a Principal identified and managed constitute the most significant Risk under the ERMF.
Reputation risks and issues in each discussion also took place in respect quarter.
of the correlation between cultural indicators, conduct outcomes and Regularly evaluated the measures being Reputation risk.
taken to enhance the Barclays brand and to understand, and propose action to The Committee requested further improve, where appropriate, external refinement of the Reputation risk perceptions of the Bank.
reporting received to include sentiment Considered whether the process for analysis of media coverage and metrics identifying, managing and overseeing on Barclays social media presence.
Reputation risk was functioning The Corporate Relations priorities for effectively.
2017 were pre-approved by the Committee and fulfilment of those priorities kept under review throughout the year.
This process improved managements ability to more effectively understand and monitor external perceptions of Barclays among key stakeholders.
The Committee requested that management undertake work to further refine the components of Reputation risk, clarify the process for identifying risks, enhance management oversight and give consideration to how the overall process can be better communicated.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 73 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2017 Board Reputation Committee report The Committee also covered the following Governance in Action matters: received a report on managements annual Responding to Stakeholder review of the effectiveness of compliance Concerns with the Volcker Rule restrictions on proprietary trading and certain fund During the year, the Committee gave investments by banks operating in the US consideration to Barclays exposure to environmental, social and sustainability received a report from management on matters through its business relationships Barclays Swap Dealer Annual Compliance and challenged management to establish a Report more formal and proactive approach to discussed the outcome of an externally documenting policy positions and facilitated review on Barclays compliance guidelines in relevant sectors.
with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial In response to recommendations from the Disclosures TCFD and its comparative Committee, management commenced performance against its peers.
work to review Barclays involvement and practices in certain sensitive sectors and approved, from a Reputation risk is in the process of drawing up proposals perspective, a proposal to restructure for sector-specific policies that will certain intra-group shareholdings and articulate the forward looking intentions of enhance capital utilisations Barclays in these areas.
The Committee will assessed and discussed a report on the be reviewing and approving these policies Committees performance during 2018 and look forward to reporting reviewed and updated its terms of on their content and implementation in reference.
Read more about Barclays risk The Committee considers that the management on pages 119 to 120 and establishment of sector-specific policies in our Pillar 3 Report, which is available and guidelines will be a significant step in online at barclays.
com annualreport further enhancing the role that Barclays plays in the wider business community and believe they will improve the quality of the Companys future reporting on climate change and other matters of social and environmental interest.
74 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Governance: Directors report What we did in 2017 Board Nominations Committee report n 2 we ade significant progress towards our new roup goernance structure in preparation for structural refor and the stand up of our ringfenced bank in 2, with appointents haing been ade to both the Barclays UK and Barclays International diisional boards Looking ahead Dear Fellow Shareholders of the Barclays Talent and Succession strategy, In 2017 we made significant progress towards providing input and guidance to management In 2018 we look forward to the execution of to ensure we attract and retain the best talent our new Group structure and to the our new Group governance structure in preparation for structural reform and the for the Group.
As a Committee, we also implementation of robust processes providing discuss ways in which we can develop and clear, consistent and effective corporate stand up of our ring-fenced bank in 2018, with appointments having been made to both the nurture high performing individuals within governance for the Group post-structural senior management to strengthen our reform.
Throughout this period of change, Barclays UK and Barclays International divisional boards.
We are delighted to succession pipeline, including the use of ex the Committee will continue to ensure that fici posts to relevant executive committees we have the right people leading the strategic welcome the new directors to those boards, led by Sir Gerry Grimstone as Chairman of to give those individuals exposure to Group direction of Barclays, motivating colleagues matters and leadership.
and sustaining our business over the long Barclays International subject to regulatory approval and Sir Ian Cheshire as Chairman of term.
Our people are the driving force in sustaining Barclays UK which will become our ringour business and we firmly believe in the fenced bank.
We continued to refine the benefits of having a diverse workforce.
I am John McFarlane details of how the Group Board will interact proud to see the number and variety of Chairman, Board Nominations Committee with those boards and the boards of our other diversity and inclusion initiatives we have at 21 February 2018 strategically significant subsidiaries, building Barclays to develop and support colleagues, on the Governance Guiding Principles we and ultimately to encourage them to grow created in 2016.
We look forward to working their careers with us.
While we recognise that collaboratively with them to ensure that the diversity is not only about gender, it is roles and responsibilities of each board are nevertheless an important element of diversity clear, while providing effective governance of and we have set ourselves a target of 33 the Group and protection of shareholder female representation on the Board by 2020, interests.
which as a Board we remain committed to In view of the significant changes to our achieving.
Please see page 79 for further Group corporate structure, and always bearing information about our approach to diversity at in mind the long term strategy of the Group, both Board and Group Executive Committee the Committee continues to regularly consider levels.
our Board composition and succession plans, ensuring it comprises the right balance of Committee performance diversity, skills and experience to provide the The performance of the Committee was strategic oversight needed to steer the assessed as part of the annual Board business of the Group.
We conducted effectiveness review and I am pleased to searches for non-executive Directors in 2017 report that the results show that it is and were pleased to appoint Matthew Lester performing effectively, with the role and and Mike Turner CBE to the Board, in addition responsibilities of the Committee clear and to the appointment of Sir Ian Cheshire.
One area identified for Matthew, Mike and Sir Ian each bring with consideration is that the Committee should be them significant board-level experience and mindful of ensuring that all non-executive you can find out more about their background Directors receive the same flow of information and relevant skills and experience that they in relation to decisions and discussions by the bring to the Board in their profiles on pages 47 Committee, which I will address in my updates to 48. to the Board as Chairman of the Board Nominations Committee, and outside of I have previously emphasised that it is a key scheduled Board meetings to the extent part of our role to be satisfied that there are appropriate.
The report on the Board proper processes in place for executive effectiveness review can be found on page 78. succession, and this continues to remain another key consideration of the Committee.
We closely monitored the status and progress home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 75 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2017 Board Nominations Committee report Jeffery III, are also members of the Committee.
Committee role and responsibilities Committee allocation of time % Details of the skills and experience of the The principal purpose of the Committee is to: 1 5 Committee members can be found in their support and advise the Board in ensuring 2 biographies on pages 47 and 48.
4 that the composition of the Board and its Committees is appropriate and enables During 2017 there were three meetings of the them to function effectively Committee, including one held at Barclays New York offices.
Attendance by members at examine the skills, experience and diversity Committee meetings is shown below and the on the Board and plan succession for key 3 chart to the left shows how the Committee Board appointments, planning ahead to allocated its time.
Committee meetings were deal with upcoming retirements and to fill 2017 2016 attended by the Group Chief Executive, with any expected skills gaps 1 Corporate governance matters 8 20 the Group HR Director, the Head of Talent, and 2 Board and Committee 42 36 provide Board-level oversight of the Groups the Global Head of Diversity and Inclusion composition talent management programme and attending as appropriate.
3 Succession planning and talent 33 31 diversity and inclusion initiatives 4 Board effectiveness 11 8 agree the annual Board effectiveness review Member Meetings attended eligible to attend 5 Other 6 5 process and monitor the progress of any John McFarlane 3 3 actions arising Mike Ashley 3 3 Tim Breedon 3 3 Committee composition and meetings ensure the Board has appropriate corporate Crawford Gillies 3 3 The Committee is composed solely of governance standards and practices in Sir Gerry Grimstone 3 3 independent non-executive Directors.
John place and keep these under review to Reuben Jeffery III 3 3 McFarlane, as Chairman of the Board, is also ensure they are consistent with best Sir Ian Cheshire from 9 May 2017 0 1 Chairman of the Committee.
Breedon, Crawford Gillies, and Sir Gerry Sir Ian Cheshire did not attend owing to prior The Committees terms of reference Grimstone, being the Chairmen of each of the commitments, but his views and comments were are available at other Board Committees, and Sir Ian Cheshire made available to, and considered by, the Committee.
barclays corporategovernance as Chairman of Barclays UK and Reuben The Committees work The significant matters addressed by the Committee during 2017 are described below: Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Board and Board The membership of the Barclays Reviewed the Board skills matrix and The Committee identified the need to appoint an additional non-executive Committee PLC Board and the current and discussed the key skills and experience composition future composition of the Board needed on the Board in the context of Director with chairman or CEO experience to add further depth to the Board.
future strategic direction, including any areas requiring strengthening for skills During the year it recommended for and succession and conducted a search appointment to the Board Mike Turner for non-executive Directors.
CBE, Sir Ian Cheshire brought on as Considered the skills and composition Chairman of Barclays UK and Matthew of the Board in a post-structural reform Lester following the Committees environment.
previous recommendation of an additional non-executive Director with accounting Reviewed the membership, size and and auditing experience.
The Committee composition of Board Committees.
agreed that a search would be conducted for an additional female non-executive Director to promote diversity of gender on the Board and in recognition of the Boards commitment to achieving 33% female representation on the Board by 2020.
The Committee agreed to review the role, purpose and composition of the Group Board once the Barclays UK and Barclays International Boards were fully constituted and operational boards.
It noted that changes to Board Committee membership may take place once those boards, as well as the Group Service Company board, were operational so that a holistic view can be taken on appropriate memberships and crossmemberships of boards and committees.
Please refer to page 77 for more details of the Boards approach to the recruitment of new Directors.
76 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Board composition of The composition of the Barclays Considered the board skills matrix for The Committee, in reviewing the skills Barclays UK and UK and Barclays International Barclays UK and Barclays International.
matrices for Barclays UK and Barclays Barclays International divisional boards.
International following appointments Considered updates on the in preparation for the to those boards, is of the view that establishment of boards of Barclays UK legal entity stand up there do not appear to be any skills and Barclays International and discussed in 2018 under the gaps across the two boards, subject to the suitability of potential candidates structural reform the recruitment of a non-executive identified to join those boards.
programme Director with retail banking experience to the Barclays UK board.
It discussed opportunities for interaction between the Barclays PLC, Barclays UK and Barclays International boards and agreed to consider opportunities for engagement at board and committee level going forward.
Executive succession Succession planning and talent Considered updates on, and progress The Committee welcomed the progress planning and talent management at Group Executive being made against, Barclays Talent made in the Group Executive management Committee level.
and Succession strategy, including Committee succession planning, but monitoring diversity within the talent noted that there was further work to be pipeline.
done in ensuring we are able to recruit and retain the best talent for the Group.
Discussed updates from the Group HR It noted that the boards of Barclays UK Director on Group Executive Committee and Barclays International, once succession plans, including assessing established, would be able to take a emergency cover, the existing talent more granular view of succession to pipeline and any potential gaps.
The Committee also Considered individuals identified as discussed the use of ex officio posts to potential Group Executive Committee both the Group Executive Committee successors and discussed next steps for and business executive committees to their development.
give senior individuals exposure to Considered the succession plans for the Group matters as a further way of most critical business unit and functional developing those individuals to ensure roles and discussed how to develop the a healthy pool of potential candidates high performing individuals identified.
In addition, the Committee covered the needs of the Group.
The Committee reviews Group Board positions was not used in 2017, following matters: the skills matrix when considering a new as the Committee believes that targeted appointment to the Board, as well as recruitment is the optimal way of recruiting considered the results of, and the action reviewing the current and expected Board and for Board positions.
Both of the firms used for plan in respect of, the 2016 Board Board Committee composition.
This helps to non-executive Director recruitment have effectiveness review and the process for the determine a timeline for proposed signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct 2017 Board and Committee effectiveness appointments to the Board.
for Executive Search Firms, which include review measures designed to improve gender reviewed and confirmed the effectiveness When recruiting a new non-executive Director, diversity on boards.
of the processes for authorising Directors the specific skills that are needed are conflicts of interests and Directors identified, for example, an individual with In 2017, Barclays announced the appointments induction and training international experience, or recent history of Sir Ian Cheshire, Matthew Lester and Mike Turner CBE as non-executive Directors, with serving on a particular board committee.
considered a report on the effectiveness of The Charter of Expectations contains the key each Director bringing specific skills and the Committee experience to fill the role previously identified competencies and skills expected of nonreviewed the Committees terms of executive Directors, and these, in addition by the Committee as well as all having reference.
extensive board-level experience see pages to other details such as expected time commitment, will be included in an individual 47 to 48 for details of each Directors Appointment and re-election of Directors experience and background.
The Committee as a whole then Board and Board Committee composition considers curriculum vitae and references for Victor and Steve Thieke both stood down is a standing item for consideration at each from the Board with effect from the end of the potential candidates.
Any candidates who are Committee meeting.
This includes the shortlisted will be interviewed by members 2017 AGM.
consideration of potential new non-executive of the Committee and, if applicable, key The Directors in office at the end of 2017 were Director appointments, both in respect of shareholders and Barclays regulators may be subject to an effectiveness review, as planned succession for known retirements asked to provide feedback on the proposed described on page 78.
Based on the results of and as a result of the ongoing review of the appointment.
The Board is updated on the the review the Board accepted the view of the skills and experience needed on the Board in progress of the recruitment and interview Committee that each Director proposed for order for it to continue to operate effectively.
process, and any feedback from the interviews election or re-election continues to be is provided to the Board alongside a The Committee frequently considers a skills effective and that they each demonstrated the recommendation for appointment.
matrix for the Board, which identifies the core level of commitment required in connection competencies, skills, diversity and experience Executive search firms Egon Zehnder and with their role on the Board and the needs of required for the Board to deliver its strategic Buchanan Harvey were instructed to assist the business.
aims and govern the Group effectively.
Certain with the search for non-executive Directors attributes identified in the skills matrix have a during 2017.
Neither firm has any other target weighting attached to them and these connection to Barclays, other than to provide are regularly updated over time to reflect the recruitment services.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 77 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2017 Board Nominations Committee report Directors, and the Senior Independent Review of Board and Board Committee restructuring of the Group in April 2018 is also effectiveness Director received a report on the Chairman.
a significant focus for the Group and regarded Process as a major challenge.
The Board is cognisant Following consideration of the findings of the Each year, an evaluation is conducted on the of the challenges of ensuring the new Group 2017 Board and Committee effectiveness effectiveness of the Board, the Board corporate structure is effective and efficient, reviews, the Directors remain satisfied that the Committees and individual Directors.
Full and is conscious of the need to maintain good Board and each of the Board Committees are external evaluations of Board effectiveness have governance overall and minimise duplication.
been undertaken in the past two years.
In view The interaction between the Group Board and of the impending new Group corporate the boards of our strategically significant Outcomes of 2017 review structure, following which another external subsidiaries will be closely monitored and Board performance is considered to be improving, thought will be given to identifying evaluation will be carried out once the structure with more effective and insightful questions being has had time to settle, the Board decided to opportunities for engagement with subsidiary asked in Board debates and a better balance being board members to develop and maintain a focus this years review on individual Director struck between support and challenge.
In performance to monitor the Boards progress good working relationship.
The impact of the particular, the Directors were positive about: new structure on Board work and governance and to inform the agenda of the next full the preparations for structural reform external review process.
will be a key area of review for the 2018 external evaluation of the Board.
project execution, such as the remediation Independent Board Evaluation facilitated the of control issues and preparations for Brexit effectiveness review for 2016 and was engaged Committee effectiveness the recruitment of high quality new Board again to conduct the 2017 Board review, also The 2017 Board Committee effectiveness members and members for the boards of again led by Ffion Hague.
Independent Board review was carried out internally, led by the Barclays UK and Barclays International.
Evaluation is an independent external Company Secretary.
A questionnaire was consultancy with no other connection to The Directors were also pleased with progress circulated to all Committee members with a Barclays.
Consistent with previous years, Ffion on strengthening the senior executive team report of the findings of the effectiveness Hague carried out interviews with the Directors and deepening relationships between review provided to the Chair of each to obtain feedback on the effectiveness of the Directors and key executives.
The executive Committee as well as an update to the Board.
Board throughout 2017. team feels well supported by the Board and is The conclusion from the Committee reviews is grateful for that support.
Independent Board Evaluation issued a report that the Committees are working well, and to the Board on the findings of the you can read more about the findings for each Business performance is a concern for Board effectiveness review.
In addition, the Board Committee within each Committee members, and the Board is focused on Chairman was provided with a report and Chairmans letter.
improving this within the Group.
This will be a feedback on the performance of each of the particular area of focus in 2018.
The Progress against 2016 findings Following the 2016 Board effectiveness review facilitated by Independent Board Evaluation, a number of findings were identified and the summary below sets out the Boards progress against those actions in 2017.
2016 findings Actions taken findings in 2017 Board priorities Create regular broad-based risk oversight Board sessions Time was scheduled for free-ranging discussion around risk, to allow Directors to look across the risk spectrum.
strategy and the Banks long term plan during the Boards annual strategy session.
Schedule a debate on the role of the Board and nonexecutive Directors and link the conclusions to revised Board The review reported that Board discussion was more focused objectives to help focus the Boards agenda.
and struck a balance between support and challenge.
Board executive Positive and constructive relations between the Board The review found that the relationship between the Board and relationship and the new management team were reported.
executive management deepened during 2017, with executive management feeling well supported.
Optimise Continue to optimise the information flow between The Chairman continued to hold meetings with non-executive communication Directors in the run-up to structural reform in 2018.
Directors ahead of Board meetings to brief them on current issues.
a and collaboration Consider agreeing common values for the Group and Further principles and practices were developed for the banking subsidiary boards in the new structure.
interaction between the Board and the boards of Barclays UK and Barclays International, building on the Governance Guiding principles created in 2016.
Board Continue to refine the Board skills matrix to ensure it aligns The Board skills matrix and succession plan were kept under appointment with the Groups strategy and informs the succession plan for review, with separate skills matrices established for the process key Board roles.
Implement more regular reporting to the Board Barclays UK and Barclays International boards.
Board on potential non-executive Directors under consideration.
members were updated on recruitment progress and details of potential candidates.
Director Continue to enhance the Director induction process with a The induction programme was reviewed to factor in tailored induction focus on providing broader governance training to anyone governance training for new Directors and was extended also who has not previously served on a UK PLC board.
to directors of Barclays UK, Barclays International and the Group Service Company.
Reporting Review reporting arrangements on strategy implementation The form and content of reporting to the Board was reviewed b to the Board and review the KPIs or dashboard reports for key initiatives.
and refreshed by management to ensure that the Board is provided with appropriate management information on strategy and execution priorities.
Notes a In 2016 this finding was named Greater awareness of Board Committee work.
b In 2016 this finding was named Dealing more strategically with global regulation.
78 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Diversity on the Board and Group Executive Committee The Board continues to have regard to With regard to ethnic diversity, the Board the Hampton-Alexander Review considers that Barclays is currently recommendations to improve gender well-positioned in terms of representation at diversity among FTSE leadership teams and Board level and also at Group Executive the Parker Review recommendations on the Committee level when taking into account ethnic diversity of UK boards.
the Parker Review definition being individuals of Black, East Asian, Latin The Committee recognises the importance American, Middle Eastern or South Asian of ensuring that there is broad diversity ethno-cultural backgrounds.
The Board inclusive of, but not limited to, gender, will continue to monitor the overall diversity ethnicity, geography and business of our leadership pipeline to ensure we are experience on the Board, while continuing to attracting the broadest spectrum of leaders recommend all appointments based on to Barclays.
merit in the context of the skills and During 2017, the Committee received regular experience required.
Barclays approach to Board diversity is set out in full in the Board updates from the Global Head of Diversity and Inclusion covering the full spectrum of Diversity Policy, which can be found online at home.
Barclays diversity and inclusion agenda, including the actions being taken regarding Our Board Diversity Policy recognises that a truly diverse Board will include and make dynamic working, colleague inclusion, workforce diversity, mental health awareness good use of the differences in skills, experience, background, race, gender and and social mobility.
The Committee is other distinctions brought by each Director, pleased with the progress being made and with such differences being considered in discussed ways in which inclusion might be determining the optimum composition of tracked.
Management is continuing to work the Board.
When executive search firms are on drawing together indicators across the engaged to assist with the recruitment of a Group to develop a metric to measure new Director, diversity is identified as a key progress on inclusion.
In addition, the external Board Further details about the current evaluation considered diversity when diversity balance of the Board can be assessing the effectiveness of the Board.
More details on Barclays Board target of 33% female Barclays diversity and inclusion strategy and representation among Directors by 2020 is the progress made can be found on page 89. formally reflected in the Board Diversity Policy as well as being noted in the Board skills matrix.
Noting the current gender diversity balance on the Board, and as mentioned earlier in this report, the Committee has commissioned the recruitment of a further female nonexecutive Director to strengthen the diversity of gender on the Board.
Further details about the current diversity balance of the Board can be found on page 46.
The Committee is also mindful of the current gender diversity balance of the Group Executive Committee, but is satisfied with the overall level of diversity across that Committee standing at 33% and with the percentage of women among the direct reports of Group Executive Committee members strengthening our succession pipeline.
Further, Barclays is committed to achieving 33% female representation among the Group Executive Committee and their direct reports by 2020, and is currently reporting 25% female representation among this population.
In 2017, the Group Executive Committee continued the initiative introduced by the Group Chief Executive in 2016 of having one ex-officio position on the Committee to broaden the scope of perspectives and contributions made, with each appointee serving for a four-month rotation.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 79
