Personal Banking Our performance in Personal Banking We launched a new online Track Savings Our Personal and Premier Banking team develop transparent Goals tool available through Barclays Finance and innovative solutions for our customers.
We help customers Manager, which aims to support customers in setting and reaching their targets.
move forward by putting them at the heart of everything we Our Mortgages business has continued to do, connecting the different aspects of their lives to their focus on enhancing the customer experience financial lies, at a tie that suits the This ranges fro a this year, and has won eight awards in 2017.
Weve also continued to enhance our CloudIt opening their first bank account to copleting a ortgage on offering, including allowing customers to their dream home.
access their mortgage statements online.
Helping our customers and colleagues Barclays has made significant progress to enhance accessibility this year.
Our high visibility and tactile debit cards arent just useful for the visually impaired - many people struggle to read the numbers on their card - so weve offered a high contrast design option.
We also launched a new larger audio PINSentry device to facilitate easier access to online banking for customers with dexterity and sight difficulties, enabling them to continue to do their banking independently.
This year we created a single Product and Technology and data are such fundamental We have supported customers in vulnerable Propositions team, bringing together our core parts of how we serve customers and clients circumstances by automating complex product capabilities in Current Accounts, FX that it is vital that we all become more digitally processes such as registering a power of and Insurance, Consumer Lending, Mortgages savvy and help our customers to do the same.
and Savings with our newer Information We started several years ago with the Business and Mobile Payments products, as nationwide force of Digital Eagles, offering our As well as delivering for our customers and well as with the Community and Premier customers and clients the help and resources clients, we need to ensure we deliver for our segments they serve.
Through doing this, we to improve their digital skills: and continued colleagues too.
Our focus on investment in are now able to more fully anticipate and this year with our Digital Safety campaign training, development and coaching as well as deliver responses to our customers needs and which aims to heighten awareness and creating new ways to engage and support our understand what they want in the moment educate our customers to be digitally safe.
Our colleagues needs they need it.
are changing just as those of our customers Leveraging our data to benefit our customers are, and empowerment, dynamic and flexible and clients is a fundamental pillar of our Moving Barclays UK forward working as well as improved technology have strategy.
We launched Local Insights, 2017 has seen a continued focus on rewarding been a strong focus as we develop a providing consumers, businesses and MPs key customer loyalty and creating advocates for world-class team who put the customer at the insights about their local area.
Over 930,000 customers now centre of everything they do.
1 year of our Barclays Identity Service, which benefit from Blue Rewards, including Cashback.
allows consumers to access government We landed our first 10 Cashback retail offers services such as tax self-assessment online in Barclays has always believed and have helped our customers earn over a simplified, secure manner.
5 million in savings since Cashback was in me.
The real support has launched.
come from my points of contact at the bank.
Its these relationships that not only keep me banking with Barclays, but encourage me, without a shadow of a doubt, to recommend Barclays.
Kieran Miles, Premier Customer Notes: a Best Lender for first-time buyers with family support Moneywise : Best Lender for Large loans Moneywise : Best Online Lender What Mortgage : Best Help to Buy Mortgage LenderEquity Loan What Mortgage : Best Intermediary Lender Mortgage Finance Gazette : Best Overall Lender Mortgage Finance Gazette : Best National Bank Mortgage Finance Gazette : Best Large Loans Mortgage Lender our Mortgage 26 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
