108 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Risk management Framework including its risk appetite, to ensure these are in line with Risk management is at the heart of our strategy emerging regulatory, corporate governance and industry best practice.
to become the best bank for customers.
Group risk appetite includes the following areas: Our mission is to support the business in Credit the Group has a conservative and well balanced credit portfolio delivering sustainable growth in targeted through the economic cycle, generating an appropriate return on equity, in line with the Groups target return on equity in aggregate.
This is achieved through informed Conduct the Groups product design and sales practices ensure that risk decision making and superior risk and products are transparent and meet customer needs.
capital management, supported by a consistent Market the Group has robust controls in place to manage the Groups riskfocused culture.
inherent market risk and does not engage in any proprietary trading, The risk overview pages 3237 provides a summary of risk management reflecting the customer focused nature of the Groups activities.
It highlights the important role of risk as a strategic Operational the Group has robust controls in place to manage differentiator, along with a brief overview of the Groups Risk Management operational losses, reputational events and regulatory breaches.
Framework, the potential risks and impacts arising from the external Funding and liquidity the Group maintains a prudent liquidity profile environment, and the principal risks faced by the Group and key and a balance sheet structure that limits its reliance on potentially volatile mitigatingactions.
This full risk management section provides a more in-depth picture of how Capital the Group maintains capital levels commensurate with a prudent risk is managed within the Group, detailing the Groups emerging risks, level of solvency, and aims to deliver consistent and high quality earnings.
approach to stress testing, risk governance, committee structure, appetite for risk pages 108115 and a full analysis of the primary risk categories Regulatory and legal the Group complies with all relevant regulation pages115156 the framework by which risks are identified, managed, and all applicable laws including codes of practice which have legal mitigated and monitored.
implications and or legal obligations.
Each risk category is described and managed using the following standard People the Group leads responsibly and proficiently, manages its people headings: definition, exposures, measurement, mitigation and monitoring.
resource effectively, supports and develops colleague talent, and meets legal and regulatory obligations related to its people.
The Groups approach to risk Governance the Group has governance arrangements that support the The Group operates a prudent approach to risk with rigorous effective long-term operation of the business, maximise shareholder value management controls to support sustainable business growth and and meet regulatory and societal expectations.
Through a strong and independent risk function Risk Model the Group has embedded a framework for the management division a robust control framework is maintained to identify and escalate of model risk to ensure effective control and oversight, compliance current and emerging risks to support sustainable business growth within with all regulatory rules and standards, and to facilitate appropriate Group risk appetite and through good risk reward decision making.
Financial reporting the Group meets regulatory reporting and tax Risk culture requirements in jurisdictions where it operates.
The Board ensures that senior management implements risk policies and As separate regulated entities with their own Boards, the Insurance risk appetite that either limit or, where appropriate, prohibit activities, business and Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets each maintain their relationships and situations that could be detrimental to the Groups own risk appetite and framework, which are aligned to the Group risk riskprofile.
As part of a conservative business model that embodies a risk culture founded on a prudent approach to managing risk, the Group reviewed Governance and control its code of responsibility in 2017, reinforcing its approach under which The Groups approach to risk is founded on a robust control framework colleagues are accountable for the risks they take and for prioritising their and a strong risk management culture which are the foundation for the customers needs.
delivery of effective risk management and guide the way all employees The focus remains on building and sustaining long-term relationships with approach their work, behave and make decisions.
customers cognisant of the economic climate.
Governance is maintained through delegation of authority from the Board down to individuals through the management hierarchy.
Senior executives Risk appetite are supported by a committee based structure which is designed to ensure Risk appetite is defined as the amount and type of risk that the Group is open challenge and support effective decision making.
prepared to seek, accept or tolerate.
The Groups risk appetite, principles, policies, procedures, controls and Risk appetite is documented in a Group risk appetite statement which reporting are regularly reviewed and updated where needed to ensure is reviewed by the Board Risk Committee and approved annually by the they remain fully in line with regulations, law, corporate governance and Board.
The Group level metrics are supported by more detailed sub Board industry good-practice.
functional and divisional risk appetite metrics.
The interaction of the executive and non-executive governance structures As a key component of the Risk Management Framework, Group risk relies upon a culture of transparency and openness that is encouraged by appetite is embedded within principles, policies, authorities and limits both the Board and senior management.
across the Group and continues to evolve to reflect external market Board-level engagement, coupled with the direct involvement of senior developments and composition of the Group.
management in Group-wide risk issues at Group Executive Committee The Groups strategy operates in tandem with the Group risk appetite and level, ensures that escalated issues are promptly addressed and business planning is undertaken with a view to meeting the requirements remediation plans are initiated where required.
of the Group risk appetite.
Performance is optimised by allowing business Line managers are directly accountable for identifying and managing risks units to operate within approved risk appetite and limits.
in their individual businesses, ensuring that business decisions strike an The Board Risk Committee is responsible for overseeing the development, appropriate balance between risk and reward and are consistent with the implementation and maintenance of the Groups overall Risk Management Groups risk appetite.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 109 Clear responsibilities and accountabilities for risk are defined across the The Group also has in place an assurance process to support its prudential Group through a three lines of defence model which ensures effective regulatory reporting and monitoring activities designed to identify and independent oversight and assurance in respect of key decisions.
review tax exposures on a regular basis.
There is ongoing monitoring to assess the impact of emerging regulation and legislation on financial, prudential regulatory and tax reporting.
Financial reporting risk management The Group has a Disclosure Committee which assists the Group systems and internal controls Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer in fulfilling their disclosure The Group maintains risk management systems and internal controls responsibilities under relevant listing and other regulatory and legal relating to the financial reporting process, which are designed to: requirements.
In addition, the Audit Committee reviews the quality and ensure that accounting policies are consistently applied, transactions are acceptability of the Groups financial disclosures.
For further information on recorded and undertaken in accordance with delegated authorities, that the Audit Committees responsibilities relating to financial reporting see assets are safeguarded and liabilities are properly recorded: pages 7376. enable the calculation, preparation and reporting of financial, prudential regulatory and tax outcomes in accordance with applicable International Risk decision making and reporting Financial Reporting Standards, statutory and regulatory requirements: Taking risks which are well understood, consistent with strategy and with ensure that disclosures are made on a timely basis in accordance appropriate return is a key driver of shareholder value.
with statutory and regulatory requirements and as far as possible are Risk analysis and reporting supports the identification of opportunities as consistent with best practice and in compliance with the UK Finance well as risks.
Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure.
An aggregate view of the Groups overall risk profile, key risks and The financial reporting process is actively monitored at business unit and Group levels.
There are specific programmes of work undertaken across management actions, and performance against risk appetite, is reported to and discussed monthly at the Group Risk Committee and a subset at the Group to support: the Group Asset and Liability Committee, with regular reporting to the annual assessments of i the effectiveness of internal controls over Board Risk Committee and the Board.
financial reporting: and ii the effectiveness of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures, both in accordance with the requirements of Rigorous stress testing exercises are carried out to assess the impact of a range of adverse scenarios with different probabilities and severities to the US Sarbanes Oxley Act: and inform strategic planning.
annual certifications by the Senior Accounting Officer with respect to the maintenance of appropriate tax accounting arrangements, in accordance The Chief Risk Officer regularly informs the Board Risk Committee of the with the requirements of the 2009 Finance Act.
aggregate risk profile and has direct access to the Chairman and members of Board Risk Committee.
Table 1.1: Exposure to risk arising from the business activities of the Group The table below provides a high level guide to how the Groups business activities are reflected through its risk-weighted assets.
Details of the business activities for each division are provided in the Divisional overview on pages 2831.
Commercial Insurance Central 1 2 Retail Banking & Wealth Run-off items Group bn bn bn bn bn bn Risk-weighted assets RWAs Credit risk 71.1 71.2 0.6 7.1 14.5 164.5 3 Counterparty credit risk 7.1 0.8 7.9 Market risk 3.0 0.1 3.1 Operational risk 19.7 4.3 0.7 0.2 0.4 25.3 Total excluding threshold 90.8 85.6 1.3 7.3 15.8 200.8 4 Threshold 10.1 10.1 Total 90.8 85.6 1.3 7.3 25.9 210.9 1 As a separate regulated business, Insurance excluding Wealth maintains its own regulatory solvency requirements, including appropriate management buffers, and reports directly to the Insurance Board.
Insurance does not hold any RWAs, as its assets are removed from the Banking Group's regulatory capital calculations.
However, in accordance with Capital Requirements Directive and Regulation CRD IV rules, part of the Group's investment in Insurance is included in the calculation of threshold RWAs, while the remainder is taken as a capital deduction.
2 Central items include assets held outside the main operating divisions, including assets relating to Group Corporate Treasury which holds the Group's liquidity portfolio, and Group Operations.
3 Exposures relating to the default fund of a central counterparty and credit valuation adjustment risk are included in counterparty credit risk.
4 Threshold is presented on a fully loaded CRD IV basis.
Threshold risk-weighted assets reflect the proportion of significant investments and deferred tax assets that are permitted to be risk-weighted instead of deducted from common equity tier 1 CET1 capital.
Significant investments primarily arise from the investment in the Groups Insurance business.
Principal risks The Groups principal risks are shown in the risk overview pages3437.
The Groups emerging risks are shown overleaf.
Full analysis of the Groups risk categories is on pages115156.
