Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 103 Other remuneration disclosures This section discloses the remuneration awards made by the Group the performance of the Group and that they are recognised for their individual contribution to the success of the organisation, whilst ensuring to Material Risk Takers MRTs in respect of the 2017 performance year.
Additional information summarising the Groups remuneration policies, that there is no reward for excessive risk taking.
The Remuneration Committee works closely with the Risk Committee in ensuring the structure and governance is also provided.
These disclosures should be read in conjunction with the disclosures for Executive Directors Group Performance Share GPS plan outcome is moderated.
The two Committees determine whether the proposed GPS outcome and contained in the Directors Remuneration Report DRR on pages84102, and together comply with the requirements of Article 450 of the Capital performance assessments adequately reflect the risk appetite and framework of the Group: whether it took account of current and future Requirements Regulation EU No.
The remuneration principles and practices detailed in the DRR apply to MRTs and nonrisks: and whether any further adjustment is required or merited.
The Group and the Remuneration Committee are determined to ensure MRTs in the same way as to Executive Directors other than where stated in this disclosure.
that the aggregate of the variable remuneration for all colleagues is appropriate and balanced with the interests of shareholders and all The Group has applied the EBA Delegated Regulation EU No 604 2014 otherstakeholders.
to determine which colleagues should be identified as MRTs.
MRTs are colleagues who are considered to have a material impact on the Groups The Remuneration Committees terms of reference are available from the Company Secretary and are displayed on the Groups website, risk profile, and include, but are not limited to: www.
These terms are reviewed each year Senior management, Executive Directors, members and attendees of to ensure compliance with the remuneration regulations and were last the Group Executive Committee GEC and their respective executive updated in November 2017. level direct reports: Link between pay and performance Non-Executive Directors: The Groups approach to reward is intended to provide a clear link Approved persons performing significant influence functions SIFs between remuneration and delivery of its key strategic objectives, and or all colleagues performing a senior management function: and supporting the aim of becoming the best bank for customers, and through that, for shareholders.
To this end, the performance Other highly remunerated individuals whose activities could have a management process has been developed, with the close participation material impact on the Groups risk profile.
of the Groups Risk team, to embed performance measures across the Decision making process for remuneration policy Groups reward structure which are challenging and reflect Group and The Group has a strong belief in aligning the remuneration delivered divisional achievement in addition to personal contribution.
to the Groups executives with the successful performance of the The use of a balanced scorecard approach to measure performance business and, through this, the delivery of long-term, superior and enables the Remuneration Committee to assess the performance of the sustainable returns to shareholders.
It has continued to seek the views Group and its senior executives in a consistent and performance-driven of shareholders and other key stakeholders with regard to remuneration way.
The Groups remuneration policy supports the business values policy and seeks to motivate, incentivise and retain talent while being and strategy, based on building long-term relationships with customers mindful of the economic outlook.
An essential component of the and colleagues and managing the financial consequences of business Groups approach to remuneration is the governance process that decisions across the entire economic cycle.
This ensures that the policy is robustly applied and risk is managed appropriately.
Further detail can be found in the DRR.
The overarching purpose of the Remuneration Committee is to consider, agree and recommend to the Board an overall remuneration Design and structure of remuneration policy and philosophy for the Group that is defined by, supports When establishing the remuneration policy and associated frameworks, and is closely aligned to its long-term business strategy, business the Group is required to take into account its size, organisation objectives, risk appetite and values and recognises the interests of and the nature, scope and complexity of its activities.
The remuneration policy governs all aspects purpose of remuneration regulation, Lloyds Bank plc is treated as a of remuneration and applies in its entirety to all divisions, business proportionality level I firm and therefore subject to the more onerous units and companies in the Group, including wholly-owned overseas remunerationrules.
businesses and all colleagues, contractors and temporary staff.
The Remuneration is delivered via a combination of fixed and variable Committee reviews the policy annually.
In 2017, it was updated to reflect remuneration.
Fixed remuneration reflects the role, responsibility changes to the Reward Principles and new reward supporting policies.
Variable remuneration is based on The Committee pays particular attention to the top management an assessment of individual, business area and Group performance.
population, including the highest paid colleagues in each division, The mix of variable and fixed remuneration is driven by seniority, those colleagues who perform senior management functions for the grade and role.
Taking into account the expected value of awards, Group and MRTs.
Further details on the operation of the Remuneration the performance-related elements of pay make up a considerable Committee can be found on page 99 of the DRR.
proportion of the total remuneration package for MRTs, whilst The Group has a robust governance framework, with the Remuneration maintaining an appropriate balance between the fixed and variable Committee reviewing all compensation decisions for Executive elements.
The maximum ratio of fixed to variable remuneration for MRTs Directors, senior management, senior risk and compliance officers, high is 200 per cent, which has been approved by shareholders 98.77 per earners and any other MRTs.
This approach to governance is cascaded cent of votes cast at the AGM on 15 May 2014. through the Group with the Executive Compensation Committee Remuneration for control functions is set in relation to benchmark market having oversight for all other colleagues and divisional Remuneration data to ensure that it is possible to attract and retain staff with the Committees providing oversight for specific business areas.
appropriate knowledge, experience and skills.
An appropriate balance Governance and risk management between fixed and variable compensation supports this approach.
An essential component of the approach to remuneration is the Generally, control function staff receive a higher proportion of fixed governance process that underpins it.
This ensures that the policy is remuneration than other colleagues and the aggregate ratio of fixed robustly applied and risk is managed appropriately.
to variable remuneration for all control function staff does not exceed 100 per cent.
Particular attention is paid to ensure remuneration for In addition to setting the overall remuneration policy and philosophy for control function staff is linked to the performance of their function and the Group, the Remuneration Committee ensures that colleagues who independent from the business areas they control.
could have a material impact on the Groups risk profile are provided with appropriate incentives and reward to encourage them to enhance 104 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Other remuneration disclosures continued The table below summarises the different remuneration elements for Short-term variable remuneration arrangements MRTs this includes control function staff and non-MRTs.
The Group Performance Share GPS plan is an annual discretionary Base salary bonus plan.
The plan is designed to reflect specific goals linked to the performance of the Group.
The majority of colleagues and all MRTs Base salaries are reviewed annually, taking into account individual participate in the GPS plan.
Further information on base Individual GPS awards are based upon individual contribution, overall salaries can be found on page 100 of the DRR.
Group financial results and Balanced Scorecard ratings over the Applies to: past financial year.
The Groups total risk-adjusted GPS outcome is Senior Management, Executive Directors, members attendees of the determined by the Remuneration Committee annually as a percentage GEC and their respective direct reports of the Groups underlying profit, modified for: Approved Persons performing SIFs and or all colleagues performing a Group Balanced Scorecard performance Senior Management Function Collective and discretionary adjustments to reflect risk matters and or Other MRTs other factors.
Non-MRTs For the 2017 performance year, approximately one third of colleagues Fees are eligible to participate in variable pay arrangements other than GPS.
These are used to incentivise customer-facing colleagues, primarily in Non-Executive Director fees are reviewed periodically by the Board.
In structure these are substantively Further information on fees can be found on page 102 of the DRR.
similar to GPS and the majority of colleagues will move across to GPS for the 2018 performance year.
Applies to: Non-Executive Directors NEDs The Group applies deferral arrangements to GPS and variable pay awards made to colleagues.
GPS awards for MRTs are subject to Fixed share award deferral and a holding period in line with regulatory requirements and marketpractice.
The fixed share award, made annually, delivers Lloyds Banking Group Further information on the GPS plan can be found on pages 9697 and shares over a period of five years.
Its purpose is to ensure that total 101102 of the DRR.
fixed remuneration is commensurate with the role, responsibilities and experience of the individual: provides a competitive reward package: Applies to: and is appropriately balanced with variable remuneration, in line with Senior Management, Executive Directors, members attendees of the regulatory requirements.
The fixed share award can be amended or GEC and their respective direct reports withdrawn in the following circumstances: Approved Persons performing SIFs and or all colleagues performing a Senior Management Function to reflect a change in role: Other MRTs to reflect a Group leave policy e. g. parental leave or sickness absence : Non-MRTs termination of employment with the Group: if the award would be inconsistent with any applicable legal, regulatory or tax requirements or market practice.
Group Ownership Share plan Further information on fixed share awards can be found on page 100 of The Group Ownership Share GOS plan is a core part of the reward the DRR.
strategy and an important tool for aligning the Groups reward strategy to the long-term performance of the business.
Through the application Applies to: of carefully considered, stretching target measures, the Group can Senior Management, Executive Directors, members attendees of the ensure that awards are forfeited or restricted where performance does GEC and their respective direct reports not meet the desired level.
Approved Persons performing SIFs and or all colleagues performing a Senior Management Function The GOS pays out in shares based on performance against Group Other MRTs financial and other non-financial strategic targets measured over a Non-MRTs three-year period.
Shares are released over a minimum three to five-year period and are then subject to a holding period MRTs only in line with Benefits and all-employee share plans regulatory requirements and market practice.
Further information on the GOS plan can be found on pages 97 and Core benefits for UK-based colleagues include pension, private medical 101102 of the DRR.
insurance, life insurance, car or car allowance eligibility dependent on grade and other benefits that may be selected through the Groups Applies to: flexible benefits plan.
Further information on benefits and all-employee Senior Management, Executive Directors, members attendees of the share plans can be found on pages 100101 of the DRR.
Benefits can be GEC and their respective direct reports amended or withdrawn in the following circumstances: Approved Persons performing SIFs and or all colleagues performing a Senior Management Function to reflect a change to colleague contractual terms: Other MRTs to reflect a change of grade: Non-MRTs termination of employment with the Group: to reflect a change of Reward Strategy benefit provision: if the award would be inconsistent with any statutory or Deferral, vesting and performance adjustment taxrequirements.
At least 40 per cent of MRTs variable remuneration above certain Details of NEDs benefits are set out on page 102 of the DRR.
thresholds is deferred into Lloyds Banking Group Shares.
For all MRTs, GPS is deferred in line with the regulatory requirements for three, five or Applies to: seven years, depending on MRT category and subject to a six-month or Non-Executive Directors NEDs 12-month retention period.
Senior Management, Executive Directors, members attendees of the GEC and their respective direct reports For all colleagues, any deferred variable remuneration amount is subject Approved Persons performing SIFs and or all colleagues performing a to performance adjustment malus in accordance with the Groups Senior Management Function Deferral and Performance Adjustment Policy.
Other MRTs Non-MRTs Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 105 MRTs vested variable remuneration including variable remuneration Table 1 Analysis of high earners by band subject to a holding period can be recovered from colleagues up to seven years after the date of award in the case of a material or severe Number of Material Risk Takers 2017 2016 1,2 3 risk event clawback.
This period may be extended to ten years where paid 1 million or more Material Risk Takers Material Risk Takers there is an ongoing internal or regulatory investigation.
Clawback is used 1.0m - 1.5m 36 31 alongside other performance adjustment processes.
1.5m - 2.0m 10 8 Further information on deferral, vesting and performance adjustment 2.0m - 2.5m 2 4 can be found in the DRR on pages 92, 97 and 102.
2.5m - 3.0m 1 3 Guaranteed variable remuneration 3.0m - 3.5m 5 3 3.5m - 4.0m 2 3 Guarantees, such as sign-on awards, may only be offered in exceptional 4.0m - 4.5m circumstances to new hires for the first year of service and in accordance with regulatory requirements.
4.5m - 5.0m 5.0m - 6.0m Any awards made to new hires to compensate them for unvested variable remuneration they forfeit on leaving their previous employment 6.0m - 7.0m 1 1 buy-out awards will be subject to appropriate retention, deferral, 1 Converted to Euros using the exchange rate 1 0.88293 average exchange rate performance and clawback arrangements in accordance with applicable 1 December 2017 31 December 2017 based on the European Commission Budget exchange rates.
The exchange rate used for 2016 was 1 0.84815. regulatory requirements.
2 Values for LTIP awards based on an expected value of 50 per cent of maximum value.
Retention awards may be made to existing colleagues in limited 3 Total number of Material Risk Takers earning more than 1m has increased from 53 in 2016 to circumstances and are subject to prior regulatory approval in line with 57 in 2017. applicable regulatory requirements.
Table 2 Aggregate remuneration expenditure Applies to: Material Risk Takers Senior Management, Executive Directors, members attendees of the GEC and their respective direct reports 1 Approved Persons performing SIFs and or all colleagues performing a Analysis of aggregate remuneration expenditure by division Senior Management Function Group Other MRTs Commercial Insurance Functions 2 3 Retail Banking & Wealth & Services Total Non-MRTs m m m m m Aggregate Shareholding requirement remuneration expenditure 19.3 54.5 8.2 90.5 172.5 Executive Directors: see DRR page 95.
1 The Group undertook a reorganisation during 2017.
As a result, a number of reporting lines All other MRTs and non-MRTs: 25 per cent - 100 per cent of the have changed.
aggregate of base salary and fixed share award depending on grade.
2 Comprises previous Customer Products & Marketing and Consumer Finance divisions, and includes the Community Banking division Applies to: 3 Comprises Global Payments, Group Services, Group Sourcing, Group Property, Group & Senior Management, Executive Directors, members attendees of the Cyber Security, Group Transformation and all supporting functions Risk, Finance, People, GEC and their respective direct reports Legal, Group Corporate Affairs, Group Internal Audit, Company Secretariat Approved Persons performing SIFs and or all colleagues performing a Senior Management Function Other MRTs Non-MRTs Termination payments Executive Directors and GEC members: see page 96 of the 2016 DRR.
All other termination payments comply with the Groups contractual, legal and regulatory requirements and are made in such a way as to ensure they do not reward failure or misconduct and reflect performance over time.
Applies to: Senior Management, Executive Directors, members attendees of the GEC and their respective direct reports Approved Persons performing SIFs and or all colleagues performing a Senior Management Function Other MRTs Non-MRTs Eligibility based on seniority, grade and role Requirement based on seniority and grade 106 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Other remuneration disclosures continued Table 3 Fixed and variable remuneration Material Risk Takers Analysis of remuneration between fixed and variable amounts Awarded in relation to the 2017 Remuneration m performance year Management body Executive Non-Executive Senior 2 Directors Directors Management Other MRTs 2017 Total Number of employees 3 11 139 131 284 Fixed Total fixed remuneration 4.6 49.1 32.7 86.4 Remuneration Of which: Cash based 2.7 41.0 30.1 73.8 m 1 Of which: Shares 1.9 8.1 2.6 12.6 Total variable remuneration 6.5 48.8 30.7 86.0 Variable Of which: Upfront cash based 0.3 0.2 0.5 Remuneration 3 Of which: Share based 6.5 48.5 30.5 85.5 m Of which: Deferred Vested 1.0 19.2 16.8 37.0 Unvested 5.5 29.3 13.7 48.5 Total remuneration 11.1 97.9 63.4 172.4 1 Released over a five-year period.
2 Senior Management are defined as Group Executive Committee GEC members attendees excluding Group Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors and their direct reports excluding those direct reports who do not materially influence the risk profile of any in-scope group firm.
3 Based on fair value at grant.
Table 4 Total outstanding deferred variable remuneration Total outstanding deferred variable Remuneration m remuneration at 31 December 2017 Management body Executive Non-Executive Senior Directors Directors Management Other MRTs 2017 Total Number of employees 3.0 11.0 139 131 284 Variable Total outstanding deferred variable Remuneration remuneration 27.8 115.9 46.7 190.4 m Of which: Vested 2.7 10.6 0.8 14.1 Of which: Unvested 25.1 105.3 45.9 176.3 Table 5 Other payments awarded in relation to the 2017 performance year Guaranteed bonuses Sign-on awards Severance payments Number of Number of Number of awards made Total m awards made Total m awards made Total m Management body Senior management 3 0.2 Other Material Risk Takers 1 0.2 Table 6 Deferred remuneration Analysis of deferred remuneration at 31 December 2017 Of which: Total amount of Total amount of outstanding outstanding remuneration Total amount of amendment Total amount of deferred 1 2 Remuneration deferred and retained exposed to ex-post explicit during the year due to ex-post remuneration paid out in the m remuneration and or implicit adjustment explicit adjustments performance year 3 4 Management body 27.8 27.8 3.7 Senior management 115.9 115.9 31.6 Other Material Risk Takers 46.7 46.7 36.0 1 Deferred in this context refers only to any unvested remuneration.
2 Retained refers to any variable remuneration for which the deferral period has ended but which is still subject to a holding period before release.
3 Reference to the Management Body relates to Executive Directors only.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to receive variable remuneration.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 107 RISK MANAGEMENT All narrative and quantitative tables are unaudited unless otherwise stated.
The audited information is required to comply with the requirements of relevant International Financial Reporting Standards.
The Groups approach to risk 108 Emerging risks 110 Capital stress testing 111 How risk is managed 111 Risk governance 113 BUILDING Full analysis of risk categories 115 Further information on risk management can BRITAIN'S be found: DIGITAL SKILLS Risk overview 32 Note 51: Financial risk management 240 Weve committed to help 1.8 million Pillar 3 report: www.
com individuals improve their digital skills by The Group supports the recommendations 2020.
Those weve already helped include Betty from Airdrie who is now banking made in the report Enhancing the Risk online for the first time, thanks to free Disclosures of Banks issued by the Enhanced training provided at one of our Bank of Disclosure Task Force of the Financial Stability Scotland branch Digizones.
708,000 individuals, small businesses and charities helped to improve their digital skills in 2017 Visit www.
