18 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Doing business responsibly Supporting our strategic priorities and our purpose to help Britain prosper A sustainable and responsible approach is integral to what we do and how we operate.
Doing business responsibly underpins our purpose and is supported by our Group values and Code of Responsibility.
Responsible business We can only achieve our strategic Stakeholder engagement priorities and help Britain prosper if highlights We know that engaging with different we continue to operate responsibly.
stakeholder groups is extremely important.
We are doing business responsibly and We know that if Britain prospers It enables us to understand the issues they making a significant impact we can too, so we must continue to face, and their expectations from the Group.
One of Britains largest Their contributions influence our strategic use our scale and reach to make a thinking and also help us to shape our corporate tax payers difference to people, businesses and corporate reporting.
We engage with stakeholders in many Lending 13 billion to different ways: during our business activities: How the Group is run first-time homebuyers in face-to-face meetings on specific issues, Our Group Policies and standards, including our such as regulation: and also through new values and Code of Responsibility, guide our media such as digital broadcasts.
behaviour and are embedded and tracked as Supporting more than Read more on part of our risk appetite and policy framework.
pages 6263 124,000 start-up businesses You can read more about the Group Policy framework and how these Policies are monitored and embedded on page 111 Transforming our business Our Responsible Business to meet customers needs, We actively support major national and Committee international codes and conventions related including the 13.4m banking In 2017 our Board-level committee focused toresponsible business, including the digitally on developing the Helping Britain Prosper UNGlobal Compact.
Plan and how the Groups approach to doing Given 260,000 hours of business responsibly should evolve.
The colleague volunteering Groups sustainability strategy was discussed with colleagues from relevant business areas to help good causes and external advisors.
58 million given to help Read more on communities, including page 80 Governance more than 20 million Good governance requires an effective given to our independent structure and the combined effort of engaged and well-informed colleagues.
It is essential charitable Foundations that it is embedded into the processes, Our fundraising enabled planning and delivery of the Groups objectives and strategy.
Mental Health UK to launch the UKs first Mental Health Our governance structure extends from our Group Board and Board level Responsible and Money Advice Service Business Committee, through the executive Building Britains most level Responsible Business Management Committee, which implements our inclusive and diverse bank responsible business strategy.
At the end of Our businesses have roots going 2017, this executive level committee became our Sustainability Committee.
The Committee More than 5 million sq.
ft. back 250 years and have stood the will increase its focus on the implementation of real estate helped to test of time.
Our purpose, to help of our Group-wide sustainability strategy become energy efficient Britain prosper, is more important as well as overseeing material responsible business issues.
Our responsible approach than ever to the UKs successful then extends onwards through the efforts of transformation into a digitally managers and colleagues at all levels.
Sara Weller Independent Director and Chairman, Responsible Business Committee Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 19 Helping Britain Prosper Through our products and services we have been serving Britain for more than 250 years, but our Helping Britain Prosper Plan takes us beyond Helping businesses Helping communities business as usual and is animportant investment in our longterm success.
We launched the Plan in 2014, drawing on Were helping businesses of all types Were helping communities to become advice from our senior leaders and many and sizes to start-up, grow, improve more cohesive by providing vital support external partners, including our independent productivity, build their skills base and for some of the most disadvantaged stakeholder panel and charitable become successful exporters.
people living in Britain today.
Since its launch we have champion diversity.
We provide support to businesses of all types achieved a lot for Britain, meeting 20 of our 25 targets in 2014, 27 of our 28 targets in 2015 and sizes.
In 2017, we delivered 1 billion Through our four independent charitable of financial support to the manufacturing Foundations we helped more than 2,800 and 20 of our of 24 targets in 2016. sector, exceeding our target, and extended charities and supported colleagues to our support for the Lloyds Bank Advanced volunteer their expertise, including their Our performance in 2017 Manufacturing Centre, helping to train 500 mentoring skills, to help these charities This year we have made good progress in apprentices, graduates and engineers.
become more effective and financially helping people, businesses and communities, We also met our target to support UK sustainable.
This year, colleagues gave meeting 21 of our 22 targets for the year.
infrastructure projects collectively worth almost 260,000 volunteering hours to more than 31 billion.
We have now retired support local communities.
this target from our Plan.
Through our partnership with Mental We increased net lending to SME and Health UK, were promoting awareness of Mid Markets companies by 0.9 billion, but the link between mental health and money fell short of our 2 billion target.
This year we exceeded our target reflects similar challenges across the market.
and raised 4.8 million thanks to the efforts Since the beginning of 2011, our net lending of our colleagues and customers.
This to SMEs has increased by 31 per cent whilst fundraising enabled Mental Health UK to the market has contracted by 11 per cent.
launch Mental Health and Money Advice Since 2012, our lending to Mid Markets the UKs first service dedicated to helping Helping people companies has increased by 17 per cent people understand, manage and improve compared to a market that has remained their financial and mental health.
Our 2018 target is to deliver 2 billion We made further progress towards our of net lending across startup, SME and target of women holding 40 per cent of our Were helping people with the issues MidMarkets businesses.
senior roles by 2020, with 34 per cent of that really matter to them, whether that Read more on these roles now held by women.
You can is buying a home, saving for later life, or page 23 read more about inclusion and diversity on finding a rewarding job.
We also met our 2020 colleague This year, we delivered 13 billion of lending engagement targets, three years ahead to help firsttime homebuyers, created more of schedule, and reached engagement than 1,200 new apprenticeship positions in the levels of 70 per cent amongst Black, Asian Group and provided support and guidance and Minority Ethnic BAME and Lesbian, to help almost 89,000 customers plan for Gay, Bisexual LGB colleagues as well as retirement.
Through our support for the colleagues with disabilities.
We will continue School for Social Entrepreneurs we helped to promote inclusion with our business but a further 260 social entrepreneurs start or have now retired these targets from our Plan.
We also made good Read more on progress against our target to train 1.8million page 25 individuals, businesses and charities in digital skills by 2020, having trained more than 708,000 in2017.
I ndicator is subject to Limited ISAE3000 revised assurance by Deloitte LLP for the 2017 Annual Responsible Business Reporting.
Deloittes 2017 assurance statement and the 2017 Reporting Criteria are available online at lloydsbankinggroup.
com RBdownloads 20 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Doing business responsibly continued Evolving the Plan To show our continuing support for the low 2018 Helping carbon economy, we have added a new target: to help provide power for 5 million Britain Prosper homes in the UK by 2020 through our support for renewable energy projects.
We are still Plan focused on supporting business growth and building an inclusive and diverse business.
We have developed the Plan for 2018 We have set two new targets to increase the percentage of roles held by BAME colleagues and beyond, to ensure it supports to 10percent and to increase the percentage the next phase of our strategy and of senior roles held by BAME colleagues to focuses on the areas where we 8per cent by 2020. believe we can make the biggest As a UK focused retail and You can read more about all of our Helping difference: addressing Britains commercial bank, we are Britain Prosper Plan targets online housing needs, saving for the inextricably linked to the British future, building digital skills, helping Our areas of focus economy.
Our success is the businesses start up and grow, Through our full Plan, we are tracking our British economys success performance against 22 stretching targets championing Britains diversity and and we are fully committed to in total.
We have prioritised six of these tackling disadvantage.
to focus on in 2018, as shown in the table help people, businesses and below.
These support the UN Sustainable communities in Britain prosper.
Development Goals, which aim to tackle Antnio Horta-Osrio the worlds most pressing challenges by Group Chief Executive promoting sustainable development.
Our areas of focus How we are supporting the UN 1 Target 2018 2020 Sustainable Development Goals Helping Britain get a home 10bn 30bn Amount of lending committed to help people buy their first home Helping save for the future 8bn 50bn Growth in assets that we hold on behalf of customersin retirement and 2 investment products Building digital skills 700,000 1.8m Number of individuals, SMEs and charitiestrained in digital skills including internet banking Supporting businesses to start up and grow 2bn 6bn Increased amount of net lending to startup, SME and Mid Markets businesses Championing Britains diversity 36% 40% Percentage of senior roles held by women Percentage of roles held by Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic colleagues 8.9% 10% Tackling disadvantage across Britain 3 Number of charities we will support as a result of our 100 million commitment to 2,500 7,500 the Groups independent charitable Foundations 1 2020 targets are cumulative from 20182020 and are in line with the next phase of the Groups strategic plan.
2 Growth in assets under administration in our front books.
