Governance compliance Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Viability statement While the financial statements and accounts In making their assessment the Board has: Risks faced by the Groups business, including have been prepared on a going concern basis, in respect of conduct, capital and operational carried out a regular and robust assessment the UK Corporate Governance Code also risk, are controlled and managed within the of the Groups risk profile and material requires the Directors to make a statement in Group in line with the Enterprise Risk existing and emerging risks.
Notable among the Annual Report regarding the viability of Management Framework and the relevant these are risks which senior management the Group, including explaining how they Principal Risk Frameworks, through the three believe could cause the Groups future assessed the prospects of the Group, the lines of defence model.
Executive management results of operations or financial condition to period of time for which they have made the set a Risk Appetite for the Group, which is then differ materially from current expectations assessment and why they consider that approved by the Board.
The second line set or could adversely impact the Groups ability period to be appropriate.
limits, within which the first line are required to to maintain minimum levels of regulatory operate.
Management and the Board then In light of the analysis summarised below, the capital, liquidity, funding and the minimum oversee the associated Risk Profile.
Internal Board has assessed the Groups viability and requirement for own funds and eligible Audit comprise the third line of defence and confirms that the Directors have a reasonable liabilities MREL over the period of the provide independent assurance to the Board expectation that the Group will be able to assessment: and Executive Management over the continue in operation and meet its liabilities reviewed how those risks are managed and effectiveness of governance, risk management as they fall due over the next three years.
This controlled further detail provided on pages and control over current, systemic and timeframe is used in managements Working 127 to 137 : evolving risks.
Capital and Viability Report WCR, prepared at February 2018.
The availability of the WCR considered the WCR which provides an A full set of material risks to which the gives management and the Board sufficient assessment of forecast CET1, leverage ratio, organisation is exposed can be found in the visibility and confidence on the future Tier 1 and total capital ratios, as well as the Material Existing and Emerging Risks on operating environment for this time period.
build-up of MREL up to 2022: pages 121 to 126.
Certain particular risks to The three-year timeframe has also been viability identified by the Board are detailed reviewed the Groups liquidity and funding chosen because: below.
These have been chosen on the basis profile, particularly Barclays internal liquidity it is within the period covered by the of their ability to impact viability over the risk appetite LRA and regulatory liquidity Groups future projections of profitability, timeframe of the assessment but in some coverage ratios: cash flows, capital requirements and capital instances the risks exist beyond this considered the Groups viability under resources: timeframe.
These particular risks include: specific internal and regulatory stress it is also within the period over which legal proceedings, competition, regulatory scenarios: regulatory and internal stress testing is and conduct matters giving rise to the carried out: and considered the stability of the major markets potential risk of fines, loss of regulatory in which it operates, the risks posed by the it is representative of the continued level of licences and permissions and other simplification of the business model and sanctions, as well as potential adverse regulatory change in the financial services regulatory changes: industry.
impacts on our reputation with clients and customers and on investor confidence and considered the impacts of Structural Reform, The Directors are satisfied that this period is or potentially resulting in impacts on capital, including the creation of the UK ring-fenced sufficient to enable a reasonable assessment liquidity and funding: bank: of viability to be made.
sudden shocks or geo-political unrest in reviewed the draft statutory accounts and any of the major economies in which the the in-depth disclosure of the financial Bank operates which could impact credit performance of the Group: ratings, alter the behaviour of depositors considered the Groups medium term plan and other counterparties and affect the MTP : and ability of the firm to maintain appropriate capital and liquidity ratios: reviewed the legal, competition and evolving operational risks notably cyber regulatory matters set out in Note 29 to the security and technology and the ability to financial statements on pages 285 to 293. respond to the new and emergent technologies in a controlled fashion.
40 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information As a Transatlantic Consumer and Wholesale Legal proceedings, competition, regulatory We use an inventory of models, non-modelled Bank with operations globally, Barclays is and conduct matters and remediation methods and quantitative procedures to impacted in the longer term by a wide range redress are also assessed as part of the stress support the stress test calculations and of macroeconomic, political, regulatory and testing process.
Capital risk appetite and LRA projections.
These tools range from accounting, technological and social are set at a level designed to enable the experienced management judgement through developments.
The evolving operating Group to withstand various stress scenarios.
to sophisticated regression models based on environment presents opportunities and risks As part of this process management also historical data depending on the stress test which we continue to evaluate and take steps identified actions, including cost reductions application.
The stress test evaluation process to appropriately adapt our strategy and its and withdrawal from lines of business, produces both gross impacts and the effect of delivery.
available to restore the Group to its desired mitigation including management actions capital flightpath under a range of operating which enables us to understand, monitor In relation to regulatory change, the firm is environments.
control and manage the risks identified implementing changes required by Structural effectively.
The stress testing process is Reform, the final stage of which will be the The Group-wide stress testing framework overseen by a detailed governance structure creation of the ring-fenced Bank in Q2 2018. also includes reverse stress testing techniques from the Board through to the three lines of The risk identification processes and link to which aim to identify and analyse the defence within the business.
Management is business model will not differ post ring circumstances under which the Groups confident that the internal and external stress fencing and in assessing the viability of the business model would no longer be viable, testing process is rigorous and considers a organisation a standard and common process leading to a significant change in business wide range of severe but plausible events, exists which is both top-down and bottom-up strategy and to identify appropriate however, stress tests should not be assumed across each entity and the Group as a whole.
Examples include extreme to be an exhaustive assessment of all possible macroeconomic downturn scenarios, The Board has also considered the Groups hypothetical extreme or remote scenarios.
or specific idiosyncratic events, covering viability under specific internal and regulatory These internal and external stress tests operational risk for example, cyber attack, stress scenarios.
adverse outcomes in legal proceedings, informed the conclusions of the WCR.
Based on current forecasts, incorporating key The Board reviewed external regulatory stress competition, regulatory and conduct matters test results which are designed to assess the and capital liquidity events.
known regulatory changes to be enacted and having considered possible stress scenarios, resilience of banks to adverse economic developments and confirm that we have the current liquidity and capital position of the Group continues to support the Boards robust forward looking planning processes for the risks associated with our business profile.
assessment of the Groups viability.
In addition, the latest internal stress test For a statement as to our dividend policy conducted in Q4 2017 considered the please see page 85. potential impacts of: The Boards assessment of the a severe UK recession including falling Groups viability over the next three property prices which fail to recover over years is subject to material existing and the forecast horizon: emerging risks highlighted on pages 121 to 126. a global downturn driven by decelerating growth in China and emerging markets: and a significant drop in commodity prices, all of which could result in, among other things, a loss of income or increased impairment.
The stress test outcome for macro-economic tests shows our full financial performance over the horizon of the scenario and focuses on the CET1 capital ratio.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 41 42 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Governance This section sets out our corporate governance processes and the role they play in supporting the delivery of our strategy, including reports from the Chairman and each of the Board Committee Chairmen.
Directors report Page UK Corporate Governance Code Index to disclosures 44 Letter from the Chairman 45 Who we are Board of Directors 47 Group Executive Committee 49 What we did in 2017 Board report 50 Board Audit Committee report 53 Board Risk Committee report 64 Board Reputation Committee report 69 Board Nominations Committee report 75 How we comply 80 Other statutory information 85 People 89 Remuneration report 93 home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 43 Governance: Directors report UK Corporate Governance Code index to disclosures The purpose of corporate governance is to facilitate effective, entrepreneurial and prudent management that can deliver the long-term success of the company.
The UK Corporate Governance Code The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code is not a rigid set of rules.
It consists of principles main and supporting and provisions.
The Listing Rules require companies to apply the main principles and report to shareholders on how they have done so.
You can find our disclosures as follows: Leadership Page Remuneration Page Every company should be headed by All directors should receive an induction Executive directors remuneration should an effective board which is collectively on joining the board and should regularly be designed to promote the long-term responsible for the long-term success of update and refresh their skills and success of the company.
related elements should be transparent, stretching and rigorously applied.
Board of Directors 47Induction 81 Composition of the Board 81 Training and development 82 Remuneration report 93 There should be a clear division of The board should be supplied in a timely There should be a formal and transparent responsibilities at the head of the company manner with information in a form and procedure for developing policy on between the running of the board and the of a quality appropriate to enable it to executive remuneration and for fixing executive responsibility for the running of discharge its duties.
the remuneration packages of individual the companys business.
No director should be involved Information provided to the Board 82 should have unfettered powers of decision.
in deciding his or her own remuneration.
The board should undertake a formal Roles on the Board 80 Remuneration report 93 and rigorous annual evaluation of its own The chairman is responsible for leadership performance and that of its committees Relations with shareholders Page of the board and ensuring its effectiveness and individual directors.
on all aspects of its role.
There should be a dialogue with Review of Board and Board Committee shareholders based on the mutual Roles on the Board 80effectiveness 78 understanding of objectives.
The board as As part of their role as members of a unitary All directors should be submitted for a whole has responsibility for ensuring that board, non-executive directors should re-election at regular intervals, subject a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders constructively challenge and help develop to continued satisfactory performance.
Composition of the Board 81 Stakeholder engagement 84 Roles on the Board 80 Appointment and re-election The board should use general meetings of Directors 77 to communicate with investors and to Effectiveness Page encourage their participation.
Accountability Page The board and its committees should have Stakeholder engagement 84 the appropriate balance of skills, experience, The board should present a fair, balanced independence and knowledge of the and understandable assessment of the company to enable them to discharge their companys position and prospects.
respective duties and responsibilities Strategic report 2 effectively.
Risk management 119 Board of Directors 47 Viability statement 40 Board Diversity 46 The board is responsible for determining There should be a formal, rigorous and the nature and extent of the principal risks transparent procedure for the appointment it is willing to take in achieving its strategic of new directors to the board.
The board should maintain sound risk management and internal Appointment and re-election control systems.
of Directors 77 Risk management and All directors should be able to allocate internal control 82 sufficient time to the company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
The board should establish formal and transparent arrangements for considering Attendance 80 how they should apply the corporate Time commitment 81 reporting, risk management and internal control principles, and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the companys auditors.
Board Audit Committee report 53 Accountability 82 44 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Governance: Directors report Chairmans introduction Throughout this period of activity and change, your Board has been providing critical oversight of executive management to oversee the successful execution of the Groups long term strategy.
Dear Fellow Shareholders strong foundation needed for effective Welcome to my 2017 corporate governance management of the Group.
In my Chairmans letter on page 2, I highlighted the significant milestones and Board changes in 2017 Through the Board Nominations Committee, achievements for Barclays in 2017, including the further sell-down of our interest in we are always considering whether we have the right mix of individuals on the Board, Barclays Africa Group Limited, the closure of Barclays Non-Core, progress towards the providing an appropriate balance and diversity of skills, experience and perspectives.
It is establishment of our ring-fenced bank in 2018 as well as preparations for the UKs departure important that it is inherent within the composition of the Board that a broad range from the EU.
Throughout this period of activity and change, your Board has been of perspectives and views are able to be provided which are representative of our providing critical oversight of executive management to oversee the successful customers, clients and employees as the foundations of our bank.
In addition, we are execution of the Groups long term strategy.
also regularly thinking about Board succession I firmly believe and have often said that the role planning and ensuring we have a strong of the Board is to create long term, sustainable pipeline of directors to steer the Group over value for our shareholders.
In order to do this, the long-term.
With this in mind, we brought we must have a robust corporate governance on three new non-executive Directors in 2017: framework, providing systems of checks and Sir Ian Cheshire, Matthew Lester and Mike controls to ensure accountability and drive Turner CBE, all of whom have significant better decision-making, and also policies and board-level experience and bring specific practices which ensure that the Board and its sector and technical expertise to your Board.
Part of this is During 2017, Diane fide Saint Victor and Steve creating an environment which encourages a Thieke, both non-executive Directors, left the constructive relationship between the Board Board and I thank them on behalf of the Board and executive management to enable an for their contributions and service.
appropriate level of debate, challenge and support in the decision-making process.
I am With the changes in 2017, our current female pleased to report that in 2017 your Board and representation on the Board sits at 21%.
Last executive management continued to year I reported that we set ourselves a Board demonstrate this dynamic as we worked diversity target of having 33% female together in executing strategy.
representation on the Board by 2020.
We are conscious that our gender diversity balance The impending changes to our Group on the Board has fallen from 2016, but remain corporate structure following structural committed to achieving the target that we reform has been a significant area of focus for have set.
Ensuring diversity of gender, as well the Board in 2017 and no doubt will continue as diversity in its other forms such as ethnicity, to be at the forefront of our minds in 2018. is built into our governance processes around After approving for appointment Sir Gerry Board composition and succession planning, Grimstone as the Chairman of Barclays and you can read more about this in the Board International and Sir Ian Cheshire as the Nominations Committee report on pages 75 Chairman of Barclays UK, we worked closely to 79. with both of them to recruit high quality candidates to build the boards of those two entities.
Our aim is to ensure that corporate governance within Barclays is in line with best practice for FTSE100 companies and as a Board we will work hard to ensure that our governance framework is always providing the home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 45 Governance: Directors report Chairmans introduction Relations, as well as the views of employees Conduct, culture and values Board diversity The Board also actively supports diversity through the results of the Barclays Your View employee opinion surveys.
Another key throughout the Group.
To attract and retain The Board has a balanced and diverse the best talent, we need to create an stakeholder of Barclays is our regulators, and range of skills and experience.
All Board during 2017 the Board invited representatives environment in which colleagues can thrive, appointments are made on merit, in the develop and achieve their ambitions.
I am of our regulators to attend meetings to hear context of the diversity of gender, skills, directly their views and expectations of very proud of the initiatives that we have at experience and background required to be Barclays to encourage diversity and support Barclays.
All of these views form the context effective.
in which Board decision-making takes place inclusion among colleagues.
Most recently, we launched a campaign aimed at increasing and feeds into the considerations and debate Balance of non-executive Directors: when determining the Groups strategy.
mental health awareness as Barclays aims to executive Directors become a mental health confident Chairman Board effectiveness organisation, and we are delighted that our 1 Chief Internal Auditor, Sally Clark, is the To deliver our strategy and achieve the delivery of long-term, sustainable value for Executive Directors Executive sponsor for Be Well, our well- 2 being initiative.
Everything we do at Barclays shareholders requires an effective Board.
It is an important part of my role as Chairman to is underpinned by the Barclays Values and Non-executive Directors Purpose, and we must act with respect, satisfy myself that the Board both collectively 11 and its individual members operates transparency and integrity in our interactions with stakeholders and with each other to effectively.
Each year, we conduct a selfassessment of our performance with the aid of create the right culture, and encourage the Gender balance right behaviours by colleagues, across the an independent facilitator.
As part of this Female Group.
With that framework, we can build process, I receive a report on the performance 3 and maintain the trust and confidence of our of our individual Directors, and our nonstakeholders and the market.
executive Directors, led by our Senior Male 11 Independent Director, have the opportunity to An important part of our strategy in relation to review my performance.
I am pleased to cultural progress and embedding our Barclays report that the results of the findings showed Values is our citizenship strategy, the Shared that your Board and its Committees are still Length of tenure Growth Ambition, where our long-term aim is operating effectively.
There are, of course, Chairman and non-executive Directors to create and grow a collection of products, areas to work on and challenges ahead once services and partnerships that improve the 1 the new Group structure is crystallised 3 lives of people in the communities that we following the stand-up of our new ring-fenced serve.
In 2017 we launched Barclays green bank in 2018.
Ensuring that there is clear bonds as part of our support for the accountability and delineated responsibilities 2 transition to a sustainable and low carbon in the new structure, not just between boards economy.
This was the first green bond but also between committees and between issued by a UK bank using UK assets, and you the boards and the executive team, will be a can read more about this on page 7.
Initiatives key focus for us in 2018.
You can read more like this not only enable us to contribute about the findings and the review process 1 0-3 years 6 meaningfully to society, but also enable us to undertaken for 2017 on page 78.
2 3-6 years 4 better understand the environment in which 3 6-9 years 2 we operate and our wider societal obligations, Looking ahead supporting the Boards objective of delivering 2018 will be another pivotal year for Barclays sustainable returns to shareholders.
with the execution of our new Group Industry experience You can read more about the corporate structure, and I look forward to Chairman and non-executive Directors working closely with the boards of Barclays UK Shared Growth Ambition at 1 Financial Services 12 100% home.
barclays citizenship and Barclays International to embed a strong 2 Political regulatory experience 12 100% framework to ensure clear, effective and 3 Current recent Chair CEO 5 42% Stakeholder views consistent corporate governance.
We will 4 Accountancy auditing 2 17% continue to work closely with executive As a Board we are conscious of the impact 5 Operations and Technology 1 8% that our business and decisions have on our management on improving performance 6 Retail marketing 1 8% within the Groups businesses, without losing customers, clients and employees as well as our wider societal impact.
It is through an sight of the need to constantly be acting in International experience line with the Barclays Values and Purpose to appreciation of our stakeholders that we can Chairman and non-executive Directors create a strategy aimed at delivering build on and retain the trust and confidence of our customers, clients, employees.
Together sustainable returns to our shareholders over 1 International UK 10 83% the long term.
The Board is supported in this with your Board, we remain focused on 2 International US 2 17% working hard to execute the Groups strategy role by the Board Reputation Committee, 3 International Rest of the World 2 17% which monitors key indicators across the in order to create sustainable long-term value Note for our shareholders.
areas of conduct, culture, citizenship and Individual Directors may fall into one or more customer satisfaction, as well as Barclays categories In relation to Board experience based on the reputation and events that occur which may John McFarlane location of the headquarters registered office of a impact the trust in our brand.
Chairman company The Board receives information about, and 21 February 2018 engages with, our various stakeholders throughout the year and one of the most important dates in our calendar is our Annual General Meeting, which gives the Board an opportunity to meet our shareholders and hear their views.
During the year the Board is kept informed of shareholder views through regular updates from the Head of Investor 46 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
