Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Barclays International home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 29 Barclays International Our performance in International arclas nternational is the diersified transatlantic, wholesale and consumer bank within Barclays Bank PLC.
Encompassing the Corporate and Investment Bank, Barclaycard International and Private Bank & Overseas Services businesses, our dual home markets in the UK and US anchor our business in the two ost iportant global financial centres Overview of products, services and clients Our business model in Barclays International On the consumer side, within Barclaycard is dependent upon our client relationships, the International, we provide consumers with services we provide to our clients and our credit cards, lending and deposit accounts.
In capital human, technological and financial.
Private Bank & Overseas Services, we provide In 2017, Barclays International contributed banking, investment and wealth management 68 to Group income with an RoTE of 6.6, services.
For SMEs and corporates, we enable excluding the impact of the US deferred tax payment acceptance, commercial card assets re-measurement.
Through our Corporate and Investment Bank, we serve our clients by providing advice, financing, trade and payment solutions, and raising capital.
We support our institutional clients through sales and trading of securities.
Barclays International operational model Customers Products Value Contribution and Clients and services creation to Group CorporatesFinancial adviceTo our customers and 14.4bn Financial institutions Primary capital raising and clients we create value by Income Institutional investors capital markets execution facilitating the transmission Governments Risk and liquidity of money from providers to 3.3bn Consumers management users of capital Profit before tax High and Ultra-High Lending To society we provide Net Worth IndividualsSales and trading financing to a range of 3.4% RoTE 6.6% excl.
the impact of the Family Offices International credit cards social and environmental Consumer payments segments US deferred tax assets re-measurement Banking To shareholders as a 69% Investments diversified transatlantic, Cost: Income ratioWealth management wholesale and consumer bank 210.3bn Risk Weighted Assets 30 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Market and environment in which the division operates Advising on pan-European expansion The economic markets in 2017 were Asahi Group Holdings, the largest brewer in Japan, has targeted characterised by a low volatility and low Europe as its next platform for growth in its drive to become a interest rate environment.
With this benign global beer industry leader.
Having already established a presence in backdrop, valuation gains in the equity Italy, the UK and the Netherlands through the acquisition of brands markets prevailed throughout the year.
such as Peroni, Grolsch and Meantime, Asahi engaged Barclays to Prospective and confirmed legislative and assist in creating a truly pan-European franchise.
regulatory changes continued to influence and shape strategies of all market players.
In In March 2017, with Barclays acting as Financial Adviser, Asahi successfully closed on its 7.3bn acquisition of AB InBevs business in the UK, consumer confidence hit a four-year low, amid sterling depreciation and despite the Czech Republic, Slovak Republic, Poland, Hungary and Romania.
In the US, the Asahi turned to Barclays for this critical transaction due to our holistic labour market and consumer spending capability, including a long-standing, global coverage relationship, strengthened, with subdued wage growth.
leading brewing industry and M&A experience, deep insight into Central Europe and cross-border deal execution expertise.
Barclays International is focused on investments in talent, capital and technology.
Barclays International has achieved significant milestones to meet Structural Reform regulations.
Working closely with regulators and stakeholders, we are set up to serve our clients across the globe in alignment with regulatory policies and legislation.
The newly-created divisional board of directors has been confirmed and has convened prior to formal board meetings to ensure that we are set to operate within the Barclays governance framework upon the formalisation of Structural Reform.
Significant entities within Barclays International, such as the US Cyber crime had a hugely detrimental impact Barclays International continues to enhance Intermediate Holding Company IHC, are on the global economy in 2017, with its customer and client experiences through subject to stringent governance standards to unprecedented attacks in terms of their scale, innovation.
For example, in Barclaycard ensure safety and soundness, particularly impact and rate of spread.
We have continued International, we launched a new core around capital, liquidity and risk management.
to invest heavily to ensure that our payment processing platform that provides, infrastructure retains industry-leading multi-currency and multi-geography Risks to the operating model resilience to cyber crime.
settlement capabilities and enables all Geopolitical and macroeconomic uncertainty currencies in all territories to be processed on in some markets remain a risk, while the The growth strategy within Barclays a single platform.
We also launched an volume and reach of regulatory change International will continue to be executed in a Artificial Intelligence Machine Learning tool continues to require significant attention.
controlled, commercial manner within the to provide the latest advanced platforms and ERMF framework.
We are making comprehensive plans for the techniques for fraud detection and intelligent UKs planned exit from the European Union customer service automation.
Business Highlights and we believe we will provide an Barclays International is focused on Overall, 2017 was a milestone year for Barclays uninterrupted service to our clients, investments in talent, capital and technology.
Together, with our colleagues consumers and other stakeholders during and In 2017, we affirmed the executive across the globe, we have embarked on a after the transition.
management leadership team within BI.
In our number of initiatives and areas of growth as We continue to monitor growth in US Markets division, a new leadership structure we strive to matter more to our clients, to consumer delinquencies having proactively has enabled streamlining and simplification, grow our revenues, and deliver much reduced our exposure to middle market with global heads across credit, equities, improved sustainable returns to our consumers earlier this year.
We are focused on dynamically managing and allocating financial resources to businesses within Barclays International through Tim Throsby optimisation of capital, leverage, risk weighted President, Barclays International and assets, funding and tax across all jurisdictions Chief Executive Officer, Corporate and and legal entities.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 31
