Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 81 Directors report Corporate governance statement Change of control The Corporate Governance report found on pages 5180 together with The Company is not party to any significant contracts that are subject this Directors report of which it forms part, fulfils the requirements of to change of control provisions in the event of a takeover bid.
There are the Corporate Governance Statement for the purpose of the Financial no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees Conduct Authoritys Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR.
providing compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Profit and dividends The consolidated income statement shows a statutory profit before Directors indemnities taxfor the year ended 31 December 2017 of 5,275 million 2016: The Directors of the Company, including the former Directors who 4,238 million.
The Directors have recommended a final dividend, which retired during the year, have entered into individual deeds of indemnity is subject to approval by the shareholders at the AGM, of 2.05 pence per with the Company which constituted qualifying third party indemnity share 2016: 1.7 pence per share totalling 1,475 million 2016: provisions for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006.
The final dividend will be paid on 29 May 2018. indemnify the Directors to the maximum extent permitted by law The final dividend in respect of 2016 of 1.7 pence per ordinary share was and remain in force.
The deeds were in force during the whole of the paid to shareholders on 16 May 2017, a special dividend in respect of 2016 financial year or from the date of appointment in respect of the Director of 0.5 pence per ordinary share was paid to shareholders on 16 May 2017 appointed in 2017.
In addition, the Group had appropriate Directors and and an interim dividend for 2017 of 1 pence per ordinary share was paid Officers liability insurance cover in place throughout 2017. on 27 September 2017: these dividends totalled 2,284 million, net of a Deeds for existing Directors are available for inspection at the credit in respect of unclaimed dividends written-back in accordance with Companys registered office.
the Companys Articles of Association.
Further information on dividends The Company has also granted deeds of indemnity by deed poll and by is shown in note 44 on page 220 and is incorporated by reference.
way of entering into individual deeds, which constitute qualifying third The Board continues to give due consideration at each year end to party indemnity provisions to the Directors of the Groups subsidiary the return of any surplus capital and for 2017, the Board intends to companies, including to former Directors who retired during the year implement a share buyback of up to 1 billion, equivalent to up to and since the year end.
Such deeds were in force during the financial year 1.4pence per share.
This represents the return of capital over and ended 31 December 2017 and remain in force as at the date of this report.
above the Boards view of the current level of capital required to grow Qualifying pension scheme indemnities have also been granted to the the business, meet regulatory requirements and cover uncertainties.
Trustees of the Groups Pension Schemes, which were in force for the The share buyback programme will commence in March 2018 and is whole of the financial year and remain in force as at the date of this report.
expected to be completed during the next 12 months.
Given the total ordinary dividend of 3.05 pence per share and the intended share Power of Directors in relation to shares buyback, equivalent to up to 1.4 pence per ordinary share, the total capital return for 2017 will be up to 4.45 pence per share, an increase of The Board manages the business of the Company under the powers set up to 46 per cent on the prior year, equivalent to up to 3.2 billion.
out in the articles of association, which include the Directors ability to issue or buy back shares.
The Directors were granted authorities to issue The Company intends to use the authority for the repurchase of ordinary and allot shares and to buy back shares at the 2017 AGM.
Shareholders shares granted to it at the 2017 AGM to implement the proposed share will be asked to renew these authorities at the 2018 AGM.
Details of this existing authority are set out under Power of in respect of purchase of the Companys ordinary shares is limited to Directors in relation to shares.
7,154,088,636 ordinary shares, equivalent to 10 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at the latest practicable date Appointment and retirement of Directors prior to publication of the 2017 AGM circular.
The appointment and retirement of Directors is governed by the Companys The Company did not repurchase any of its shares during the year.
articles of association, the UK Corporate Governance Code and the 2016:none.
The Companys articles of association may only be amended by a special resolution of the shareholders in a general meeting.
Conflicts of interest Lord Lupton has been appointed to the Board since the 2017 AGM and will therefore stand for election at the forthcoming AGM.
In the interests The Board has a comprehensive procedure for reviewing, and as of good governance and in accordance with the provisions of the UK permitted by the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys articles of Corporate Governance Code, all other Directors will retire, and those association, approving actual and potential conflicts of interest.
Directors wishing to serve again will submit themselves for re-election at the have a duty to notify the Chairman and Company Secretary as soon as forthcoming AGM.
they become aware of actual or potential conflict situations.
Changes to commitments of all Directors are reported to the Nomination and Biographies of current Directors are set out on pages 5455.
Details of Governance Committee and the Board and a register of potential the Directors seeking election or re-election at the AGM are set out in conflicts and time commitments is regularly reviewed and authorised by the Notice of Meeting.
the Board to ensure the authorisation status remains appropriate.
Board composition changes Stuart Sinclair is Senior Independent Directors at QBE Insurance Europe Limited, a general insurance and reinsurance company.
Lord Lupton Changes to the composition of the Board since 1 January 2017 up to the is a senior advisor to Greenhill Europe, an investment bank focused date of this report are shown in the table below: on providing financial advice on significant mergers, acquisitions, Joined the Board Left the Board restructurings, financings and capital raising to corporations, Nicholas Luff 10 May 2017 partnerships, institutions and governments.
The Board has recognised that potential conflicts may arise as a result of these positions.
The Board Anthony Watson 11 May 2017 has authorised the potential conflicts and requires Mr. Sinclair and Lord Lord Lupton 1 June 2017 Lupton to recuse themselves from discussions, should the need arise.
Directors and Officers liability insurance Branches Throughout 2017 the Group had appropriate insurance cover in place The Group provides a wide range of banking and financial services to protect Directors, including the Directors who retired or resigned through branches and offices in the UK and overseas.
during the year, from liabilities that may arise against them personally in connection with the performance of their role.
Research and development activities As well as insurance cover, the Group agrees to indemnify the Directors to During the ordinary course of business the Group develops new the maximum extent permitted by law.
Further information on the Groups products and services within the business units.
indemnity arrangements is provided in the Directors indemnities section.
82 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors report continued Information incorporated by reference Going concern The following additional information forms part of the Directors report, The going concern of the Company and the Group is dependent on and is incorporated by reference.
successfully funding their respective balance sheets and maintaining adequate levels of capital.
In order to satisfy themselves that the Content Pages Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue to operate Group results Summary of Group results 3942 for the foreseeable future, the Directors have considered a number of Ordinary dividends Dividends on ordinary shares 220 key dependencies which are set out in the risk management section Directors Board of Directors 5455 under principal risks and uncertainties: funding and liquidity on page 36 biographies and pages 144149 and capital position on pages 137144.
Additionally, 1 the Directors have considered the capital and funding projections of Directors in 2017 Board of Directors 5455 the Company and Group.
Accordingly, the Directors conclude that Directors Directors remuneration report 84106 the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in emoluments operational existence for a period of at least 12 months from the date of Internal control Financial reporting risk 109 the approval of the financial statements and therefore it is appropriate to and financial risk Risk management and 108156 continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
management Financialinstruments and 226237 Viability statement Information Future developments 237 The Directors have an obligation under the UK Corporate Governance includedin the Greenhouse gas emissions 27 Code to state whether they believe the Company and the Group will be strategic report additional information able to continue in operation and meet their liabilities as they fall due over Inclusion and diversity 2122 a specified period determined by the Directors, taking account of the Engaging colleagues 22 current position and the principal risks of the Company and theGroup.
Disclosures required Significant contracts 223224 In making this assessment, the Directors have considered a wide range under Listing Dividend waivers 220 of information, including: the principal and emerging risks which could Rule9.8.
4R impact the performance of the Group: the 2017 Group Strategic Review, Principal risks Funding and liquidity 36 and which sets out the Groups customer and business strategy for the three anduncertainties 144150 year period from 2018 to 2020: and the Groups five year operating Capital position 137144 plan which comprises detailed customer, financial, capital and funding Share capital Share capital and restrictions on the 216 projections together with an assessment of relevant risk factors.
In particular in 2017, the assessment included consideration of the impact of andcontrol transfer of shares or voting rights Special rights with regard to the Structural Reform ring-fencing, the effects of the continuing low interest rate environment, the ongoing impact of the implementation of IFRS 9 control of the Company 216 Employee share schemes Financial Instruments and the continuing uncertainty over the transitional arrangements to be agreed as part of the UKs exit from the EU.
exercise of voting rights 216 1 Nick Luff and Anthony Watson also served as directors during the year, retiring from the Group, divisional and business unit operating plans covering a period Company on 10 May 2017 and 11 May 2017 respectively.
of five years are produced and subject to rigorous stress testing on an annual basis.
The planning process takes account of the Groups Substantial shareholders business objectives, the risks taken to seek to meet those objectives and the controls in place to mitigate those risks to remain within the Groups Information provided to the Company by substantial shareholders pursuant to the DTR is published via a Regulatory Information Service.
As at 31 December 2017, the Company had been notified by its The Groups annual planning process comprises the following key stages: substantial shareholders under Rule 5 of the DTR of the following The Board reviews and revises the Groups strategy, risk appetite and interests in the Companys shares: objectives in the context of the operating environment and external % of issued share capital with market commitments.
rights to vote in all circumstances at 1 Interest in shares general meetings The divisional teams develop their operating plans based on the Boards objectives ensuring that they are in line with the Groups 2 BlackRock Inc. 3,668,756,765 5.14% strategy and risk appetite.
3 Harris Associates L. P. 3,607,058,758 5.01% The financial projections and the underlying assumptions in respect 1 Percentage provided was correct at the date of notification.
of expected market and business changes, and future expected legal, 2 The most recent notification provided by BlackRock Inc. under Rule 5 of the DTR identifies accounting and regulatory changes are subject to rigorous review and i an indirect holding of 3,599,451,380 shares in the Company representing 5.04 per cent of the voting rights in the Company, and ii a holding of 69,305,385 in other financial challenge from both divisional and Group executives.
instruments in respect of the Company representing 0.09 per cent of the voting rights of the Company.
BlackRock Inc. s holding most recently notified to the Company under Rule 5 of In addition, the Board obtains independent assurance from Risk the DTR varies from the holding disclosed in BlackRock Inc. s Schedule 13-G filing with the Division over the alignment of the plan with Group strategy and the US Securities and Exchange Commission dated 7 February 2018, which identifies beneficial ownership of 4,843,291,732 shares in the Company representing 6.7 per cent of the issued Boards risk appetite.
This assessment performed by Risk Division also share capital in the Company.
This variance is attributable to different notification and identifies the key risks to delivery of the Groups operating plan.
disclosure requirements between these regulatory regimes.
The planning process is also underpinned by a robust capital and 3 An indirect holding.
This framework allows the Group No further notifications have been received under Rule 5 of the DTR as at to assess compliance of the operating plan with the Groups risk the date of this report.
The scenarios used for stress testing are designed to be severe but plausible, and take account of the availability and Post balance sheet events likely effectiveness of mitigating actions that could be taken by management to avoid or reduce the impact or occurrence of the The Board has announced its intention to implement a share buyback underlying risks.
In considering the likely effectiveness of such actions, programme, details of which are from a post balance sheet events the conclusions of the Boards regular monitoring and review of risk perspective provided in note 53, Events since the balance sheet date, and internal control systems, as discussed on page 67, is taken into on page 252. account.
Further information on stress testing and reverse stress testing is provided on page 111.
The final five year operating plan, Risk Division assessment and the results of the stress testing are presented to the Board for approval.
Once approved, the operating plan drives detailed divisional and Group targets for the following year.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 83 The Directors have specifically assessed the prospects of the Company Independent auditor and audit information and the Group over the first three years of the current plan.
The uncertain Each person who is a Director at the date of approval of this report economic and political environment caused by the UKs plans to leave the EU confirms that, so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit and the pace of regulatory change mean that the assumptions supporting information of which the Companys auditor is unaware and each the fourth and fifth years of the operating plan are likely to be less reliable.
As Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken a result, the Board considers that a three year period continues to present a as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit reasonable degree of confidence over expected events and macroeconomic information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that assumptions, whilst still providing an appropriate longer-term outlook, information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in although the remaining period of the operating plan contains no information accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. which would cause different conclusions to be reached over the longer-term viability of the Company and Group.
Resolutions concerning the re-appointment of  LLP as auditor and authorising the Audit Committee to set its Information relevant to the assessment can be found in the following remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
sections of the annual report and accounts: The Groups principal activities, business and operating models Statement of directors responsibilities andstrategic direction are described in the strategic report on The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, pages137: the Directors remuneration report and the financial statements in Emerging risks are disclosed on page 110: accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires The principal risks, including the Groups objectives, policies and the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have prepared the Group and parent processes for managing credit, capital, liquidity and funding, are provided in the risk management section on pages 116156: and Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European The Groups approach to stress testing and reverse stress testing, Union.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the including both regulatory and internal stresses, is described on financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and page111.
fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and Based upon this assessment, the Directors have a reasonable of the profit or loss of the Company and Group for that period.
In expectation that the Company and the Group will be able to continue in preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the next three years select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: to 31 December 2020. make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed.
Greenhouse gas emissions The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records The Group has voluntarily reported greenhouse gas emissions and that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and environmental performance since 2009, and since 2013 this has been disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position reported in line with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the Our total emissions, in tonnes of CO2 equivalent, are reported in the financial statements and the Directors remuneration report comply strategic report on page 26. with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial Deloitte LLP has provided limited level ISAE 3000 Revised assurance statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for over selected non-financial indicators as noted by.
Their full, safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for independent assurance statement is available online taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and at www.
Methodology A copy of the financial statements is placed on our website at The Group follows the principles of the Greenhouse Gas GHG Protocol www.
The Directors are responsible for the Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard to calculate our Scope 1, maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the 2 and 3 emissions from our worldwide operations.
UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements The reporting period is 1 October 2016 to 30 September 2017, which may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
is different to that of our Directors report January 2017 December Each of the current Directors who are in office as at the date of this 2017.
This is in line with regulations in that the majority of the emissions report, and whose names and functions are listed on pages 5455 of this reporting year falls within the period of the Directors report.
Emissions annual report, confirm that, to the best of his or her knowledge: are reported based on an operational boundary.
The scope of reporting is in line with the GHG Protocol and covers Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in emissions.
Reported Scope 1 emissions cover emissions generated from accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give a true gas and oil used in buildings, emissions from UK company-owned vehicles and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss used for business travel and emissions from the use of air conditioning of the Company and Group: and and chiller refrigerant plant.
Reported Scope 2 emissions cover emissions the management report contained in the strategic report and the generated from the use of electricity, calculated using the location based Directors report includes a fair review of the development and methodology.
Reported Scope 3 emissions relate to business travel performance of the business and the position of the Company undertaken by colleagues and emissions associated with the extraction and Group, together with a description of the principal risks and and distribution of each of our energy sources electricity, gas and uncertainties that they face.
Adetailed definition of these emissions can be found in our 2017 Reporting Criteria online at www.
com rbdownloads The Directors consider that the annual report and accounts, taken Intensity ratio as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the GHG emissions CO e per m of underlying income 2 information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors have also Oct 2016-Sept 2017 15.8 separately reviewed and approved the strategic report.
Oct 2015-Sept 2016 19.7 On behalf of the Board Oct 2014-Sept 2015 22.4 Omissions Emissions associated with joint ventures and investments are not included in this disclosure as they fall outside the scope of our operational boundary.
The Group does not have any emissions Malcolm Wood Company Secretary associated with heat, steam or cooling and is not aware of any other 20 February 2018 material sources of omissions from our reporting.
Lloyds Banking Group plc Registered in Scotland Company number SC95000
