56 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Group Executive Committee Delivering our vision and managing a more agile organisation The depth of diverse experience and complementary skills in our management team strengthens our ability to adjust to changing market environments and deliver our strategy to become the best bank for customers, colleagues andshareholders.
Executive Director members Antnio Horta-Osrio George Culmer Juan Colombs Executive Director and Executive Director and Executive Director and GroupChiefExecutive ChiefFinancial Officer ChiefOperating Officer Antnio joined the Board as an George joined the Board as an Juan joined the Group as Chief Risk Executive Director in January 2011 ExecutiveDirector in May 2012.
Officer in January 2011 and joined and became Group Chief Executive Read his full biography on page 55. the Board as an Executive Director in in March 2011.
Read his full biography November 2013.
Read his full biography on page 55.
Other members and attendees 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 57 1.
Janet Pope Group General Counsel GEC attendee Group Director, Retail Chief of Staff and Group Director, Corporate Affairs, Responsible Business and Inclusion Kate was appointed Group General Counsel in Vim was appointed Group Director, Retail in January 2015.
In this role she advises the Board and September 2017.
He joined the Group in June 2011 Janet joined the Group in 2008 to run the Savings Senior Executives on legal matters, leads the Groups as Managing Director, Customer Products and was business.
She was previously Chief Executive at legal team and oversees management of the Groups appointed to the Group Executive Committee in Alliance Trust Savings, prior to which she was EVP external legal suppliers.
Kate joined the Group in August 2013.
Vim is also a UK Finance Board member, Global Strategy at Visa International.
Janet spent 10 2005 from Linklaters, where she was a corporate leading on Retail Banking.
Previously Vim worked years at Standard Chartered Bank where she held lawyer specialising in M&A transactions.
Before her for over 12 years at Santander, in a range of roles in a variety of roles including Retail Banking MD for current role, Kate held a number of senior positions Corporate Strategy, Mergers & Acquisitions, the Africa and non-executive directorships at Standard including Deputy Group General Counsel and Life Division and most recently held the position of Chartered Bank Zimbabwe, Kenya, Zambia and General Counsel for Group Legal.
Kate is co-chair of Director, Retail Products.
Vim holds an Economics Botswana.
Janet is Chairman of the Charities Aid Breakthrough, LBGs womens network, a trustee of degree from the London School of Economics and is Foundation Bank and a Non-Executive Director of the Lloyds Bank Foundation for England and Wales a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Janet studied at the and sponsor of Legal in the Community, the legal London School of Economics.
She has a Masters functions Responsible Business programme.
degree in Economics and holds an MBA from 6.
Zaka Mian Cass Business School.
She is also the Groups Group Director, Transformation Executive Sponsor for Inclusion and Diversity.
Karin Cook Zak joined the Group in 1989 as a Business Analyst in Group Services Director IT and has carried out multiple roles involving Retail 10.
Stephen Shelley Karin is Group Services Director and is responsible CIO, Head of IT Architecture and leading the Digital Chief Risk Officer for Global Payments, Customer Services, Property, Transformation programme.
He was appointed Divestment and Development, the Chief Security Group Director, Digital and Transformation in 2016 Stephen was appointed Chief Risk Officer in Office, Credit Operations and Sourcing.
Having and his responsibilities increased in September September 2017.
He joined the Group in May 2011 worked in financial services for 27 years, prior to 2017 as the Group Director, Transformation.
He as Chief Credit Officer for Wholesale, Commercial joining the Group as COO Commercial Banking is responsible for the digital transformation of and International.
In October 2012 he became Risk in 2013, Karin led global operational, finance, and the Group, including all IT and business change, Director, Commercial Banking Risk and was also a technology functions at HSBC, Morgan Stanley and and ensuring we are ready to meet the future member of the Commercial Banking Management Goldman Sachs.
She is a Non-Executive Director of expectations of our customers.
Prior to joining the Group Stephen was Scottish Widows and the Groups Executive Sponsor Computer Science degree from York University.
Chief Risk Officer at Barclays Corporate and prior to for Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity.
She was that was Chief Credit Officer for the UK Retail and named in the prestigious 2017 OUTstanding FT list Corporate business in Barclays.
David Oldfield as one of the Top 50 Allies globally, and is proud that at Barclays, Stephen undertook a variety of roles in Group Director, Commercial Banking the Group was also recognised as the 2017 Stonewall the front office and risk.
He was also a member of employer of the year.
Karin holds a degree in Modern David was appointed as Group Director for the the Group Risk Executive team and a Chair of Group and Medieval Languages from Cambridge University.
Commercial Banking division in September 2017 Credit Committees.
Stephen is also the Groups responsible for supporting corporate clients from Executive Sponsor for Gender Diversity and Equality.
SMEs through Mid Markets to Global Corporates 3.
Paul Day and Financial Institutions.
David started his career Chief Internal Auditor GEC attendee 11.
Jennifer Tippin with Lloyds Bank 31 years ago on the graduate Group People and Productivity Director Paul joined the Group in June 2017 from Deloitte, entrant programme and has held a number of key GECattendee where he was a partner in the UK Financial Services leadership roles across all Divisions of the Group practice and led the UK Financial Services Internal since that time.
Immediately prior to his current role Jen was appointed as Group People and Productivity Audit business.
Paul has specialised in internal and he was Group Director Retail and Consumer Finance, Director in July 2017 and is responsible for leading external audit roles across financial services for responsible for the Lloyds, Halifax, Bank of Scotland, the people function and managing the Groups cost over 20 years, including holding various leadership Lex Autolease and Black Horse Brands including base.
Prior to her current role, Jen held the roles of roles across Barclays Internal Audit.
Paul studied the retail branch networks, customer products and Group Customer Services Director and Managing at Cambridge University, holds an MBA from telephone banking, in addition to Retail Business Director, Retail Business Banking.
Graduating from Manchester Business School and is a member of Banking and UK Wealth businesses.
David is a Fellow Oxford University, Jen has enjoyed a career spanning the Institute of Chartered Accountants and the UK of the Chartered Institute of Bankers.
He is also Group multiple industries, including banking, engineering Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors.
Jen is a Non-Executive Director Designate on the Board of Lloyds Bank Corporate 4.
Jakob Pfaudler Markets and a Non-Executive Director of the Kent Chief Executive, Scottish Widows and Group Group Director, Community Banking Community NHS Foundation Trust.
Director, Insurance and Wealth GECattendee 12.
Malcolm Wood Antonio joined the Group in 2011 as head of the Jakob was appointed Group Director, Community Company Secretary Wealth and International division and Group Banking in September 2017.
From 2015 to 2017 he was GECattendee Corporate Development, leading the Groups Chief Operating Officer for the Retail Bank and prior strategic review and subsequent programme of to this he was Managing Director of Asset Finance.
Malcolm joined the Group as Company Secretary in reducing non-core assets and exiting international Other previous roles include Chief Operating Officer November 2014.
Read his full biography on page 55. locations.
From 2013, he assumed the role of Group for Wealth & International, Managing Director Director, Consumer Finance & Group Corporate International Retail and International Banking and Development, leading the divisions growth strategy Wholesale Banking Operations Director.
Jakob whilst completing the sale of TSB.
At the end of joined the Group in 2004 having spent six years 2015 he was appointed Chief Executive, Scottish with McKinsey & Co, in their London office.
Prior to Widows and Group Director, Insurance and during McKinsey, Jakob spent time with Goldman Sachs and 2017 he also assumed responsibility for the Wealth Oliver Wyman.
He has a PhD in Theoretical Physics Division.
Antonio is also Group Executive Sponsor from Oxford University.
Antonio joined the Group from Santander, where he had worked in a number of different leadership roles and jurisdictions since 1998.
He was part of the management team that completed the take-over of Alliance & Leicester and Bradford & Bingley: and was Chief Financial Officer of Santander UK.
Before Santander, Antonio spent over nine years at Arthur Andersen.
