Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 115 Committees Risk focus Group Financial Risk Committee Responsible for reviewing, challenging and recommending to GEC, GRC and GALCO, the Group Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment ILAAP and Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP submissions, Pillar 3 Disclosures, the Group recovery and resolution plans, and the annual stress testing of the Groups operating plan, Prudential Regulation Authority PRA and European Banking Authority EBA stress tests, and any other analysis as required.
Group Capital Risk Committee Responsible for providing oversight of all relevant capital matters within the Group including the Groups capital position, Pillar 2 requirements, regulatory reform and accounting developments specific to capital, as well as other areas such as stress testing and modelling activity.
It also reviews regulatory submissions including the ICAAP and recovery plan prior to submission to Group Financial Risk Committee.
Group Model Governance Committee Responsible for setting the framework and standards for model governance across the Group, including establishing appropriate levels of delegated authority and principles underlying the Groups modelling framework, specifically regarding consistency of approach across business units and risk types.
It approves banking models other than those material at Group level, which are approved by GRC, and meets the PRA requirements regarding the governance and approval for Internal Ratings Based IRB methodologies.
An equivalent committee exists in the Insurance division for approval of insurance models.
Full analysis of risk categories The Groups risk framework covers all types of risk which affect the Group and could impact on the achievement of its strategic objectives.
A detailed description of each category is provided on pages 116156.
Following a review of the Groups risk categories in 2017, model risk is now a primary risk category, and is described in detail on page 156.
Financial reporting risk, previously a primary risk category, is now considered as a secondary risk category of operational risk see pages 135136: additionally the main features of the Groups internal control system in relation to the financial reporting process are described on page 109.
Primary risk categories Secondary risk categories Retail credit Commercial credit Credit risk Page 116 Regulatory and legal risk Regulatory compliance Legal Page 133 Conduct Conduct risk Page 134 Business process External service provision Internal service provision Operational risk Page 135 Change Financial crime IT systems Cyber and information security Financial reporting Operational resilience Data management Fraud Physical security health and safety Sourcing People People risk Page 136 Insurance underwriting risk Insurance underwriting Page 137 Capital Capital risk Page 137 Funding and liquidity Funding and liquidity risk Page 144 Governance Governance risk Page 150 Trading book Pensions Market risk Page 151 Banking book Insurance Model Model risk Page 156 The Group considers both reputational and financial impact in the course of managing all its risks and therefore does not classify reputational impact as a separate risk category.
116 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Risk management continued rating models.
The Group operates a number of different regulatory Credit risk rating models, typically developed internally using statistical analysis and management judgement retail models rely more on the former, Definition commercial models include more of the latter, especially in the larger Credit risk is defined as the risk that parties with whom the Group corporate and more specialised lending portfolios.
Internal data is has contracted fail to meet their financial obligations both on and off supplemented with external data, where appropriate.
The models vary, inter alia, in the extent to which they are point in time versus through the cycle.
The models are subject to rigorous Exposures validation and oversight and governance including, where appropriate, The principal sources of credit risk within the Group arise from loans benchmarking to external information.
and advances, contingent liabilities, commitments, debt securities and In the principal retail portfolios, exposure at default and loss given default derivatives to customers, financial institutions and sovereigns.
The credit models are in use.
For regulatory reporting purposes, counterparties are risk exposures of the Group are set out in note 51 on page 240. Credit segmented into a number of rating grades, each representing a defined risk exposures are categorised as retail, arising primarily in the Retail and range of default probabilities and exposures migrate between rating Runoff divisions, and some small and medium sized enterprises SMEs and grades if the assessment of the counterparty PD changes.
The retail master corporate including larger SMEs, corporates, banks, financial institutions scale comprises 13 nondefault ratings and one default rating.
and sovereigns arising primarily in the Commercial Banking, Runoff and In commercial portfolios the PD models also segment counterparties into Insurance and Wealth divisions and Group Corporate Treasury GCT.
a number of rating grades, with each grade representing a defined range In terms of loans and advances, for example loans and overdrafts and of default probabilities.
Counterparties migrate between rating grades if contingent liabilities for example credit instruments such as guarantees the assessment of the PD changes.
The corporate nonretail master scale and standby, documentary and commercial letters of credit, credit risk comprises of 19 nondefault ratings and 4 default rating grades, and forms arises both from amounts advanced and commitments to extend credit the basis on which internal reporting is completed.
With respect to commitments to extend credit, the Group is potentially exposed to loss in an amount equal to the total Use of internally modelled outputs in the regulatory capital process is specific to the calculation approach being used.
Under the Retail Internal unused commitments.
However, the likely amount of loss is less than the total unused commitments, as most retail commitments to extend credit Ratings Based IRB approach the rating system PD assessment is used alongside calculated exposure at default and loss given default values may be cancelled and the creditworthiness of customers is monitored regularly.
Most commercial term commitments to extend credit are in order to derive riskweighted assets RWAs and regulatory Expected Loss EL.
The Foundation IRB approach requires the use of the rating contingent upon customers maintaining specific credit standards, which together with the creditworthiness of customers are monitored regularly.
system PD alongside regulatory prescribed exposure at default and loss given default values.
Slotting portfolios do not use loss given default whilst Credit risk also arises from debt securities and derivatives.
The total Standardised requires the use of regulatory refined exposure at default in a notional principal amount of interest rate, exchange rate, credit derivative defined RWA calculation.
and other contracts outstanding at 31 December 2017 is shown on page122.
The notional principal amount does not, however, represent Impairment allowances are recognised for financial reporting purposes only for loss events that have occurred at the balance sheet date, based the Groups credit risk exposure, which is limited to the current cost of replacing contracts with a positive value to the Group.
Such amounts are on objective evidence of impairment.
Due to the different methodologies applied, the amount of incurred credit losses provided for in the financial reflected innote 51 on page 240. statements differs from the amount determined from the regulatory Additionally, credit risk arises from leasing arrangements where the ELmodels.
Note 2 H on page 176 provides details of the Groups Group is the lessor.
Note 2 J on page 177 provides details on the Groups approach tothe impairment of financial assets.
approach to the treatment of leases.
Credit risk exposures in the Insurance and Wealth division largely result Mitigation from holding bond and loan assets, together with some related swaps, in The Group uses a range of approaches to mitigate credit risk.
the shareholder funds including the annuity portfolio and from exposure to reinsurers.
Prudent, through the cycle credit principles, risk policies and appetite statements: The independent Risk division sets out the credit principles, The investments held in the Groups defined benefit pension schemes credit risk policies and credit risk appetite statements.
Principles and also expose the Group to credit risk.
Note 35 on page 206 provides further policies are reviewed regularly, and any changes are subject to an approval information on the defined benefit pension schemes assets and liabilities.
Policies and risk appetite statements, where appropriate, are Loans and advances, contingent liabilities, commitments, debt securities supported by procedures, which provide a disciplined and focused and derivatives also expose the Group to refinance risk.
Refinance risk benchmark for credit decisions.
Risk oversight teams monitor credit is the possibility that an outstanding exposure cannot be repaid at its performance trends, review and challenge exceptions to planned contractual maturity date.
If the Group does not wish to refinance the outcomes, and test the adequacy of credit risk infrastructure and exposure then there is refinance risk if the obligor is unable to repay governance processes throughout the Group, which includes tracking by securing alternative finance.
This may be because the borrower is in portfolio performance against an agreed set of credit risk appetite financial difficulty, because the terms required to refinance are outside tolerances.
Oversight and reviews are also undertaken by independent acceptable appetite at the time or the customer is unable to refinance credit risk oversight functions and Group Internal Audit.
externally, due to a lack of market liquidity.
Refinance risk exposures are Strong models and controls: The independent Risk division has managed in accordance with the Groups existing credit risk policies, established a set of model risk management principles, designed to processes and controls, and are not considered to be material given ensure models and associated rating systems are developed consistently the Groups prudent and through the cycle credit risk appetite.
Where and are of sufficient quality to support business decisions and meet heightened refinance risk exists such as in Commercial Bankings Business regulatory requirements.
Internal rating models are developed and owned Support Unit BSU or the runoff book exposures are minimised through by the Risk division.
The designated model owner takes responsibility intensive account management and are impaired and identified as for ensuring the fitness for purpose of the rating systems, supported and forborne where appropriate.
challenged by the independent specialist Group function.
Limitations on concentration risk: There are portfolio controls on Measurement certain industries, sectors and product lines to reflect risk appetite as In measuring the credit risk of loans and advances to customers and to well as individual, customer and bank limit guidelines.
Credit policies banks at a counterparty level, the Group reflects three components: and appetite statements are aligned to the Groups risk appetite and i the probability of default PD by the counterparty on its contractual restrict exposure to higher risk countries and potentially vulnerable obligations: ii current exposures to the counterparty and their likely future sectors and asset classes.
Note 17 on page 193 provides an analysis of development, from which the Group derives the exposure at default: and loans and advances to customers by industry for commercial customers iii the likely loss ratio on the defaulted obligations the loss given default.
and product for retail customers.
Exposures are monitored to prevent both an excessive concentration of risk and single name concentrations.
Assessment of obligor quality for both retail and commercial These concentration risk controls are not necessarily in the form of a counterparties is largely based on the outcomes of credit risk PD Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 117 maximum limit on exposure, but may instead require new business in Where credit acceptance scorecards are used, new models, model concentrated sectors to fulfil additional minimum policy and or guideline changes and monitoring of model effectiveness are independently requirements.
The Groups largest exposures are regularly reported to reviewed and approved in accordance with the governance framework set the Board Risk Committee and reported in accordance with regulatory by the Group Model Governance Committee.
Additional mitigation for Commercial customers Robust country risk management: The Board sets a broad maximum Individual credit assessment and independent sanction of customer country risk appetite.
Within this, the Executive Credit Approval and bank limits: With the exception of small exposures to SME customers Committee approves the Group country risk framework and sovereign where relationship managers have limited delegated sanctioning authority, limits on an annual basis.
Risk based country appetite for all countries is credit risk in commercial customer portfolios is subject to sanction set within the independent Risk division, taking into account economic, by the independent Risk division, which considers the strengths and financial, political and social factors as well as the approved business and weaknesses of individual transactions, the balance of risk and reward, and strategic plans of the Group.
how credit risk aligns to the Groups risk appetite.
Exposure to individual Specialist expertise: Credit quality is managed and controlled by a counterparties, groups of counterparties or customer risk segments is number of specialist units within the business and Risk division providing, controlled through a tiered hierarchy of delegated sanctioning authorities for example: intensive management and control see overleaf for Intensive and limit guidelines.
Approval requirements for each decision are based on care of customers in financial difficulty : security perfection, maintenance a number of factors including, but not limited to, the transaction amount, and retention: expertise in documentation for lending and associated the customers aggregate facilities, credit policy, risk appetite, credit risk products: sector specific expertise: and legal services applicable to the ratings and the nature and term of the risk.
The Groups credit risk appetite particular market place and product range offered by the business.
criteria for counterparty and customer underwriting is generally the same as that for assets intended to be held to maturity.
All hard underwriting Stress testing and scenario analysis: The Groups credit portfolios are also must be sanctioned via credit limits and a pre-approved credit matrix may subjected to regular stress testing, with stress scenario assessments run at be used for best efforts underwriting.
various levels of the organisation.
Exercises focused on individual divisions and portfolios are performed in addition to the Group led and regulatory Counterparty credit limits: Limits are set against all types of exposure in stress tests.
For further information on stress testing process, methodology a counterparty name, in accordance with an agreed methodology for each and governance, see page 111. exposure type.
This includes credit risk exposure on individual derivatives and securities financing transactions, which incorporates potential future Frequent and robust credit risk oversight and assurance: Undertaken exposures from market movements against agreed confidence intervals.
by independent credit risk oversight functions operating within Retail Aggregate facility levels by counterparty are set and limit breaches are Credit Risk and Commercial Banking Risk which are part of the Groups subject to escalation procedures.
Their primary objective is to provide reasonable and independent oversight that credit risk is being managed with Daily settlement limits: Settlement risk arises in any situation where a payment appropriate and effective controls.
in cash, securities or equities is made in the expectation of a corresponding receipt in cash, securities or equities.
Daily settlement limits are established for Group Internal Audit provides assurance to the Board Audit Committee each relevant counterparty to cover the aggregate of allsettlement risk arising on the effectiveness of credit risk management controls across the Groups from the Groups market transactions on any single day.
The team carries out independent risk based control audits across the full credit lifecycle.
Collateral Additional mitigation for Retail customers The principal collateral types acceptable for loans and advances, contingent liabilities and derivatives with commercial and bank The Group uses a variety of lending criteria when assessing applications counterparties and customers are: for mortgages and unsecured lending.
The general approval process uses credit acceptance scorecards and involves a review of an applicants residential and commercial properties: previous credit history using internal data and information held by Credit charges over business assets such as premises, inventory and accounts Reference Agencies CRA.
receivable: The Group also assesses the affordability and sustainability of lending for financial instruments such as debt securities: each borrower: for secured lending this includes use of an appropriate vehicles: stressed interest rate scenario.
Affordability assessments are compliant cash: and withrelevant regulatory conduct guidelines.
The Group takes reasonable guarantees received from third parties.
steps to validate information used in the assessment of a customers income and expenditure.
The Group maintains appetite guidelines on the acceptability of specific classes of collateral.
In addition, the Group has in place quantitative limits such as product maximum limits, the level of borrowing to income and the ratio of Collateral held as security for financial assets other than loans and borrowing to collateral.
Some of these limits relate to internal approval advances is determined by the nature of the underlying exposure.
Debt levels and others are policy limits above which the Group will reject securities, including treasury and other bills, are generally unsecured, with borrowing applications.
The Group also applies certain criteria that are the exception of asset-backed securities and similar instruments such applicable to specific products such as for applications for a mortgage on as covered bonds, which are secured by portfolios of financial assets.
a property that is to be let by the applicant.
Collateral is generally not held against loans and advances to financial institutions, however securities are held as part of reverse repurchase or For UK Secured, the Groups policy permits owner occupier applications with a loan to value LTV maximum of 95 per cent.
Applications with an LTV securities borrowing transactions or where a collateral agreement has been entered into under a master netting agreement.
Derivative transactions above 90 per cent are subject to enhanced underwriting criteria, including higher scorecard cut-offs.
with financial counterparties are typically collateralised under a Credit Support Annex CSA in conjunction with the International Swaps and Buy-to-let mortgages are limited to a maximum loan size of 1,000,000 and Derivatives Association ISDA Master Agreement.
Derivative transactions 75 per cent LTV.
Buy-to-let applications must pass a minimum rental cover with non-financial customers are not usually supported by a CSA.
ratio of 125 per cent under stressed interest rates, after applicable tax liabilities.
Since September 2017, Portfolio Landlords customers with four No collateral is held in respect of retail credit card or unsecured personal lending.
For non-mortgage retail lending to small businesses, collateral or more mortgaged buy-to-let properties have been subject to additional controls including evaluation of overall portfolio resilience.
may include second charges over residential property and the assignment of life cover.
The Groups policy is to reject any application for a lending product Commercial lending decisions must be based on an obligors ability to where a customer is registered as bankrupt or insolvent, or has a recent County Court Judgment or financial default registered at a CRA used by repay from normal business operations rather than reliance on the disposal of any security provided.
The requirement for collateral and the type to the Group above fide minimis thresholds.
In addition, the Group rejects applicants where total unsecured debt, debt-to-income ratios, or other be taken at origination will be based upon the nature of the transaction and the credit quality, size and structure of the borrower.
For non-retail indicators of financial difficulty exceed policy limits.
exposures, the Group will often require the collateral to include a first charge over land and buildings owned and occupied by the business, a 118 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Risk management continued debenture over one or more of the assets of a company or limited liability the Group, including reports on significant credit exposures, which are partnership, personal guarantees, limited in amount, from the directors of a presented to the divisional risk committees, Group Risk Committee and company or limited liability partnership and key man insurance.
The Group the Board Risk Committee.
maintains policies setting out acceptable collateral bases for valuation, The performance of all rating models is monitored on a regular basis, in maximum LTV ratios and other criteria to be considered when reviewing order to ensure that they provide appropriate risk differentiation capability, an application.
Other than for project finance, object finance and income the generated ratings remain as accurate and robust as practical, and the producing real estate where charges over the subject assets are required, models assign appropriate risk estimates to grades and pools.
All models the provision of collateral will not determine the outcome of an application.
are monitored against a series of agreed key performance indicators.
In Notwithstanding this, the fundamental business proposition must evidence the event that the monitoring identifies material exceptions or deviations the ability of the business to generate funds from normal business sources from expected outcomes, these will be escalated in accordance with the to repay a customer or counterpartys financial commitment.
governance framework set by the Group Model Governance Committee.
The extent to which collateral values are actively managed will depend Intensive care of customers in financial difficulty on the credit quality and other circumstances of the obligor and type of underlying transaction.
Although lending decisions are based on expected The Group operates a number of solutions to assist borrowers who are cash flows, any collateral provided may impact the pricing and other terms experiencing financial stress.
The material elements of these solutions of a loan or facility granted.
This will have a financial impact on the amount through which the Group has granted a concession, whether temporarily of net interest income recognised and on internal loss given default or permanently, are set out below.
estimates that contribute to the determination of asset quality and returns.
Retail customers Collateral values are assessed at the time of loan origination.
The Group The Groups aim in offering forbearance and other assistance to customers requires collateral to be realistically valued by an appropriately qualified in financial distress is to benefit both the customer and the Group by source, independent of both the credit decision process and the customer, discharging the Groups regulatory and social responsibilities to support at the time of borrowing.
In certain circumstances, for Retail residential its customers and act in their best long-term interests and by bringing mortgages this may include the use of automated valuation models based customer facilities back into a sustainable position which, for owner on market data, subject to accuracy criteria and LTV limits.
Collateral occupier mortgages, also means keeping customers in their homes.
The values are reviewed on a regular basis which will vary according to the type Group offers a range of tools and assistance to support customers who of lending, collateral involved and account performance.
Such reviews are encountering financial difficulties.
Cases are managed on an individual are undertaken to confirm that the value recorded in the Banks systems basis, with the circumstances of each customer considered separately remains appropriate and whether revaluation is required, considering for and the action taken judged as being affordable and sustainable for the example, account performance, market conditions and any information customer.
Operationally, the provision and review of such assistance is available that may indicate that the value of the collateral has materially controlled through the application of an appropriate policy framework, declined.
In such instances, the Group may seek additional collateral.
controls around the execution of policy, regular review of the different For Retail, the Group adjusts open market values to take account of the treatments to confirm that they remain appropriate, monitoring of costs of realisation and any discount associated with the realisation of the customers performance and the level of payments received, and collateral when estimating credit losses.
management visibility of the nature and extent of assistance provided and The Group considers risk concentrations by collateral providers and the associated risk.
collateral type, as appropriate, with a view to ensuring that any potential Assistance is provided through trained colleagues in branches and undue concentrations of risk are identified and suitably managed by dedicated telephony units, and via online guidance material.
For those changes to strategy, policy and or business plans.
customers requiring more intensive help, assistance is provided through The Group seeks to avoid correlation or wrong way risk where possible.
dedicated support units where tailored repayment programmes can be Under repurchase repo policy, the issuer of the collateral and the repo agreed.
Customers are actively supported and referred to free money counterparty should be neither the same nor connected.
The same rule advice agencies when they have multiple credit facilities, including those applies for derivatives.
The Risk division has the necessary discretion at other lenders that require restructuring.
Within the collections and to extend this rule to other cases where there is significant correlation.
recoveries functions, the sharing of best practice and alignment of policies Countries with a rating equivalent to AAand above may be considered across the Group has helped to drive more effective customer outcomes to have no adverse correlation between the counterparty domiciled in the and achieve operational efficiencies.
country and that country of risk issuer of securities.
The specific tools available to assist customers vary by product and the Refer to note 51 on page 240 for further information on collateral.
In defining the treatments offered to customers who have experienced financial distress, the Group distinguishes between the Master netting agreements following categories: It is credit policy that a Group approved master netting agreement must Reduced payment arrangements: a temporary arrangement for be used for all derivative and traded property transactions and must be customers in financial distress where arrears accrue at the contractual in place prior to trading.
Any exceptions must be approved by the credit payment, for example short-term arrangements to pay.
Although master netting agreements do not generally result Term extensions: a permanent account change for customers in financial in an offset of balance sheet assets and liabilities for accounting purposes, as transactions are usually settled on a gross basis, within relevant distress where the overall term of the mortgage is extended, resulting in a lower contractual monthly payment.
jurisdictions and for appropriate counterparty types they do reduce the credit risk to the extent that, if an event of default occurs, all trades with the Repair: a permanent account change used to repair a customers counterparty may be terminated and settled on a net basis.
The Groups position when they have emerged from financial difficulty, for example overall exposure to credit risk on derivative instruments subject to master capitalisation of arrears.
netting agreements can change substantially within a short period, since Forbearance identification, classification and measurement this is the net position of all trades under the master netting agreement.
The Group classifies Retail accounts as forborne at the time a customer Other credit risk transfers in financial difficulty is granted a concession.
Accounts are classified as forborne only for the period of time which the exposure is known to be, or The Group also undertakes asset sales, credit derivative based transactions may still be, in financial difficulty.
Where temporary forbearance is granted, and securitisations as a means of mitigating or reducing credit risk, taking exit criteria are applied to include accounts until they are known to no longer into account the nature of assets and the prevailing market conditions.
Where the treatment involves a permanent change to the contractual basis of the customers account such as a capitalisation of Monitoring arrears or term extension, the Group may classify the balance as forborne In conjunction with Risk division, businesses identify and define portfolios for a period of 24 months, after which no distinction is made between these of credit and related risk exposures and the key benchmarks, behaviours accounts and others where no change has been made.
and characteristics by which those portfolios are managed and monitored Those forborne loans which fall below individual assessment limits for in terms of credit risk exposure.
This entails the production and analysis of impairment are grouped with other assets of similar characteristics and regular portfolio monitoring reports for review by senior management.
Risk assessed collectively in accordance with the Group impairment policy division in turn produces an aggregated review of credit risk throughout Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 119 detailed in note 2 H on page 176.
The Groups approach is to ensure A detailed assessment is undertaken for cases in BSU to assist in that provisioning models, supported by management judgement, reducing and minimising risk exposure and to also highlight potential appropriately reflect the underlying loss risk of exposures.
A range of information is required to fully appraise performance and output of models are monitored and challenged on and understand the customers business and cashflow and therefore anongoing basis, in line with the Groups model governance policies.
The Group measures the success of a forbearance scheme for secured This may involve the Group, in addition to using its own internal sector customers based upon the proportion of customers performing less than experts, engaging professional advisers to perform asset valuations, or equal to three months in arrears over the 24 months following the exit strategic reviews and where applicable, independent business reviews.
For temporary treatments, 80.7 per cent assessment may also involve: of customers accepting reduced payment arrangements are performing.
critically assessing a customers ability to effectively manage the business For permanent treatments, 83.4 per cent of customers who have accepted in a distressed situation where a turnaround needs to be delivered: capitalisations of arrears and 84.3 per cent of customers who have analysis of market sector factors, i. e. products, customers, suppliers, accepted term extensions are performing.
pricing and margin issues: Customers receiving support from UK government performance review of operational areas that should be considered sponsored programmes in terms of current effectiveness and efficiency and scope forimprovements: To assist customers in financial distress, the Group also participates in UK government sponsored programmes for households the most significant financial analysis to model plans and factor in potential sensitivities, of which is the Income Support for Mortgage Interest SMI which provides vulnerabilities and upsides: and certain defined categories of customers access to a benefit scheme, determining the most appropriate corporate and capital structure paid for by the government, which covers all or part of the interest on the suitable for the work out strategy concerned.
There are two primary categories: The above assessment, monitoring and control processes continue Customers claiming Jobseeker's Allowance, Income Support, Universal throughout the period the case is managed within the BSU.
All the Credit or Employment and Support Allowance benefits: Qualifying analysis performed around cash flows is used to determine appropriate customers are able to claim for mortgage interest at 2.61 per cent impairment provisions.
There is a two year time limit on The level of Commercial Banking BSU gross loans and advances to Jobseeker's Allowance claims that started getting SMI benefit after customers reduced from 3.4 billion to 2.6 billion between 31 December 5January 2009.
There is no time limit for Income Support, Universal 2016 and 31December 2017.
The net reduction of 0.8 billion in BSU Credit or Employment and Support Allowance customer claims.
managed lending in Commercial Banking was driven by returns to Pension Credit customers:Qualifying customers are able to claim for mainstream, disposals, write-offs and repayments.
mortgage interest at 2.61 per cent on up to 100,000 of the mortgage and there is no time limit as to how long they can claim.
The Groups treatment of loan renegotiations is included in the impairment policy in note 2 H on page 176 Income statement information set out in For both categories, all decisions regarding an individuals eligibility and the credit risk tables is on an underlying basis see page 43. any amounts payable under the scheme rest solely with the government.
Payments are made directly to the Group by the Department of Work and Forbearance Pensions.
The Group estimates that customers representing approximately A key factor in determining whether the Group treats a commercial 1.6 billion of its mortgage exposures are receiving this benefit, including customer as forborne is the granting of a concession which is outside those who are also receiving other treatments for financial difficulty.
the Groups current risk appetite to a borrower who experiences, or is believed to be about to experience, financial difficulty.
Where a concession Commercial customers is granted to a customer that is not in financial difficulty or the risk profile Early identification, control and monitoring are key to supporting is considered within the Groups current risk appetite, the concession the customer and protecting the Group.
With the exception of small would not be considered to be an act of forbearance.
The Group does not exposures in SME all non-retail exposures in the Commercial Banking believe forbearance reporting is appropriate for derivatives, available for and Run-off divisions are reviewed at least annually and more frequently sale assets and the trading book where assets are marked to market daily.
where required by the independent Risk division.
As part of the Groups The Group recognises that forbearance alone is not necessarily an established credit risk classification system, every exposure in the good indicator of impaired status, but it is a trigger for the review of the book is categorised as either good or watchlist.
The term watchlist customers credit profile.
If there is any concern over the future cash flows refers to cases which require closer monitoring on the good book and are and or the Group incurring a loss, then forborne loans will be classified as split between special mention and special review the latter being the impaired in accordance with the Groups impairment policy.
All impaired more serious of the two.
This complements the Groups risk rating tools loans, including recoveries portfolios, are currently reported as forborne.
and is designed to identify and highlight portfolio levels of asset quality as well as individual problem credits.
All watchlist names are reviewed by Recovery can sometimes be through improvement in market or economic the business and Risk division regularly, and the classification is updated conditions, or the customer may benefit from access to alternative sources if required.
This process seeks to ensure that relationship managers act of liquidity, such as an equity injection.
These can be especially relevant in promptly to identify, and highlight to senior management, those customers real estate or other asset backed transactions where a fire sale of assets in a who have greater potential to become higher risk in the future.
weak market may be unattractive.
Those customers deemed higher risk where there is cause for concern over Depending on circumstances and when operated within robust future repayment capability or where there is a risk of the asset becoming parameters and controls, the Group believes forbearance can help impaired will be transferred to the BSU at an early stage.
The decision support the customer in the short to medium-term.
The Group expects to transfer rests with the Credit teams and not the relationship team.
On to have unimpaired forborne assets within its portfolios, where default transfer, the BSU will take over the credit responsibility for the customer has been avoided, or when no longer considered impaired, although the relationship whilst the servicing responsibility remains with the original majority of these cases will be managed in the BSU, where more intensive relationship manager.
The over-arching aim of the BSU is to provide management and monitoring is available.
support and work consensually with each customer to try and resolve the Unimpaired forborne assets are included in calculating the overall issues, restore the business to a financially viable position and thereby collective unidentified impairment provision, which uses the historical bring about a business turnaround.
This may involve a combination of observed default rate and loss emergence period of the relevant portfolio restructuring, work out strategies and other types of forbearance.
as a whole as part of its calculation.
With the exception of small exposures 50,000 in SME, BSU case officers Whilst the material portfolios have been reviewed for forbearance, some manage stressed and doubtful assets in Commercial Banking and are part of non-retail loans and advances in the Commercial Banking and Run-off the independent Risk division.
They are highly experienced and operate in divisions have not been reviewed on the basis that the level of unimpaired a closely controlled and monitored environment, including regular oversight forbearance is relatively immaterial, or because the concept of forbearance and close scrutiny by senior management.
Distressed run-off assets are is not relevant.
These include, but are not limited to, Lloyds Bank managed to the same standards by Client Asset Management CAM.
Commercial Finance Ltd and The Agricultural Mortgage Corporation Plc.
120 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Risk management continued Types of forbearance Notwithstanding this, the overriding requirement for exit from forbearance in all cases is that the customer is not impaired and the reason for the The Groups strategy and offer of forbearance is largely dependent on forbearance event is no longer present.
Early identification, control and monitoring are key to supporting the customer and protecting the Group.
Upon exit from forbearance the customer may be returned to the Concessions are often provided to help the customer with their daytoday mainstream good classification.
It is important to note that such a decision liquidity and working capital.
A number of options are available to the can be made only by the independent Risk division.
Group where a customer is facing financial difficulty and each case is treated depending on its own specific circumstances.
The Group credit risk portfolio in 2017 For commercial customers, the Group currently looks at forbearance Overview concessions including changes to: Asset quality remains strong with portfolios continuing to benefit from Contractual payment terms for example loan maturity extensions, or the Groups proactive approach to risk management, continued low changes to capital and or interest servicing arrangements, including interest rates and a resilient UK economic environment.
capital repayment holidays or conversion to interest only terms : and Gross impairment charges remain broadly flat, including the acquisition Nonpayment contractual terms for example covenant amendments or of MBNA.
waivers where the concession enables default to be avoided.
Gross asset quality ratio excluding releases and writebacks was stable at 28 basis points.
The main types of forbearance concessions to commercial customers in or facing financial difficulty are set out below: The net impairment charge increased to 795 million in 2017 compared to 645 million in 2016, reflecting expected lower provision releases and Covenants: This includes temporary and permanent waivers, amendment writebacks and the acquisition of MBNA 118 million.
The net asset or resetting of nonpayment contractual covenants including LTV and quality ratio for 2017 was 18 basis points 2016: 15 basis points.
The granting of this type of concession in itself would not The Group expects an asset quality ratio of around 35 basis points through result in the loan being classified as impaired and the customer is kept the cycle and less than 30 basis points through the plan period and in 2018. under review in the event that further forbearance is necessary: Impaired loans as a percentage of closing loans and advances reduced Extensions and alterations: This includes extension and or alteration of to1.6 per cent 31 December 2016: 1.8 per cent with impaired loans down repayment terms to a level outside of market or the Groups risk appetite 0.7billion to 7.8 billion 31 December 2016: 8.5 billion, with reductions due to the customers inability to make existing contractual repayment across Retail, Commercial Banking and Runoff divisions.
As at 31December terms: amendments to an interest rate to a level considered outside Retail impaired loans were 104 million lower at 4,951 million, despite of market or the Groups risk appetite, or other amendments such as including 151million relating to the acquisition of MBNA.
Commercial changes to capital and or interest servicing arrangements including Banking impaired loans reduced by 270 million to1,927million, driven capital repayment holidays or conversion to interest only terms: and by impaired loan repayments and reductions, partly offset by a large newly Multiple type of forbearance a combination of the above two.
Forbearance identification, classification and measurement Low risk culture and prudent risk appetite All nonretail loans and advances on the watchlist are further categorised The Group continues to take a prudent approach to credit risk, with depending on the current and expected credit risk attaching to the robust credit quality and affordability controls at origination and a customer and the transaction.
All watchlist names are reviewed by the prudent through the cycle credit risk appetite.
The Groups portfolios are business and independent Risk function regularly and the classification is well positioned against an uncertain economic outlook and potential updated if required.
Any event that causes concern over future payments is likely to result The Group continues to grow lending to key segments while maintaining in the customer being assessed for impairment and, if required, an prudent credit criteria.
If impairment is identified, the customer The Groups effective risk management ensures early identification and is immediately transferred to BSU if not already managed there and the management of customers and counterparties who may be showing lending will be treated as impaired.
All of a customers impaired loans are treated as forborne as they are Sector concentrations within the lending portfolios are closely monitored considered to have been or will be granted some form of forbearance.
and controlled, with mitigating actions taken where appropriate.
Sector Most impaired loans and advances exist only in the BSU within Commercial and product caps limit exposure to certain higher risk and vulnerable Banking and Runoff divisions.
In particular: The average indexed LTV of the UK Retail mortgage portfolio A portfolio approach is taken for SME customers with exposures below improved to 43.6per cent 31 December 2016: 44.0 per cent and 1million managed in BSU.
All customers with exposures below 1 million the percentage of Secured loans and advances with an indexed LTV are reported as forborne whilst they are managed by SME BSU whether greater than 100 per cent was 0.6 per cent 31 December 2016: 0.7 per impaired or unimpaired.
The average LTV for new UK Retail mortgages written in 2017 was All reviews performed in the good book, BSU within Commercial Banking 63.0 per cent 31 December 2016: 64.4per cent.
or in the Runoff division include analysis of latest financial information, The value of UK Retail mortgage lending with an indexed LTV of a consideration of the market and sector the customer operates in, greater than 80 per cent fell to 30,680 million 31December 2016: performance against plan and revised terms and conditions granted as 32,395million.
part of any forbearance concession that may have been provided.
Total UK Direct Real Estate gross lending across the Group was Exit from forbearance 17.9billion at 31 December 2017 31 December 2016: 19.9 billion Where forbearance has been granted a customer will remain treated and and includes Commercial Banking lending of 17.3 billion, and recorded as forborne until the customer evidences acceptable performance 0.2billion within Retail Business Banking within Retail.
The Groups over a period of time.
This period will depend on a number of factors such legacy runoff direct real estate portfolio has continued to fall and was as whether the customer is trading in line with its revised plan, it is operating 0.4 billion at 31 December 2017. within the new terms and conditions including observation to revised Runoff net external assets stood at 9.1 billion at 31 December covenants and contractual payments, its financial performance is stable or 2017, down from 11.3 billion at 31 December 2016.
The portfolio improving and there are no undue concerns over its future performance.
As represents only 1.8 per cent of the overall Groups loans and advances a minimum, this cure period is currently expected to be at least 12 months 31December 2016: 2.1 per cent.
Customers curing are managed according to their overriding credit risk classification categorisation: this could be in BSU, Runoff or in the mainstream good book.
The exception to this 12 month minimum period is where a permanent structural cure is made for example, an injection of new collateral security or a partial repayment of debt to restore an LTV to within a covenant.
In this case, the customer may exit forbearance once the permanent cure has been made.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 121 Table 1.4: Group impairment charge Debtsecurities Available Loansand classifiedasfor-sale Other advancesto loans and financial credit risk customers receivables assets provisions Total 2016 2017 m m m m m m Retail 717 717 654 Commercial Banking 117 3 5 115 17 Insurance and Wealth Run-off 31 6 4 41 26 Central items 1 3 4 Total impairment charge 804 6 6 9 795 645 Asset quality ratio 0.18% 0.15% Gross asset quality ratio 0.28% 0.28% 1 Restated.
Table 1.5: Movement in gross impaired loans 2017 Commercial Insurance 2016 Retail Banking andWealth Run-off Total Total m m m m m m 1 At 1 January 5,055 2,197 26 1,217 8,495 9,590 Classified as impaired during the year 2,342 637 9 101 3,089 3,154 Transferred to not impaired during the year 783 132 8 67 990 1,047 Repayments 711 601 2 163 1,477 1,327 Amounts written off 1,073 136 2 133 1,340 1,472 Impact of disposal of business and asset sales 8 20 28 492 Impact of acquisition of businesses 138 138 Exchange and other movements 9 38 1 46 89 At 31 December 4,951 1,927 28 935 7,841 8,495 1 Restated.
122 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Risk management continued Table 1.6: Group impaired loans and provisions Impairment Impaired provisions Loansand loansasa% as a%of advancesto Impaired ofclosing Impairment impaired 1 2 customers loans advances provisions loans m m % m % At 31 December 2017 Retail 341,705 4,951 1.4 2,147 46.1 Commercial Banking 100,812 1,927 1.9 830 43.1 Insurance and Wealth 818 28 3.4 9 32.1 Run-off 8,533 935 11.0 456 48.8 3 Reverse repos and other items 23,886 Total gross lending 475,754 7,841 1.6 3,442 45.6 Impairment provisions 3,442 4 Fair value adjustments 186 Total Group 472,498 5 At 31 December 2016 Retail 332,953 5,055 1.5 2,011 42.9 Commercial Banking 102,398 2,197 2.1 828 37.7 Insurance and Wealth 812 26 3.2 11 42.3 Run-off 10,259 1,217 11.9 682 56.0 3 Reverse repos and other items 15,249 Total gross lending 461,671 8,495 1.8 3,532 43.4 Impairment provisions 3,532 4 Fair value adjustments 181 Total Group 457,958 1 Impairment provisions include collective unidentified impairment provisions.
2 Impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans are calculated excluding loans in recoveries in Retail 31 December 2017: 291 million: 31 December 2016: 365 million.
3 Includes 6.9 billion December 2016: 6.7 billion of lower risk loans sold by Commercial Banking and Retail to Insurance and Wealth to back annuitant liabilities.
4 The Group made adjustments to reflect the HBOS and MBNA loans and advances at fair value on acquisition.
At 31 December 2017, the remaining fair value adjustment was 186 million comprising a positive adjustment of 270 million in respect of the MBNA assets and a negative adjustment of 84 million in respect of the HBOS assets.
The fair value unwind in respect of impairment losses incurred was 85 million for the year ended 31 December 2017 31 December 2016: 70 million.
The fair value adjustment in respect of loans and advances is expected to continue to decrease in future years and will reduce to zero over time.
Table 1.7: Derivative credit risk exposures 2017 2016 Tradedoverthecounter Tradedoverthecounter Tradedon Settled Notsettled Tradedon Settled Notsettled recognised by central by central recognised bycentral by central exchanges counterparties counterparties Total exchanges counterparties counterparties Total m m m m m m m m Notional balances Foreign exchange 19 278,833 278,852 254 369,368 369,622 Interest rate 109,492 2,903,481 324,834 3,337,807 167,399 3,023,742 423,709 3,614,850 Equity and other 15,455 9,695 25,150 32,172 11,046 43,218 Credit 4,568 4,568 8,098 8,098 Total 124,947 2,903,500 617,930 3,646,377 199,571 3,023,996 812,221 4,035,788 Fair values Assets 280 25,155 262 35,563 Liabilities 592 25,454 1 34,506 Net asset 312 299 261 1,057 The total notional principal amount of interest rate, exchange rate, credit derivative and equity and other contracts outstanding at 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2016 is shown in the table above.
The notional principal amount does not, however, represent the Groups credit risk exposure, which is limited to the current cost of replacing contracts with a positive value to the Group.
Such amounts are reflected in note 51 on page 240.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 123 Retail Asset quality remains strong across all portfolios, with stable new business quality and flow of loans entering arrears.
The impairment charge increased by 63 million to 717 million.
Excluding MBNA, impairments were 55 million lower driven by a net release on the Secured portfolio, due to reduced impaired loans and rising house prices, which was offset by higher impairment charges on the Loans and UK Motor Finance portfolios.
Impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans increased to 46.1 per cent from 42.9 per cent at the end of 2016.
Table 1.8: Retail impairment charge 2017 2016 Change m m % Secured 15 104 Credit cards 254 136 87 Loans 111 70 59 Overdrafts 227 241 6 UK Motor Finance 111 75 48 Retail Business Banking 27 27 Europe 2 1 Total impairment charge 717 654 10 Asset quality ratio 0.21% 0.20% 1bp 1 Restated.
2 Impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans are calculated excluding loans in recoveries for Credit cards 31December 2017: 91million: 31December 2016: 115million, Loans 31December 2017: 120million: 31December 2016: 164million, Overdrafts 31December 2017: 66million: 31December 2016: 70million and Retail Business Banking 31December 2017: 14million: 31December 2016: 16million.
124 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Risk management continued Secured Total loans and advances reduced by 0.8 per cent to 292,187 million 31 December 2016: 294,503 million.
The closed Specialist portfolio has continued to run-off, reducing by 10.9 per cent to 15,668 million.
New business quality remained stable and early arrears have continued to reduce.
The value of mortgages greater than three months in arrears excluding repossessions reduced to 5,437 million at 31 December 2017 31 December 2016: 6,033 million.
Impaired loans decreased by 218 million to 3,886 million 31 December 2016: 4,104 million, and impaired loans as a percentage of closing advances reduced to 1.3 per cent 31 December 2016: 1.4 per cent.
UK house prices increased by 2.7 per cent over 2017 on a quarterly non-seasonally adjusted basis.
The average indexed LTV of the portfolio improved to 43.6 per cent 31 December 2016: 44.0 per cent.
The value of lending with an indexed LTV of greater than 80 per cent fell to 30,680million 31 December 2016: 32,395million.
The percentage of loans and advances with an indexed LTV in excess of 100 per cent fell to 0.6 per cent 31 December 2016: 0.7 per cent.
The average LTV for new mortgages written in 2017 was 63.0 per cent 31 December 2016: 64.4 per cent.
Net impairment release of 15 million in 2017 2016: 104 million charge reflects an improvement in the level of impaired loans in the portfolio.
Impairment provisions as a percentage of impaired loans increased to 37.1 per cent 31 December 2016: 36.6 per cent, reflecting the continued prudent approach to provisioning.
The stock of repossessions increased to 777 cases at 31December 2017 compared to 678 cases at 31December 2016.
Interest only mortgages The Group provides interest only mortgages to owner occupier mortgage customers whereby only payments of interest are made for the term of the mortgage with the customer responsible for repaying the principal outstanding at the end of the loan term.
At 31 December 2017, owner occupier interest only balances as a proportion of total owner occupier balances had reduced to 29.2 per cent 31 December 2016: 31.8 per cent.
The average indexed loan to value improved to 41.7 per cent 31 December 2016: 42.6 per cent.
For existing interest only mortgages, a contact strategy is in place throughout the term of the mortgage to ensure that customers are aware of their obligations to repay the principal upon maturity of the loan.
Treatment strategies are in place to help customers anticipate and plan for repayment of capital at maturity and support those who may have difficulty in repaying the principal amount.
A dedicated specialist team supports customers who have passed their contractual maturity date and are unable to fully repay the principal.
A range of treatments are offered such as full or part conversion to capital repayment, and extension of term to match the maturity dates of any associated repayment vehicles.
126 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Risk management continued Table 1.13: Analysis of owner occupier interest only mortgages 1 2017 2016 Interest only balances m 69,703 76,229 Of which, impaired % 3.0 3.0 Average loan to value % 41.7 42.6 Maturity profile m : Due 1,093 1,028 1 year 2,672 2,499 2-5 years 10,227 10,287 6-10 years 18,026 17,368 11 years 37,685 45,047 2 Past term interest only balances m 1,553 1,365 Of which, impaired % 13.1 11.7 Average loan to value % 33.4 31.5 Negative equity % 2.1 1.6 1 2016 values have been restated to include Scottish Widows Bank Mortgages and certain other interest only balances of 3,578 million.
2 Balances where all interest only elements have moved past term.
Some may subsequently have had a term extension, so are no longer classed as due.
Credit cards UK Motor Finance Loans and advances increased by 84.2 per cent to 18,134 million Loans and advances increased by 2,183 million to 13,738 million 31December 2016: 9,843 million, of which 8,003 million relates to 31December 2016: 11,555 million, with 49.7 per cent of growth MBNA.
The MBNA portfolio is performing broadly in line with both the from Jaguar Land Rover business.
The book continues to benefit from Groups expectations and the existing credit card portfolio.
conservative residual values and prudent provisioning with stable credit quality and flows into arrears.
Impaired loans increased by 106 million to 413 million 31 December 2016: 307 million, of which 151 million related to MBNA.
Impaired Impaired loans increased by 14 million to 134 million 31 December loans as a percentage of closing loans and advances improved to 2016: 120 million, reflecting growth in the portfolio.
Impaired loans as a 2.3 per cent 31 December 2016: 3.1 per cent, reflecting good credit percentage of closing loans and advances were stable at 1.0 per cent.
performance and the continued sale of debt in recoveries.
The impairment charge increased by 36 million to 111 million The impairment charge increased to 254 million 2016: 136 million, 2016:75 million, driven by portfolio growth and increased provisions driven by the acquisition of MBNA 118 million.
for residual value risks reflecting a more conservative outlook on used carprices.
Loans Loans and advances increased by 3.1 per cent to 8,010 million Forborne loans 31December 2016: 7,767 million.
Forborne loans and advances on the principal Retail portfolios reduced Impaired loans decreased by 23 million to 254 million 31 December by 601 million in 2017 to 1,951 million, driven by improvements on the 2016: 277 million, largely due to the sale of debt in recoveries.
As a percentage of loans and advances, forborne loans loans as a percentage of closing loans and advances improved to and advances on these portfolios improved to 0.6 per cent 31 December 3.2percent 31 December 2016: 3.6 per cent.
The impairment charge increased to 111 million 2016: 70 million, Impairment provisions as a percentage of loans and advances that are reflecting a one-off change relating to policy alignment across brands for forborne increased to 13.0 per cent 31 December 2016: 9.6percent.
franchised customers, and reducing cash flows due to previous sales of Secured forborne loans and advances reduced by 668 million in 2017 debt in recoveries.
to 1,428 million, primarily due to a reduction in recapitalisations with Overdrafts historically higher levels of cases exiting the two year probation period Loans and advances decreased to 1,595 million 31 December 2016: anda reduction in the level of reduced payment arrangements.
Within the other portfolios, movements were seen in the level of forborne Impaired loans increased by 18 million to 197 million 31 December loans and advances in relation to one off changes for 2017.
This included 2016: 179 million, and impaired loans as a percentage of closing the acquisition of MBNA in the Credit cards portfolio with forborne loans advances increased to 12.4 per cent 31 December 2016: 9.2 percent, and advances of 112 million and impaired forborne loans and advances reflecting a one-off impact relating to changes in overdraft fees of90 million, and improved customer views and the reclassification andcharges.
ofsome treatments across the Loans and UK Motor Finance portfolios.
The impairment charge decreased by 5.8 per cent to 227 million 2016:241 million, largely due to increased sale of debt in recoveries and improved underlying performance.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 127 1 Table 1.14: UK Retail forborne loans and advances audited Total loans Total forborne loans Impairment provisions as a % and advances and advances of loans and advances which are forborne which are impaired which are forborne At Dec At Dec At Dec At Dec At Dec At Dec 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m % % Temporary reduced payment arrangements 249 428 76 101 5.7 4.9 Permanent term extensions and repair 1,179 1,668 61 116 4.0 4.7 Secured 1,428 2,096 137 217 4.3 4.7 Credit cards 295 212 190 119 36.0 29.0 2 Loans 86 49 45 46 27.9 44.4 Overdrafts 108 78 94 61 47.0 38.0 2 UK Motor Finance 34 117 19 62 36.6 27.0 Total 1,951 2,552 485 505 13.0 9.6 1 Includes temporary treatments where the customer is currently benefiting from the change or the treatment has ended within the last three months for Secured, and six months for other portfolios.
Permanent changes, such as refinancing or recapitalisation which commenced during the last 24 months, are also included.
2 Figures for 2017 include improved customer views and the reclassification of some treatments.
The movements in Retail forborne loans and advances during the year are as follows: Table 1.15: Movement in UK Retail forborne loans and advances audited 2017 Credit UK Motor Secured cards Loans Overdrafts Finance Total m m m m m m At 1 January 2,096 212 49 78 117 2,552 Classified as forborne during the year 744 159 44 85 24 1,056 Written-off sold 13 100 18 32 20 183 Exit from forbearance 1,217 41 3 19 15 1,295 Redeemed or repaid 162 15 6 8 191 1 Exchange and other movements 20 80 20 4 64 12 At 31 December 1,428 295 86 108 34 1,951 2016 Credit UK Motor Secured cards Loans Overdrafts Finance Total m m m m m m At 1 January 3,102 225 60 87 100 3,574 Classified as forborne during the year 975 110 34 50 82 1,251 Written-off sold 12 46 24 31 16 129 Exit from forbearance 1,741 43 4 24 22 1,834 Redeemed or repaid 200 9 6 16 231 Exchange and other movements 28 25 11 4 11 79 At 31 December 2,096 212 49 78 117 2,552 1 Exchange and other movements for 2017 reflects the acquisition of MBNA within Credit cards, and improved customer views and the reclassification of some treatments across the Loansand UK Motor Finance portfolios.
128 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Risk management continued Commercial Banking Impairment provisions were broadly flat at 830 million at 31 December 2017 31 December 2016: 828 million and includes collective unidentified Net impairment charge was 115 million in 2017 2016: 17 million with impairment provisions of 183 million 31 December 2016: 183 million.
the increase due to a lower level of write-backs and provision releases Provisions as a percentage of impaired loans increased from 37.7 per cent rather than a deterioration in the underlying portfolio.
to 43.1 per cent during 2017, driven by a number of isolated cases.
Both 2016 and 2017 included material charges against a single customer An uncertain UK and global economic outlook and uncertainty relating 2016: oil & gas sector, 2017: construction sector, but otherwise gross to EU exit negotiations have the ability to impact the Commercial charges have remained relatively low.
The portfolio continues to benefit from effective risk management, a Internal and external key performance indicators continue to be resilient economic environment and continued low interest rates.
monitored closely to help identify early signs of any deterioration Credit quality of the portfolio and new business remains generally and portfolios remain subject to ongoing risk mitigation actions as goodand the Group is not relaxing risk appetite despite a more appropriate.
Despite the uncertain economic outlook, the portfolios are well Impaired loans reduced by 12 per cent to 1,927 million at 31 December positioned and the Groups through the cycle risk appetite approach is 2017 compared with 2,197 million at 31 December 2016, driven by unchanged.
Monitoring indicates no material deterioration in the credit impaired loan repayments and reductions, partly offset by a large newly quality of our portfolios.
Notwithstanding this, impairments are likely to impaired loan.
Impaired loans as a percentage of closing loans and increase from their historic low levels, driven mainly by lower levels of advances reduced to 1.9 per cent from 2.1 per cent at 31 December 2016. releases and write-backs and an element of credit normalisation.
Table 1.16: Commercial Banking impairment charge 1 2017 2016 Change m m % SME 7 7 Other 108 24 Total impairment charge 115 17 2 Asset quality ratio 0.12% 0.02% 10bp 1 Restated.
2 In respect of loans and advances to customers.
Table 1.17: Commercial Banking impaired loans and provisions Impaired Impairment loansas provisions Loansand a%of asa%of advancesto Impaired closing Impairment impaired 1 customers loans advances provisions loans m m % m % At 31 December 2017 SME 30,480 821 2.7 151 18.4 Other 70,332 1,106 1.6 679 61.4 Total gross lending 100,812 1,927 1.9 830 43.1 Impairment provisions 830 Total 99,982 2 At 31 December 2016 SME 29,959 923 3.1 173 18.7 Other 72,439 1,274 1.8 655 51.4 Total gross lending 102,398 2,197 2.1 828 37.7 Impairment provisions 828 Total 101,570 1 Impairment provisions include collective unidentified impairment provisions.
The commercial real estate business within the Groups Mid Markets Portfolios and Global Corporate portfolio is focused on clients operating in the The SME Banking portfolio continues to grow within prudent credit UK commercial property market ranging in size from medium-sized risk appetite parameters.
As a result of the Groups customer driven private real estate entities up to publicly listed property companies.
The relationship management, net lending has increased 2 per cent in 2017. market for UK real estate has continued to be resilient, with appetite from Portfolio credit quality has remained stable or improved across the a range of investors.
UK real estate continues to offer attractive yields majority of key risk metrics.
compared to other asset classes and the fall in Sterling has boosted The Mid Markets portfolio is domestically focused and reflects the the attractiveness to foreign investors.
Credit quality remains good underlying performance of the UK economy and our prudent credit risk with minimal impairments stressed loans.
Recognising this is a cyclical appetite.
Credit quality has been stable with levels of financial stress and sector, appropriate caps are in place to control exposure and business impairment remaining low.
propositions continue to be written in line with a prudent, through the The Global Corporates business continues to have a predominance of cycle risk appetite with conservative LTVs, strong quality of income and investment grade clients, primarily UK based.
The portfolio remains of proven management teams.
good quality despite the current global economic uncertainty particularly Through clearly defined sector strategies Financial Institutions serves relating to the EU Exit and a softer outlook in a number of sectors, predominantly investment grade counterparties with whom relationships including construction and retail.
are either client focused or held to support the Groups funding, Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 129 liquidity or general hedging requirements.
The portfolio continues to be Commercial Banking UK Direct Real Estate gross lending stood at prudently managed within the Groups conservative risk appetite and 17.3billion at 31December 2017. clearly defined sector strategies.
Approximately 70 per cent of loans and advances to UK Direct Real The Group continues to adopt a conservative stance across the Eurozone Estate relate to commercial real estate with the remainder relating to maintaining close portfolio scrutiny and oversight particularly given the residential real estate.
The portfolio continues to be heavily weighted current macro environment and horizon risks.
towards investment real estate c. 90 per cent over development.
The LTV profile of the UK Direct Real Estate portfolio in Commercial Commercial Banking UK Direct Real Estate LTV analysis Banking continues to improve.
The Group classifies Direct Real Estate as exposure which is directly supported by cash flows from property activities as opposed to trading activities, such as hotels, care homes and housebuilders.
Focus remains on the UK market, on good quality customers, with a proven track record in Real Estate and where cash flows are robust.
2 Predominantly investment grade corporate CRE lending where the Group is relying on the corporate covenant.
3 December 2017 5m exposures include 9.2billion within SME which has an LTV profile broadly similar to the 5m exposures.
Forborne loans Commercial Banking forbearance At 31 December 2017, 2,374 million 31 December 2016: 2,663 million of total loans and advances were forborne of which 1,927 million 31 December 2016: 2,197 million were impaired.
Impairment provisions as a percentage of forborne loans and advances increased from 31.1 per cent at 31 December 2016 to 35.0 per cent at 31 December 2017.
Table 1.19: Commercial Banking forborne loans and advances audited Total loans Impairment provisions as a % and advances of loans and advances which are forborne which are forborne 1 1 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m % % Impaired 1,927 2,197 43.1 37.7 Unimpaired 447 466 Total 2,374 2,663 35.0 31.1 1 Restated.
All Commercial Banking impaired assets are considered forborne.
130 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Risk management continued Impaired loans and advances The movements in Commercial Banking impaired forborne loans and advances were as follows: Table 1.20: Movement in Commercial Banking impaired forborne loans and advances audited 1 2017 2016 m m At 1 January 2,197 2,543 Classified as impaired during the year Exposures 5m 518 547 Exposures 5m 119 124 637 671 Transferred to unimpaired Exposures 5m but still reported as forborne Exposures 5m no longer reported as forborne 51 31 Exposures 5m 81 81 132 112 Written-off 136 311 Asset disposals sales of impaired assets 33 Drawdowns repayments 601 595 Exchange and other movements 38 34 At 31 December 1,927 2,197 1 Restated.
Unimpaired loans and advances Unimpaired forborne loans and advances were 447million at 31December 2017 31December 2016: 466million.
The table below sets out the largest unimpaired forborne loans and advances to Commercial Banking customers exposures over 5million as at 31December 2017 by type of forbearance: 1 Table 1.21: Commercial Banking unimpaired forborne loans and advances audited 31 Dec 31 Dec 2017 2016 m m Type of unimpaired forbearance Exposures 5m Covenants 157 153 Extensions alterations 7 Multiple 21 157 181 Exposures 5m 290 285 Total 447 466 1 Material portfolios only.
1 Table 1.22: Movement in Commercial Banking unimpaired forborne loans and advances 5m audited 2017 2016 m m At 1 January 181 669 Classified as impaired during the year 34 63 Cured no longer forborne 50 413 Classified as forborne during the tear 90 88 Transferred from impaired but still reported as forborne Asset disposal sales Net drawdowns repayments 25 100 Exchange and other movements 5 At 31 December 157 181 1 Balances exclude intra-year movements.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 131 Run-off Table 1.23: Run-off impairment charge 2017 2016 Change m m % Ireland 9 14 36 Corporate real estate and other corporate 13 1 Specialist finance 15 2 Other 4 11 64 Total 41 26 58 Asset quality ratio 0.32% 0.15% 17 bp 1 In respect of loans and advances to customers.
Table 1.24: Run-off impaired loans and provisions Impaired Impairment loansas provisions Loansand a%of asa%of advancesto Impaired closing Impairment impaired customers loans advances provisions loans m m % m % At 31 December 2017 Ireland 4,391 136 3.1 115 84.6 Corporate real estate and other corporate 815 692 84.9 287 41.5 Specialist finance 2,327 23 1.0 29 126.1 Other 1,000 84 8.4 25 29.8 Total gross lending 8,533 935 11.0 456 48.8 Impairment provisions 456 Total 8,077 At 31 December 2016 Ireland 4,498 139 3.1 133 95.7 Corporate real estate and other corporate 1,190 896 75.3 399 44.5 Specialist finance 3,374 99 2.9 111 112.1 Other 1,197 83 6.9 39 47.0 Total gross lending 10,259 1,217 11.9 682 56.0 Impairment provisions 682 Total 9,577 action plans that would be executed in certain scenarios which set out Eurozone exposures governance requirements and responsibilities for the key actions which The following section summarises the Groups direct exposure to Eurozone would be carried out and cover risk areas such as payments, liquidity and countries at 31December 2017.
The exposures comprise on balance sheet capital, communications, suppliers and systems, legal, credit, delivery exposures based on their balance sheet carrying values net of provisions channels and products, employees and the impact on customers.
and off-balance sheet exposures, and are based on the country of domicile Derivative balances are included within exposures to financial institutions of the counterparty unless otherwise indicated.
or corporates, as appropriate, at fair value adjusted for master netting The Group manages its exposures to individual countries through agreements at obligor level and net of cash collateral in line with legal authorised country limits which take into account economic, financial, agreements.
Exposures in respect of reverse repurchase agreements are political and social factors.
In addition, the Group manages its direct risks included on a gross International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS basis to the selected countries by establishing and monitoring risk limits for and are disclosed based on the counterparty rather than the collateral individual banks, financial institutions, corporates and individuals.
repos and stock lending are excluded : reverse repurchase exposures are Identified indirect exposure information, where available, is also taken not, therefore, reduced as a result of collateral held.
Exposures to central into account when setting limits and determining credit risk appetite for clearing counterparties are shown net.
This forms part of the Groups credit analysis For multi-country asset backed securities exposures, the Group has undertaken at least annually for counterparty and sector reviews, with reported exposures based on the largest country exposure.
The country interim updates performed as necessary.
Interim updates would usually be of exposure for asset backed securities is based on the location of the triggered by specific credit events such as rating downgrades, sovereign underlying assets which are predominantly residential mortgages not on the events or other developments such as spread widening.
Examples of domicile of the issuer.
indirect risk which have been identified, where information is available, are: For Insurance, the Group has reported shareholder exposures i. e. where European banking groups with lending and other exposures to certain the Group is directly exposed to risk of loss.
These shareholder exposures Eurozone countries: corporate customers with operations or significant relate to direct investments where the issuer is resident in the named trade in certain European jurisdictions: major travel operators known Eurozone country and the credit rating is consistent with the tight credit to operate in certain Eurozone countries: and international banks with criteria defined under the appropriate investment mandate.
Insurance custodian operations based in certain European locations.
also has interests in funds domiciled in Ireland and Luxembourg where, in The Chief Security Office formerly the Group Financial Stability Forum line with the investment mandates, cash is invested in short term financial monitors developments within the Eurozone, carries out stress testing instruments.
The exposure is analysed on a look through basis to the through detailed scenario analysis and completes appropriate due country of risk of the obligors of the underlying assets rather than treating as diligence on the Groups exposures.
The Group has pre-determined exposure to country of domicile of the fund.
132 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Risk management continued Exposures to selected Eurozone countries The Group continues to have minimal exposure, in aggregate, which could be considered to be direct recourse to the sovereign risk of the selectedcountries.
Table 1.25: Selected Eurozone exposures Sovereign debt Financial Institutions Direct Cashat Asset Sovereign Central backed Insurance 1 1 Expenses Banks Banks Other securities Corporate Personal Assets Total m m m m m m m m m At 31 December 2017 Ireland 177 300 100 749 4,276 5,602 Spain 103 4 591 51 68 817 Portugal 5 9 7 21 Italy 33 78 99 210 Greece 318 304 100 1,427 4,334 167 6,650 At 31 December 2016 Ireland 215 512 91 929 4,363 6,110 Spain 23 76 126 630 41 19 915 Portugal 7 22 7 36 Italy 38 59 67 164 Greece 23 336 638 91 1,640 4,411 86 7,225 1 Excludes reverse repurchase exposure to Institutional funds domiciled in Ireland secured by UK gilts of 16,323 million 2016: 14,506 million on a gross basis.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 133 Environmental risk management Project-Related Corporate loans and Bridge loans.
The Group has also been a signatory to the UN Principles for Responsible Investment UNPRI The Group ensures appropriate management of the environmental since 2012, which incorporate ESG environmental, social and governance impact, including climate change, of its lending activities.
The Group-wide risk considerations in asset management.
Scottish Widows is responsible credit risk principles require all credit risk to be incurred with due regard to for the annual UNPRI reporting process.
environmental legislation and the Groups code of responsibility.
Within Commercial Banking, an electronic Environmental Risk Screening The Groups divisions are each exposed to different types and levels of Tool is the primary mechanism for assessing environmental risk for lending climate-related risk in their operations.
For example, the general insurance transactions.
This system provides screening of location specific and sector division regularly uses weather, climate and environmental models and based risks that may be present in a transaction.
Where a risk is identified, data to assess its insurance risk from covered perils such as windstorm and the transaction is referred to the Groups expert in-house environmental flood.
A team of specialist scientists are employed within underwriting to risk team for further review and assessment, as outlined below.
Where do this work and they also regularly monitor the state of climate science to required, the Groups panel of environmental consultants provide assess the need to include its potential impacts within pricing and solvency.
In response to the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure recommendations, in 2018 we will commence a systematic review of We provide colleague training on environmental risk management as part climate-related risks and opportunities across the Groups core divisions.
of the standard suite of Commercial Banking credit risk courses.
To support this training, a range of online resource is available to colleagues and The Group has been a signatory to the Equator Principles since 2008 includes environmental risk theory, procedural guidance, and information and has adopted and applied the expanded scope of Equator Principles on environmental legislation and sector-specific environmental impacts.
The Equator Principles support the Groups approach to assessing and managing environmental and social issues in Project Finance, Table 1.27: Environmental risk management approach Initial transaction Detailed review Environmental Environmental Group credit principles screening In-house team, due diligence risk approval Environmental risk Relationship teams retained consultancy Panel consultants including any conditions Credit policies Business unit processes Sector briefings Supporting tools Legislation briefings Group policies and procedures set out the principles and key controls Regulatory and legal risk that should apply across the business which are aligned to the Group risk appetite.
Mandated policies and processes require appropriate control Definition frameworks, management information, standards and colleague training Regulatory and legal risk is defined as the risk that the Group is exposed to be implemented to identify and manage regulatory and legal risk: to fines, censure, or legal or enforcement action: or to civil or criminal Business units assess and implement policy and regulatory requirements proceedings in the courts or equivalent and or the Group is unable to and establish local control, processes and procedures to ensure enforce its rights due to failing to comply with applicable laws including governance and compliance: codes of practice which could have legal implications, regulations, codes Material risks and issues are escalated to divisional and then Group-level of conduct or legal obligations.
bodies which challenge and support the business on its management ofthem: Exposures Business units regularly produce management information to assist Whilst the Group has a zero risk appetite for material regulatory breaches in the identification of issues and test management controls are or material legal incidents, the Group remains exposed to material workingeffectively: regulatory breaches and material legal incidents outside of its risk appetite.
Exposure is driven by significant ongoing and new legislation, regulation Risk division and Legal provide oversight and proactive support and and court proceedings in the UK and overseas which in each case needs to constructive challenge to the business in identifying and managing be interpreted, implemented and embedded into day-to-day operational regulatory and legal issues: and business practices across the Group.
Risk division will conduct thematic reviews of regulatory compliance across businesses and divisions where appropriate: and Measurement Business units with the support of divisional and Group-level bodies Regulatory and legal risks are measured against a set of risk appetite conduct ongoing horizon scanning to identify and address changes in metrics, with appropriate thresholds, which are approved annually by the regulatory and legal requirements.
Board and which are regularly reviewed and monitored.
Metrics include assessments of control and material regulatory rule breaches.
Monitoring Business unit risk exposure is reported to Risk division where it is Mitigation aggregated at Group level and a report prepared.
The report forms We have taken a number of steps and have outlined below the following the basis of challenge to the business at the monthly Group Conduct, key components: Compliance and Operational Risk Committee.
This committee may escalate matters to the Chief Risk Officer, or higher committees.
The report The Board establishes a Group-wide risk appetite and metrics for also forms the basis of the regulatory and legal sections in the Groups regulatory and legal risk: consolidated risk reporting.
134 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Risk management continued Conduct risk Mitigation The Group takes a range of mitigating actions with respect to conduct risk.
Definition The Groups ongoing commitment to good customer outcomes sets the tone from the top and supports the development of the right customer The risk of customer detriment due to poor design, distribution and centric culture strengthening links between actions to support conduct, execution of products and services or other activities which could culture and customer and enabling more effective control management.
undermine the integrity of the market or distort competition, leading Actions to enable good conduct include: to unfair customer outcomes, regulatory censure and financial and reputational loss.
Conduct risk appetite established at Group and business area level, with metrics included in the Group risk appetite to ensure ongoing focus: Exposures Customer needs explicitly considered within business and product level planning and strategy, through divisional customer and culture plans, The Group faces significant conduct risks, which affect all aspects of the with integral conduct lens, reviewed and challenged by Group Customer Groups operations and all types of customers.
First Committee GCFC : Conduct risks can impact directly or indirectly on our customers and can Cultural transformation, supported by strong direction and tone from materialise from a number of areas across the Group, including: sales senior executives and the Board.
This is underpinned by the Groups processes resulting in poor customer outcomes: products and services not values and codes of responsibility, to deliver the best bank for customers: meeting the customers needs: failing to deal with customers complaints Further embedding of the customer vulnerability framework.
The effectively: failing to promote effective competition in the interest of Customer Vulnerability Cross Divisional Committee operates at a senior customers and failing to identify and report behaviour which could level to prioritise change, drive implementation and ensure consistency undermine the integrity of the market.
Significant partnership established with Macmillan to There is an ongoing high level of scrutiny regarding financial institutions support customers with cancer: treatment of customers, including those in vulnerable circumstances, from Embedding and evolving the Groups customer journey strategy regulatory bodies, the media, politicians and consumer groups.
There is and framework to support our focus on conduct from an end-to-end also a significant regulatory focus on market misconduct, resulting from customer perspective: previous issues which include London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR and Enhanced product governance framework to ensure products continue Foreign Exchange FX.
to offer customers fair value, and consistently meet their needs As a result, there is a risk that certain aspects of the Groups current or throughout their product life cycle: legacy business may be determined by the Financial Conduct Authority, Enhanced complaints management through effectively responding to, other regulatory bodies or the courts as not being conducted in and learning from, root causes to reduce complaint volumes and the accordance with applicable laws or regulations, or in a manner that fails to Financial Ombudsman Service change rate: deliver fair and reasonable customer treatment.
Enhanced recruitment and training, with a focus on how the The Group may also be liable for damages to third parties harmed by the Group manages colleagues performance with clearer customer conduct of its business.
accountabilities: and Ongoing focus on the strategic conduct agenda in our interactions Measurement with third parties involved in serving the Groups customers to ensure To articulate its conduct risk appetite, the Group has sought more consistent delivery.
granularity through the use of suitable conduct risk metrics and The Group continues to prioritise activity designed to reinforce good tolerances that indicate where it may potentially be operating outside its conduct in its engagement with the markets in which it operates, with conductappetite.
the Market Conduct Steering Committee leading read-across activity Conduct risk appetite metrics CRAMs have been designed for all product of industry issues for LBG consideration.
Further training has been families offered by the Group: a set of common metrics supports a delivered for colleagues, and the focus on enhanced procedures, and the consistent approach across products and services.
These contain a range enhancement of preventative and detective controls continues including of product design, sales and service metrics such as sales volume, usage the Groups trade surveillance and continuous surveillance capability.
and customer outcome testing to provide a more holistic view of conduct The Groups leadership team, through GCFC, support the development of risks: each product also has additional bespoke metrics.
the conduct agenda and priorities.
The Board and Group Risk Committee Each of the tolerances for the metrics are agreed for the individual product receive regular qualitative and quantitative reports to track progress on or service and are tracked monthly.
At a consolidated level these metrics how the Group is meeting customer needs and minimising conduct risk are part of the Board approved risk appetite.
The Group is also evolving across all areas of the business.
its approach to measurements supporting customer vulnerability and The Group actively engages with regulatory bodies and other customer journeys.
stakeholdersin developing its understanding of concerns related to Measurements in relation to market integrity continued to evolve in 2017, customer treatment, effective competition and market integrity, to ensure including additional business unit level risk control metrics to enhance that the Groups strategic conduct focus continues to meet evolving the established suite of metrics which already cover key topics such stakeholder expectations.
as the management of conflicts of interest and the handling of market sensitiveinformation.
Monitoring Monitoring and reporting is undertaken at Board, Group and business area committees.
As part of the reporting of CRAMs, a robust outcomes testing regime for both sales and complaints processes is in place to test performance of customer critical activities.
GCFC has responsibility for monitoring and reviewing integrated measurement of enhanced outcomes and customer views, including challenging divisions to make changes based on key learnings to support the delivery of the Groups vision and foster a customer centric culture.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 135 and regulations, as such a failure would adversely impact the Groups Operational risk reputation and potentially incur fines and other legal enforcements: and Terrorist acts, other acts of war or hostility, geopolitical, pandemic or Definition other such events.
Operational risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from inadequate A number of these risks could increase where there is a reliance on third or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events, party suppliers to provide services to the Group or its customers.
which can lead to adverse customer impact, reputational damage or financial loss.
Measurement Exposures Operational risk is managed across the Group through an operational risk framework and operational risk policies.
The operational risk framework The principal operational risks to the Group are: includes a risk control self-assessment process, risk impact likelihood A cyber-attack could result in customer detriment, financial loss, matrix, key risk and control indicators, risk appetite, a robust operational disruption and or reputational damage: event management and escalation process, scenario analysis and Failure in IT systems, due to volume of change, and or aged operational losses process.
infrastructure, could result in unfair customer outcomes, financial loss Table 1.28 below shows high level loss and event trends for the Group and or reputational damage: using Basel II categories.
Based on data captured on the Groups Failure to protect and manage customers data could result in customer Operational Risk System, in 2017 the highest frequency of events occurred detriment, financial loss, disruption and or reputational damage: in external fraud 64.37 per cent and execution, delivery and process Internal and or external fraud or financial crime could result in customer management 22.69 per cent.
Clients, products and business practices detriment, financial loss, disruption and or reputational damage: accounted for 72.74 per cent of losses by value, driven by legacy issues Failure to ensure compliance with increasingly complex and detailed where impacts materialised in 2017 excluding PPI.
anti-money laundering, anti-terrorism, sanctions and prohibitions laws Table 1.28: Operational risk events by risk category losses greater than or equal to 10,000, excluding PPI % of total volume % of total losses 2017 2016 2017 2016 Business disruption and system failures 1.35 1.01 0.92 0.55 Clients, products and business practices 10.12 11.31 72.74 77.62 Damage to physical assets 1.10 1.05 0.07 0.27 Employee practices and workplace safety 0.04 Execution, delivery and process management 22.69 24.80 22.80 19.23 External fraud 64.37 61.58 3.50 2.31 Internal fraud 0.37 0.21 0.03 0.02 Total 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 Operational risk losses and scenario analysis is used to inform the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP.
The Group calculates its minimum Pillar I operational risk capital requirements using The Standardised Approach TSA.
Pillar II is calculated using Internal and External loss data and extreme but plausible scenarios that may occur in the next 12 months.
with independent verification of progress on an annual basis.
The Mitigation Board recognises the role that resilient technology plays in achieving The Groups strategic review considers the changing risk management the Groups strategy of becoming the best bank for customers and in requirements, adapting the change delivery model to be more agile maintaining banking services across the wider industry.
As such, the and develop the people skills and capabilities needed to be the Bankof Board dedicates considerable time and focus to this subject at both the the Future.
The Group continues to review and invest in its control Board and the Board Risk Committee, and continues to sponsor key environment to ensure it addresses the inherent risks faced.
Risks are investment programmes that enhance resilience.
reported and discussed at local governance forums and escalated to The Group is making a significant investment to improve data privacy, executive management and Board as appropriate to ensure the correct including the security of data and oversight of third parties.
The Groups level of visibility and engagement.
The Group employs a range of risk strategy is to introduce advanced data management practices, based management strategies, including: avoidance, mitigation, transfer on Group-wide standards, data-first culture and modern enterprise data including insurance and acceptance.
Where there is a reliance on third platforms, supported by a simplified modern IT architecture.
party suppliers to provide services, the Groups sourcing policy ensures that The Group adopts a risk based approach to mitigate the internal and outsourcing initiatives follow a defined process including due diligence, external fraud risks it faces, reflecting the current and emerging fraud risk evaluation and ongoing assurance.
Fraud risk appetite metrics have been defined, Mitigating actions to the principal operational risks are: holistically covering the impacts of fraud in terms of losses to the Group, The threat landscape associated with cyber risk continues to evolve costs of fraud systems and operations, and customer experience of actual and attempted fraud.
Oversight of the appropriateness and and there is significant regulatory attention on this subject.
The Board has defined a cyber risk appetite and has completed a three year performance of these metrics is undertaken regularly through business area and Group-level committees.
This approach drives a continual programme to deliver capability to meet that risk appetite.
Given the nature of the threat, the Group continues to invest heavily in protecting programme of prioritised enhancements to the Groups technology, process and people related controls, with an emphasis on preventative against malicious cyber-attacks and is commencing further investment in enhancing the protection of its customers and their data, improving controls supported by real time detective controls wherever feasible.
Group-wide policies and operational control frameworks are maintained capability to detect and respond to attacks and protecting its most critical systems.
and designed to provide customer confidence, protect the Groups commercial interests and reputation, comply with legal requirements The Group continues to optimise its approach to IT and operational and meet regulatory expectations.
The Groups fraud awareness resilience by investing in technology improvements and enhancing programme remains a key component of its fraud control environment, the resilience of systems that support the Groups critical business and awareness of fraud risk is supported by mandatory training for all processes, primarily through the Technology Resilience Programme, 136 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Risk management continued colleagues.
The Group also plays an active role with other financial People risk institutions, industry bodies, and enforcement agencies in identifying and combatting fraud.
Definition The Group has adopted policies and procedures designed to detect The risk that the Group fails to provide an appropriate colleague and and prevent the use of its banking network for money laundering, customer centric culture, supported by robust reward and wellbeing terrorist financing, bribery, tax evasion, human trafficking, and modernpolicies and processes: effective leadership to manage colleague day slavery, and activities prohibited by legal and regulatory sanctions.
resources: effective talent and succession management: and robust control Against a background of increasingly complex and detailed laws and to ensure all colleague-related requirements are met.
regulations, and of increased criminal and terrorist activity, the Group regularly reviews and assesses its policies, procedures and organisational Exposures arrangements to keep them current, effective and consistent across markets and jurisdictions.
The Group requires mandatory training on The Groups management of material people risks is critical to its capacity these topics for all employees.
Specifically, the anti-money laundering to deliver against its strategic objectives and to be the best bank for procedures include know-your-customer requirements, transaction customers.
Over the coming year the Group anticipates the following key monitoring technologies, reporting of suspicions of money laundering or people risk exposures: terrorist financing to the applicable regulatory authorities, and interaction Maintaining organisational skills, capability, resilience and capacity levels between the Groups Financial Intelligence Unit and external agencies in response to increasing volumes of organisational, political and external and other financial institutions.
The Anti-Bribery Policy prohibits the market change: payment, offer, acceptance or request of a bribe, including facilitation Senior Managers and Certification Regime SM&CR and additional payments by any employee or agent and provides a confidential regulatory constraints on remuneration structures may impact the reporting service for anonymous reporting for suspected or actual Groups ability to attract and retain talent: bribery activity.
The Sanctions and Related Prohibitions Policy sets out a framework of controls for compliance with legal and regulatory sanctions.
The increasing digitisation of the business is changing the capability mix required and may impact our ability to attract and retain talent: and Operational resilience measures and recovery planning defined in the Groups Resilience and Continuity including Incident Management Colleague engagement may continue to be challenged by ongoing Policy ensure an appropriate and consistent approach to the media attention on banking sector culture, sales practices and management of continuity risks, including potential interruptions ethicalconduct.
from a range of internal and external incidents or threats including environmental and climatic issues, terrorism, cyber, economic instability, Measurement pandemic planning and operational incidents.
The Group considers its People risk is measured through a series of quantitative and qualitative operational resilience across five key pillars: cyber, third parties, IT, people indicators, aligned to key sources of people risk for the Group such and property.
as succession, retention, colleague engagement and performance management.
In addition to risk appetite measures and limits, people Monitoring risks and controls are monitored on a monthly basis via the Groups risk Monitoring and reporting of operational risk is undertaken at Board, Group governance framework and reporting structures.
Each committee monitors key risks, control effectiveness, key risk and control indicators, events, operational losses, risk Mitigation appetite metrics and the results of independent testing conducted by Risk The Group takes many mitigating actions with respect to people risk.
Key and or Group Internal Audit.
areas of focus include: The Group maintains a formal approach to operational risk event Focusing on leadership and colleague engagement, through delivery escalation, whereby material events are identified, captured and escalated.
of strategies to attract, retain and develop high calibre people together Root causes of events are determined, where possible, and action plans with implementation of rigorous succession planning: put in place to ensure an optimum level of control to keep customers and the business safe, reduce costs, and improve efficiency.
Continued focus on the Groups culture by developing and delivering initiatives that reinforce the appropriate behaviours which generate the The insurance programme is monitored and reviewed regularly, with best possible long-term outcomes for customers and colleagues: recommendations being made to the Groups senior management Managing organisational capability and capacity through divisional annually prior to each renewal.
Insurers are monitored on an ongoing people strategies to ensure there are the right skills and resources to basis, to ensure counterparty risk is minimised.
A process is in place to meet our customers needs and deliver our strategic plan: manage any insurer rating changes or insolvencies.
Maintain effective remuneration arrangements to ensure they promote an appropriate culture and colleague behaviours that meet customer needs and regulatory expectations: Ensuring compliance with legal and regulatory requirements related to SM&CR, embedding compliant and appropriate colleague behaviours in line with Group policies, values and its people risk priorities: and Ongoing consultation with the Groups recognised unions on changes which impact their members.
Monitoring People risks from across the Group are monitored and reported through Board and Group Governance Committees in accordance with the Groups Risk Management Framework and people risk sub-framework.
Risk exposures are discussed monthly via the Group People Risk Committee with upwards reporting to Group Risk and Executive Committees.
In addition, oversight, challenge and reporting is completed at Risk division level and, combined with risk assurance, Risk division reviews and assesses the effectiveness of controls, recommending follow up remedial action if relevant.
All material people risk events are escalated in accordance with the formal Group Operational Risk Policy and People Policies to the respective divisional Managing Directors and the Group Director, Conduct, Compliance and Operational Risk.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 137 Insurance underwriting risk Capital risk Definition Definition Insurance underwriting risk is defined as the risk of adverse developments Capital risk is defined as the risk that the Group has a sub-optimal in longevity, mortality, persistency, General Insurance underwriting and quantity or quality of capital or that capital is inefficiently deployed across policyholder behaviour, leading to reductions in earnings and or value.
Exposures Exposures The major source of insurance underwriting risk within the Group is the A capital risk exposure arises when the Group has insufficient capital Insurance business.
resources to support its strategic objectives and plans, and to meet external stakeholder requirements and expectations.
This could arise Longevity and persistency are key risks within the life and pensions due to a depletion of the Groups capital resources as a result of the business.
Longevity risk arises from the annuity portfolios where crystallisation of any of the risks to which it is exposed.
Alternatively a policyholders future cashflows are guaranteed at retirement and increases shortage of capital could arise from an increase in the amount of capital in life expectancy, beyond current assumptions, will increase the cost that needs to be held.
The Groups capital management approach of annuities.
Longevity risk exposures are expected to increase with is focused on maintaining sufficient capital resources to prevent such the Insurance business growth in the bulk annuity market.
Persistency exposures while optimising value for shareholders.
assumptions are set to give a best estimate, however customer behaviour may result in increased cancellations or cessation of contributions.
Measurement Property insurance risk is a key risk within the General Insurance business, The Group measures the amount of capital it requires and holds through through Home Insurance.
Exposures can arise, for example, in extreme applying the regulatory framework defined by the Capital Requirements weather conditions, such as flooding, when property damage claims are Directive and Regulation CRD IV as implemented in the UK by the higher than expected.
Prudential Regulation Authority PRA and supplemented through The Groups defined benefit pension schemes also expose the Group to additional regulation under the PRA Rulebook.
Full details of the Groups longevity risk.
For further information please refer to the defined benefit regulatory capital and leverage frameworks, including the means by which pension schemes component of the market risk section and note 35 to the its capital and leverage requirements and capital resources are calculated, financial statements.
will be provided in the Groups Pillar 3 Report.
The minimum amount of total capital, under Pillar 1 of the regulatory Measurement framework, is determined as 8percent of aggregate risk-weighted Insurance underwriting risks are measured using a variety of techniques assets.
At least 4.5percent of risk-weighted assets are required to be including stress, reverse stress and scenario testing, as well as stochastic covered by common equity tier 1 CET1 capital and at least 6percent of modelling.
Current and potential future insurance underwriting risk risk-weighted assets are required to be covered by tier 1 capital.
These exposures are assessed and aggregated on a range of stresses including minimum Pillar 1 requirements are supplemented by additional minimum risk measures based on 1-in-200 year stresses for Insurances regulatory requirements under Pillar 2A of the regulatory framework, the aggregate capital assessments and other supporting measures where appropriate, of which is to be referred to as the Groups Total Capital Requirement including those set out in note 32 to the financial statements.
TCR from 1 January 2018, and a number of regulatory capital buffers as described below.
Mitigation Additional minimum requirements under Pillar 2A are currently set by the PRA through the issuance of bank specific Individual Capital Guidance Insurance underwriting risk in the Insurance business is mitigated in a number of ways: ICG.
This reflects a point in time estimate by the PRA, which may change over time, of the minimum amount of capital that is needed by the bank to General Insurance exposure to accumulations of risk and possible cover risks that are not fully covered by Pillar 1, such as credit concentration catastrophes is mitigated by reinsurance arrangements broadly spread and operational risk, and those risks not covered at all by Pillar 1, such as over different reinsurers.
Detailed modelling, including that of the pensions and interest rate risk in the banking book IRRBB.
From 1 January potential losses under various catastrophe scenarios, supports the choice 2018, Pillar 2A will be set as a firm specific capital requirement Pillar 2R of reinsurance arrangements: rather than as individual capital guidance.
Insurance processes on underwriting, claims management, pricing and The Group is also required to maintain a number of regulatory capital product design: buffers, which are required to be met with CET1 capital.
Longevity risk transfer and hedging solutions are considered on a regular Systemic buffers are designed to hold systemically important banks to basis and in 2017 we reinsured 1.3 billion of annuitant longevity.
A team higher capital standards, so that they can withstand a greater level of stress of longevity and bulk pricing experts has been built to support the new before requiring resolution.
bulk annuity proposition: and Exposure limits by risk type are assessed through the business planning Although the Group is not currently classified as a global systemically process and used as a control mechanism to ensure risks are taken within important institution G-SII under the Capital Requirements Directive, it risk appetite.
has been classified as an other systemically important institution O-SII by the PRA.
The O-SII buffer is set to zero in the UK.
Monitoring The Systemic Risk Buffer SRB will be applied to UK ring-fenced banks from early 2019.
The size of buffer applied to the Groups ring-fenced Insurance underwriting risks in the Insurance business are monitored by bank RFB sub-group in 2019 will be dependent upon the total assets Insurance senior executive committees and ultimately the Insurance Board.
The FPCanticipates applying a buffer of 2.5 per cent to Significant risks from the Insurance business and the defined benefit the largest ring-fenced institutions.
Although the SRB will apply at a sub pension schemes are reviewed by the Group Executive and Group Risk consolidated level within the Groups structure, the PRA have indicated Committees and or Board.
that they will include in the Groups PRA Buffer an amount equivalent Insurance underwriting risk exposures within the Insurance business to the RFBs Systemic Risk Buffer.
The amount included in the PRA are monitored against risk appetite.
The Insurance business monitors Buffer is expected to be lower as a percentage of Group risk-weighted experiences against expectations, for example business volumes and mix, assets reflecting the assets of the Group that will not be held in the RFB claims and persistency experience.
The effectiveness of controls put in sub-group and for which the SRB will not apply to.
place to manage insurance underwriting risk is evaluated and significant The capital conservation buffer CCB is a standard buffer of 2.5percent divergences from experience or movements in risk exposures are ofrisk-weighted assets designed to provide for losses in the event of stress investigated and remedial action taken.
and is being phased in over the period from 1January 2016 to 1January 2019.
During 2017 it was 1.25percent and during 2018 it will increase to1.875percent.
138 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Risk management continued The countercyclical capital buffer CCyB is time-varying and is designed respond to variations of the Groups actual performance against the plan.
to require banks to hold additional capital to remove or reduce the The capital plans are tested for capital adequacy using a range of stress build-up of systemic risk in times of credit boom, providing additional scenarios covering adverse economic conditions as well as other adverse loss absorbing capacity and acting as an incentive for banks to constrain factors that could impact the Group and the Group maintains a recovery further credit growth.
The amount of the buffer is determined by reference plan which sets out a range of potential mitigating actions that could be to buffer rates set by the FPC for the individual countries where the taken in response to a stress.
Group has relevant credit risk exposures.
The CCyB rate for the UK is Regular reporting of actual and projected ratios, including those in currently set at zero but will increase to 0.5 per cent on 27 June 2018 stressed scenarios, is undertaken, including submissions to the Group and to 1.0 percent on 28 November 2018.
The FPC will reconsider the Capital Risk Committee GCRC, Group Financial Risk Committee GFRC, adequacy of a 1.0percent UK CCyB rate during the first half of 2018 Group Asset and Liability Committee GALCO, Group Risk Committee inlight of the evolution of the overall risk environment.
Non-zero buffer GRC, Board Risk Committee BRC and the Board.
Capital policies and rates currently apply for Norway, Sweden, Hong Kong, Iceland, Slovakia procedures are subject to independent oversight.
Given that the Group has minimal exposures The regulatory framework within which the Group operates continues to tothese jurisdictions, the overall countercyclical capital buffer requirement evolve and further detail on this will be provided in the Groups Pillar 3 at31December 2017 is considered to be negligible.
The Group continues to monitor these developments very closely, As part of the capital planning process, forecast capital positions are analysing the potential capital impacts to ensure that, through organic subjected to extensive stress analyses to determine the adequacy of the capital generation, the Group continues to maintain a strong capital Groups capital resources against the minimum requirements, including position that exceeds both minimum regulatory requirements and the the ICG.
The PRA uses the outputs from some of these stress analyses as Groups risk appetite and is consistent with market expectations.
one of the inputs that inform the setting of a bank-specific capital buffer for the Group, known as the PRA Buffer.
The PRA Buffer also takes into Target capital ratios account the CCB and CCyB.
The PRA requires the PRA Buffer to remain The Boards view of the level of CET1 capital required is c. 13percent plus confidential between the Group and the PRA.
a management buffer of around 1per cent.
All buffers are required to be met with CET1 capital.
A breach of the This takes into account, amongst other things: PRA buffer would trigger a dialogue between the Group and the PRA to agree what action is required whereas a breach of the CRD IV combined the Pillar 2A ICG set by the PRA, reflecting their point in time estimate, buffer all regulatory buffers excluding the PRA buffer would give rise which may change over time, of the amount of capital that is needed in to automatic constraints upon any discretionary capital distributions by relation to risks not covered by Pillar 1.
During the year the PRA updated theGroup.
the Groups ICG representing an increase from 4.5 per cent to 5.4 per cent of risk-weighted assets at 31 December 2017, of which 3.0 per cent In addition to the risk-based capital framework outlined above, the Group has to be met by CET1 capital.
is also subject to minimum capital requirements under the UK Leverage the PRA Buffer, which they set taking into account the results of the PRA Ratio Framework.
The leverage ratio is calculated by dividing fully loaded stress tests and other information, as well as outputs from the Groups tier 1 capital resources by a defined measure of on-balance sheet assets internal stress tests.
The PRA requires the PRA Buffer itself to remain and off-balance sheet items.
confidential between the Group and the PRA.
The minimum leverage ratio requirement under the UK Leverage Ratio future regulatory developments, including the introduction of the Framework is 3.25percent.
In addition the framework requires two buffers Systemic Risk Buffer in early 2019 and the CCyB on UK exposures during to be maintained: an Additional Leverage Ratio Buffer ALRB, which is the course of 2018. calculated as 35percent of the Systemic Risk Buffer applicable from 2019 and a time-varying Countercyclical Leverage Buffer CCLB which is Dividend policy calculated as 35percent of the countercyclical capital buffer rate currently The Group intends to maintain an ordinary dividend policy that is both set at 0percent.
At least 75percent of the minimum 3.25percent progressive and sustainable.
The rate of growth of the ordinary dividend requirement and the entirety of any buffers that may apply must be met by will be decided by the Board in light of the circumstances at the time.
The Board also gives due consideration to the distribution of surplus The leverage ratio framework does not currently give rise to higher capital capital through the use of special dividends or share buybacks.
Surplus requirements for the Group than the risk-based capital framework.
capital represents the return of capital over and above the Board's view of the current level of capital required to grow the business, meet regulatory Mitigation requirements and cover uncertainties.
The amount of required capital The Group has a capital management framework including policies and may vary from time to time depending on circumstances and by its nature procedures that are designed to ensure that it operates within its risk there can be no guarantee that any surplus capital distribution will be appetite, uses its capital resources efficiently and continues to comply with appropriate in future years.
The ability of the Group to pay a dividend is also subject to constraints The Group is able to accumulate additional capital through the retention including the availability of distributable reserves, legal and regulatory of profits over time, which can be enhanced through cutting costs and restrictions and the financial and operating performance of the entity.
reducing or cancelling dividend payments, by raising new equity via, Distributable reserves are determined as required by the Companies for example, a rights issue or debt exchange and by raising additional Act 2006 by reference to a companys individual financial statements.
tier 1 or tier 2 capital through issuing tier 1 instruments or subordinated At 31December 2017 LloydsBanking Group plc the Company liabilities.
The cost and availability of additional capital is dependent upon had accumulated distributable reserves of approximately 8.5 billion.
market conditions and perceptions at the time.
The Group is also able to Substantially all of the Companys merger reserve is available for manage the demand for capital through management actions including distribution under UK company law as a result of transactions undertaken adjusting its lending strategy, risk hedging strategies and through to recapitalise the Company in2009.
LloydsBanking Group plc acts as a holding company which also issues Additional measures to manage the Groups capital position include capital and other securities to capitalise and fund the activities of the seeking to optimise the generation of capital demand within the Groups Group.
The profitability of the holding company, and consequently its businesses to strike an appropriate balance of capital held within the ability to sustain dividend payments, is therefore dependent upon the Groups Insurance and banking subsidiaries and through improving the continued receipt of dividends from its subsidiaries representing both quality of its capital through liability management exercises.
A number of Group subsidiaries, principally those with banking and insurance activities, are also subject to regulatory capital Monitoring requirements.
These require entities to maintain minimum amounts of Capital is actively managed and monitoring capital ratios is a key factor in capital related to their size and risk.
The principal operating subsidiary is the Groups planning processes and stress analyses.
Multi-year forecasts LloydsBank plc which, at 31December 2017, had a consolidated CET1 of the Groups capital position, based upon the Groups operating plan, capital ratio of 15.8percent 31December 2016: 15.1percent.
The are produced at least annually to inform the Groups capital plan whilst Group actively manages the capital of its subsidiaries, which includes shorter term forecasts are more frequently undertaken to understand and monitoring the regulatory capital ratios for its banking and insurance Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 139 subsidiaries against approved risk appetite limits.
It operates a formal Applying the Bank of Englands Minimum Requirement for Own Funds capital management policy which requires all subsidiary entities to remit and Eligible Liabilities MREL policy to current capital requirements, the any surplus capital to their parent companies.
Groups indicative MREL requirement, excluding regulatory capital buffers, is as follows: Analysis of capital position From 2020, 2 times Pillar 1 plus Pillar 2A, equivalent to 21.4 per cent of Excluding the capital impact of the acquisition of MBNA on 1 June 2017, risk-weighted assets the Group generated 2.45 per cent of CET1 capital on a pro forma basis From 2022, 2 times Pillar 1 plus 2 times Pillar 2A, equivalent to 26.8 per before ordinary dividends and allowing for the share buyback, primarily as cent of risk-weighted assets a result of: The Bank of England will review the calibration of MREL in 2020 before Strong underlying capital generation of 2.5 per cent, largely driven by setting final end-state requirements to be met from 2022.
This review will underlying profits 2.2 per cent and the dividend paid by the Insurance take into consideration any changes to the capital framework, including business in February 2018 in relation to 2017 earnings 0.3 per cent : the finalisation of Basel III.
A reduction in risk-weighted assets prior to the impact of the acquisition During 2017, the Group issued 8.5 billion sterling equivalent as at of MBNA resulting in an increase of 0.8 per cent, primarily reflecting 31December 2017 of senior unsecured securities from Lloyds Banking updates made to both mortgage and unsecured retail IRB models, Group plc which, while not included in total capital, are eligible to meet continued active portfolio management, foreign exchange movements, MREL.
Combined with previous issuances made during 2016 the Group disposals and capital efficient securitisation activity, partly offset through remains comfortably positioned to meet MREL requirements from 2020 targeted growth in key customer segments: and, as at 31 December 2017, had a transitional MREL ratio of 25.7 per cent The impact of market and other movements, generating an increase of of risk-weighted assets.
0.4 per cent, partially reflecting positive movements in available-for-sale The UK leverage ratio, after ordinary dividends, increased from 5.3 per assets and the defined benefit pension schemes: cent on a pro forma basis to 5.4 per cent on a pro forma basis, largely Offset by a reduction of 1.2 per cent for conduct provisions.
reflecting the increase in fully loaded tier 1 capital and the underlying In addition, the Group utilised the 0.8 per cent of CET1 capital retained at reduction in balance sheet assets, net of qualifying central bank claims and 31 December 2016 to cover the acquisition of MBNA.
Overall the Groups CET1 ratio has strengthened to 15.5 per cent on a An analysis of the Groups capital position as at 31 December 2017 pro forma basis before ordinary dividends and the share buyback.
After is presented in the following section on both a CRD IV transitional ordinary dividends the Groups CET1 ratio was 14.4 per cent on a pro arrangements basis and a CRD IV fully loaded basis.
In addition the Board intends to implement a share buyback programme of up to 1 billion, equivalent to up to 1.4 pence per share.
The buyback will impact the Groups capital position in 2018 and is expected to reduce CET1 capital by c. 50 basis points.
Allowing for this at 31 December 2017 the pro forma CET1 ratio would be 13.9 per cent 31December 2016: 13.0 per cent pro forma after dividends and adjusting for MBNA.
The accrual for foreseeable dividends reflects the recommended final ordinary dividend of 2.05 pence per share.
The transitional total capital ratio, after ordinary dividends reduced by 0.2 per cent to 21.2 per cent, largely reflecting amortisation on dated tier 2 instruments and foreign exchange movements on tier 1 and tier 2 instruments, offset by the increase in CET1 capital and the reduction in risk-weighted assets.
140 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Risk management continued The table below summarises the consolidated capital position of the Group.
The Groups Pillar 3 Report will provide a comprehensive analysis of the own funds of the Group.
Table 1.29: Capital resources audited Transitional Fullyloaded At31Dec At31Dec At31Dec At31Dec 2017 2016 2017 2016 m m m m Common equity tier 1 Shareholders equity per balance sheet 43,551 43,020 43,551 43,020 Adjustment to retained earnings for foreseeable dividends 1,475 1,568 1,475 1,568 1 Deconsolidation adjustments 1,301 1,342 1,301 1,342 Adjustment for own credit 109 87 109 87 Cash flow hedging reserve 1,405 2,136 1,405 2,136 Other adjustments 177 276 177 276 41,904 40,469 41,904 40,469 less: deductions from common equity tier 1 Goodwill and other intangible assets 2,966 1,623 2,966 1,623 Prudent valuation adjustment 556 630 556 630 Excess of expected losses over impairment provisions and value adjustments 498 602 498 602 Removal of defined benefit pension surplus 541 267 541 267 Securitisation deductions 191 217 191 217 1 Significant investments 4,250 4,282 4,250 4,282 Deferred tax assets 3,255 3,564 3,255 3,564 Common equity tier 1 capital 29,647 29,284 29,647 29,284 Additional tier 1 Other equity instruments 5,330 5,320 5,330 5,320 2 Preference shares and preferred securities 4,503 4,998 Transitional limit and other adjustments 1,748 1,692 8,085 8,626 5,330 5,320 less: deductions from tier 1 1 Significant investments 1,403 1,329 Total tier 1 capital 36,329 36,581 34,977 34,604 Tier 2 2 Other subordinated liabilities 13,419 14,833 13,419 14,833 1 Deconsolidation of instruments issued by insurance entities 1,786 1,810 1,786 1,810 Adjustments for transitional limit and non-eligible instruments 1,617 1,351 1,252 1,694 Amortisation and other adjustments 3,524 3,447 3,565 3,597 9,726 10,927 6,816 7,732 Eligible provisions 120 186 120 186 less: deductions from tier 2 1 1,516 1,571 2,919 2,900 Significant investments Total capital resources 44,659 46,123 38,994 39,622 Risk-weighted assets 210,919 215,534 210,919 215,534 3 Common equity tier 1 capital ratio 14.1% 13.6% 14.1% 13.6% Tier 1 capital ratio 17.2% 17.0% 16.6% 16.1% Total capital ratio 21.2% 21.4% 18.5% 18.4% 1 For regulatory capital purposes, the Groups Insurance business is deconsolidated and replaced by the amount of the Groups investment in the business.
A part of this amount is deducted from capital shown as significant investments in the table above and the remaining amount is risk-weighted, forming part of threshold risk-weighted assets.
2 Preference shares, preferred securities and other subordinated liabilities are categorised as subordinated liabilities in the balance sheet.
3 The common equity tier 1 ratio is 14.4 per cent on a pro forma basis upon recognition of the dividend paid by the Insurance business in February 2018 in relation to its 2017 earnings 31December 2016: 13.8 per cent pro forma.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 141 The key difference between the transitional capital calculation as at 31 December 2017 and the fully loaded equivalent is primarily related to capital securities that previously qualified as tier 1 or tier 2 capital, but that do not fully qualify under CRD IV, which can be included in additional tier 1 AT1 or tier2 capital as applicable up to specified limits which reduce by 10 per cent per annum until 2022.
The movements in the transitional CET1, AT1, tier 2 and total capital positions in the period are provided below.
Table 1.30: Movements in capital resources Common Additional Total Equitytier1 Tier 1 Tier 2 capital m m m m At 31 December 2016 29,284 7,297 9,542 46,123 1 Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 2,514 2,514 2 Movement in foreseeable dividends 93 93 Dividends paid out on ordinary shares during the year 2,284 2,284 Dividends in respect of 2016 earnings and 2017 interim earnings 1 received from the Insurance business 575 575 Movement in treasury shares and employee share schemes 3 3 Pension movements: Removal of defined benefit pension surplus 274 274 Movement through other comprehensive income 428 428 Available-for-sale reserve 74 74 Prudent valuation adjustment 74 74 Deferred tax asset 309 309 Goodwill and other intangible assets 1,343 1,343 Excess of expected losses over impairment provisions and value adjustments 104 104 Significant investments 32 74 55 13 Eligible provisions 66 66 Movements in subordinated debt: Repurchases, redemptions and other 541 1,201 1,742 Other movements 206 206 At 31 December 2017 29,647 6,682 8,330 44,659 1 Under the regulatory framework, profits made by Insurance are removed from CET1 capital.
However, when dividends are paid to the Group by Insurance these are recognised through CET1 capital.
2 Includes the accrual for the 2017 full year ordinary dividend and the reversal of the accrual for the 2016 full year ordinary and special dividends which were paid during the year.
CET1 capital resources have increased by 363 million in the year, primarily reflecting a combination of profit generation, dividends received from the Insurance business during the year, movements in the defined benefit pension schemes and a reduction in the deferred tax asset deducted from capital, partially offset by the payment of the 2017 interim dividend, the accrual of the full year ordinary dividend and an increase in the deduction for goodwill and other intangible assets, largely in relation to the acquisition of MBNA.
AT1 capital resources have reduced by 615 million in the year, primarily reflecting the annual reduction in the transitional limit applied to grandfathered AT1 capital instruments and foreign exchange movements.
Tier 2 capital resources have reduced by 1,212 million in the year largely reflecting the amortisation of dated tier 2 instruments and foreign exchange movements on subordinated debt, partly offset by the transitioning of grandfathered AT1 instruments to tier 2.
142 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Risk management continued Table 1.31: Risk-weighted assets At31 Dec At31Dec 2017 2016 m m Foundation Internal Ratings Based IRB Approach 60,207 64,907 Retail IRB Approach 61,588 64,970 Other IRB Approach 17,191 17,788 IRB Approach 138,986 147,665 Standardised STA Approach 25,503 18,956 Credit risk 164,489 166,621 Counterparty credit risk 6,055 8,419 Contributions to the default fund of a central counterparty 428 340 Credit valuation adjustment risk 1,402 864 Operational risk 25,326 25,292 Market risk 3,051 3,147 Underlying risk-weighted assets 200,751 204,683 1 Threshold risk-weighted assets 10,168 10,851 Total risk-weighted assets 210,919 215,534 1 Threshold risk-weighted assets reflect the element of significant investments and deferred tax assets that are permitted to be risk-weighted instead of being deducted from CET1 capital.
Significant investments primarily arise from investment in the Groups Insurance business.
Table 1.32: Risk-weighted assets movement by key driver Credit risk Credit risk Counterparty Operational 1 2 IRB STA Credit risk credit risk Market risk risk Total m m m m m m m Total risk-weighted assets as at 31 December 2016 215,534 3 Less total threshold risk-weighted assets 10,851 Risk-weighted assets as at 31 December 2016 147,665 18,956 166,621 9,623 3,147 25,292 204,683 Asset size 2,465 100 2,365 403 2,768 Asset quality 322 112 210 222 12 Model updates 4,399 4,399 349 4,050 Methodology and policy 789 434 355 431 786 Acquisitions and disposals 606 6,237 5,631 26 930 6,535 Movements in risk levels market risk only 445 445 Foreign exchange 742 112 854 656 1,510 Other 896 896 Risk-weighted assets as at 31 December 2017 138,986 25,503 164,489 7,885 3,051 25,326 200,751 3 Threshold risk-weighted assets 10,168 Total risk-weighted assets as at 31 December 2017 210,919 1 Credit risk includes securitisation risk-weighted assets.
2 Counterparty credit risk includes movements in contributions to the default fund of central counterparties and movements in credit valuation adjustment risk.
3 Threshold risk-weighted assets reflect the element of significant investments and deferred tax assets that are permitted to be risk-weighted instead of being deducted from CET1 capital.
The risk-weighted assets movement tables provide analyses of the Acquisitions and disposals increased by 5.6 billion and were primarily movement in risk-weighted assets in the period by risk type and an insight driven by the acquisition of MBNA, partly offset by the disposal of the into the key drivers of the movements.
The key driver analysis is compiled Groups interest in a strategic equity investment.
on a monthly basis through the identification and categorisation of riskSterling foreign exchange movements, principally with the Euro and weighted asset movements and is subject to management judgment.
USDollar, contributed to an overall reduction in credit risk-weighted assets of 0.9billion.
Credit risk-weighted assets reductions of 2.1billion were driven by the following key movements: Counterparty credit risk and CVA risk-weighted assets reductions of 1.7billion were mainly driven by foreign exchange movements, reductions Asset size saw a reduction of 2.4 billion due to continued active portfolio in position levels, updates to the calculation methodology following management, partly offset by targeted growth in key customer segments.
clarification of the regulatory approach and other movements.
Model update reductions of 4.4 billion were mainly due to PRA Market risk, risk-weighted assets reduced by 0.1 billion largely due to approved model changes within the mortgage and unsecured a decrease in interest rate risk exposure, offset by an increase in the VaR retailportfolios.
multiplier, an increase in exposure to corporate bonds and refinements to Methodology and policy reductions of 0.4 billion were principally the internal models.
result of further capital efficient securitisation activity.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 143 Operational risk, risk-weighted assets are broadly in line with the prior year, vulnerabilities.
As part of this programme, and in line with previous years, with the increase following the acquisition of MBNA mostly offset by the the Group conducted macroeconomic stress tests of the operating plan.
annual update of the income based Standardised Approach operational The concurrent UK stress test run by the Bank of England was also risk calculation.
As announced in November, despite the severity of the stress scenario, the Group exceeded the capital and leverage thresholds Stress testing set out for the purpose of the stress test and was not required to take any The Group undertakes a wide ranging programme of stress testing capital action as a result.
providing a comprehensive view of the potential impacts arising from the risks to which the Group is exposed.
One of the most important uses of Leverage ratio stress testing is to assess the resilience of the operational and strategic The table below summarises the component parts of the Groups leverage plans of the Group to adverse economic conditions and other key ratio.
Further analysis will be provided in the GroupsPillar3 Report.
Table 1.33: Leverage ratio Fullyloaded At31Dec At31Dec 2017 2016 Leverage ratio m m Total tier 1 capital for leverage ratio Common equity tier 1 capital 29,647 29,284 Additional tier 1 capital 5,330 5,320 Total tier 1 capital 34,977 34,604 Exposure measure Statutory balance sheet assets Derivative financial instruments 25,834 36,138 Securities financing transactions 49,193 42,285 Loans and advances and other assets 737,082 739,370 Total assets 812,109 817,793 Qualifying central bank claims 53,842 41,510 1 Deconsolidation adjustments Derivative financial instruments 2,043 2,403 Securities financing transactions 85 112 Loans and advances and other assets 140,387 142,955 Total deconsolidation adjustments 142,515 145,246 Derivatives adjustments Adjustments for regulatory netting 13,031 20,490 Adjustments for cash collateral 7,380 8,432 Net written credit protection 881 699 Regulatory potential future exposure 12,335 13,188 Total derivatives adjustments 7,195 15,035 Securities financing transactions adjustments 2,022 39 Off-balance sheet items 58,357 58,685 Regulatory deductions and other adjustments 7,658 9,128 2 Total exposure measure 657,234 665,598 4 Average exposure measure 660,557 2,3, 6 UK Leverage ratio 5.3% 5.2% 4 Average UK leverage ratio 5.4% 5 CRD IV exposure measure 711,076 707,108 5 CRD IV leverage ratio 4.9% 4.9% 1 Deconsolidation adjustments relate to the deconsolidation of certain Group entities that fall outside the scope of the Groups regulatory capital consolidation, being primarily the Groups Insurance business.
2 Calculated in accordance with the UK Leverage Ratio Framework which requires qualifying central bank claims to be excluded from the leverage exposure measure.
3 The countercyclical leverage ratio buffer is currently nil.
4 The average UK leverage ratio is based on the average of the month end tier 1 capital and exposure measures over the quarter 1 October 2017 to 31 December 2017.
The average of 5.4 per cent compares to 5.4 per cent at the start and 5.3 per cent at the end of the quarter.
5 Calculated in accordance with CRD IV rules which include central bank claims within the leverage exposure measure.
6 The UK leverage ratio is 5.4 per cent on a pro forma basis upon recognition of the dividend paid by the Insurance business in February 2018 in relation to its 2017 earnings 31 December 2016: 5.3 per cent pro forma.
144 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Risk management continued Key movements Funding and liquidity risk The Groups fully loaded UK leverage ratio increased by 0.1 per cent to Definition 5.3per cent reflecting the impact of both the increase in tier 1 capital and the 8.4 billion reduction in the exposure measure, the latter largely Funding risk is defined as the risk that the Group does not have sufficiently reflecting the underlying reduction in balance sheet assets net of stable and diverse sources of funding.
Liquidity risk is defined as the risk qualifying central bank claims and deconsolidation adjustments driven that the Group has insufficient financial resources to meet its commitments by the reductions in both available-for-sale financial assets and derivatives as they fall due.
assets, partially offset by the increase in loans and advances following the acquisition of MBNA and an increase in securities financing transactions Exposure SFT activity.
Liquidity exposure represents the potential stressed outflows in any future The derivatives exposure measure, representing derivative financial period less expected inflows.
The Group considers liquidity from both an instruments per the balance sheet net of deconsolidation and derivatives internal and a regulatory perspective.
adjustments, reduced by 2.1 billion during the year, primarily driven by market movements and a reduction in position levels.
Measurement The 4.7 billion increase in the SFT exposure measure during the year, Liquidity risk is managed through a series of measures, tests and reports representing SFT assets per the balance sheet net of deconsolidation that are primarily based on contractual maturities with behavioural overlays and other SFT adjustments, reflected an increase in customer volumes, as appropriate.
Note 51 on page 240 sets out an analysis of assets and partiallyoffset by reduced trading volumes and an increase in eligible liabilities by relevant maturity grouping.
Additionally the Group undertakes netting adjustments.
quantitative and qualitative analysis of behavioural aspects of its assets and Off-balance sheet items reduced by 0.3 billion during the year, primarily liabilities in order to reflect their expected behaviour.
reflecting a net reduction in securitisation financing facility commitments together with corporate facility drawdowns, reductions and exits, Mitigation largely offset by an increase in unconditionally cancellable credit card Group Corporate Treasury GCT is responsible for managing and commitments following the acquisition of MBNA and new residential monitoring liquidity risks on behalf of the Group and ensuring that liquidity mortgage offers placed.
risk management systems and arrangements are adequate with regard The average UK leverage ratio of 5.4 per cent over the quarter reflected a to the internal risk appetite and Group strategy.
Liquidity policies and strengthening tier 1 capital position prior to the accrual for the announced procedures are subject to independent internal oversight by Risk.
Overseas full year ordinary dividend and further conduct provisions, and the branches and subsidiaries of the Group may also be required to meet the reduction in underlying balance sheet assets during the quarter, net of liquidity requirements of the entitys domestic country.
Management of qualifying central bank claims.
liquidity requirements is performed by the overseas branch or subsidiary and overseen by GCT.
Liquidity risk of the Insurance business is actively G-SIB indicators managed and monitored within the Insurance business.
The Group plans Although the Group is not currently classified as a Global Systemically funding requirements over the life of the funding plan, combining business Important Bank G-SIB, by virtue of the Groups leverage exposure as usual and stressed conditions.
The Group manages its risk appetite and measure exceeding 200billion the Group is required to report G-SIB liquidity position with regard to its internal risk appetite and the Liquidity indicator metrics to the PRA.
The Groups indicator metrics used within the Coverage Ratio LCR required by the PRA and Capital Requirements 2017 Basel G-SIBs annual exercise will be disclosed inApril 2018 and the Directive and Regulation CRDIV .
results are expected to be made available by the Basel Committee later The Groups funding and liquidity position is underpinned by its significant this year.
customer deposit base, and is supported by strong relationships across customer segments.
The Group has consistently observed that in Insurance businesses aggregate the retail deposit base provides a stable source of funding.
The business transacted by the insurance companies within the Group Funding concentration by counterparty, currency and tenor is monitored comprises both life insurance business and General Insurance business.
on an ongoing basis and where concentrations do exist, these are Life insurance business comprises unit-linked business, non-profit business managed as part of the planning process and limited by internal risk and with-profits business.
appetite, with analysis regularly provided to senior management.
Scottish Widows Limited SW Ltd holds the only with-profit funds To assist in managing the balance sheet the Group operates a Liquidity managed by the Group.
Each insurance company within the Group is Transfer Pricing LTP process which: allocates relevant interest expenses regulated by thePRA.
from the centre to the Groups banking businesses within the internal The Solvency II regime for insurers and insurance groups came into force management accounts: helps drive the correct inputs to customer pricing: and is consistent with regulatory requirements.
LTP makes extensive use of from 1January 2016.
The insurance businesses are required to calculate solvency capital requirements and available capital on a risk-based behavioural maturity profiles, taking account of expected customer loan prepayments and stability of customer deposits, modelled on historic data.
The Insurance business of the Group calculates regulatory capital on the basis of an internal model, which was approved by the PRA The Group can monetise liquid assets quickly, either through the on 5December 2015. repurchase agreements repo market or through outright sale.
In addition, the Group has pre-positioned a substantial amount of assets at the Bank The minimum required capital must be maintained at all times throughout of Englands Discount Window Facility which can be used to access the year.
These capital requirements and the capital available to meet additional liquidity in a time of stress.
The Group considers diversification them are regularly estimated in order to ensure that capital maintenance across geography, currency, markets and tenor when assessing appropriate requirements are being met.
The liquid asset buffer is managed under the All minimum regulatory requirements of the insurance companies have control of Group Corporate Treasury and is available for deployment at been met during the year.
immediate notice, subject to complying with regulatory requirements.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 145 Liquidity risk within the Insurance business may result from: the inability Funding and liquidity management in 2017 to sell financial assets quickly at their fair values: an insurance liability The Group has maintained its strong funding and liquidity position with a falling due for payment earlier than expected: the inability to generate loan to deposit ratio of 110 per cent at 31 December 2017 109 per cent as cash inflows as anticipated: an unexpected large operational event: or at 31 December 2016. from a general insurance catastrophe e. g. a significant weather event.
Following the implementation of Solvency II, the annuity portfolio is ringDuring 2017, the Group drew down a further 15.4 billion under the fenced and assets held to match annuity liability cashflows are excluded BankofEnglands Term Funding Scheme TFS, now fully utilised at from shareholder liquidity.
In the event a liquidity shortfall arises on the 20billion as at 31 December 2017.
The amount outstanding under the annuity portfolio, shareholder liquidity will be required to support this.
As Bank of Englands Funding for Lending Scheme FLS is 25.1 billion as at a result, the shareholders exposure to liquidity risk is through Insurances 31 December 2017 30.1 billion as at 31December 2016. non-annuity and surplus assets, any shortfall arising in the annuity portfolio As a result, wholesale funding has decreased by 9.7 billion to and the investment portfolios within the general Insurance business.
101.1billion as at 31 December 2017, with the amount maturing in less Liquidity risk is actively managed and monitored within the Insurance than one year falling to 28.5 billion as at 31 December 2017 35.1billion business to ensure that, even under stress conditions, there is sufficient as at 31December 2016.
In 2017, the Group issued term funding of liquidity to meet obligations and remain within approved risk appetite.
10.2 billion and following the full utilisation of the TFS, would expect term issuance volumes in 2018 to return to a steady-state requirement of Monitoring between 15billion and 20 billion per annum.
Daily monitoring and control processes are in place to address internal and The Groups strong balance sheet and funding and liquidity position has regulatory liquidity requirements.
The Group monitors a range of market been reflected in positive movements in the Groups credit ratings in 2017. and internal early warning indicators on a daily basis for early signs of During the second half of the year, Moodys upgraded LloydsBankplcs liquidity risk in the market or specific to the Group.
This captures regulatory long-term rating by one notch to Aa3.
In addition, S&P improved metrics as well as metrics the Group considers relevant for its liquidity LloydsBank plcs outlook to positive to reflect the Groups improved profile.
These are a mixture of quantitative and qualitative measures, bail-in capital position following recent Lloyds Banking Group plc issuance.
including: daily variation of customer balances: changes in maturity profiles: The Groups liquidity surplus continues to exceed the regulatory minimum cash outflows: funding concentration: changes in LCR eligible liquidity and internal risk appetite, with a Liquidity Coverage Ratio of 127 per cent portfolio: credit default swap CDS spreads: and changingfundingcosts.
as at 31 December 2017 based on the EU Delegated Act.
The Group carries out internal stress testing of its liquidity and potential cash flow mismatch position over both short up to one month and longer term horizons against a range of scenarios forming an important part of the internal risk appetite.
The scenarios and assumptions are reviewed at least annually to ensure that they continue to be relevant to the nature of the business including reflecting emerging horizon risks to the Group, such as the UK exit from the EU.
For further information on the Groups 2017 liquidity stress testing results refer to page 148.
The Group maintains a Contingency Funding Plan which is designed to identify emerging liquidity concerns at an early stage, so that mitigating actions can be taken to avoid a more serious crisis developing.
Contingency Funding Plan invocation and escalation processes are based on analysis of five major quantitative and qualitative components, comprising assessment of: early warning indicators: prudential and regulatory liquidity risk limits and triggers: stress testing results: event and systemic indicators: and market intelligence.
Table 1.34: Summary funding and liquidity metrics At 31 Dec At31Dec 2017 2016 Change bn bn % LCR eligible assets 120.9 120.8 Loan to deposit ratio % 109.7 108.9 1 1 LCR eligible liquid assets money market funding less than one year maturity x 8.3 8.8 6 1 Excludes balances relating to margins of 2.1 billion 31 December 2016: 3.2 billion and settlement accounts of 1.5 billion 31 December 2016: 1.8 billion.
146 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Risk management continued Table 1.35: Group funding position At31Dec At31Dec 2017 2016 Change bn bn % Funding requirement 1 Loans and advances to customers 455.7 449.7 1 2 Loans and advances to banks 4.1 5.1 20 Debt securities 3.6 3.4 6 Reverse repurchase agreements 0.7 0.5 40 3 Available-for-sale financial assets non-LCR eligible 0.9 1.9 53 4 Cash and balances at central bank non-LCR eligible 4.8 4.8 Funded assets 469.8 465.4 1 5 Other assets 234.7 249.9 6 704.5 715.3 2 On balance sheet LCR eligible liquid assets Reverse repurchase agreements 16.9 8.7 94 4 Cash and balances at central banks 53.7 42.7 26 Available-for-sale financial assets 41.2 54.6 25 Trading and fair value through profit and loss 1.7 1.8 6 Repurchase agreements 5.9 5.3 11 107.6 102.5 5 Total Group assets 812.1 817.8 1 5 Less: other liabilities 226.5 240.7 6 Funding requirement 585.6 577.1 1 Funded by Customer deposits 415.5 413.0 1 6 Wholesale funding 101.1 110.8 9 516.6 523.8 1 Term funding scheme 19.9 4.5 Total equity 49.1 48.8 1 Total funding 585.6 577.1 1 1 Excludes 16.8 billion 31 December 2016: 8.3 billion of reverse repurchase agreements.
2 Excludes 1.7 billion 31 December 2016: 20.9 billion of loans and advances to banks within the Insurance business and 0.8 billion 31 December 2016: 0.9 billion of reverse repurchase agreements.
3 Non-LCR eligible liquid assets comprise a diversified pool of highly rated unencumbered collateral including retained issuance.
4 Cash and balances at central banks are combined in the Groups balance sheet.
5 Other assets and other liabilities primarily include balances in the Groups Insurance business and the fair value of derivative assets and liabilities.
6 The Groups definition of wholesale funding aligns with that used by other international market participants, including interbank deposits, debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities.
Table 1.36: Reconciliation of Group funding to the balance sheet audited At 31 December 2017 At 31 December 2016 Repos Repos andcash Fairvalue andcash Fairvalue Includedin collateral andother Includedin collateral andother funding receivedby accounting Balance funding received by accounting Balance analysis Insurance methods sheet analysis Insurance methods sheet bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn Deposits from banks 5.1 24.1 0.6 29.8 8.1 8.0 0.3 16.4 Debt securities in issue 78.1 5.6 72.5 83.0 6.7 76.3 Subordinated liabilities 17.9 17.9 19.7 0.1 19.8 Total wholesale funding 101.1 24.1 110.8 8.0 Customer deposits 415.5 2.6 418.1 413.0 2.5 415.5 Total 516.6 26.7 523.8 10.5 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 147 Table 1.37: Analysis of 2017 total wholesale funding by residual maturity Less Oneto Nine Totalat Totalat than one three Threeto Sixtonine months Oneto Twoto Morethan 31 Dec 31Dec month months sixmonths months tooneyear twoyears fiveyears fiveyears 2017 2016 bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn bn Deposit from banks 3.7 1.0 0.3 0.1 5.1 8.1 Debt securities in issue: Certificates of deposit 1.3 2.1 3.2 2.5 0.9 10.0 7.5 Commercial paper 0.4 2.8 3.2 3.2 1 Medium-term notes 0.7 0.6 0.5 0.9 2.3 3.0 12.1 17.3 37.4 36.9 Covered bonds 1.5 0.7 0.1 2.8 12.3 7.3 24.7 29.1 Securitisation 0.4 0.1 0.1 0.6 1.3 0.3 2.8 6.3 3.9 5.9 4.4 3.6 3.3 6.4 25.7 24.9 78.1 83.0 Subordinated liabilities 0.2 1.5 0.6 0.5 3.2 11.9 17.9 19.7 2 Total wholesale funding 7.6 7.1 6.2 3.7 3.9 6.9 28.9 36.8 101.1 110.8 Of which issued by 3 Lloyds Banking Group plc 4.4 11.0 15.4 7.4 1 Medium-term notes include funding from the National Loan Guarantee Scheme 31 December 2016: 1.4 billion, which matured during 2017.
2 The Groups definition of wholesale funding aligns with that used by other international market participants: including interbank deposits, debt securities in issue and subordinated liabilities.
3 Consists of medium-term notes only.
Table 1.38: Total wholesale funding by currency audited Other Sterling USDollar Euro currencies Total bn bn bn bn bn At 31 December 2017 25.8 32.1 37.0 6.2 101.1 At 31 December 2016 30.6 33.0 41.4 5.8 110.8 Table 1.39: Analysis of 2017 term issuance audited Other Sterling USDollar Euro currencies Total bn bn bn bn bn Securitisation Medium-term notes 1.0 5.2 1.6 1.0 8.8 Covered bonds 1.0 1.0 1 Private placements 0.1 0.3 0.4 Subordinated liabilities Total issuance 2.1 5.5 1.6 1.0 10.2 2 Of which issued by Lloyds Banking Group plc 1.0 5.2 1.6 1.0 8.8 1 Private placements include structured bonds and term repurchase agreements repos.
2 Consists of medium-term notes only.
The Group continues to maintain a diversified approach to funding markets with trades in public and private format, secured and unsecured products and a wide range of currencies and markets.
For 2018, the Group will continue to maintain this diversified approach to funding, including capital and funding from the holding company, LloydsBanking Group plc, as needed to transition towards final UK Minimum Requirements for Own Funds and Eligible Liabilities MREL.
The contractual maturities for the FLS and TFS are fully factored into the Groups funding plan.
148 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Risk management continued Liquidity portfolio At 31 December 2017, the banking business had 120.9 billion of highly liquid unencumbered LCR eligible assets 31 December 2016: 120.8 billion, of which 120.2 billion is LCR level 1 eligible 31 December 2016: 120.3 billion and 0.7 billion is LCR level 2 eligible 31 December 2016: 0.5 billion.
These assets are available to meet cash and collateral outflows and PRA regulatory requirements.
A separate liquidity portfolio to mitigate any insurance liquidity risk is managed within the Insurance business.
LCR eligible liquid assets represent over eight times the Groups money market funding less than one year to maturity excluding derivative collateral margins and settlement accounts and exceed total wholesale funding, and thus provide a substantial buffer in the event of market dislocation.
As previously communicated, given the economic climate, the Group does not expect to hold gilts to maturity.
The Group has therefore continued to reduce the size of its gilts portfolio owned outright.
Table 1.40: LCR eligible assets Unweighted Unweighted At31Dec At31Dec average average 2017 2016 Change 2017 2016 bn bn % bn bn Level 1 Cash and central bank reserves 53.7 42.7 26 51.0 53.7 1 High quality government MDB agency bonds 65.8 75.3 13 72.0 72.4 High quality covered bonds 0.7 2.3 70 1.1 2.4 Total 120.2 120.3 124.1 128.5 2 Level 2 0.7 0.5 40 0.6 0.5 Total LCR eligible assets 120.9 120.8 124.7 129.0 1 Designated multilateral development bank MDB.
Table 1.41: LCR eligible assets by currency Other Sterling US Dollar Euro currencies Total bn bn bn bn bn At 31 December 2017 Level 1 90.8 16.3 13.1 120.2 Level 2 0.2 0.5 0.7 Total 91.0 16.8 13.1 120.9 At 31 December 2016 Level 1 96.0 12.5 11.8 120.3 Level 2 0.2 0.3 0.5 Total 96.2 12.8 11.8 120.8 The banking business also has a significant amount of non-LCR eligible assets which are eligible for use in a range of central bank or similar facilities.
Future use of such facilities will be based on prudent liquidity management and economic considerations, having regard for external market conditions.
The Board and the Group Asset and Liability Committee GALCO Stress testing results monitor and manage total balance sheet encumbrance via a number of Internal stress testing results at 31 December 2017 showed that the risk appetite metrics.
At 31 December 2017, the Group had 64.6 billion banking business had liquidity resources representing 142 per cent of 31 December 2016: 83.5 billion of externally encumbered on balance modelled outflows from all wholesale funding sources, retail and corporate sheet assets with counterparties other than central banks.
The decrease in deposits, intraday requirements and rating dependent contracts under the encumbered assets was primarily driven by maturities of covered bond and Groups most severe liquidity stress scenario.
The Group also had 587.5 billion 31December A hypothetical idiosyncratic two notch downgrade of the Groups 2016: 580.9 billion of unencumbered on balance sheet assets, and current long-term debt rating and accompanying short-term downgrade 160.1billion 31December 2016: 153.5 billion of pre-positioned implemented instantaneously by all major rating agencies, could result in and encumbered assets held with central banks.
Primarily the Group a contractual outflow of 1.1 billion of cash over a period of up to one year, encumbers mortgages, unsecured lending and credit card receivables 2.0 billion of collateral posting related to customer financial contracts and through the issuance programmes and tradable securities through 5.9 billion of collateral posting associated with secured funding.
The Group mainly positions mortgage assets atcentral banks.
Encumbered assets This disclosure provides further detail on the availability of assets that could be used to support potential future funding requirements of the Group.
The disclosure is not designed to identify assets that would be available in the event of a resolution or bankruptcy.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 149 Table 1.42: On balance sheet encumbered and unencumbered assets Encumberedwith  counterpartiesother positioned notpre-positioned thancentralbanks and withcentralbanks encumbered assets Other Covered heldwith Readily realisable Cannotbe 1 2 3 Securitisations bond Other Total central banks realisable assets used Total Total m m m m m m m m m m At 31 December 2017 Cash and balances at central banks 53,887 4,634 58,521 58,521 Trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 4,642 4,642 7,378 150,858 158,236 162,878 Derivative financial instruments 25,834 25,834 25,834 Loans and receivables: Loans and advances to banks 213 1,417 4,981 6,611 6,611 Loans and advances to customers 5,023 26,414 6,610 38,047 160,060 13,927 170,771 89,693 274,391 472,498 Debt securities 2,374 2,374 919 4 346 1,269 3,643 5,023 26,414 8,984 40,421 160,060 15,059 172,192 95,020 282,271 482,752 Available-for-sale financial assets 19,526 19,526 21,514 1,058 22,572 42,098 4 Other 16 1,175 38,835 40,026 40,026 Total assets 5,023 26,414 33,152 64,589 160,060 97,854 173,367 316,239 587,460 812,109 At 31 December 2016 Cash and balances at central banks 42,998 4,454 47,452 47,452 Trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 4,806 4,806 9,175 22 137,171 146,368 151,174 Derivative financial instruments 36,138 36,138 36,138 Loans and receivables: Loans and advances to banks 32 32 528 1,825 24,517 26,870 26,902 Loans and advances to customers 14,542 30,883 7,305 52,730 153,482 7,032 152,997 91,717 251,746 457,958 Debt securities 904 904 2,344 5 144 2,493 3,397 14,542 30,883 8,241 53,666 153,482 9,904 154,827 116,378 281,109 488,257 Available-for-sale financial assets 154 24,824 24,978 31,017 31 498 31,546 56,524 4 Other 34 1,737 36,477 38,248 38,248 Total assets 14,696 30,883 37,871 83,450 153,482 93,128 156,617 331,116 580,861 817,793 1 Assets regarded by the Group to be readily realisable in the normal course of business, to secure funding, meet collateral needs, or be sold to reduce potential future funding requirements, and are not subject to any restrictions on their use for these purposes.
2 Assets where there are no restrictions on their use to secure funding, meet collateral needs, or be sold to reduce potential future funding requirements, but are not readily realisable in the normal course of business in their current form.
3 The following assets are classified as unencumbered cannot be used: assets held within the Groups Insurance businesses which are generally held to either back liabilities to policyholders or to support the solvency of the Insurance subsidiaries: assets held within consolidated limited liability partnerships which provide security for the Groups obligations to its pension schemes: assets pledged to facilitate the use of intra-day payment and settlement systems: and reverse repos and derivatives balance sheet ledger items.
4 Other comprises: items in the course of collection from banks: investment properties: goodwill: value in-force business: other intangible assets: tangible fixed assets: current tax recoverable: deferred tax assets: retirement benefit assets: and other assets.
The above table sets out the carrying value of the Groups encumbered and unencumbered assets, separately identifying those that are available to support the Groups funding needs.
The table does not include collateral received by the Group i. e. from reverse repos that is not recognised on its balance sheet, the vast majority of which the Group is permitted to repledge.
150 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Risk management continued Governance risk Definition Governance risk is defined as the risk that the Groups organisational Under the banner of the RMF, training modules are in place to support all infrastructure fails to provide robust oversight of decision making and the colleagues in understanding and fulfilling their risk responsibilities.
control mechanisms to ensure strategies and management instructions are The Ethics and Responsible Business Policy and supporting code of implemented effectively.
responsibility embody the Groups values and reflect its commitment to operating responsibly and ethically both at a business and an individual Exposures level.
All colleagues are required to adhere to the code in all aspects of The internal and corporate governance arrangements of major financial their roles.
institutions continue to be subject to a high level of regulatory and public Effective implementation of the RMF mutually reinforces and is reinforced scrutiny.
The Groups exposure to governance risk is also reflective of the by the Groups risk culture, which is embedded in its approach to significant volume of existing and proposed legislation and regulation, recruitment, selection, training, performance management and reward.
both within the UK and across the multiple jurisdictions within which it operates, with which it must comply.
Risk governance and risk culture are Monitoring mutually reinforcing.
A review of the Groups RMF, which includes the status of the Groups principles and policy framework, and the design and operational Measurement effectiveness of key governance committees, is undertaken on an annual The Groups governance arrangements are assessed against new or basis and the findings are reported to the Group Risk Committee, Board proposed legislation and regulation and best practice among peer Risk Committee and the Board.
organisations in order to identify any areas of enhancement required.
This includes a review of the Groups current approach to governance and ongoing initiatives in light of the latest regulatory guidance, including Mitigation in 2017 the continued enhancement of frameworks to address Senior The Groups Risk Management Framework RMF establishes robust Managers and Certification Regime SM&CR requirements and prepare arrangements for risk governance, in particular by: for the requirement to ring-fence retail banking activities with effect fromJanuary 2019.
Defining individual and collective accountabilities for risk management, risk oversight and risk assurance through a three lines of defence For further information on Corporate Governance see pages 5880. model which supports the discharge of responsibilities to customers, shareholders and regulators: Outlining governance arrangements which articulate the enterprise-wide approach to risk management: and Supporting a consistent approach to Group-wide behaviour and risk decision making through a Group policy framework which helps everyone understand their responsibilities by clearly articulating and communicating rules, standards, boundaries and risk appetite measures which can be controlled, enforced and monitored.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 151 Market risk Definition Market risk is defined as the risk that unfavourable market moves including changes in and increased volatility of interest rates, market-implied inflation rates, credit spreads and prices for bonds, foreign exchange rates, equity, property and commodity prices and other instruments lead to reductions in earnings and or value.
Balance sheet linkages The information provided in table 1.43 aims to facilitate the understanding of linkages between banking, trading, and insurance balance sheet items and the positions disclosed in the Groups market risk disclosures.
Table 1.43: Market risk linkage to the balance sheet Banking Trading Total book only Non-trading Insurance 2017 m m m m Primary market risk factor Assets Cash and balances at central banks 58,521 58,521 Interest rate Trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 162,878 42,230 3,325 117,323 Interest rate, foreign exchange, credit spread Derivative financial instruments 25,834 21,605 1,881 2,348 Interest rate, foreign exchange, credit spread Loans and receivables Loans and advances to banks 6,611 4,274 2,337 Interest rate 1 Loans and advances to customers 472,498 472,498 Interest rate Debt securities 3,643 3,643 Interest rate, credit spread 482,752 480,415 2,337 Available-for-sale financial assets 42,098 42,098 Interest rate, foreign exchange, credit spread Value of in-force business 4,839 4,839 Equity Other assets 35,187 18,303 16,884 Interest rate Total assets 812,109 63,835 604,543 143,731 Liabilities Deposit from banks 29,804 29,804 Interest rate Customer deposits 418,124 418,124 Interest rate Trading and other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 50,877 43,062 7,815 Interest rate, foreign exchange Derivative financial instruments 26,124 21,699 1,613 2,812 Interest rate, foreign exchange, credit spread Debt securities in issue 72,450 72,450 Interest rate, credit spread Liabilities arising from insurance and investment contracts 118,860 118,860 Credit spread Subordinated liabilities 17,922 16,131 1,791 Interest rate, foreign exchange Other liabilities 28,805 8,345 20,460 Interest rate Total liabilities 762,966 64,761 554,282 143,923 1 Includes 6.9billion of lower risk loans within the banking book sold by Commercial Banking and Retail to Insurance to manage market risk arising from annuitant liabilities within the Insurance business.
The defined benefit pension schemes assets and liabilities are included The Group ensures that it has adequate cash and balances at central banks and stocks of high quality liquid assets e. g. gilts or US Treasury securities under Other assets and Other liabilities in this table and note 35 on page206 provides further information.
that can be converted easily into cash to meet liquidity requirements.
The majority of these assets are held as available-for-sale with the remainder The Groups trading book assets and liabilities are originated by held as financial assets at fair value through profit and loss.
Further Commercial Banking CB Markets within the Commercial Banking division.
information on these balances can be found under Funding and liquidity Within the Groups balance sheet these fall under the trading assets and risk on page 146.
Interest rate risk in the asset portfolios is swapped into a liabilities and derivative financial instruments.
The assets and liabilities floating rate.
are classified as trading books if they have been acquired or incurred for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near future.
These consist of The majority of debt issuance originates from the issuance, capital vehicles government, corporate and financial institution bonds and loans deposits and medium term notes desks and the interest rate risk of the debt issued and repos.
Further information on these activities can be found under the is hedged by swapping them into a floating rate.
The non-trading book primarily consists of customer on balance sheet activities and the Groups capital and funding activities, which expose it to Derivative assets and liabilities are held by the Group for three main purposes: to provide risk management solutions for clients, to manage the risk of adverse movements in market prices, predominantly interest rates, credit spreads, exchange rates and equity prices, as described in portfolio risks arising from client business and to manage and hedge the Groups own risks.
The majority of derivatives exposure arises within CB further detail within the Banking activities section page 152.
Insurance business assets and liabilities relate to policyholder funds, as well as shareholder invested assets, including annuity funds.
The Group recognises the value of in-force business in respect of Insurances long-term life assurance contracts as an asset in the balance sheet see note 24, page 198.
152 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Risk management continued Table 1.44 below shows the key material market risks for the Groups banking, defined benefit pension schemes, insurance and trading activities.
Table 1.44: Key material market risks for the Group by individual business activity profit before tax impact measured against Group single stress scenarios Risk Type 2017 Interest Rate Basis Risk FX Credit Spread Equity Inflation 1 Banking activities 1 Defined benefit pension schemes 1 Insurance portfolios 2 Trading portfolios Profit before tax Loss Gain 500m 250m 500m 50m 250m Immaterial zero 1 Banking activities, Pensions and Insurance stresses: Interest rate -100 bps, Basis Risk 3 month London Interbank Offered Rate LIBOR 100bps bank base rate -25bps, Foreign Exchange FX -15 per cent GBP, Credit Spread 100 per cent, Equity -30 per cent, Inflation 50 bps 2 Trading Portfolios: Interest rate 30bps, FX 5 per cent GBP, Credit Spread 20 per cent, Inflation 50bps.
Banking activities Measurement In addition to measuring single factors, Group risk appetite is calibrated Exposures primarily to five multi-risk Group economic scenarios, and is supplemented The Groups banking activities expose it to the risk of adverse movements with sensitivity based measures.
The scenarios assess the impact of unlikely, in market prices, predominantly interest rates, credit spreads, exchange but plausible adverse stresses on income, with the worst case for banking rates and equity prices.
The volatility of market values can be affected by activities, defined benefit pensions, insurance and trading portfolios both the transparency of prices and the amount of liquidity in the market reported against independently, and across the Group as a whole.
for the relevant asset or liability.
The Group risk appetite is cascaded first to the Group Asset and Liability Interest rate risk Committee GALCO, chaired by the Chief Financial Officer, where risk Yield curve risk in the Groups divisional portfolios, and in the Groups appetite is approved and monitored by risk type, and then to Group capital and funding activities arises from the different repricing Market Risk Committee GMRC where risk appetite is sub allocated by characteristics of the Groups non-trading assets, liabilities see loans division.
These metrics are reviewed regularly by senior management to and advances to customers and customer deposits in table 1.43 and off inform effective decision making.
Mitigation Basis risk arises from the possible changes in spreads, for example where the bank lends with reference to a central bank rate but funds with GALCO is responsible for approving and monitoring Group market risks, reference to LIBOR, and the spread between these two rates widens or management techniques, market risk measures, behavioural assumptions, tightens.
and the market risk policy.
Various mitigation activities are assessed and undertaken across the Group to manage portfolios and seek to ensure Optionality risk arises predominantly from embedded optionality within they remain within approved limits.
The mitigation actions will vary assets, liabilities or off-balance sheet items where either the Group or the dependent on exposure, but will, in general, look to reduce risk in a cost customer can affect the size or timing of cash flows.
One example of this effective manner, by offsetting balance sheet exposures and externalising risk is pipeline mortgage risk where the customer owns an option on a through to the financial markets dependent on market liquidity.
The mortgage rate and changes in market rates can impact the take up of the market risk policy is owned by Group Corporate Treasury GCT and committed offer.
Mortgage prepayment risk is another example where the refreshed annually.
The policy is underpinned by supplementary market customer owns an option allowing them to prepay when it is economical risk procedures, which define specific market risk management and to do so.
This can result in customer balances amortising more quickly oversight requirements.
or slowly than anticipated due to economic conditions or customers response to changes in economic conditions.
Monitoring Foreign exchange risk GALCO and the GMRC regularly review high level market risk exposure, Economic foreign exchange exposure arises from the Groups investment in as part of the wider risk management framework.
They also make its overseas operations net investment exposures are disclosed in note51 recommendations to the Group Chief Executive concerning overall market on page 240.
In addition, the Group incurs foreign exchange risk through risk appetite and Group Market Risk Policy.
Exposures at lower levels of non-functional currency flows from services provided by customer facing delegation are monitored at various intervals according to their volatility, divisions and the Groups debt and capital management programmes.
from daily in the case of trading portfolios to monthly or quarterly in the case of less volatile portfolios.
Levels of exposures compared to approved Equity risk limits and triggers are monitored by Risk and where appropriate, escalation Equity risk arises primarily from three different sources: i the Groups procedures are in place.
strategic equity holdings in Banco Sabadell, Aberdeen Asset How market risks arise and are managed across the Groups activities is Management, and Visa Europe: ii exposure to Lloyds Banking Group considered in more detail below.
share price through deferred shares and deferred options granted to employees as part of their benefits package: and iii the Groups private equity investments held by Lloyds Development Capital.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 153 Credit spread risk Reported sensitivities are not necessarily predictive of future performance as they do not capture additional management actions that would likely be Credit spread risk arises largely from: i the liquid asset portfolio held in the taken in response to an immediate, large, movement in interest rates.
The management of Group liquidity, comprising of government, supranational, actions could reduce the net interest income sensitivity and help mitigate and other eligible assets: ii the Credit Valuation Adjustment CVA any adverse impacts or they may result in changes to total income that are and Debit Valuation Adjustment DVA sensitivity to credit spreads: and not captured in the net interest income.
iii anumber of the Groups structured medium term notes where we haveelected to fair value the notes through the profit and loss account.
iii Market value limit: this caps the amount of conventional and inflation-linked government bonds held by the Group for liquidity purposes.
Measurement iv Structural hedge limits: these metrics enhance understanding of Interest rate risk exposure is monitored monthly using, primarily: assumption and duration risk taken within the behaviouralisation of i Market value sensitivity: this methodology considers all repricing thisportfolio.
mismatches behaviourally adjusted where appropriate in the current The Group has an integrated Asset and Liability Management ALM balance sheet and calculates the change in market value that would system which supports non traded asset and liability management of the result from an instantaneous 25, 100 and 200 basis points parallel rise or Group.
This provides a single consolidated tool to measure and manage fall in the yield curve subject to an appropriate floor.
The market value interest rate repricing profiles including behavioural assumptions, perform sensitivities are calculated on a static balance sheet using principal cash stress testing and produce forecast outputs.
The Group is aware that any flows excluding commercial margins and other spread components and assumptions based model is open to challenge.
A full behavioural review are therefore discounted at the risk free zero-coupon rate.
is performed annually, or in response to changing market conditions, to ii Interest income sensitivity: this measures the 12 month impact on future ensure the assumptions remain appropriate and the model itself is subject net interest income arising from various economic scenarios.
These include to annual re-validation, as required under the Group Model Governance instantaneous 25, 100 and 200 basis point parallel shifts in all yield curves Policy.
The key behavioural assumptions are: i embedded optionality and the five Group economic scenarios subject to an appropriate floor.
within products: ii the duration of balances that are contractually These scenarios are reviewed every year and are designed to replicate repayable on demand, such as current accounts and overdrafts, together severe but plausible economic events, capturing risks that would not with net free reserves of the Group: and iii the re-pricing behaviour of be evident through the use of parallel shocks alone such as basis risk managed rate liabilities namely variable rate savings.
and steepening or flattening of the yield curve.
An additional negative A limit structure exists to ensure that risks stemming from residual and rates scenario is also used for information purposes where all floors are temporary positions or from changes in assumptions about customer removed: however this is not measured against the limit framework.
behaviour remain within the Groups risk appetite.
Unlike the market value sensitivities, the interest income sensitivities Table 1.45 below shows, split by material currency, the Groups market incorporate additional behavioural assumptions as to how and when value sensitivities to an instantaneous parallel up and down 25 and individual products would reprice in response to changing rates.
In 100basis points change to all interest rates.
addition a dynamic balance sheet is used which includes the run-off of current assets and liabilities and the addition of planned new business.
The market value sensitivity is driven by temporary customer flow positions not yet hedged plus other positions occasionally held, within limits, by the Groups wholesale funding desks in order to minimise overall funding and hedging costs.
The level of risk is low relative to the size of the total balancesheet.
Table 1.46 below shows supplementary value sensitivity to a steepening and flattening c. 100 basis points around the 3 year point in the yield curve.
This ensures there are no unintended consequences to managing risk to parallel shifts in rates.
Table 1.46: Banking activities: market value sensitivity to a steepening and flattening of the yield curve 2017 2016 Steepener Flattener Steepener Flattener m m m m Sterling 1.1 16.5 5.8 13.2 US Dollar 7.1 8.9 0.7 1.3 Euro 3.8 7.9 15.3 12.8 Other 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 Total 2.0 17.3 20.6 27.1 154 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Risk management continued The table below shows the banking book income sensitivity to an instantaneous parallel up and down 25 and 100 basis points change to all interest rates.
Table 1.47: Banking activities: net interest income sensitivity 2017 2016 Up Down Up Down Up Down Up Down 25bps 25bps 100bps 100bps 25bps 25bps 100bps 100bps m m m m m m m m Client facing activity and associated hedges 86.1 54.0 370.5 186.9 176.8 286.1 724.9 408.0 Income sensitivity is measured over a rolling 12 month basis.
Defined benefit pension schemes The reduction in the net interest income sensitivity reflects the growth in Exposures the structural hedge throughout 2017 and the accompanying reduction in The Groups defined benefit pension schemes are exposed to significant income volatility in future years.
risks from their assets and liabilities.
The liability discount rate provides Basis risk, foreign exchange, equity, and credit spread risks are measured exposure to interest rate risk and credit spread risk, which are partially primarily through scenario analysis by assessing the impact on profit before offset by fixed interest assets such as gilts and corporate bonds and tax over a 12 month horizon arising from a change in market rates, and swaps.
Equity and alternative asset risk arises from direct asset holdings.
reported within the Board risk appetite on a monthly basis.
Supplementary Scheme membership provides exposure to longevity risk.
measures such as sensitivity and exposure limits are applied where For further information on defined benefit pension scheme assets and they provide greater insight into risk positions.
Frequency of reporting liabilities please refer to note 35 on page 206. supplementary measures varies from daily to quarterly appropriate to each risk type.
Measurement Management of the schemes assets is the responsibility of the Trustees Mitigation of the schemes who are responsible for setting the investment strategy The Groups policy is to optimise reward whilst managing its market risk and for agreeing funding requirements with the Group.
Should a funding exposures within the risk appetite defined by the Board.
The Group deficit arise, the Group will be liable for meeting it, and as part of a Market Risk Policy and procedures outlines the hedging process, and the triennial valuation process will agree with the Trustees a funding strategy to centralisation of risk from divisions into GCT, e. g. via the transfer pricing eliminate the deficit over an appropriate period.
GCT is responsible for managing the centralised risk and Longevity risk is measured using both 1-in-20 year stresses risk appetite does this through natural offsets of matching assets and liabilities, and appropriate hedging activity of the residual exposures, subject to the and 1-in-200 year stresses regulatory capital.
authorisation and mandate of GALCO within the Board risk appetite.
Mitigation Derivative desks in CB Markets will then externalise the hedges to the The Group takes an active involvement in agreeing mitigation strategies with market.
The Group has hedge accounting solutions in place, which reduce the schemes Trustees.
An interest rate and inflation hedging programme the accounting volatility arising from the Groups economic hedging is in place to reduce liability risk.
The schemes have also reduced equity activities by utilising both LIBOR based and bank base rate assets.
allocation and invested the proceeds in credit assets as part of a programme The largest residual risk exposure arises from balances that are deemed to fide-risk the portfolio.
The merits of longevity risk transfer and hedging to be insensitive to changes in market rates including current accounts, a solutions are regularly reviewed.
portion of variable rate deposits and investable equity, and is managed through the Groups structural hedge.
Consistent with the Groups strategy Monitoring to deliver stable returns, GALCO seeks to minimise large reinvestment risk, In addition to the wider risk management framework, governance of the and to smooth earnings over a range of investment tenors.
The structural schemes includes two specialist pensions committees.
hedge consists of longer term fixed rate assets or interest rate swaps and The surplus or deficit in the schemes is tracked on a monthly basis along the amount and duration of the hedging activity is reviewed regularly with various single factor and scenario stresses which consider the assets byGALCO.
Key metrics are monitored monthly including Whilst the bank faces margin compression in the current low rate the Groups capital resources of the scheme, the performance against risk environment, its exposure to pipeline and prepayment risk are not appetite triggers, and the performance of the hedged asset and liability considered material, and are hedged in line with expected customer matching positions.
These are appropriately monitored and controlled through divisional Asset and Liability Committees ALCOs.
Insurance portfolios Net investment foreign exchange exposures are managed centrally by Exposures GCT, by hedging non-sterling asset values with currency borrowing.
In the The main elements of market risk to which the Group is exposed through first half of 2017, the Group unwound the economic hedges against these the Insurance business are equity, credit spread, interest rate and inflation.
positions in order to create additional offset to common equity tier1 CET1 Equity risk arises indirectly through the value of future management movements arising from revaluation of foreign currency risk-weighted charges on policyholder funds.
These management charges form part of assets see note 51 on page 240.
Economic foreign exchange exposures the value of in-force business see note 24 on page 198.
Equity risk also arising from non-functional currency flows are identified by divisions and arises in the with-profits funds but is less material.
The Group also has a policy of forward hedging its forecasted currency profit and loss to year end.
Credit spread risk mainly arises from annuities where policyholders future cashflows are guaranteed at retirement.
Exposure arises if the Monitoring market value of the assets which are held to back these liabilities, mainly The appropriate limits and triggers are monitored by senior executive corporate bonds and loans, do not perform in line with expectations.
committees within the banking divisions.
Banking assets, liabilities and Within the Group accounts a large amount of the exposure to market associated hedging are actively monitored and if necessary rebalanced to value movements, but not actual default losses, is removed as accounting be within agreed tolerances.
rules require that assets which the Insurance division has acquired from Group are maintained at the original amortised book value.
Interest rate risk arises through holding credit and interest assets mainly in the annuity book and also to cover general insurance liabilities, capital requirements and risk appetite.
Inflation exposure arises from a combination of inflation linked policyholder benefits and inflation assumptions used to project future expenses.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 155 Measurement Table 1.48 demonstrates the impact of the Groups Eurozone Credit Crunch scenario on Insurance's porfolio with no diversification benefit, Current and potential future market risk exposures within Insurance are but after the impact of Group consolidation on interest rate and spread assessed using a range of stress testing exercises and scenario analyses.
This is the most onerous scenario for Insurance out of the Risk measures include 1-in-200 year stresses used for regulatory capital Group scenarios.
The amounts include movements in assets, liabilities assessments and single factor stresses for profit before tax.
and the value of in-force business in respect of insurance contracts and participating investment contracts.
Table 1.48: Insurance business: profit before tax sensitivities Increase reduction in profit before tax 1 2017 2016 m m Interest rates decrease 100 basis points 202 387 Inflation increase 50 basis points 24 34 Credit spreads 100% widening 140 369 Equity 30% fall 1,001 681 Property 25% fall 67 58 1 Restated.
The most onerous scenario has changed to Eurozone Credit Crunch from UK Recession.
Further stresses that show the effect of reasonably possible changes in All trading activities are performed within the Commercial Banking division.
key assumptions, including the risk-free rate, equity investment volatility, While the trading positions taken are generally small, any extreme moves widening of credit default spreads on corporate bonds and an increase in in the main risk factors and other related risk factors could cause significant illiquidity premia, as applied to profit before tax are set out in note 32. losses in the trading book depending on the positions at the time.
The average 95 per cent 1-day trading VaR Value at Risk: diversified across risk Mitigation factors was 0.6 million for 31 December 2017 compared to 1.3 million Equity and credit spread risks are closely monitored and, where for 31 December 2016.
The decrease in exposure was mainly due to high appropriate, asset liability matching is undertaken to mitigate risk.
A VaR during the first half of 2016 caused by overstatement of the interest hedging strategy is in place to reduce exposure from the with-profit funds.
rate risk by the VaR model.
Improvements to more accurately reflect the risk were implemented in June 2016 which reduced the VaR significantly Interest rate risk in the annuity book is mitigated by investing in assets over the second half of 2016 and over 2017. whose cash flows closely match those on the projected future liabilities.
It is not possible to eliminate risk completely as the timing of insured events Trading market risk measures are applied to all of the Groups regulatory is uncertain and bonds are not available at all of the required maturities.
As trading books and they include daily VaR table1.49, sensitivity based a result, the cash flows cannot be precisely matched and so sensitivity tests measures, and stress testing calculations.
are used to test the extent of the mismatch.
Measurement Other market risks e. g. interest rate exposure outside the annuity The Group internally uses VaR as the primary risk measure for all trading book and inflation are also closely monitored and where considered book positions.
appropriate, hedges are put in place to reduce exposure.
Table 1.49 shows some relevant statistics for the Groups 1-day 95 per cent Monitoring confidence level VaR that are based on 300historical consecutive business Market risks in the Insurance business are monitored by Insurance senior days to year end 2017 and year end 2016. executive committees and ultimately the Insurance Board.
Monitoring The risk of loss measured by the VaR model is the minimum expected includes the progression of market risk capital against risk appetite limits, loss in earnings given the 95 per cent confidence.
The total and average as well as the sensitivity of profit before tax to combined market risk stress trading VaR numbers reported below have been obtained after the scenarios and in year market movements.
Asset and liability matching application of the diversification benefits across the five risk types.
The positions and hedges in place are actively monitored and if necessary maximum and minimum VaR reported for each risk category did not rebalanced to be within agreed tolerances.
In addition market risk is necessarily occur on the same day as the maximum and minimum VaR controlled via approved investment policies and mandates.
Trading portfolios Exposures The Groups trading activity is small relative to its peers and does not engage in any proprietary trading activities.
The Groups trading activity is undertaken solely to meet the financial requirements of commercial and retail customers for foreign exchange, credit and interest rate products.
These activities support customer flow and market making activities.
Table 1.49: Trading portfolios: VaR 1-day 95percent confidence level audited At 31 December 2017 At 31 December 2016 Close Average Maximum Minimum Close Average Maximum Minimum m m m m m m m m Interest rate risk 0.5 0.6 2.1 0.2 0.7 1.3 7.7 0.5 Foreign exchange risk 0.1 0.1 0.4 0.0 0.1 0.3 0.8 0.1 Equity risk Credit spread risk 0.3 0.3 0.5 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.4 0.1 Inflation risk 0.2 0.3 0.9 0.2 0.2 0.3 5.9 0.1 All risk factors before diversification 1.1 1.3 2.9 0.9 1.2 2.1 14.3 1.1 Portfolio diversification 0.4 0.7 0.5 0.8 Total VaR 0.7 0.6 2.2 0.3 0.7 1.3 5.7 0.6 156 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Risk management continued The market risk for the trading book continues to be low with respect to Model risk the size of the Group and compared to our peers.
This reflects the fact that the Groups trading operations are customer-centric and focused on Definition hedging and recycling client risks.
Model risk is defined as the risk of financial loss, regulatory censure, Although it is an important market standard measure of risk, VaR has reputational damage or customer detriment, as a result of deficiencies limitations.
One of them is the use of limited historical data sample which in the development, application or ongoing operation of models and influences the output by the implicit assumption that future market ratingsystems.
behaviour will not differ greatly from the historically observed period.
Models are defined as quantitative methods that process input data Another known limitation is the use of defined holding periods which into quantitative outputs, or qualitative outputs including ordinal assumes that the risk can be liquidated or hedged within that holding letter output which have a quantitative measure associated with period.
Also calculating the VaR at the chosen confidence interval does them.
ModelGovernance Policy is restricted to specific categories of not give enough information about potential losses which may occur if application of models, principally financial risk, treasury and valuation, this level is exceeded.
The Group fully recognises these limitations and with certain exclusions, such as prescribed calculations and project supplements the use of VaR with a variety of other measurements which .
reflect the nature of the business activity.
These include detailed sensitivity analysis, position reporting and a stress testing programme.
Exposures Trading book VaR 1-day 99 per cent is compared daily against both There are over 300 models in the Group performing a variety of functions hypothetical and clean profit and loss.
1-day 99 per cent VaR charts for Lloyds Bank, HBOS and Lloyds Banking Group models can be found in the including: Groups Pillar 3 Report.
capital calculation: credit decisioning, including fraud: Mitigation The level of exposure is controlled by establishing and communicating pricing models: the approved risk limits and controls through policies and procedures impairment calculation: that define the responsibility and authority for risk taking.
Market risk limits stress testing and forecasting: and are clearly and consistently communicated to the business.
Any new or market risk measurement.
emerging risks are brought within risk reporting and defined limits.
As a result of the wide scope and breadth of coverage, there is exposure to Monitoring model risk across a number of the Groups primary risk categories.
Trading risk appetite is monitored daily with 1-day 95 per cent VaR and stress testing limits.
These limits are complemented with position level Measurement action triggers and profit and loss referrals.
Risk and position limits are The Group risk appetite framework is the key component for measuring set and managed at both desk and overall trading book levels.
They are the Groups model risk.
Reported monthly to the Group Risk Committee reviewed at least annually and can be changed as required within the and Board, focus is placed on the performance of the Groups most overall Group risk appetite framework.
Mitigation The model risk management framework, established by and with continued oversight from an independent team in the Risk division, provides the foundation for managing and mitigating Model Risk within the Group.
Accountability is cascaded from the Board and seniormanagement via the Group Risk Management Framework.
This provides the basis for the Group Model Governance Policy, whichdefines the mandatory requirements for models across the Group, including: the scope of models covered by the policy: model materiality: roles and responsibilities, including ownership, independent oversight and approval: and key principles and controls regarding data integrity, development, validation, implementation, ongoing maintenance and validation, monitoring, and the process for non-compliance.
The above ensures models, including those involved in regulatory capital calculation, are developed consistently and are of sufficient quality to support business decisions and meet regulatory requirements.
Monitoring The Group Model Governance Committee is the primary body for overseeing model risk.
Policy requires that Key Performance Indicators are monitored for every model and all issues are escalated appropriately.
Material model issues are reported to Group and Board Risk Committees monthly with more detailed papers as necessary to focus on key issues.
Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 157 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report 158 36.
Deferred tax Consolidated income statement 166 37.
Other provisions Consolidated statement of 38.
Share capital Consolidated balance sheet 168 40.
Share premium account Consolidated statement of changes 41.
Retained profits Consolidated cash flow statement 172 43.
Share-based payments Notes to the consolidated financialstatements 173 46.
Offsetting of financial assets and liabilities 5.
Net fee and commission income 52.
Events since the balance sheet date 8.
Operating expenses Parent company balance sheet 255 12.
Impairment Parent company statement ofchangesinequity 256 13.
Taxation Parent company cash flow statement 257 14.
Trading and other financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Notes to the parent company financialstatements 258 16.
Loans and advances to customers accounting policies 18.
Allowance for impairment losses and other equity instruments on loans and receivables 4.
Trading and other financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 30.
Liabilities arising from insurance contracts and participating investment contracts 32.
Liabilities arising from non-participating investment contracts 34.
