Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Head Office and Group Service Company Our service operations The scale of the Group Service Company is The Head Office function contains the central operations substantial, accounting for around 42,000 of the roup ith the reintegration of reaining legac assets colleagues working globally.
It delivers services across a wide range of technical and and businesses in the second half of 2, the function functional capabilities, including Compliance, becae a ore aterial contributor to the roup results Corporate Relations, Legal, Risk, Real Estate, Finance, Operations and Technology.
The oing forward, an of the Head Office functions will be Group Service Company operates as a within the roup erice Copan separate legal entity with its own board of directors, thereby promoting transparency and increased accountability.
The Group Service Company is also a major step in the delivery of our structural reform programme.
It is Barclays response to the ring-fencing requirements established by the UK Government following the financial crisis that began in 2007.
Grouping our services together in this way will allow us to maintain operational continuity for our business units and facilitate the execution of our recovery and resolution plans in the event of financial difficulty, thereby strengthening the overall resilience of the Barclays Group.
It also means The Head Office of Barclays includes the The Group Service Company was stood up in we have a centre of excellence for services impact of treasury operations, which manage September 2017 and is the hub through which required by the business, such as fraud the capital, funding and liquidity position of we will deliver a wide range of operations, management and cyber security, where we the Group.
technology and functional services to the can reduce duplication and benefit from Barclays Group and the two legal entities of In 2017, the Head Office became more implementing best practice across all of our Barclays Bank UK PLC and Barclays Bank PLC.
significant for Barclays as it contained some of businesses.
The purpose of the Group Service Company is the costs associated with the legacy assets to provide world-class services that are high For further information on the timeline and businesses, which were reintegrated on quality, efficient and cost effective, to support and progress of our structural reform 1 July 2017.
These factors contributed to a our goal to be at the forefront of industry programme, please see page 204.
834m loss before tax in 2017. change and innovation.
From 1 April 2018, the treasury operations will With significant commercial and competitive be embedded into the respective legal entities value, we believe the Group Service Company of Barclays Bank UK PLC, and Barclays Bank will radically reduce duplication of effort and PLC, as well as into Barclays PLC.
cost, allowing us to give a more consistent and seamless experience to our colleagues, clients and customers.
This will allow us to The Group Service Company lead the way in next generation products and has significant commercial services in banking, to fully embrace the and competitive value.
advantages that lie in automation, capitalise on our data and to innovate like a Fintech.
Central operations are already operating We intend to unlock efficiencies and release through the Group Service Company - a capital for strategic investment, helping to separate legal entity, recharging all of its costs drive the optimisation of Barclays as a whole to the two legal entities.
and delivering value to our shareholders.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 35
