54 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Board of Directors Comprising Directors with the right mix ofskills and experience, the Board is collectively responsible for overseeing delivery of theGroups strategy.
1 2 3 4 NG Re RB Ri A NG Re RB Ri A NG Re Ri A Ri 5 6 7 8 A Ri A Ri A Ri Re RB Ri 9 10 11 12 NG Re RB Ri 13 Member of Responsible Member of Nomination and A Member of Audit Committee RB NG Business Committee Governance Committee Member of Remuneration Re Ri Member of Board Risk Committee Chairman Committee Committee Experience across a range of sectors, including Statistical Society and has an MBA from the 1.
Lord Blackwell Chairman banking, asset and investment management, Manchester Business School and a BSc from the Appointed: June 2012 Board, manufacturing and utilities University of Birmingham.
April 2014 Chairman Extensive experience as chairman in a range External appointments: Chairman of Skills and experience: of industries Urban&Civic plc and a Governor of Motability.
Deep financial services knowledge including in Strong board governance experience, including insurance and banking investor relations and remuneration 4.
Simon Henry Independent Director Significant experience with strategic planning Anita was previously Chairman of Victrex plc, the Appointed: June 2014 and implementation Senior Independent Director of Aberdeen Asset Skills and experience: Management and IMI plc, an Executive Director Regulatory and public policy experience gained from Deep international experience in board level strategy of Abbott Mead Vickers, a Non-Executive Director senior positions in Downing Street, Regulators and a and execution of Northumbrian Water and has held various wide range of industries investment and marketing roles at Scottish Provident Extensive knowledge of financial markets, Credibility with key stakeholders and the Royal Bank of Scotland.
She has a BA Hons treasury and risk management in International Business from the University of Strong leadership qualities Qualification as an Audit Committee Financial Expert Strathclyde, a MRes in Humanities and Philosophy Lord Blackwell initially joined the Board as Chairman Strong board governance experience, including from the University of London, an Honorary of Scottish Widows Group.
He was previously investor relations and remuneration DSc for contribution to industry and finance from Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the the University of Cranfield and an Honorary Until recently Simon was Chief Financial Officer and UK Board for Standard Life and Director of Group Doctorate in Management and Finance from the Executive Director of Royal Dutch Shell plc.
He was Development at NatWest Group.
His past Board University of Aberdeen.
previously Chair of the European Round Table CFO roles have included Chairman of Interserve plc, Taskforce and a Member of the Main Committee External appointments: Chairman of Croda and Non-Executive Director of Halma plc, Dixons of the 100 Group of UK FTSE CFOs.
He has a BA International Plc and a Non-Executive Director Group, SEGRO and Ofcom.
He was Head of the in Mathematics, an MA from the University of of BHP Billiton.
Prime Ministers Policy Unit from 1995 to 1997 and Cambridge and is a fellow of the Chartered Institute was appointed a Life Peer in 1997.
He has an MA in of Management Accountants CIMA.
Natural Sciences from the University of Cambridge, a 3.
Alan Dickinson Independent Director Ph.
D in Finance and Economics and an MBA from the External appointments: Non-Executive Director Appointed: September 2014 University of Pennsylvania.
of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited, Independent Skills and experience: Director of PetroChina Company Limited, Member External appointments: Governor of the Yehudi of the Defence Board and Chair of the Defence Menuhin School and a member of the Governing Highly regarded retail and commercial banker Audit Committee, UK Government, Member of the Body of the Royal Academy of Music.
Strong strategic, risk and core banking experience Advisory Panel of CIMA and of the Advisory Board of Regulatory and public policy experience the Centre for European Reform.
Anita Frew Deputy Chairman and Alan has 37 years experience with the Royal Bank Senior Independent Director of Scotland, most notably as Chief Executive of Appointed: December 2010 Board, RBS UK.
More recently, Alan was a Non-Executive May 2014 Deputy Chairman, May 2017 Director of Willis Limited and Chairman of its Risk Senior Independent Director Committee.
He was formerly Chairman of Brown, Shipley & Co. Limited and a Non-Executive Director Skills and experience: of Nationwide Building Society where he was Significant board, financial and general Chairman of its Risk Committee.
He is a Fellow of management experience the Chartered Institute of Bankers and the Royal Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2017 55 Groups Management Committee.
Stuart Sinclair Independent Director Non-Executive Director of Santander UK and Director and Chairman of Lloyds Bank Appointed: January 2016 subsequently its Chief Executive.
He is also a former Corporate Markets plc Non-Executive Director of the Court of the Bank Skills and experience: of England.
Antnio has a Degree in Management Appointed: June 2017 Extensive experience in retail banking, insurance & Business Administration from the Universidade Skills and experience: and consumer finance Catlica Portuguesa, an MBA from INSEAD and has Governance and regulatory experience completed the Advanced Management Program Extensive international corporate experience, atHarvard Business School.
especially in financial markets Significant experience in strategic planning Strong board governance experience, including and implementation External appointments: Non-Executive Director of investor relations and remuneration EXOR N. V. Fundao Champalimaud and Sociedade Experience in consumer analysis, marketing Francisco Manuel dos Santos in Portugal, a member Regulatory and public policy experience and distribution of the Board of Stichting INPAR and Chairman of the Significant experience in strategic planning Stuart is a former Non-Executive Director of TSB Wallace Collection.
and implementation Banking Group plc, TSB Bank plc, LV Group, Virgin Direct and Vitality Health formerly Prudential Lord Lupton was Deputy Chairman of Baring Brothers, 11.
George Culmer Executive Director and Health.
He was also a Senior Independent Director co-founded the London office of Greenhill & Co. and Chief Financial Officer of Swinton Group Limited.
In his executive career, was Chairman of Greenhill Europe until May 2017. he was President and Chief Operating Officer of Appointed: May 2012 Board He was previously a Trustee of the British Museum, Aspen Insurance after spending nine years with Governor of Downe House School and a member of Skills and experience: General Electric, as Chief Executive Officer of the UK the International Advisory Board of Global Leadership Extensive operational and financial expertise Consumer Finance business then President of GE Foundation.
He became a Life Peer in October 2015 including strategic and financial planning and control Capital China.
Before that he was Chief Executive and is a former Treasurer of the Conservative Party.
He Officer of Tesco Personal Finance and Director of Worked in financial services in the UK and overseas served on the House of Lords Select Committee on UK Retail Banking at the Royal Bank of Scotland.
He read Jurisprudence at Lincoln College, He was a Council member of The Royal Institute for Oxford and is a qualified solicitor.
George was an Executive Director and Chief International Affairs Chatham House.
He has an MA Financial Officer of RSA Insurance Group, the External appointments: Senior Advisor to in Economics from the University of Aberdeen and an former Head of Capital Management of Zurich Greenhill Europe and Chairman of the Trustees MBA from the University of California.
Financial Services and Chief Financial Officer of of the Lovington Foundation.
External appointments: Interim Chairman of its UK operations as well as holding various senior Provident Financial Plc with effect from 2February management positions at Prudential.
Deborah McWhinney 2018 previously Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive Director of Scottish Widows.
Independent Director Chair of their Risk Advisory Committee, Senior George is a Chartered Accountant and has a Independent Director and Chair of Risk at QBE history degree from the University of Cambridge.
Appointed: December 2015 Insurance Europe Limited.
Skills and experience: Extensive executive background in managing 9.
Sara Weller CBE Independent Director 12.
Juan Colombs Executive Director and technology, operations and new digital Appointed: February 2012 innovations across banking, payments and Chief Operating Officer institutional investment Skills and experience: Appointed: November 2013 Board, January 2011- International business and management experience Background in retail and associated sectors, September 2017 Chief Risk Officer, September 2017 including financial services Chief Operating Officer Experience in consumer analysis, marketing and distribution Strong board governance experience, including Skills and experience: investor relations and remuneration Deborah is Chair of the Board Risk Committees Significant banking and risk management experience IT Resilience and Cyber Sub-Committee.
She is a Passionate advocate of customers, the community, International business and management experience former Chief Executive Officer, Global Enterprise financial inclusion and the development of Juan was appointed to the role of Chief Operating Payments and President, Personal Banking and digital skills Officer in September 2017 and is responsible for Wealth Management at Citibank.
Deborah was Considerable experience of boards at both executive leading a number of critical Group functions and previously President of Institutional Services at and non-executive level driving the transformation activities across the Charles Schwab Corporation and held executive Saras previous appointments include Managing Group in order to build the Bank of the Future.
Prior roles at Engage Media Services Group, Visa Director of Argos, various senior positions at to this he served as the Groups Chief Risk Officer International and Bank of America, where she held J Sainsbury including Deputy Managing Director, and was responsible for developing the Groups senior roles in Consumer Banking.
She holds a BSc in Chairman of the Planning Inspectorate, Lead risk framework, recommending the Groups risk Communications from the University of Montana.
Non-Executive Director at the Department of appetite and ensuring that all risks generated by the External appointments: Member of the Supervisory Communities and Local Government, a Nonbusiness were measured, reviewed and monitored Board of Fresenius Medical Care AG & Co. KGaA, Executive Director of Mitchells & Butlers as well as on an ongoing basis.
He was previously the Chief Independent Director of Fluor Corporation and IHS a number of senior management roles for Abbey Risk Officer and an Executive Director of Santanders Markit Ltd, a Trustee of the California Institute of National and Mars Confectionery.
Prior to this, he held a number of senior Technology and of the Institute for Defense Analyses.
in Chemistry from Oxford University.
risk, control and business management roles across the Corporate, Investment, Retail and Risk Divisions External appointments: Non-Executive Director 7.
Nick Prettejohn Independent Director and of the Santander Group.
Until September 2017 he of United Utilities Group and Chair of their Chairman of Scottish Widows Group was the Vice Chairman of the International Financial Remuneration Committee and a member of their Risk Institute.
Juan has a BSc in Industrial Chemical Nomination Committee, Lead Non-Executive Appointed: June 2014 Engineering from the Universidad Politcnica fide Director at the Department for Work and Pensions, Skills and experience: Madrid, a Financial Management degree from a Governing Council Member of Cambridge ICADE School of Business and Economics and an Deep financial services experience, University, Board member at the Higher Education MBA from the Institute fide Empresa Business School.
particularly in insurance Funding Council and Trustee of Lloyds Bank Foundation for England and Wales, with effect from External appointments: None.
In-depth regulatory knowledge and experience 1 February 2018.
Malcolm Wood Company Secretary leadership qualities 10.
Antnio Horta-Osrio Executive Director Significant experience in strategic planning Appointed: November 2014 and Group Chief Executive and implementation Skills and experience: Appointed: January 2011 Board, March 2011 Nick has served as Chief Executive of Lloyds of Malcolm was previously General Counsel and Group Chief Executive London, Prudential UK and Europe and Chairman of Company Secretary of Standard Life after a career Brit Insurance.
He is a former Non-Executive Director Skills and experience: as a corporate lawyer in private practice in London of the Prudential Regulation Authority and of Legal and Edinburgh.
He has a wealth of experience in Extensive experience in, and understanding of, both & General Group Plc as well as Chairman of the governance, policy and regulation.
He is a Fellow retail and commercial banking built over a period of Financial Services Practitioner Panel and the Financial of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and more than 30 years, working both internationally and Conduct Authoritys Financial Advice Working Administrators and a Member of the Corporate in the UK Group.
He was previously a Member of the BBC Trust Governance Council and the GC100.
Malcolm is an Drive, enthusiasm and commitment to customers and Chairman of the Britten-Pears Foundation.
Nick attendee of the Group Executive Committee.
has a First Class Degree in Philosophy, Politics and Proven ability to build and lead strong Economics from Balliol College, University of Oxford.
management teams External appointments: Chairman of the Royal Antnio previously worked for Citibank, Goldman Northern College of Music and a member of the Sachs and held various senior management Board of Opera Ventures.
positions at Grupo Santander before becoming its Executive Vice President and member of the
