Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Ll Llo oy yd ds s Ba Ban nk ki in ng g G Grou roup p A Annu nnua al l R Re ep por ort t a and nd A Ac cc co oun unfit ts s 2 20 01 17 7 13 13 1 2 3 4 5 Our strategic planning process Over the past two years we have developed a new strategy to further transform the Group and deliver sustainable value to our stakeholders.
Since 2011, we have significantly transformed our business for the benefit of our customers and other stakeholders.
However we are not complacent and recognise that unprecedented change in customer expectations, technology, the competitive environment and regulation require a bold response for the next chapter of our strategy.
Stages in the process up to June 2016 up to June 2017 up to February 2018 20182020 Bank of the Development of high Finalisation of Our next chapter Future discussion level strategic options strategy and communication We regularly review our strategy Using this foundation, coupled A number of changes to the Over the page, we outline in the light of the changing with the ongoing monitoring Groups operating structure and the strategic priorities for the external environment to ensure of both internal and external executive management were business to 2020. that our focus remains the right stakeholder trends and best announced in July to put in place one for our customers and other practice, our main focus in 2017 the right team and structure stakeholders.
As part of this was the development of the to lead the development and process, the Board specifically Groups strategy for the three year delivery of thestrategy.
discusses strategic issues at period from 2018 to 2020.
The priorities identified by a strategy offsite meeting At the start of the year we the Board were subsequently everyyear.
identified four major strategic developed into detailed strategic In June 2016, the Board and the themes, each of which was plans with measurable operating executive management team developed further by dedicated and financial metrics and targets took part in an intensive two-day teams, with support and which support our strategic strategy meeting to discuss challenge provided centrally and aspirations for the next three the strategic challenges and by executive management.
opportunities the Group could During the course of the year, the The Board reviewed the more face in the future, based on four Board discussed and reviewed detailed plan and immediate scenarios for how banking could the proposed change initiatives in priorities in an extended session evolve over the next 10 years.
a number of deep dive sessions in November 2017, placing The Board debated the and at mid-year the Board particular emphasis on the transformation required to debated at length the preliminary effective management of the become Bank of the Future findings and broad strategic programme and the mitigation of and underpin our continued options for each of these priority potential execution risks.
competitiveness in each of these themes over the course of two At the same time, executive scenarios.
This resulted in a set of clear management and the foundation for us to develop the strategic priorities for further Board have been engaged next phase of our strategy.
in the development of the communication plan, to ensure that all our stakeholders clearly understand the strategy and what it means for them.
