Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Governance: Directors report Other statutory information Board of Directors Section 414A of the Companies Act 2006 The Directors present their requires the Directors to present a Strategic The names of the current Directors of Barclays PLC, along with their biographical details, are report in the Annual Report and Financial report together with the Statements.
The information can be found on set out on pages 47 and 48 and are audited accounts for the incorporated into this report by reference.
Changes to Directors during the year are set year ended 31 December The Company has chosen, in accordance with out in the table below.
section 414C 11 of the Companies Act 2006, 2017.
Effective date of and as noted in this Directors report, to appointment Other information that is relevant to the include certain matters in its Strategic report Name Role resignation Directors Report, and which is that would otherwise be disclosed in this Sir Ian Cheshire Non-executive Appointed incorporated by reference into this report, Directors report.
Director 3 April 2017 can be located as follows: Matthew Lester Non-executive Appointed An indication of likely future developments Page Director 1 September may be found in the Strategic report.
2017 Employee involvement 89 Mike Turner CBE Non-executive Appointed The particulars of important events affecting Policy concerning the employment Director 1 January 2018 the Company since the financial year end can of disabled persons 90 Diane fide Non-executive Retired be found in the Strategic report and Note 29, Financial instruments 258 Saint Victor Director 10 May 2017 Legal, competition and regulatory matters.
Stephen Thieke Non-executive Retired Hedge accounting policy 246 Director 10 May 2017 Remuneration policy, including Profit and dividends details of the remuneration Statutory loss after tax for 2017 was 894m of each Director and Directors 2016: profit 2,828m.
The final dividend for Appointment and retirement of Directors interests in shares 93 2017 of 2.0p per share will be paid on 5 April The appointment and retirement of Directors Corporate governance report 43 2018 to shareholders whose names are on the is governed by the Companys Articles of Register of Members at the close of business Association the Articles, the UK Corporate Risk review 117 on 2 March 2018.
With the interim dividend Governance Code the Code, the Companies Viability statement 40 totalling 1.0p per ordinary share, paid in Act 2006 and related legislation.
September 2017, the total distribution for 2017 The Articles may only be amended by a is 3.0p 2016: 3.0p per ordinary share.
The special resolution of the shareholders.
The Disclosures required pursuant to Listing interim and final dividends for 2017 amounted Board has the power to appoint additional Rule 9.8.
4R can be found on the following to 509m 2016: 757m.
Directors or to fill a casual vacancy among the pages: For 2018, Barclays anticipates resuming a total Directors.
Any such Director holds office only Page cash dividend of 6.5p per share, subject to until the next AGM and may offer himself Long-term incentive schemes 123 regulatory approvals.
The Code recommends Waiver of Director emoluments 112 that all directors of FTSE 350 companies Shareholders may have their dividends Allotment for cash of should be subject to annual re-election.
All reinvested in Barclays by joining the Barclays equity securities 297 Directors will stand for election or re-election PLC Scrip Dividend Programme the Waiver of dividends 85 at the 2018 AGM.
The Programme enables shareholders, if they wish, to receive new Directors indemnities fully-paid ordinary shares in Barclays PLC Qualifying third party indemnity provisions as instead of a cash dividend, without incurring defined by section 234 of the Companies Act dealing costs or stamp duty.
2006 were in force during the course of the The nominee company of certain Barclays financial year ended 31 December 2017 for the employee benefit trusts holding shares in benefit of the then Directors and, at the date Barclays in connection with the operation of of this report, are in force for the benefit of the the Companys share plans has lodged Directors in relation to certain losses and evergreen dividend waivers on shares held by liabilities which they may incur or have it that have not been allocated to employees.
incurred in connection with their duties, The total amount of dividends waived during powers or office.
In addition, the Company the year ended 31 December 2017 was maintains Directors & Officers Liability 0.68m 2016: 2.6m.
Insurance which gives appropriate cover for legal action brought against its Directors.
Barclays understands the importance of the ordinary dividend for our shareholders.
Qualifying pension scheme indemnity Barclays is therefore committed to provisions as defined by section 235 of the maintaining an appropriate balance between Companies Act 2006 were in force during the total cash returns to shareholders, investment course of the financial year ended in the business, and maintaining a strong 31 December 2017 for the benefit of the then capital position.
Going forward, Barclays Directors, and at the date of this report are in intends to pay an annual ordinary dividend force for the benefit of directors of Barclays that takes into account these objectives, and Pension Funds Trustees Limited as Trustee of the medium-term earnings outlook of the the Barclays Bank UK Retirement Fund.
It is also the Boards intention to directors of the Trustee are indemnified supplement the ordinary dividends with against liability incurred in connection with additional returns to shareholders as and the companys activities as Trustee of the when appropriate.
Barclays Bank UK Retirement Fund.
The Board notes that in determining any proposed distributions to shareholders, the Board will consider the expectation of servicing more senior securities.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 85 Governance: Directors report Other statutory information Disclosures TCFD in the Strategic Report Similarly, qualifying pension scheme Research and development indemnities were in force during 2017 for the and ESG Report.
In the ordinary course of business, the Group benefit of directors of Barclays Executive develops new products and services in each of Current Previous Previous Schemes Trustees Limited as Trustee of its business divisions.
Reporting Reporting reporting Barclays Bank International Limited Zambia a Year Year Year Staff Pension Fund 1965, Barclays Capital Share capital 2017 2016 2015 b International Pension Scheme No.
1, and Global Green House Gas GHG Emissions Share capital structure Barclays PLC Funded Unapproved Retirement The Company has ordinary shares in issue.
The directors of the Trustee The Companys Articles also allow for the emissions are indemnified against liability incurred in issuance of sterling, US dollar, euro and yen tonnes 347,165 402,531 479,934 connection with the companys activities as preference shares preference shares.
No Scope 1 CO2e Trustee of the schemes above.
preference shares have been issued as at emissions c 19 February 2018 the latest practicable date tonnes 25,627 26,721 29,144 Political donations for inclusion in this report.
Ordinary shares Scope 2 CO e 2 The Group did not give any money for political therefore represent 100% of the total issued emissions purposes in the UK, the rest of the EU or d share capital as at 31 December 2017 and as tonnes 250,897 308,473 342,012 outside of the EU, nor did it make any political at 19 February 2018 the latest practicable Scope 3 CO e 2 donations to political parties or other political date for inclusion in this report.
Details of the emissions organisations, or to any independent election e movement in ordinary share capital during the tonnes 70,641 67,336 93,989 candidates, or incur any political expenditure year can be found in Note 31 on page 297.
Intensity Ratio during the year.
Total Full Time Voting In accordance with the US Federal Election Equivalent Every member who is present in person or Campaign Act, Barclays provides Full Time represented at any general meeting of the administrative support to a federal Political Equivalent 79,900 76,500 85,800 Company, and who is entitled to vote, has one Action Committee PAC in the US funded by Total CO e 2 vote on a show of hands.
Every proxy present the voluntary political contributions of eligible emissions has one vote.
The proxy will have one vote for employees.
The PAC is not controlled by tonnes and one vote against a resolution if he she f Barclays and all decisions regarding the per FTE 4.34 5.26 5.59 has been instructed to vote for or against the amounts and recipients of contributions are Scope 2 CO e 2 resolution by different members or in one directed by a steering committee comprising market based direction by a member while another member employees eligible to contribute to the PAC.
emissions has permitted the proxy discretion as to how d Contributions to political organisations tonnes 298,469 337,483 to vote.
reported by the PAC during the calendar year Notes 2017 totalled $67,250 2016: $12,500.
On a poll, every member who is present or a The carbon reporting year for our GHG emissions is 1 represented and who is entitled to vote has October to 30 September.
The carbon reporting year is Environment one vote for every share held.
In the case of not fully aligned to the financial reporting year covered by the Directors report.
Barclays focuses on addressing environmental joint holders, only the vote of the senior b The methodology used to calculate our GHG is the issues where we believe we have the greatest holder as determined by order in the share Greenhouse Gas Protocol GHG : A Corporate potential to make a difference.
We focus on register or his her proxy may be counted.
If Accounting and Reporting Standard Revised Edition, managing our own carbon footprint and defined by the World Resources Institute World any sum payable remains unpaid in relation to Business Council for Sustainable Development reducing our absolute carbon emissions, a members shareholding, that member is not WRI WBCSD.
We have adopted the operational developing products and services to help entitled to vote that share or exercise any control approach on reporting boundaries to define enable the transition to a low-carbon other right in relation to a meeting of the our reporting boundary.
Where properties are covered economy, and managing the risks of climate by Barclays consolidated financial statements but Company unless the Board otherwise are leased to tenants, these emissions are not included change to our operations, clients, customers determines.
in the Group GHG calculations.
Where Barclays is and society at large.
responsible for the utility costs, these emissions If any member, or any other person appearing are included.
We invest in improving the energy efficiency to be interested in any of the Companys On 1 June 2017 we completed the sale of a 33.7% of our operations and offset the emissions ordinary shares, is served with a notice under stake in Barclays Africa Group Limited BAGL resulting remaining through the purchase of carbon in a non-controlling position.
In 2017 we have restated section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 and our GHG emissions through to the 2015 baseline to credits, sourced from verified projects.
We also does not supply the Company with the account for this and BAGL emissions are not reported have a long-standing commitment to information required in the notice, then the from 2015 onwards in order to ensure accurate managing the environmental and social risks Board, in its absolute discretion, may direct tracking against our 30% carbon reduction associated with our lending practices, which commitment.
In addition, we have restated our Scope that that member shall not be entitled to 3 emissions to remove erroneous air data which was is embedded into our Credit risk processes.
attend or vote at any meeting of the Company.
identified as part of the 2017 reporting process.
A governance structure is in place to facilitate The Board may further direct that if the shares c Scope 1 covers direct combustion of fuels and clear dialogue across the business and with of the defaulting member represent 0.25% or company owned vehicles from UK only, which is the most material contributors.
Fugitive emissions suppliers around issues of potential more of the issued shares of the relevant reported in Scope 1 cover emissions from UK, environmental and social risk.
class, that dividends or other monies payable Americas, Asia Pacific and Europe.
on those shares shall be retained by the d Scope 2 location and market emissions cover We have disclosed global greenhouse gas Company until the direction ceases to have electricity and steam purchased for own use.
Market emissions GHG that we are responsible based emissions have been reported for 2017 and effect and that no transfer of those shares for as set out by the Companies Act 2006 2016 only.
shall be registered other than certain Strategic Report and Directors Report e Scope 3 covers indirect emissions from business travel specified excepted transfers.
A direction global flights and ground transport from the UK, Regulations 2013.
We provide fuller disclosure ceases to have effect seven days after the USA and India.
USA and India ground transport covers on i financing solutions for the lower carbon onwards car hire only which is provided directly by the Company has received the information economy, ii environmental risk management supplier.
Ground transportation data excluding requested, or when the Company is notified Scope 1 company cars covers only countries where and iii management of our carbon and that an excepted transfer of all of the relevant robust data is available directly from the supplier.
environmental footprint in the Barclays f Intensity ratio calculations have been calculated using shares to a third party has occurred, or as the Environmental, Social and Governance location based emission factors only.
ESG Report available on our website at home.
We have also provided initial disclosures aligned with the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial 86 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Variation of Rights Major shareholders Transfers Ordinary shares may be held in either The rights attached to any class of shares may Major shareholders do not have different be varied either with the consent in writing of voting rights from those of other certificated or uncertificated form.
Certificated ordinary shares shall be transferred in writing the holders of at least 75% in nominal value of shareholders.
Information provided to the the issued shares of that class, or with the Company by substantial shareholders in any usual or other form approved by the Company Secretary and executed by or on sanction of a special resolution passed at a pursuant to the FCAs Disclosure Guidance separate meeting of the holders of the shares and Transparency Rules are published via a behalf of the transferor.
Transfers of uncertificated ordinary shares shall be made of that class.
The rights of shares shall not Regulatory Information Service and is available unless expressly provided by the rights on the Companys website.
As at 31 December in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and CREST Regulations.
attached to such shares be deemed varied by 2017, the Company had been notified under the creation of further shares ranking equally Rule 5 of the Disclosure Guidance and The Board is not bound to register a transfer with them or subsequent to them.
Transparency Rules of the following holdings of partly-paid ordinary shares or fully-paid of voting rights in its shares.
shares in exceptional circumstances approved Limitations on foreign shareholders by the FCA.
The Board may also decline to % of total There are no restrictions imposed by the register an instrument of transfer of voting Articles of Association or subject to the effect rights certificated ordinary shares unless it is i duly of any economic sanctions that may be in attaching stamped, deposited at the prescribed place to issued force from time to time by current UK laws and accompanied by the share certificate s Number of share which relate only to non-residents of the UK a and such other evidence as reasonably Person interested Barclays Shares capital and which limit the rights of such nonThe Capital Group required by the Board to evidence right to residents to hold or when entitled to do so b transfer, ii it is in respect of one class of Companies Inc 1,172,090,125 6.98 vote the ordinary shares.
c shares only, and iii it is in favour of a single Qatar Holding LLC 1,017,455,690 5.99 d transferee or not more than four joint BlackRock, Inc 1,010,054,871 5.92 Exercisability of rights under an employee transferees except in the case of executors or share scheme Notes trustees of a member.
a The percentage of voting rights detailed above was Employee Benefit Trusts EBTs operate in calculated at the time of the relevant disclosures made In accordance with the provisions of Section connection with certain of the Groups in accordance with Rule 5 of the Disclosure Guidance 84 of the Small Business, Enterprise and Employee Share Plans Plans.
The trustees of and Transparency Rules.
Employment Act 2015, preference shares may the EBTs may exercise all rights attached to b The Capital Group Companies Inc CG holds its shares via CG Management companies and funds.
Part of the only be issued in registered form.
Preference the shares in accordance with their fiduciary CG holding is held as American Depositary Receipts.
shares shall be transferred in writing in any duties other than as specifically restricted in On 14 February 2018, CG disclosed by way of a usual or other form approved by the Company the relevant Plan governing documents.
The Schedule 13G filed with the SEC, beneficial ownership Secretary and executed by or on behalf of the trustees of the EBTs have informed the of  shares of the Company as of 29 December 2017, representing 6.8% of that class of transferor.
The Companys registrar shall Company that their normal policy is to abstain shares.
register such transfers of preference shares by from voting in respect of the Barclays shares c Qatar Holding LLC is wholly-owned by Qatar making the appropriate entries in the register held in trust.
The trustees of the Global Investment Authority.
On 17 January 2018, Qatar of preference shares.
Each preference share Sharepurchase EBT and UK Sharepurchase Holding LLC disclosed by way of a Schedule 13G filed with the SEC, beneficial ownership of 941,620,690 shall confer, in the event of a winding up or EBTs may vote in respect of Barclays shares ordinary shares of the Company as of 31 December any return of capital by reduction of capital held in the EBTs, but only as instructed by 2017, representing 5.52% of that class of shares.
other than, unless otherwise provided by participants in those Plans in respect of their d Total shown includes 2,009,814 contracts for their terms of issue, a redemption or purchase partnership shares and when vested difference to which voting rights are attached.
Part of the holding is held as American Depositary Receipts.
by the Company of any of its issued shares, or matching and dividend shares.
The trustees On 30 January 2018, BlackRock, Inc. disclosed by way a reduction of share capital, the right to will not otherwise vote in respect of shares of a Schedule 13G filed with the SEC, beneficial receive out of the surplus assets of the held in the Sharepurchase EBTs.
ownership of 1,145,415,782 ordinary shares of the Company as of 31 December 2017, representing 6.7% Company available for distribution among the of that class of shares.
members and in priority to the holders of the Special rights ordinary shares and any other shares in the There are no persons holding securities that Between 31 December 2017 and 19 February Company ranking junior to the relevant series carry special rights with regard to the control 2018 the latest practicable date for inclusion of preference shares and pari passu with any of the company.
in this report, the Company was notified that other class of preference shares other than BlackRock, Inc. now holds 990,743,261 any class of shares then in issue ranking in Barclays shares, representing 5.80% of the priority to the relevant series of preference total voting rights attached to issued share shares, repayment of the amount paid up or capital.
treated as paid up in respect of the nominal value of the preference share together with any premium which was paid or treated as paid when the preference share was issued in addition to an amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 87 Governance: Directors report Other statutory information In preparing each of the Group and parent Directors responsibility statement Powers of Directors to issue or buy-back the Companys shares Company financial statements, the directors The Directors have responsibility for ensuring are required to: that the Company and the Group keep The powers of the Directors are determined by the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys accounting records which disclose with assess the Group and Parent companys reasonable accuracy the financial position of Articles.
The Directors are authorised to issue ability to continue as a going concern, and allot shares and to buy-back shares the Company and the Group and which disclosing, as applicable, matters related to enable them to ensure that the accounts subject to annual shareholder approval at the going concern: and AGM.
Such authorities were granted by comply with the Companies Act 2006. use the going concern basis of accounting shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
It will be The Directors are also responsible for unless they either intend to liquidate the proposed at the 2018 AGM that the Directors Group or the parent Company or to cease preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, be granted new authorities to allot and Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate operations, or have no realistic alternative buy-back shares.
Governance Statement in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Repurchase of shares Disclosure of Information to the Auditor The Directors are responsible for the The Company did not repurchase any of its Each Director confirms that, so far as he she ordinary shares during 2017 2016: none.
As maintenance and integrity of the Annual is aware, there is no relevant audit information Report and Financial Statements as they at 19 February 2018 the latest practicable of which the Companys auditors are unaware date for inclusion in this report the Company appear on the Companys website.
Legislation and that each of the Directors has taken all in the UK governing the preparation and had an unexpired authority to repurchase the steps that he she ought to have taken as a ordinary shares up to a maximum of 1,696m dissemination of financial statements may Director to make himself herself aware of any differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that The Directors have a general responsibility for Distributable reserves taking such steps as are reasonably open to information.
This confirmation is given As at 31 December 2017, the distributable pursuant to section 418 of the Companies Act them to safeguard the assets of the Group reserves of Barclays PLC the Parent company and Company and to prevent and detect fraud 2006 and should be interpreted in accordance were 6,728m and the distributable reserves with and subject to those provisions.
of Barclays Bank PLC were 24,021m.
The Directors, whose names and functions are As at the date of this report, Barclays PLC, Directors responsibilities set out on pages 47 and 48, confirm to the Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays Bank UK PLC The following statement, which should be best of their knowledge that: our future ring-fenced bank intend to carry read in conjunction with the Auditors report out a process in the second half of 2018 to a the financial statements, prepared in set out on page 228 to 233, is made with a accordance with the applicable set of increase their respective distributable reserves.
view to distinguishing for shareholders the Each process will require the relevant respective responsibilities of the Directors and accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial company to obtain shareholder and court of the auditors in relation to the accounts.
approval, and for Barclays PLC we will be position and profit or loss of the Company The Directors are required by the Companies and the undertakings included in the seeking shareholder approval at our 2018 Act 2006 to prepare Group and Company AGM.
In each case, the processes will involve consolidation taken as a whole: and financial statements for each financial year the conversion of the share premium account b the management report, on page 4 to 37, and, with regards to Group accounts, in into a distributable reserve, which is a accordance with Article 4 of the IAS which is incorporated in the Directors reclassification within the equity of each Report, includes a fair review of the Regulation.
The Directors have prepared company and will have no regulatory capital Group and Company accounts in accordance development and performance of the impact.
Further information will be included in business and the position of the Company with IFRS as adopted by the EU.
Under the the Barclays PLC AGM Notice of Meeting Companies Act 2006, the Directors must not and the undertakings included in the please see page 84 for further details about consolidation taken as a whole, together approve the financial statements unless they our AGM and how you can vote.
are satisfied that they give a true and fair view with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
of the state of affairs of the Group and parent Change of control Company and of their profit or loss for that By order of the Board There are no significant agreements to which period.
the Company is a party that are affected by a change of control of the Company following a The Directors consider that, in preparing the takeover bid.
There are no agreements financial statements, the Group and Company between the Company and its Directors or has used appropriate accounting policies, employees providing for compensation for supported by reasonable judgements and Stephen Shapiro loss of office or employment that occurs estimates, and that all accounting standards Company Secretary because of a takeover bid.
which they consider to be applicable have 21 February 2018 been followed.
Going concern Registered in England.
Having taken all the matters considered by the The Groups business activities, financial Company No.
48839 Board and brought to the attention of the position, capital, factors likely to affect its Board during the year into account, the future development and performance and its Directors are satisfied that the Annual Report objectives and policies in managing the and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, financial risks to which it is exposed are are fair, balanced and understandable, and discussed in the Strategic report and Risk provide the information necessary for review and Risk management sections.
shareholders to assess the Group and The Directors considered it appropriate to Companys position and performance, prepare the financial statements of the Group business model and strategy.
and Company on a going concern basis.
Directors are responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
88 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
