Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information 0000 0000 0000 0000 Barclaycard Consumer UK Our performance in Barclaycard Consumer UK We are continuously looking for ways to Barclaycard Consumer UK is a leading credit card provider, improve the customer experience we deliver proiding flexible borrowing and paent solutions to around Throughout 2017 we focused on reducing customer complaints, maintained a stable 10 million customers in the UK.
We help people move forward, Relationship NPS and reached new records on by enabling them to borrow and pay in a way that suits them.
several transaction NPS, including Customer Service.
We are pleased to have won a number We are a responsible lender, providing credit based on credit of awards, acknowledging the market-leading history, ability to afford credit and our risk appetite, while service we offer our customers.
We were recognised at the Top 50 Companies for delivering a market-leading customer experience.
Customer Service Awards, with two awards, Best Extra-Large Centre and Best Social Media Team.
We support consumers by providing free credit scores, and personalised hints and tips on how to become fraud smart.
Fraud-related activity is increasing and our research tells us that customers are increasingly concerned about how to protect themselves, and look to us to help provide support and information.
We developed a digital interactive Fraud Fighter Tool to help customers understand where they are vulnerable and what they Barclaycard Consumer UK offers a suite of could do to better protect themselves, by This year also saw the products to our customers.
Our Barclaycard giving them personalised fraud prevention Initial credit card is aimed at customers who integration of Barclaycard tips.
are looking for a first credit card, or have a Consumer UK with our retail limited credit history, and helps them to build We also launched the Barclaycard Start Today a credit profile.
Our Barclaycard Platinum card campaign, to encourage people to start bank to build and grow more offers promotional savings on balance something new that they always wanted to sustainable income while transfers and purchases for borrowers with do.
So whether it is signing up to those good credit history.
Alternatively, shoppers pottery lessons or buying a bike, Barclaycard is reducing complaints and can earn reward points everywhere they shop there for our customers to help them move creating better customer with our Barclaycard Freedom Rewards credit forward.
The UK credit market continues to experience considerable change, driven by new The integration of Barclaycard Consumer UK competitors, new technologies, economic and into Barclays UK has progressed with focus on regulatory pressures, and changing consumer enhancing the customer experience, as well as expectations and behaviour.
We are leveraging resources, technology and digital responding by developing new products and capabilities.
For example, this year we have further diversified our offers to new and existing customers with the launch of our Barclaycard Platinum travel card, which has no non-sterling transaction fees on foreign spend and ATM withdrawals.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 27
