Corporate and Investment Bank Our performance in the Corporate and Investment Bank The Corporate and Investment Bank offers wholesale banking products and services to corporate and institutional clients.
The business is focused on serving our UK and US home markets, while supporting the global ambitions of our strategic clients.
The Corporate and Investment Bank includes our markets, investment banking, corporate banking and research businesses.
Serving clients across a number of Our markets businesses provide execution, industries and segments, Barclays is proud to prime brokerage and risk management be a top three financier of capital for services across the full range of asset classes supranationals, sovereign and agency 1 including equity, fixed income and rates.
With institutions, enabling the funding of critical a new markets leadership team in place, we infrastructure and helping to promote global are highly focused on investments in economic growth and stability.
technology to drive client successes and With industry expertise and a history of increase market share.
For example, we innovation, our corporate banking business migrated to a new digital platform and funded provides comprehensive banking, financing, critical upgrades to our electronic trading trade and payment solutions to businesses platforms in 2017.
We are focused on the across the UK.
For example, Barclays has standardisation and simplification of supported Pod Point, the UKs leading provider post-trade technologies with the backdrop of of electric vehicle charging since inception in a strong regulatory and controls environment.
Barclays venture debt offering - enabled In 2017, Barclays was named Best Bank for FX by our innovation finance product which is in London and Best Bank for GBP USD in FX partly guaranteed by the European Investment Weeks annual awards.
Fund - has supported Pod Point to gain early Our investment banking business provides access to capital so they can focus on long-term strategic advice on mergers and developing their business.
acquisitions, corporate finance and strategic Finally, our research business delivers risk management solutions, and equity and independent, thought-leading content across credit origination capabilities.
In 2017, Barclays Equities, Credit, Macro and Quantitative achieved its highest global fee share in three Portfolio Strategy.
The implementation of 1 years, and was the number one ranked bank MiFIDII has brought unprecedented change to 1 in the UK for the first time since 2012. the research industry and reinforced Barclays Bolstered by strong mergers and acquisitions commitment to providing clients with activity, we advised on numerous landmark differentiated market insights, actionable trade deals to deliver for our clients.
Our Leveraged ideas and thematic views delivered through Finance business reached its highest ever publications, one-to-one analyst interactions, global fee share, ranking Barclays top four for conferences and events.
Barclays was named 2017 Sterling Bond House of the Year by IFR magazine with over 150 Sterling bond Note 1 Dealogic 32 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
