Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Consumer, Cards and Payments Our performance in Consumer, Cards and Payments Consumer, Cards and Payments includes Barclaycard International and the Private Bank and Overseas Services.
Barclaycard International provides branded and co-branded consumer credit cards, lending and deposit accounts to our customers in the US and Germany, and payment solutions to our clients in the UK.
Private Bank and Overseas Services provide banking, investment and wealth management services to over 160,000 clients, globally.
Barclaycard International Barclaycard Business Solutions provides Our Barclaycard International business merchant acquiring, payments integration and operates in three divisions: Barclaycard US, acceptance, payment gateway, commercial Barclaycard Business Solutions and payments and point-of-sale consumer finance Barclaycard Germany.
We are a leading provider in all our businesses and we are one of the Barclaycard US offers co-branded and branded largest payment acceptance providers in credit cards in the US, along with consumer Europe.
In 2017, we processed close to loans and online retail deposits.
We are the 250 billion in payments through acquiring.
ninth-largest credit card issuer in the market and this business has strengthened further in 2017.
We launched a new co-branded credit In 2017, we processed close to card with Uber, which featured a ground Barclaycard has been present in Germany for 250 billion in payments breaking integration into the Uber app, over a quarter of a century and now serves offering a simple, seamless and frictionless through acquiring.
over 1.2 million cards and loans customers.
Our relationship with We are the leading issuer of revolving credit existing partners strengthened further, with cards in the country by outstanding balances.
In 2017, we completed a four-year investment our JetBlue co-branded card being named the We also have a strongly growing instalment in a new core payment processing platform best no-fee loyalty airline card for 2017 by loans business as well as an online deposit that provides omni-channel, multi-currency MONEY magazine.
In recognition of our focus on and multi-geography settlement capabilities innovative products and features, all three to help us strengthen our merchant Across all credit card products, Barclaycard US Barclaycard open market products New Visa, relationships and support their growth.
added over 2 million new accounts in 2017.
In Gold and Platinum received several best-inCoinciding with the launch of Apples iPhone addition, our Barclays-branded consumer class recognitions from leading German 8 and X, Barclays Partner Finance rolled out an retail deposits now exceed $12.5 billion.
Barclaycard in-store financing offer in the UK with 131,000 Germany continues to drive exceptional applications received in-store since launch.
customer satisfaction rankings, with the We are also now a preferred partner for UK business placing in the top two for both cards point-of-sale finance for Tesla via a digital and loans.
Barclaycard Business Solutions electronic funds transfer platform, We also provide cards and lending in Norway, known as PrecisionPay Bank Transfer, went Sweden and Denmark via our EnterCard joint live in Q3 with a successful launch, providing venture with Swedbank and we are a leading clients with the ability to pay their suppliers player in the region.
via bank transfer, which is funded by a commercial card.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 33 0000 0000 0000 0000 Consumer, Cards and Payments Our performance in Consumer, Cards and Payments Disrupting the US Co-Branded Credit Card Market November 2017 marked the unveiling of the Uber Visa Card, recognised as one of the most rewarding no annual fee card programs in the US.
As a pioneer in transportation and technology, Uber recognised Barclays leadership in payments, innovation and partnerships when launching its first co-branded credit card.
With an eye toward the future of mobility, technology and commerce, our companies built one of the most modern payment experiences in the US market.
This cutting-edge payments program represents a ground-breaking approach to mobile app technology that meets the demands of todays on-the-go consumer.
Using their smartphone, approved customers can apply, load their card into the Uber wallet, and start earning rewards in a matter of minutes, providing them value and experiences that are instant, integrated and rewarding.
Private Bank and Overseas Services Within the Private Bank, affluent clients at Private Bank and Overseas Services provides a Barclays are supported by a dedicated Private diversified range of financial and wealth Banker and a team of investment and wealth products and services to a broad base of specialists.
In addition, the Private Bank clients, ranging from retail, high net worth and facilitates access to Barclays Corporate and ultra high net worth, to family offices and Investment Bank products and services for corporates.
With a significant global footprint, ultra high net worth clients.
The Overseas business operates across the UK, EMEA, India Services business delivers banking, treasury and Offshore Islands.
and investment solutions to core client segments through relationship led services and online channels.
With a significant global With a focus on enhanced service delivery and footprint, the business product offerings, our Private Bank and operates across the UK, EMEA, Overseas Services business is poised for growth and scale.
34 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
