Our strategy We have positioned Barclays as a leading, diversified, transatlantic bank with global reach Delivering the Barclays of the future As a leading, diversified, transatlantic bank with Our focus is now on building the Barclays of global reach, our goal is to support our stakeholders the future, operating principally through Barclays UK, Barclays International and via a commercially successful business that generates supported by the new Group Service long-term sustainable returns.
We are fully committed to our model as a diversified bank and will remain a well-diversified financial institution providing We reflect our strategy in a number of financial and best-in-class products and services to our non-financial measures.
customers and clients, underpinned by world class operations.
We believe that the Group and its entities are well positioned to deliver Read more on our financial and future growth and appropriate returns for non-financial measures on pages 15-22. shareholders.
We will remain a welldiversified financial institution providing best-in-class products and services to our customers and clients.
Building on our strong foundations Completion of the restructuring announced We continue to investment in our technological The strategy of Barclays PLC Group is to build in March 2016 and digital capabilities to facilitate delivery of on our strength as a transatlantic consumer In 2017, we successfully delivered on two key our strategy.
This is particularly relevant in and wholesale bank, anchored in our two components of the strategic priorities we Barclays UK where we already have a strong home markets of the UK and US, with global announced in March 2016: digital proposition, Barclays Mobile Banking.
Our two clearly defined divisions, During the course of 2017 we completed We have a clear strategy to use technology to Barclays UK and Barclays International, provide the partial sale of our stake in Barclays deliver deeper and more meaningful customer diversification to our business model.
We Africa Group Limited BAGL resulting in a relationships by transforming the way we believe that combining consumer and non-controlling, accounting deconsolidated interact with customers, leverage data analytics wholesale businesses, as well as accessing position with a residual 14.9% shareholding and take advantage of the opportunities geographic diversification, provide real in BAGL presented by Open Banking.
Delivering a truly advantages to both the Group and our on 1 July we closed Barclays Non-Core, six customer-centric model is at the heart of investors and help contribute to the delivery of Barclays UKs strategy.
months ahead of schedule, representing a more consistent and sustainable returns watershed moment for the implementation through the business cycle.
Effective execution Barclays International will continue to focus of the Groups strategy of our strategy of diversification should reduce on markets and services where we have a volatility of income and earnings, generate These actions have significantly contributed to competitive advantage, allocating capital higher returns through the cycle and improve the simplification of the Group, helping to where we see the ability to generate the most resilience of the Group as a whole.
reduce drag on Group profitability and laying attractive risk-adjusted returns and investing the foundations for Barclays to drive where we see an opportunity to expand our Consistent with the objective of delivering sustainable returns in its businesses.
We see technology as a long-term sustainable value for our significant enabler for our strategy across the stakeholders, we continue to pursue our investment banking business, particularly in Shared Growth Ambition our approach to Markets business lines, and will continue to citizenship and sustainability.
The objective is invest appropriately, alongside recruiting the to make decisions and do business that best talent as we build the Barclays of the provide our clients and customers, and the future.
In July 2017, we announced our communities which we serve, access to a intention to use Barclays Bank Ireland, an prosperous future.
existing licensed EU-based bank subsidiary, to You can read more about our continue passported activity the UKs Shared Growth Ambition within our departure from the EU.
Despite the uncertainty around the final outcome of the negotiations between the UK and EU, our planning is driven by a strategic intention to preserve EU market access for Barclays and our customers and clients, with a continuous seamless service.
10 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Contact centres creating a seamless end to end customer experience in an omni-channel environment We believe the Group Service Company will enable the delivery of world class services to our customers and clients while driving efficiency gains.
Our global contact centres teams within Barclays UK and Barclays International support over 60 million customer calls each year, across several geographies and business areas.
Our colleagues are central to our customer experience and through the creation of the Group Service Company we have a unique platform to unlock opportunities across our shared colleague and technology propositions and through doing so, continue the transformation of our customer experience for Barclays UK and Barclays International.
In the past, our technology supporting contact centres has been highly fragmented and we have operated with different processes with each business unit having their own contact centres, leading to more than 30 different contact centre sites, utilising over 100 bespoke technology applications.
Through the creation of the Group Service Company we aim to streamline our technology estate, identifying synergies to support a world class customer and colleague experience.
We will also continue to evolve the way we interact with customers through a highly integrated omni-channel framework, enabling customers to interact with Barclays through their channel of choice.
We will continue to roll out and scale new capabilities throughout 2018, supporting our customers choice in how they interact with us.
Leveraging our geographic and business Our strategic execution as a diversified bank We remain focused on resolving legacy diversification, we see a significant opportunity has been enhanced by the launch of the Group conduct, litigation and regulatory matters to develop our payments capabilities across the Service Company.
The Group Service Company and delivering enhanced controls Group.
We aim to leverage our extensive changes the way Barclays operates, enabling We aspire to be one of the worlds most experience and expertise developed through the delivery of world class services through a respected and well-regarded banks.
We are our leadership position in the UK to grow our more standardised global operating model.
We working hard to resolve outstanding legacy market share in the US.
In the Business to believe our Group Service Company will enable issues in an appropriate time frame and Business B2B space, we will continue to invest us to extract cross-group cost synergies manner, while continuing to strengthen our in our commercial payments capabilities, in through simpler processes, enhanced controls, control environment.
We put our customers order to meet the evolving needs of our a better co-ordinated service provision and and clients at the heart of everything we do customers, by leveraging innovative solutions more effective management of investment in and seek to strengthen the trust of our and our data assets.
On the consumer side, we our technology and processes.
The Group customers, clients and wider society.
are growing our mobile payment solutions in Service Company is a key component of the UK.
In the US, we see opportunity to build Barclays operating model.
on our position of 9th largest credit card issuer by receivables, as our targeted partnership We believe our Group Service model drives continued growth.
Furthermore, we are investing in our US consumer banking Company will enable us to proposition, where we have a growing, extract cross-group cost own-brand and prime-focused digital banking offering.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2017 11
