Report of the Directors | Corporate Governance each year, as set out in the Directors' Remuneration Report Consumer Finance Unit, Chief Financial Officer of GE Consumer contained in this Annual Report.
Finance Americas, and Chief Financial Officer of GE Healthcare Global Diagnostic Imaging.
Iain is a member of the Institute of The Group Chairmans performance is evaluated by the nonChartered Accountants of Scotland.
executive Directors, led by the SID.
Current appointments include: Member of the Board of Trustees of the British Heart Foundation and chairman of its audit Non-executive Group Chairman and risk committee.
Iain is also an Independent Member of the Court of the University of Aberdeen.
Mark E Tucker, 60 Marc Moses, 60 Non-executive Group Chairman Group Chief Risk Officer Appointed to the Board: September 2017 Group Chairman since October 2017 Appointed to the Board: January 2014 Chairman of the Nomination Committee Skills and experience: Marc joined HSBC in 2005 as Chief Skills and experience: Mark has extensive experience in the Financial and Risk Officer for Global Banking and Markets, and in financial services industry in Asia and the UK.
Most recently he December 2010 became Group Chief Risk Officer.
He has was Group Chief Executive and President of AIA Group Limited extensive risk management and financial experience.
Before joining AIA, Mark was Group Chief Executive of Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Prudential plc and the founding Chief Executive of Prudential Wales.
He was European chief financial officer at J. P. Morgan and Corporation Asia Limited.
Mark also previously served as a nonan audit partner at Price Waterhouse.
executive director of the Court of The Bank of England, as an independent non-executive director of the Goldman Sachs Group Independent non-executive Directors and as Group Finance Director of HBOS plc.
Current appointments include: Serves on the Asia Business Phillip Ameen, 69 Council and the Advisory Board of the Asia Global Institute.
Independent non-executive Director Appointed to the Board: January 2015 Executive Directors Stuart Gulliver, 58 Group Chief Executive Appointed to the Board: May 2008 Group Chief Executive since January 2011 Retiring from Board: 21 February 2018 Member of the Group Audit Committee.
Skills and experience: Phillip has extensive financial and accounting experience.
He served as Vice President, Comptroller, and Principal Accounting Officer of General Electric.
Prior to that, he was a partner of KPMG.
He also served on the International Skills and experience: Stuart has more than 37 years Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee of the International international banking experience, having joined HSBC in 1980.
He Accounting Standards Board, the Accounting Standards Executive played a leading role in developing and expanding Global Banking Committee of the American Institute of Certified Public and Markets, and has held key roles in the Groups operations Accountants and the Financial Accounting Standards Board worldwide, working in London, Hong Kong, Tokyo, Kuala Lumpur Emerging Issues Task Force.
and the United Arab Emirates.
Former appointments include Current appointments include: A non-executive director of Chairman of HSBC Bank plc, HSBC Bank Middle East Limited, HSBC North America Holdings Inc. HSBC Bank USA N. A. HSBC HSBC Private Banking Holdings Suisse SA and HSBC France.
He Finance Corporation and HSBC USA Inc. was also Deputy Chairman of HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG and a member of its supervisory board.
Kathleen Casey, 51 Current appointments include: Chairman of the Group Independent non-executive Director Management Board, and The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Appointed to the Board: March 2014 Corporation Limited.
Iain Mackay, 56 Group Finance Director Appointed to the Board: December 2010 Member of the Group Audit Committee and the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee.
Skills and experience: Kathleen has extensive financial regulatory policy experience.
She is a former Commissioner of the US Securities and Exchange Commission, and acted as its Skills and experience: Iain has extensive financial and principal representative in multilateral and bilateral regulatory international experience, having worked in London, Paris, the US, dialogues with the G-20 Financial Stability Board and the Africa and Asia.
He joined HSBC in 2007 as Chief Financial Officer International Organisation of Securities Commissions.
Other of HSBC North America Holdings Inc. Other former appointments former appointments include Staff Director and Counsel to the include director of Hang Seng Bank Limited: Chief Financial United States Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Officer, HSBC Asia-Pacific.
Before joining HSBC, Iain worked at Affairs: Chair of the Alternative Investment Management General Electric GE, serving as Controller of its Global 122 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Association: and Legislative Director and Chief of Staff for a Protection of National Infrastructure, and attended the National USSenator.
Current appointments include: Senior adviser to Patomak Current appointments include: A non-executive director of Ark Global Partners and to a number of public bodies in the US, and a Data Centres and an adviser to various cybersecurity and member of the Board of Trustees of the Financial Accounting technology companies.
Joachim Faber, 67 Laura Cha, GBM, 68 Independent non-executive Director Appointed to the Board: March 2012 Independent non-executive Director Appointed to the Board: March 2011 Skills and experience: Joachim has extensive international Chairman of the Philanthropic & Community Investment Oversight experience in banking and asset management.
He is a former Committee and member of the Conduct & Values Committee and Chief Executive Officer of Allianz Global Investors AG and a the Nomination Committee.
formermember of the management board of Allianz SE.
He spent 14years with Citicorp, holding positions in Trading and Project Skills and experience: Laura has extensive regulatory and policy Finance, and as Head of Capital Markets for Europe, North making experience in the finance and securities sector in Hong America and Japan.
He was also Chairman of various Allianz Kong and mainland China.
She is the former Vice Chairman of the subsidiaries.
He was previously a member of the supervisory China Securities Regulatory Commission.
Other former board and Chairman of the audit and risk committee of OSRAM appointments include serving as a non-executive director of Bank Licht AG.
He was also a member of the German Council for of Communications Co. Limited: and Tata Consultancy Services Sustainable Development and a member of the advisory board of Limited.
She also served as Deputy Chairman of the Securities and the Siemens Group Pension Board.
Futures Commission in Hong Kong.
Current appointments include: Chairman of the supervisory Current appointments include: A non-executive Deputy board of Deutsche Brse AG and the Shareholder Committee of Chairman of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Joh.
A. Benckiser SARL, and a director of Coty Inc. Limited, Chairman of Hong Kongs Financial Services Development Council and a non-executive director of China Irene Lee, 64 Telecom Corporation Limited, Unilever PLC and Unilever N. V. Independent non-executive Director Appointed to the Board: July 2015 Henri fide Castries, 63 Independent non-executive Director Appointed to the Board: March 2016 Skills and experience: Irene has more than 40 years finance industry experience, having held senior investment banking and fund management positions in the UK, the US and Australia, Member of the Group Remuneration Committee including positions at Citibank and the Commonwealth Bank Skills and experience: Henri has more than 25 years ofAustralia.
Other former appointments include serving as a international experience in the financial services industry.
He member of the Advisory Council of J. P. Morgan Australia and the joined AXA in 1989 holding a number of senior roles, ultimatelyas Australian Takeovers Panel.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of AXA SA until Current appointments include: Executive Chairman of Hysan 1September2016.
Development Company Limited and a non-executive director of Current appointments include: Chairman of Europe and The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, Hang Special Advisor of General Atlantic, Chairman of Institut Seng Bank Limited, Cathay Pacific Airways Limited and CLP Montaigne, a French think-tank: the lead independent director of Holdings Limited.
Nestl S. A. and a non-executive director of the French National Foundation for Political Science.
John Lipsky, 71 Independent non-executive Director Lord Evans of Weardale, 60 Appointed to the Board: March 2012 Independent non-executive Director Appointed to the Board: August 2013 Member of the Group Risk Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Group Remuneration Committee.
Chairman of the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee, Skills and experience: John worked for the International andmember of the Conduct & Values Committee and the Monetary Fund IMF in Washington and Chile, for Salomon Philanthropic & Community Investment Oversight Committee.
Brothers in New York and London, and for JP Morgan in New York.
Skills and experience: Jonathan has 30 years of experience in At JP Morgan, he was Vice Chair of the Investment Bank, and at national security policy and operations.
He was formerly Director the IMF he served as the First Deputy Managing Director also General of the UKs Security Service MI5 and had oversight of serving pro tem as the Acting Managing Director.
Other former the Joint Terrorist Analysis Centre and the Centre for the appointments include Trustee of the Economic Club of New York, and Chairman of the World Economic Forums Global Agenda HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 123 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Corporate Governance Council on the International Monetary System.
Current appointments include: Chairman of HSBC Bank plc and Proteus Digital Health Inc. and a non-executive director of Current appointments include: Peterson Distinguished Scholar Genomics England Limited.
at the Kissinger Centre for Global Affairs of Johns Hopkins Universitys School of Advanced International Studies.
He also Jackson Tai, 67 serves as the Vice Chair of the National Bureau of Economic Independent non-executive Director Research NBER, and of the Centre for Global Development.
Appointed to the Board: September 2016 Heidi Miller, 64 Independent non-executive Director Appointed to the Board: September 2014 Chairman of the Group Risk Committee and member of the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee.
Skills and experience: Jackson was formerly Vice Chairman and Member of the Group Risk Committee.
Chief Executive of DBS Group and DBS Bank Ltd, having served the group as Chief Financial Officer and then as President and Skills and experience: Heidi is a former President of Chief Operating Officer.
He previously worked at J. P. Morgan & International at JP Morgan Chase, and was responsible for leading Co.
Incorporated as an investment banker in New York, Tokyo and the global expansion and the international business strategy San Francisco.
Other former appointments include non-executive across its investment bank, asset management, and treasury and director of Bank of China Limited, Singapore Airlines, NYSE securities services divisions.
She was also a non-executive director Euronext, ING Groep N. V. CapitaLand Ltd, SingTel Ltd. and Jones of Merck & Co. Inc. and Progressive Corp. : Executive Vice Lang LaSalle Inc. Jackson also served as Vice Chairman of Islamic President and Chief Financial Officer of Bank One Corporation: Bank of Asia.
Senior Executive Vice President of Priceline.
com Inc. : and Executive Vice President and ChiefFinancial Officer of Citigroup Current appointments include: Non-executive director of Inc. EliLilly and Company, Koninklijke Philips Electronics N. V. Mastercard Incorporated and the Canada Pension Plan Investment Current appointments include: Chairman of HSBC North Board.
American Holdings Inc. a non-executive director of First Data Corporation and General Mills Inc. and an advisory director of Pauline van der Meer Mohr, 57 SRS Acquiom LLC.
Independent non-executive Director Appointed to the Board: September 2015 David Nish, 57 Independent non-executive Director Appointed to the Board: May 2016 Chairman of the Group Remuneration Committee and the Conduct & Values Committee and member of the Group Nomination Committee.
Member of the Group Audit Committee and Group Remuneration Committee.
Skills and experience: Pauline has extensive legal and human resources experience across a number of different sectors, and Skills and experience: David served as Chief Executive Officer of contributed to the Dutch Banking Code Monitoring Commission.
Standard Life plc between 2010 and 2015, having joined as Former appointments include President of Erasmus University Finance Director in 2006.
Other former appointments include nonRotterdam: Senior Executive Vice President and Head of Group executive director of the UK Green Investment Bank plc, Group Human Resources at ABN AMRO Bank NV: Group Human Finance Director of Scottish Power plc, non-executive director of Resources Director at TNT NV: HR Director, Information HDFC Life India and partner of Price Waterhouse.
He is a Technology, Royal Dutch Shell Group: and Senior Legal Counsel, qualified chartered accountant.
Current appointments include: A non-executive director of Current appointments include: Chair of the supervisory board Vodafone plc, London Stock Exchange Group plc and Zurich of EY Netherlands and member of the supervisory boards of ASML Insurance Group.
Holding N. V. and Royal DSM N. V. Jonathan Symonds, CBE, 58 Independent non-executive Director Group Company Secretary Appointed to the Board: April 2014 Senior Independent Director since April 2017 Ben Mathews, 50 Group Company Secretary Chairman of the Group Audit Committee and member of the Nomination Committee and the Conduct & Values Committee.
Skills and experience: Jonathan is a former Chief Financial Officer of Novartis AG and AstraZeneca plc.
He was also a partner Ben joined HSBC in June 2013 and became Group Company and Managing Director of Goldman Sachs, a partner ofKPMG, Secretary in July 2013.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered and a non-executive director and chair of the Audit Committee Secretaries and Administrators.
Former appointments include ofDiageo plc.
He is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Group Company Secretary of Rio Tinto plc and of BGGroup plc.
Accountants in England and Wales.
124 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 CEO of HSBC North America Holdings Inc. and Chairman of HSBC Group Chief Executive Designate Bank USA, N. A. HSBC Finance Corporation, HSBC USA Inc. and HSBC Global Asset Management USA Inc. John Flint, 49 Group Chief Executive Designate Pierre Goad, 56 Group Head of Global Communications Pierre first joined HSBC in 2001.
In 2010 he left and joined Zurich Insurance Group as Head of Communications.
He rejoined HSBC in 2011 and became a Group Managing Director in 2015.
He is a director of HSBC Bank Canada.
Former appointments include: Global Co-Head of Communications: and Head of Corporate Development, Europe, Middle East and Global Businesses.
John joined HSBC in 1989 and became a Group Managing Director in 2013.
Former appointments include: a director of HSBC Private Banking Holdings Suisse SA, a director of HSBC Bank Pam Kaur, 54 Canada, Chief of Staff to the Group Chief Executive and Group Group Head of Internal Audit Head of Strategy and Planning, Chief Executive Officer HSBC Global Asset Management, Group Treasurer and Deputy Head of Pam joined HSBC and became a Group Managing Director in Global Markets.
John was CEO, Retail Banking and Wealth 2013.
She is a co-opted Council member of The Institute of Management until January 2018.
John was appointed as a Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Former director of The HongKong and Shanghai Banking Corporation appointments include: Global Head of Group Audit for Deutsche Limited on 16 January 2018 and will take over from Stuart Gulliver Bank AG: Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer of the as Group Chief Executive on 21 February 2018.
Restructuring and Risk Division, Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc: Group Head of Compliance and AML, Lloyds TSB: and Global Director of Compliance, Global Consumer Group, Citigroup.
Group Managing Directors Stuart Levey, 54 Chief Legal Officer Elaine Arden, 49 Group Head of Human Resources Stuart joined HSBC and became a Group Managing Director in 2012.
Former appointments include: Under Secretary for Terrorism Elaine joined HSBC in June 2017 as Group Head of Human and Financial Intelligence in the US Department of the Treasury: Resources.
She has previously held senior human resources and Senior Fellow for National Security and Financial Integrity at the employee relations roles in a number of other financial institutions.
Council on Foreign Relations: Principal Associate Deputy Attorney Elaine is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Banking in Scotland General at the US Department of Justice: and a Partner at Miller, and a member of the Chartered Institute of Personnel & Cassidy, Larroca & Lewin LLP and at Baker Botts LLP.
Andy Maguire, 51 Samir Assaf, 57 Group Chief Operating Officer Chief Executive, Global Banking and Markets Andy joined HSBC in 2014 as Group Chief Operating Officer and Samir joined HSBC in 1994 and became a Group Managing became a Group Managing Director in 2015.
He is Chairman of Director in 2011.
He is Chairman and a non-executive director of HSBC Global Services UK Limited and a director of HSBC Global HSBC France: a director of HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG and Services Limited and HSBC Group Management Services Limited.
Former appointments include: a director of He is formerly a Managing Partner UK and Ireland of the Boston HSBC Bank plc: HSBC Global Asset Management Limited and Consulting Group.
HSBC Bank Egypt S. A. E. : and Head of Global Markets for Europe, Middle East and Africa.
Paulo Maia, 59 Chief Executive, Latin America Colin Bell, 50 Group Head of Financial Crime Risk Paulo joined HSBC in 1993 and became a Group Managing Director on 1 February 2016.
He is Chairman of Grupo Financiero Colin Bell joined HSBC in July 2016 and was appointed a Group HSBC Mexico S. A. fide C. V. HSBC Argentina Holdings S. A. and a Managing Director in March 2017.
Colin previously worked at Director of HSBC North America Holdings Inc. Former UBS, where he was Head of Compliance and Operational Risk appointments include: Chief Executive of HSBC Bank Canada and Control.
He has 10 years of experience in managing risk and HSBC Bank Australia Limited.
financial crime, following 16 years in the British Army.
Charlie Nunn, 46 Peter Boyles, 62 Chief Executive Officer, Retail Banking and Wealth Management Chief Executive Officer of Global Private Banking Charlie joined HSBC in 2011 and became a Group Managing Peter joined HSBC in 1975 and became a Group Managing Director and CEO, Retail Banking and Wealth Management in Director in 2013.
He is a director of HSBC Global Asset January 2018.
Charlie was previously Head of Group Retail Management Limited and HSBC Private Bank UK Limited.
Banking and Wealth Management, leading the teams supporting Former appointments include: Chief Executive of HSBC France: a HSBCs Retail and Wealth businesses globally.
Prior to this, he director of HSBC Bank plc, HSBC Bank Malta plc and HSBC was Group Head of Wealth Management and before that Global Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG.
Chief Operating Officer for Retail Banking and Wealth Management.
Charlie has extensive financial services experience Patrick Burke, 56 and was formerly a Partner at Accenture and a Senior Partner at President and Chief Executive Officer of HSBC USA McKinsey & Co. Patrick joined HSBC in 1989 and became a Group Managing Director in 2015.
He is also an Executive Director, President and HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 125 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
