13 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS MARKET OVERVIEW A LOOK AT OUR MARKET DRIVERS The performance of real estate, like all asset classes, is driven by the interplay ofdemand and supply: investor demand for property assets and occupier demand for space, with performance dependent onthe supply of properties to buy or IMPROVING STRUCTURAL lease to satisfy that demand.
ECONOMIC CHANGES OUTLOOK IN CONSUMER REAL ESTATE AS AN BEHAVIOUR INVESTMENT ASSET FORECAST GROWTH IN EUROPEAN If investor demand increases, in the absence GDP GROWTH FORECAST FOR OUR RETAIL SALES BY PHYSICAL STORES of additional supply, the value of real estate MAJOR MARKETS % P. A.
201719 AND E-COMMERCE 2015 100 will rise: if demand wanes or supply increases, 175 Average the value will fall.
Real estate pricing is 175 growth 164 rate: 9.8% commonly expressed as a yield which is the rent payable for a building as a percentage 150 150 of its value.
Assuming rents remain static, 137 as the value of real estate rises, its yield falls often referred to as yield compression and 124 125 Average vice versa.
115 112 112 110 growth 107 105 rate: 2.4% 102 REAL ESTATE AS AN 100 E-commerce OPERATING NECESSITY Physical As occupier demand increases, in the absence of additional supply, overall lease Commentary: Commentary: terms will become more expensive for the occupier, including but not exclusively an Economic growth is an important driver Structural changes in the nature of retailing increase in rents.
If demand for space falls, or of demand for space by occupiers, and towards e-commerce and convenience supply increases ahead of occupier demand, our customer base spans most business shopping, combined with increasing overall lease terms, including rent, will sectors.
A supportive economic environment urbanisation of European populations, are become cheaper.
encourages businesses to grow and require forcing retailers to reassess how they sell and It is for this reason that the property additional space in which to operate.
market is considered cyclical: as investor or We expect the economies of all our Supply chains must be able to handle occupier demand increases, the returns from markets to grow steadily, with a clear both bulk delivery of goods to larger stores real estate improve and the supply of assets or improvement in momentum in our and individual deliveries to homes, offices, space tends to increase to meet that demand.
click-and-collect locations and high street If supply increases too much, or demand The UKs future relationship with the convenience stores.
Margin pressure means starts to fall, supply can exceed demand and European Union continues to be a source of that retailers, third party logistics providers asset values and rents will fall until such time uncertainty and appears to be weighing on and parcel delivery companies are increasingly as demand matches or exceeds supply, at forecasts for UK GDP growth.
focused on extracting efficiencies from their which point the cycle turns.
supply chain, using modern premises in key What it means for SEGRO: We are acutely aware of the cyclical transport corridors, logistics hubs or locations A supportive economic environment nature of real estate and believe there are close to major conurbations.
is crucial for our customers and likely six main market factors which influence the What it means for SEGRO: to increase demand for additional performance of our portfolio.
Strong occupier demand for our urban warehouses located on the edge of major Healthy occupier demand for newly European cities to cater for last mile developed pre-let and speculative space.
delivery to multiple destinations, often Lack of clarity around the UKs future houses and offices.
relationship with the EU could impact 70 per cent of lettings in 2017 were from occupier demand both for existing space retailers, parcel delivery and third party and for our risk appetite for speculative logistics companies.
development see page 59 for more detailsabout Brexit-related risks.
See also factors under Improving economic outlook.
Source: Colliers International: Online retailers and the growth of Source: OECD 15 February 2018 showrooming, 2017 Q4 Poland 3.4% Germany 2.1% France 1.7% Italy 1.4% UK 1.2% 2015 2016 2017 2018F 2019F 2020F 2021F 14 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 MARKET OVERVIEW A LOOK AT OUR MARKET DRIVERS CONTINUED LIMITED SUPPLY REDUCTION IN NEED FOR OF MODERN INDUSTRIAL LAND EFFICIENT, WAREHOUSING AROUND MAJOR SUSTAINABLE TOWNS AND CITIES BUILDINGS UK GRADE A WAREHOUSING IN SHORT SUPPLY AVAILABILITY AT YEAR END SQ M IN MILLIONS Commentary: Commentary: Commentary: The relatively short construction time for Land zoned for industrial use in and around With greater awareness of the impact of warehousing means that rising demand can major conurbations is important to cater for buildings on the environment and finite sometimes be quickly met by an increase in occupiers who need to be close to population natural resources, occupiers demand high supply.
However, developers are currently centres either for efficient last mile delivery or levels of environmental sustainability to taking a disciplined approach and, particularly for an accessible labour source.
However, the minimise their environmental footprint and in urban areas, tight planning laws and stock of industrial land is being eroded in our to reduce overall occupancy costs, particularly competing uses are restricting the supply major urban markets by other, higher value from heating and other utilities.
Therefore, although warehouse uses, most commonly residential.
As a result, that landlords and developers own and development is increasing, it is not exceeding the potential supply response is restricted and, create buildings which are sustainable or still falling short of occupier demand since demand remains strong, overall leasing in the long term and use those natural and many buildings under construction are terms are improving.
already committed pre-let to occupiers.
What this means for SEGRO: What this means for SEGRO: Consequently there are no signs of overIn the UK, rental values for our London All of our developments are designed to supply in any of our major markets.
assets increased by 4.6 per cent reflecting meet the environmental targets set out in What it means for SEGRO: the shortage of new supply relative to our SEGRO 2020 strategy see page 48 The shortage of quality warehouses and levels of demand and we expect continued for more details.
healthy occupier demand, particularly for rental growth in 2018.
A buildings sustainability is an important urban warehouses across our markets, has In a few cases, we are able to release factor in our investment decisions, not caused rental values to rise.
industrial land unsuitable for development only for potential acquisitions but also in It has also been reflected in the of modern warehousing for higher value deciding whether to refurbish or dispose of acceleration of our development activity uses mainly residential and we benefit the very few existing properties which fall and in the level of pre-lets in recent from the uplift in value from industrial to short of environmental standards.
years, utilising our well located land bank residential land zoning.
We estimate that 96 per cent of our UK to satisfy our customers need for modern properties by ERV are E-rated or above warehouse space in key European cities for the purposes of the Minimum Energy and transport corridors.
Source: JLL 2012 2.1 2013 1.5 2014 1.1 2015 1.4 2016 1.2 2017 1.4 15 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS HOW ARE WE RESPONDING?
Strong customer focus and active asset management: maximising customer retention, portfolio occupancy, rental growth and asset ATTRACTIVE YIELD sustainability through strong customer service and asset maintenance PROFILE IN A LOW andrefurbishment.
INTEREST RATE ENVIRONMENT PRIME YIELDS IN ALL OUR 2.
MARKETS ARE COMFORTABLY ABOVE RISK-FREE RATES % Accelerated development programme to take advantage of growing occupier demand and limited supply of modern, sustainable warehousing, particularly in urban locations.
This acceleration has been funded in part bythe new equity raised in 2016 and 2017.
Land acquisitions have been focused on sites which can be developed in the near-term, with longer-term sites secured either through options orwhere we believe the sites can be substantially developed over the nextfive years.
Commentary: Monetary policy across Europe and globally 4. means that we are operating in a very low Asset recycling, taking advantage of strong investor demand to improve interest rate environment: 10 year UK gilts our portfolio quality: selling assets to release funds for investment in our at 31 December 2017 yielded 1.2 per cent development programme, reducing debt andselective asset acquisitions.
and German bunds yielded 0.4 per cent.
Prime industrial real estate yields in the UK and Continental Europe are between 3 and 6 percentage points higher than their respective 5. risk-free benchmarks, making industrial real Strengthened and improved capital structure.
During the year, estate attractive on a relative basis.
The spread we raised 2.1 billion of new debt, taking advantage of the low interest between yield and risk-free rate, as well as rate environment to improve the average cost and duration of our debt the prospect of rental growth to come, should book.
As part of the process, we repaid 1.3 billion of debt, comprising provide support for current yields.
mainly bonds and less flexible, secured debt.
The cost of this exercise What this means for SEGRO: was approximately 145 million to generate finance cost savings of The yield profile of warehouse properties approximately 29 million per year.
remains attractive, particularly given experience and expectations of improving rental values.
Our portfolio increased in value by 13.6 per cent in 2017, reflecting continued yield compression across our markets and improving rental values, OUR particularly in urban warehousing.
GOAL Greater competition for standing assets from investors has increased their prices meaning that the returns available to us DISCIPLINED CAPITAL OPERATIONAL from developing our own assets are usually ALLOCATION EXCELLENCE higher than from acquiring existing assets.
EFFICIENT CAPITAL AND FOR MORE INFORMATION CORPORATE STRUCTURE SEE PAGES 20-39 Source: CBRE, Bloomberg at 31 December 2017 Poland 6.0 France 4.8 UK 4.5 Germany 4.4 UK 1.2 risk-free Germany 0.4 risk-free
