28 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 Legal Business overview Legal is a leading global provider of legal, regulatory and business We help lawyers win cases, manage their work more information and analytics that helps customers increase productivity, efficiently, serve their clients better and grow their practices.
improve decision-making and outcomes and advance the rule of law We assist corporations in better understanding their markets around the world.
and preventing bribery and corruption within their supply LexisNexis Legal & Professional is headquartered in New York chains.
We partner with leading global associations and and has further principal operations in Ohio, North Carolina customers to help collect evidence against war criminals and Toronto in North America, London and Paris in Europe, and provide tools to combat human trafcking.
We endeavour and cities in several other countries in Africa and Asia Pacic.
to advance the rule of law across the world.
It has 10,600 employees worldwide and serves customers in more than 130 countries.
Revenues for the year ended 31 December 2017 were 1,692m, compared with 1,622m in 2016 and 1,443m in 2015.
By The LexisNexis legal and news database contains 81bn geographical market, 68% of revenue in 2017 was derived documents and records from North America, 20% from Europe and the remaining 12% from the rest of the world.
In 2017, 77% of revenue came from 1.5m new legal documents are added daily to the database subscription sales and 23% from transactional sales.
In all, 20m legal documents are processed daily LexisNexis Legal & Professional is organised in market-facing groups.
These are supported by global shared services organisations providing platform and product development, Nexis news and business content includes 40,000 premium operational and distribution services, and other support sources in 30 languages, covering more than 150 countries.
It has data including 320m company proles with a content archive that dates back 40 years In North America, electronic reference, decision tools and analytics help legal and business professionals make better The LexisNexis database includes more than 220m court informed decisions in the practice of law and in managing their dockets and documents, 110m patent documents, 1.9m businesses.
The agship product for legal research and analytics State Trial Orders and 1.2m Jury verdict and settlement is Lexis Advance, which provides statutes and case law together documents with analysis and expert commentaries from secondary sources such as Matthew Bender.
In addition, Lexis Advance includes the LexisNexis is committed to advancing the rule of law leading citation service, Shepards, which advises on the continuing through operations and solutions that provide transparency relevance of case law precedents.
In North America, we also into the law in more than 130 countries provide customers with news and business information, ranging from daily news to company lings, public records information, legal analytics tools, practical guidance and efficiency solutions.
LexisNexis also partners with law schools to provide services to students as part of their training.
In 2017, LexisNexis continued to release new versions of Lexis Advance, an innovative web and mobile application designed to transform how legal professionals conduct research and use analytics and data to drive decision-making.
Built on the New Lexis advanced technology platform, Lexis Advance allows customers within legal and professional organisations to nd relevant information more easily and efficiently, helping to drive better outcomes.
Future releases will continue to expand content and add new innovative analytical tools extensively using machine learning and natural language processing.
LexisNexis employs lawyers and trained editors with professional legal backgrounds who review, annotate and update its legal content to help ensure each document in the collection is current and comprehensive.
This domain expertise combined with Articial Intelligence and RELX Groups big data HPCC Systems technology enables LexisNexis to update its entire legal collection faster and more efficiently than before, while also identifying and linking content, enabling customers to identify previously undiscovered relationships between documents.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Business review Legal 29 New analytical tools and content sets are regularly introduced In international markets outside North America, LexisNexis on Lexis Advance.
For example, in 2017 LexisNexis released serves legal, corporate, government, accounting and academic Lexis Answers, which leverages advanced natural language markets in Europe, Africa and Asia Pacic with local and processing technologies to deliver concise and authoritative international legal, regulatory and business information.
answers to users questions alongside comprehensive search The most significant of these businesses are in the UK, France, results.
In 2017 LexisNexis also continued to make enhancements Australia and South Africa.
to Lexis Practice Advisor by integrating Lexis Search Advantage, LexisNexis focuses on providing customers with leading a tool that enriches search and analytics across rm documents collections of content and innovative online solutions to help and LexisNexis content, and launching a redesigned user legal and business professionals make better decisions interface with improved browsing capabilities.
LexisNexis continues to expand the reach of its analytical decision In the UK, LexisNexis is a leading legal information provider tools.
For instance, in 2017 Lex Machina, a legal analytics tool offering an unrivalled collection of primary and secondary providing actionable insights about judges, lawyers, parties and legislation, case law, expert commentary, practical guidance cases, expanded its practice area coverage to include Commercial, and current awareness.
Its extensive portfolio includes a number Employment, and Bankruptcy Litigation.
In 2017, LexisNexis also of leading brands: Halsburys, Butterworths, Tolley, MLex and acquired Ravel Law, a legal research, analytics and visualisation Jordan Publishing.
Jordan Publishings market-leading content platform that mines published case opinions, providing a wealth offering includes agship titles such as Family Court Practice, of information that helps litigators quickly uncover new insights Family Law Reports and Gore-Browne on Companies.
and build specic arguments for use in court.
The acquisition will expand the LexisNexis Legal Analytics suite of products through In 2017, LexisNexis UK continued to build on its LexisPSL practical full integration of Ravel Laws judicial analytics, data visualisation guidance product suite by launching new sector specic content technology and unique case law PDF content from the Harvard modules in Technology, Media and Telecommunications TMT, Law Library into Lexis Litigation Prole Suite and Lexis Advance.
Financial Services, and Risk and Compliance.
LexisNexis UK These tools complement the Lex Machina analytics solution continued to expand LexisPSL functionality, improving search and strengthen the LexisNexis position as a leader in the legal performance by further optimising practice note content retrieval.
Contract productivity and proof reading tool, LexisDraft has become rmly embedded in the UK legal services market.
In Canada, LexisNexis released new versions of Lexis Advance MLex continues to break market-moving news and has become Quicklaw with significant content and functionality enhancements, a regularly cited source for mainstream news outlets.
Tolley, the including improved search and browsing and point-in-time and LexisNexis tax intelligence suite, continued to expand its reach aggregated views of legislation.
LexisNexis Canada also released in 2017, with TolleyGuidance expanding its presence across The Lawyers Daily, the first online-only daily legal news service multiple customer segments.
in the market, and continued to build out Lexis Practice Advisor Canada with additional modules, tools and content.
LexisNexis also supplies Business of Law Software Solutions to law rms and corporate legal departments.
These solutions include practice management solutions, including time and billing systems, case management, cost recovery and document management services.
LexisNexis UK legal practical guidanceservice Provides Legal Analytics to companies and law rms, enabling them to craft successful strategies, win cases and close business New resource that offers guidance to help Leading legal news provider covering the Critical analysis, checklists, forms and attorneys handle transactional matters entire spectrum of practice areas every single practice guides authored by industry experts more efficiently and effectively business day covering over 50 major practice areas New online legal research tool that Premier citations service A media organisation providing exclusive transforms the way legal professionals market insight, analysis and commentary conduct research on regulatory risk LexisNexis UK agship legal online product 30 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 In France, LexisNexis is a leading online provider of information Strategic priorities to lawyers, notaries and courts.
JurisClasseur and other leading LexisNexis Legal & Professionals strategic goal is to enable authoritative content such as JurisData are provided through better legal outcomes and be the leading provider of productivitymultiple formats.
These content sources have been combined enhancing information, analytics and information-based decision with new content and innovative decision tools to develop practical tools in its market.
To achieve this, LexisNexis is focused on guidance and practice management solutions.
LexisNexis introducing next-generation products and solutions on the global Frances main offering is Lexis360, which combines legal New Lexis platform and infrastructure: leveraging New Lexis information, practical content and results from the web.
In 2017, globally to continue to drive print-to-electronic migration and LexisNexis launched a Lexis360 version adapted for Austria.
long-term international growth: and upgrading operational infrastructure, improving process efficiency and gradually In 2017, LexisNexis France integrated the first predictive analytics improving margins.
indemnity calculation tool in France on Lexis360 and launched Lexis Actu, a real-time legal news service.
In the US, LexisNexis is focused on the continuing development of legal research and practice solutions that help lawyers make In South Africa, LexisNexis launched Lexis Assure, a compliance data-driven decisions.
Over the coming years, progressive planning solution.
In the Middle East, LexisNexis launched a news product introductions, based on the New Lexis platform and mobile app to enrich Lexis Middle East Law.
powered by big data HPCC Systems technology, will combine In the Asia Pacic region, LexisNexis continued to focus on advanced technologies, enriched content and sophisticated providing authoritative local online content embedded in decision analytics to enable LexisNexis customers to make data-driven tools for legal professionals.
As of 2017, Lexis Advance has legal decisions and drive better outcomes for their organisations launched in Australia and New Zealand, enabling improved and clients.
analytics, data visualisation and user experience.
Lexis Advance Outside the US, LexisNexis is focused on growing online services will continue to roll out in Asia Pacic with launches in Hong Kong, and developing further high-quality actionable content and Singapore and Malaysia to commence in 2018.
In 2017, Lexis China decision tools, including the continuous development of practical launched a new big data solution to improve citation processing guidance and practice management applications.
In 2018, speed and LexisNexis was recognised by the Australian Centre LexisNexis will continue to expand the New Lexis platform for Corporate Social Responsibility as one of the Top 10 socially globally.
Additionally, LexisNexis is focusing on the expansion responsible companies in Australia, due to LexisNexiss of its activities in emerging markets.
commitment to the Rule of Law.
Business model, distribution channels and competition Market opportunities LexisNexis Legal & Professional products and services are Longer-term growth in legal and regulatory markets worldwide generally sold directly to law rms and to corporate, government, is driven by increasing levels of legislation, regulation, regulatory accounting and academic customers on a paid subscription basis, complexity and litigation, and an increasing number of lawyers.
with subscriptions with law rms often under multi-year contracts.
Additional market opportunities are presented by the increasing demand for online information solutions, legal analytics and other Principal competitors for LexisNexis in US legal markets solutions as well as practice management tools that improve the are Westlaw Thomson Reuters, CCH Wolters Kluwer and quality and productivity of research, deliver better legal outcomes Bloomberg.
In news and business information key competitors and improve business performance.
Notwithstanding this, legal are Bloomberg and Factiva News Corporation.
activity and legal information markets are also influenced by significant international competitors include Thomson Reuters, economic conditions and corporate activity, as has been seen with Wolters Kluwer and Factiva.
the continued subdued environment in North America and Europe.
REVENUE BY FORMAT REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHICAL MARKET REVENUE BY TYPE 1,692m 1,692m Rest of world 1,692m 12% Print Transactional 17% 23% Europe 20% North Electronic America Subscription 83% 68% 77% Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Business review Legal 31 2017 financial performance 2017 2016 Underlying Acquisitions Currency Total m m growth disposals effects growth Revenue 1,692 1,622 2% -3% 5% 4% Adjusted operating profit 332 311 11% -10% 6% 7% Underlying revenue growth in 2017 was in line with the prior Electronic revenues saw continued growth, partially offset by year, with continued efficiency gains driving strong underlying print declines.
The roll-out of new platform releases across our operating profit growth.
US and international markets continued, with broader datasets and the continued expansion of early stage legal analytics.
The difference between The usage migration of US legal customers onto Lexis Advance the reported and underlying growth rates reflects the impact of is now substantially complete.
exchange rate movements and portfolio changes including the acquisition of Ravel Law, the disposal of several print and services US and European markets remained stable.
Other international assets, and the final exit from the Martindale Hubbell joint venture.
markets continued to grow well.
Underlying adjusted operating profit growth was 11%.
The 2018 outlook increase in operating profit margin reflects ongoing organic Trends in our major customer markets are unchanged, continuing process improvement and decommissioning of systems which, to limit the scope for underlying revenue growth.
We expect together with currency movements, more than offset a lower underlying profit growth to remain strong.
profit contribution from joint ventures and other portfolio effects.
REVENUE ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT m m Underlying growth 2% Underlying growth 11% 332 1,692 1,622 311 2016 2017 2016 2017 32 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 In the competitive field of patent litigation, having access to the data and the analytics that Lex Machina provides is what you need to make strategic recommendations to clients and make well-informed decisions.
In todays legal environment, using analytics tools like LexMachina is table stakes to be competitive.
Dr Christian Mammen Partner, Hogan Lovells 60 mins less than 60 minutes tobuild a solid picture ofa new case using LexMachinas analytics Business review Legal 33 Lex Machina: using legal analytics to help lawyers win business and cases Hogan Lovells is an Am Law 100 global firm operating on six continents.
ItsSan Francisco office uses LexisNexis Lex Machina Legal Analytics platform to mine millions of pages of legal information to help lawyers make data-driven decisions, stay competitive and make better strategic client recommendations.
Dr Christian Mammen of Hogan Lovells Hogan Lovells San Francisco office advises clients on About Lex Machina how to manage intellectual property litigation, among Lex Machina is a big data solution that mines other practice areas.
Its lawyers use Lex Machinas Legal vast amounts of legal data and extracts key Analytics to mine litigation data, revealing insights about information, which companies and law judges, lawyers, parties and the subjects of the cases firms use to win business and win cases.
themselves that have never before been available.
Lex Machina scans data from more than Thetechnology enables them to quickly discover and 32m Federal US Docket entries, then uses communicate meaningful patterns in the data, and Artificial Intelligence tools such as Natural makemore effective recommendations to their clients.
Language Processing and Machine Learning to clean, tag and structure that data.
The results are presented using advanced visualisation technology.
Lex Machina initially focused onintellectual property law, and is in the process of rolling out Legal Analytics for the rest of the law.
New practice areas include antitrust, securities, commercial, employment and bankruptcy law.
