com Our business model and strategy Beazleys vision is Our business model Our strategy tobecome, and be recognised as, the Reconfirmed annually through the Our strategy is directed towards the highestperforming business planning process, our achievement of our vision, which is to business model is as follows: become, and be recognised as, the specialist insurer.
To this end, our strategy comprises: Thecompanys business We have a targeted product set, largely in commercial lines of Prudent capital allocation model, strategy, and business, and underwrite each to achieve a well diversified risk on its own merits: portfolio that is resistant to shocks approach to risk in any individual line of business: We employ highly skilled, management are geared experienced and specialist The creation of an environment to the achievement underwriters and claims in which talented individuals with managers: entrepreneurial spirit can build ofthisvision, as well successful businesses: We tend to write capped liabilities: astocreating value The ability to scale our operations We operate through specific to ensure that client and broker insurance hubs rather than forourstakeholders service keeps pace and, wherever seeking a local presence in every possible, improves as the company country in which we do business: grows: and and Consistent investment in product We transact business through innovations to provide better brokers and work with selected products and services to improve managing general agencies and our clients risk transfer.
managing general underwriters to improve distribution in specialist niches.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 09 Risks How we measure value creation Given the nature of Beazleys For shareholders business, the key risks that impact We measure our value creation for financial performance arise from shareholders through earnings per insurance activities and fall into the share, the growth of net assets per following categories: share, and total shareholder returns in dollars as this is the currency Market cycle risk: of the majority of our transactions.
The risk of systematic mispricing Underpinning our strong results of the medium tailed specialty against all of these metrics has lines business which could arise been our consistently strong due to a change in the US tort underwriting performance, reflected environment, changes to the in our combined ratio.
Our combined supply and demand of capital, ratio in 2017, a year of exceptionally and companies using incomplete high natural catastrophes, was 99%.
data to make decisions: In the five years prior to 2017 it Natural catastrophe risk: averaged 88%.
The risk of one large event caused For staff by nature affecting a number of policies and therefore giving Beazley employs talented people and we invest accordingly in rise to multiple losses.
Given Beazleys risk profile, this could expanding their skills and helping them build rewarding careers.
be a hurricane, major windstorm or earthquake: We measure the impact of these investments on the perceptions Non natural catastrophe risk: of our people in two main ways: This risk is similar to natural by monitoring staff retention levels catastrophe risk except that and through a detailed employee multiple losses arise from one engagement survey, which we event caused by mankind.
Given conduct every two years.
On both Beazleys risk profile, examples counts, the evidence is strongly include a coordinated cyber positive.
Our staff retention levels attack, an act of terrorism, an are very high and the most recent act of war or a political event: employee engagement survey, conducted in 2017, positioned Reserve risk: Beazley in the top quartile of the The risk that the reserves put 6,000 companies surveyed by aside for claims to be settled in the Aon Hewitt.
future turn out to be insufficient: and Market asset risk: For customers The risk that the value of Nearly all business at Beazley comes investments could be adversely through brokers.
We monitor broker impacted by movements in interest and client perceptions of our service rates, exchange rates, default rates particularly our claims service or external market forces.
in a variety of ways, including through a detailed annual broker survey.
The 2017 survey, conducted with more than 4,000 brokers, showed a strong net promoter score NPS for our underwriters, reflecting a high willingness to recommend Beazley.
Our approach to managing Among brokers who had experienced these and other risks is our claims service the NPS was described in detail on page 55 higher still.
