com Reinsurance A tumultuous year for reinsurers resulted in a sharp increase in the combined ratio of Beazleys reinsurance division, to 107% 2016: 65% on gross premiums written of $206.8m 2016: $213.4m.
However, a combined ratio of 107% is still a good Patrick Hartigan performance in such conditions Head of reinsurance and was possible because of the balance of the portfolio, Portfolio mix which is actively managed.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 37 The impact of catastrophe losses in Losses from these events all fell within the US and Mexico was mitigated by our expectations and provided an the steps we have taken in recent years opportunity for the traditional to diversify our book geographically.
reinsurance market to demonstrate A little over half of our business now its value and staying power.
derives from US cedents, down from 66% a decade ago.
Outside the US, our As a result, we saw rate rises of 5% European and Asian books performed on average on renewal business at the well in 2017. beginning of 2018.
We plan to increase our underwriting by 3% for non-US However, we remain committed to business and 8% for US business in the supporting our US cedents and to course of 2018, reflecting the improved retaining a strong presence in the margins now available.
In the weeks following Hurricanes Looking ahead, it is possible that the Harvey, Irma and Maria, we advanced events of 2017 will accelerate changes substantial funds to US insurers who in the pattern of demand for reinsurance were, themselves, under pressure as well as supply.
The impact of this to respond swiftly to clients claims.
years storms has refocused attention We did the same in the wake of the in the US on the heavy public subsidies wildfires in California in October.
which are currently required to maintain the National Flood Insurance Program All of these were material events for the and the potential partnership role reinsurance market.
Current estimates that private sector insurance and of the total insured cost of the 2017 reinsurance could play in providing Atlantic hurricane season stand sustainable cover in the future.
The two Mexican earthquakes are expected to cost insurers between $2.5bn and $5bn, while the Californian wildfires, which destroyed or damaged more than 14,000 homes, are expected to add a further $10bn to the total insurance bill.
These events contributed to an increase of $57.3m to the divisions net insurance claims in 2017.
