Our business model and strategy Our business model and strategy Our Strategy Our ambition is to become number one for customer service, trust and advocacy as we meet the aspirations and needs of our retail, business, commercial, corporate and institutional customers.
Our core businesses are centred around the UK and Republic of Ireland markets with a focused international capability.
We are building a better bank for our customers, and one that will deliver sustainable returns for shareholders.
Our purpose is to serve customers well, and to do so, we are becoming a safe, simple, customer-focused UK and Ireland bank.
Our plan Underpinning that ambition is our Our plan focuses on delivering blueprint for success.
This is our excellent customer service through plan which drives our strategic all of our brands.
Creating lasting relationships RBS is continuing to build a bank that with our customers, who advocate is easy to do business with, and meets for our bank, is the key to generating customers continually evolving needs.
Draft: v4 16 02 2018 Our blueprint for Our blueprint for lasting success lasting success No.
1 for customer service, trust Our Ambition and advocacy Serve customers well Our Purpose Serving Working Doing the Thinking customers together right thing long term Our Values Our Brands Strength Customer Simplifying Supporting Employee and experience the bank sustainable engagement Our Priorities sustainability growth Employee CET1 ratio 13% No.
1 for Cost:income Leading market engagement in quartile of service, trust ratio 50% positions in upper Our 2020 RoTE 12% and advocacy every franchise Global Financial Goals Services GFS norm 19 Our business model and strategy Our 2020 vision The bank of 2020 will be high tech and high touch, which means lower cost, high quality digital services with human expertise available when required.
This will be underpinned by a clear commitment to our customers, shareholders and other stakeholders.
2020 A leading UK retail and Track record of cost and commercial bank with risk reduction a focused financial Improving returns and markets division capital generation Strong brands and Significant distribution market positions potential Growing in attractive chosen markets Balanced, stable and improving income generation Customer Resilient Balance Sheet with Improving productivity improving efficiency led, digital enabled 13% CET1 Ratio Sub 50% C:I Ratio model Sustainable returns Reinvestment above cost of capital 12% ROTE Significant capital return potential to shareholders Our priorities Strength and sustainability Customer experience Supporting sustainable growth We remain focused on building a strong We are investing in our people, service, A strong sustainable business grows and stable bank.
We have continued and product proposition to ensure we with its customers.
We continue to to improve the fundamentals, by provide market leading technology support our customers through offering increasing our capital strength, building and signature customer experiences, products and services which meet a robust liquidity position and balancing through a wide variety of channels.
our loan to deposit ratio.
As one of the UKs largest banks we understand the Simplifying the bank Employee engagement importance of supporting the UKs economic and social development.
Streamlining of processes and Engaged colleagues lead to engaged Through our balance sheet lending and removing unnecessary complexity customers.
At RBS we are committed range of sustainable banking initiatives, lowers our operating costs, and makes to investing in our colleagues and we are working to improve outcomes our customer interactions more creating leaders who inspire and for all stakeholders.
