82 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS AND OTHER STAKEHOLDERS RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS the year along with a regular series of one-toThis includes regular scheduled Investor AND OTHER STAKEHOLDERS AT one and group meetings.
These events also Relations events, outlined in the Shareholder AGLANCE provide an opportunity for shareholders to Engagement box, as well as one-to-one and meet members of the senior management group meetings with Executive Directors, SEGROs principal duty is to deliver long team.
See the chart below for further details tours of the Companys properties and equity term, sustainable returns to shareholders of what the Board did in 2017. sales team presentations at global and local but, we are also mindful of the impact of our The Senior Independent Director, and investment banks.
During the year, the actions and the decisions that we make, on the Chairman are available to shareholders Chief Executive, along with the Executive our wider stakeholders and the communities to discuss governance and strategy or any Directors, senior management and Investor in which we operate.
This section gives concerns they may have which contact Relations team met with representatives some examples of how we interact with our through the usual channels has failed to from181 institutions.
resolve or is otherwise inappropriate.
Both the Communication and engagement with Chairman and Senior Independent Director ENGAGEMENT WITH CUSTOMERS stakeholders is important to the Board as continue to be available for meetings should it strengthens the business and promotes The Companys business model is based on shareholders request them.
the Companys success to benefit both owning and managing warehouse properties The Chairman also attends the financial stakeholders and shareholders alike.
but its relationship with its customers is critical results presentations which is a good During the year, the Directors have: to its long-term success.
SEGRO aims to opportunity to spend time with the analysts create long-term sustainable business relations Reviewed the Groups monthly Health and and investors who attend.
The Board with its customers, recognising the mutual Safety Report: is kept informed about any discussions benefits that can flow through partnership.
with shareholders and the Directors are Received a report about Communities and It is important to the continued success of provided regularly with analysts reports and Charities activities: the business that customers are consistently investor feedback.
satisfied with the product and service levels Approved the Slavery and they receive from the Company.
The Board Human Trafficking Statement and therefore takes an interest in the results of the SHAREHOLDER associated policies: annual customer satisfaction survey and on ENGAGEMENT 2017 Received reports on employee engagement how the business has responded.
It is pleasing Investor Investor and talent management: to note the good results received again this presentations roadshows year.
Further details about the work the Considered the results of our annual Full year results Amsterdam x2 Company carries out with its customers can customer satisfaction survey: and Half year results Asia be found on page 52.
Equity sales Edinburgh Discussed shareholder feedback with our presentations x2 brokers, Bank of America Merrill Lynch ENGAGEMENT WITH SUPPLIERS Frankfurt and UBS.
Trading Updates London x3 The Board takes relationships with its Q1 and Q3 Milan suppliers seriously, and the Company Annual General GERALD CORBETT Paris x2 seeks to maintain the highest standards CHAIRMAN Meeting of conduct throughout its social supply Toronto chain.
In particular, where appropriate, the Company values long-term relationships with ENGAGEMENT WITH Investor Investor its suppliers, built on mutual values and trust.
SHAREHOLDERS meetings conferences To ensure that the Company continues to use Rights Issue Cape Town The Directors need to be aware of suppliers that have been thoroughly checked meetingsin London x4 shareholders views and welcome open, and approved as legitimate, competent, safe London, Boston meaningful discussions with shareholders, in New York and appropriate to use, regular dialogue, and andNew York particular with regard to strategy, governance, face to face meetings are held with suppliers.
The Company also makes sure that it pays its The Chief Executive and the Chief suppliers promptly.
com, Financial Officer are the Companys Being mindful of human rights, a Modern provides shareholders with comprehensive principal spokesmen with investors, fund Slavery and Labour Standards Supplier Code information on the Groups recent business managers, analysts, the press and other was introduced during the year when the activities and financial developments, including interested stakeholders.
The Board is Companys Modern Slavery statement was webcasts, press releases and recordings of committed to providing investors with regular published, to ensure that all of its suppliers interviews with the Chief Executive.
announcements of significant events affecting are acting responsibly and are aware of the There is a dedicated Investor Relations the Group, including business strategy and risks of slavery and human trafficking within team which reports to the Chief Financial financial performance.
their own organisation and supply chain.
Communication with investors and The Company organises a dedicated analysts is an ongoing process throughout investor relations programme with institutional the year on a proactive and reactive basis.
investors, which includes formal events during 83 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ENGAGEMENT WITH DEBT INVESTORS Banks and Bondholders 2017 was a busy year for the Companys debt programme with the Group taking advantage of favourable financing conditions.
During the year the Group issued a total of 2.1 billion of new debt across four main transactions.
Details of these transactions can be found on page 34.
The Chief Financial Officer and the Treasury team keep in regular contact with the Companys key relationship banks, bondholders and secured lenders, as well as with the provider of SEGROs credit rating, Fitch Ratings, Inc.
The transactions undertaken meant that the Company welcomed a CONSTRUCTIVE USE OF THE AGM number of new fixed income investors, The Directors appreciate shareholders the year ahead before he and the Board particularly in the USA and looks forward taking the time to attend the AGM answered questions from those attending.
to strengthening and deepening those which gives them the opportunity to talk The Notice of AGM is posted to relationships in the future.
to shareholders about the business, its shareholders at least 20 working days achievements during the previous year before the meeting.
The Company and plans for the future.
It also allows the proposes separate resolutions on each ENGAGEMENT WITH EMPLOYEES Directors to hear what the Companys substantially separate issue, with voting The Companys Purpose and Values help to private shareholders really care about and conducted by poll.
The Board believes unify employees and describe the core beliefs the Board values their questions.
this voting process is fairer than a show about how SEGRO should do business.
During the meeting itself, the Chief of hands since all shares voted at the Further details on Purpose and Values can Executive gave a presentation on the meeting, as well as proxy votes lodged befound on page 44. results of the Company for 2016 as well before the meeting, are counted.
For each The Company believes in regular as details on the Rights Issue what the resolution, shareholders will have the dialogue with employees and holds frequent Company raised, why the Company raised option to vote either for or against a briefings in each of its offices.
The Board also it and the proposed use of the proceeds.
resolution, or to withhold their vote.
encourages all employees to take a stake in The highlights of the recently announced Following the meeting, the results of votes the Company by becoming shareholders Q1 2017 Trading Update were noted lodged for and against each resolution are through the SIP and GSIP share schemes, and David Sleath shared his thoughts for announced to the London Stock Exchange where employees are given shares in SEGRO.
and displayed on the Companys website.
More senior members of the team also participate in the Companys LTIP scheme.
The Board regularly meets with the Group HR Director to discuss employee engagement.
informed of the Companys performance and and corruption report at each meeting since Further information on our employees how this affects the Employer covenant.
it is responsible for ensuring that appropriate canbe found on page 44. safeguards are in place for the detection of CODE OF ETHICS fraud and prevention of bribery, including PENSIONS overseeing and monitoring the Groups The Company does not tolerate fraud, anti-bribery and corruption policies and The Company sponsors the SEGRO Pension impropriety or dishonesty of any kind.
There were no causes of concern Scheme the Scheme in the UK which is a The Board reviews reports on the Code during 2017. defined benefit scheme now closed to future of Ethics, including Anti-Bribery and accrual.
There is a close and constructive Corruption policies.
The Companys policy HEALTH AND SAFETY relationship between the Company and the on whistleblowing, sets out the procedure by Trustee in order to provide member benefits which employees and any third parties can Health and safety is a crucial aspect of our from the Scheme.
The Scheme is well funded use a confidential external service to raise business and a Health and Safety report and for further details on this please see Note concerns by email or telephone, whether in is prepared and discussed at every Board 18.
Company representatives regularly attend relation to financial reporting or other matters.
Further information on Health and Trustee meetings to ensure the Trustee is kept The Audit Committee receives an anti-bribery Safety can be found on page 45.
