Our business model and strategy Our Structure We have four customer franchises, and each is underpinned by a range of distinct brands, which are the route through which we engage with our customers.
Personal and Commercial and Business Banking PBB Private Banking CPB With a branch network and mobile, CPB serves our commercial and high net telephone and online banking propositions worth customers in the UK and Western PBB provides services in the UK and the Europe.
Commercial Banking supports Republic of Ireland.
Through a simple our corporate clients by providing range of products PBB meets the needs of comprehensive commercial banking and Our our retail banking, mass affluent and small financing services with sector expertise.
products Our Private Banking business offers high net worth clients private banking, wealth planning and investment management services.
Our Asset-backed Unitised brands lending funds Business Secured Personal lending loans Credit Saving cards accounts Rates Current accounts Portfolio management Currencies Payments Liquidity Financing management RBS International RBSI NatWest Markets RBSI supports personal, commercial, and NatWest Markets offers corporate and Financial Invoice financial institution customers through institutional customers global market planning financing branches in Jersey, Guernsey, Isle of Man access, providing them with financing and and Gibraltar.
RBSI also supports financial risk management solutions, built around Insurance institution customers through wholesale rates, currencies and financing products.
branches in Luxembourg and London, both opened in 2017.
Our Functions & Services Human Communications Finance Risk Legal Services Resources & Marketing Corporate Governance & Regulatory Affairs Internal Audit Services provide business-aligned technology, operations These teams define functional strategy and the financial and property services across the bank.
plan to support the franchises and other functions.
It is also accountable for technology risk, payments, Most functions are a mix of control, expertise and data, change management and the banks fraud and advisory.
All common support activities across the security functions.
21 Pain-free small business accounting Research in 2017 showed that only half of our one million small-business customers used accounting software, and that cash flow management was one of their biggest pain points.
We wanted to help make their lives easier, so we have partnered with FreeAgent, an Edinburgh-based Fintech that provides accounting software which lets smallbusiness owners track their finances and report their taxes digitally.
Now all of our small-business customers can sign up to FreeAgent using their existing business banking login details.
The process is safe, secure and completely paperfree, and the software helps to make financial reporting and cash flow management quick and easy.
