68 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 RELX Group Business Leaders Senior Business Executives Ron Mobed Mark Kelsey Chet Burchett Mike Walsh Chief Executive officer Chief Executive officer Chief Executive officer Chief Executive officer scientific, Technical Risk & Business Analytics Exhibitions Legal & Medical Joined in 2011.
Appointed to current Joined in 2003.
Appointed to current position in 2012. Business Information in 2010 position in 2015. to current position in 2011. andCEO Risk Solutions in 2012.
Previously President of Cengage Has held a number of senior Previously President of the Previously CEO of LexisNexis US Learnings Academic & positions across theGroup over Americas for Reed Exhibitions.
Legal Markets and Director Professional Group and thepast 30 years.
Studied at Prior to that was President and ofStrategic Business Development Co-President and Co-Chief Liverpool University and received Chief Executive officer, USA, Home Depot.
Prior to that was Operating officer with information his MBA from Bradford University.
for Burson-Marsteller, a leading apractising attorney at Weil, services company IHS.
Holds a global public relations agency.
Gotshaland Manges in Washington degree from Trinity College, Holds a degree from Baylor DC and served as a consultant Cambridge, and a masters degree University.
Holds a Juris Doctor degree fromHarvard Law School and isagraduate of Yale University.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance RELX Group Business Leaders 69 Corporate Executives Kumsal Bayazit Youngsuk YS Chi Gunjan Aggarwal Henry Udow Andrew Matuch Chairwoman, RELX Director of RELX Chief Human Resources Chief Legal officer and Chief Strategy officer Technology Forum Corporate Affairs and officer Company Secretary andPresident, Chairman Elsevier ExhibitionsEurope Joined in 2004.
Appointed current position in 2016. current position in 2011. current position at that time.
current position at that time.
Previously Chief Strategy Previously was President Previously head of Human Previously Chief Legal Previously was Executive officer, RELX Group, and and ChiefOperating officer Resources for Ericssons officer and Company Vice President Global Executive Vice President of Random House, founding global media business Secretary of Cadbury plc Strategy and Business Development for LexisNexis of Global Strategy and Chairman of Random House based in Santa Clara, having spent 23 years Business Development Asia and Chief Operating Silicon Valley and before working with the company.
for LexisNexis Legal & officer for Ingram that head of Human Prior to that worked at Prior to that was a partner Professional.
Holds an MBA Resources for Ericsson Shearman & Sterling in at OC&C Strategy Consultants.
Holds an that worked with Bain & from Columbia University North America.
Career New York and London.
Company in New York, and is a graduate of includes a number of Holds a Juris Doctor degree MBAfrom Harvard Los Angeles, Johannesburg Princeton University.
Human Resources positions from the University of Business School and a and Sydney.
Holds an MBA in Asia, Europe and North Michigan Law School and bachelors degree from Williams College.
from Harvard Business America at Unilever and a bachelors degree from School and is a Graduate of Novartis.
Holds an MBA the University of Rochester.
the University of California from Xavier School of at Berkeley.
Management, Jamshedpur, India, and is a graduate from JMI Institute of Technology.
