Our approach Our Colleagues Engaging our colleagues is critical to delivering on our strategy and ambition as a bank.
Being better for our colleagues means we are better for our customers, and this makes us a better bank.
Creating a Healthy Culture comments boards.
When colleagues Building a healthy culture that wish to report concerns relating to embodies Our Values is one of our core wrong doing or misconduct they can priorities.
Our Values guide the way we raise concerns via Speak Up, the identify the right people to serve our banks whistleblowing service.
In 2017 Top 10 Employer Diverse customers well, and how we manage, 289 cases were raised compared to for Working Company of the engage and reward our colleagues.
Families Year National Our Values are at the heart of both Our Diversity Awards Performance and Reward Standards, the bank-wide behavioural Our approach to performance framework and Our Code, the bankmanagement provides clarity for wide Code of Conduct.
our colleagues about how their Our values are integral to the way contribution links to our ambition and we behave and do business and we all our colleagues have goals set across continue to reinforce them in our Employer of the Platinum Ranking a balanced scorecard of measures.
systems, policies and processes, Year Scottish Opportunity Further progress has been made communications training and Icon Awards Now in making sure employees are paid leadership role modelling.
fairly for the work they do and are We set ourselves clear cultural supported by simple and transparent priorities each year and manage these pay structures.
More employees have through our Executive Committee.
moved to a purely fixed pay construct during the year, allowing them to We monitor our progress against concentrate on providing excellent our goals.
We gather feedback from Times Top 50 Bloomberg Global customer service.
We will continue to our colleagues through our listening Employer for Gender Equality make further changes in 2018 which strategy, and through metrics and key Women Index will result in over half of our employees performance indicators to assess our being on a purely fixed pay construct progress and respond accordingly.
making their pay fairer and easier to We do this along with feedback from understand.
We are confident that we pay our Almost 60,000 colleagues completed employees fairly.
We keep our HR our most recent colleague opinion policies and processes under review survey.
The results were the most Rated a Top Gold Rating to ensure we do so.
positive weve seen in recent times and Global Stonewall Race for showed were changing the culture of Our rates of pay continue to exceed Employer Opportunity the bank for the better.
Key measures the Living Wage and changes have of engagement, leadership and our been introduced to ensure people culture have improved significantly, performing the same roles are paid and were now above the global more consistently.
financial services norm in the majority More information on our remuneration of our survey categories.
The results policies can be found in the 2017 are encouraging, and show that our Annual Report and Accounts.
Silver Rating 13 in Stonewall hard work is paying off.
However, we Business Workplace recognise that we have more to do to Learning Disability Forum Equality Index make this a stronger bank and a great Determined to lead Dtl, our core Standard place to work.
leadership programme is now We encourage colleagues to tell embedded as business as usual.
us what they think via the annual Dtl provides consistent tools to lead colleague survey and our regular and engage our colleagues and is 33 Our approach transforming the way we operate.
encouraged open dialogue across and here we are making good In 2017 a further 3,000 leaders the bank to support Mental Health in progress.
We have a positive participated in the programme.
We were successful action approach in place, tailored in running bankwide major online by business, according to the 2017 saw over 16,000 colleagues campaigns to support Mental Health specific challenges they face.
As we undertake stage one of Service Awareness Week and World Mental continue to increase the proportion Excellence training, our customer Health Day.
of women working in senior roles, service programme.
This first we expect our gender pay gap As we continue to support our module introduces our Core Service will lessen.
colleagues through change we Behaviours and provides an awareness u During 2017, we continued to roll out have fully utilised the services of our of the tools and techniques that will unconscious bias learning to all our Employee Assistance Programme.
help us to deliver the best possible colleagues to create a solid platform service, every time.
Inclusion for the wider inclusion agenda.
70% We continue to work closely with Building a more inclusive RBS is of colleagues have now participated the Chartered Banker Institute and essential for our customers and in unconscious bias training since it Chartered Banker Professional colleagues.
Standards Board CB:PSB to u We have plans in place for all Our inclusion policy applies to all professionalise our colleagues.
In 2017 segments of our pan-bank our colleagues globally to make sure we again achieved an Excel rating disability plan.
It addresses areas everyone feels included and valued, in the CB:PSB Foundation Standard for improvement including branch regardless of their background.
review, and remain one of only two access, accessible services, CB:PSB member firms to have secured u As at 31 December 2017, our improving colleague adjustment Earned Autonomy.
permanent headcount was 71,924. processes and inserting disability 49% were male and 51% female.
checkpoints into our key processes We also offer a wide range of additional u We continue to work towards our and practices.
target of having at least 30% senior u We continue to focus on building Health and Wellbeing women in our top three leadership an ethnically diverse RBS.
Our Wellbeing is a strong pillar in making layers across each Function and plan focuses on positive action and the bank a great place to work.
As at the includes reciprocal mentoring, 2017 our wellbeing programme 31 December 2017 we have, on targeted development workshops successfully delivered against three aggregate, 37% women in our top and leadership programmes and wellbeing pillars: Physical, Mental, three leadership layers, and our ensuring we have a Black, Asian Social and we have started to put in pipeline around 5000 of our most and Minority Ethnic BAME place support against our fourth area senior roles has 44% women.
We focus on recruitment, talent of Financial Wellbeing.
For the third are on track to have a fully balanced identification and promotion.
We will year running we participated in the workforce at all levels of the introduce explicit targets for BAME Global Challenge formerly GCC and organisation by 2030. representation at senior levels with 34,000 colleagues taking part we u RBS plcs gender pay gap in Great in 2018. won the Global Challenge 1st Most Britain is 37.2% median 36.5%.
u Our LGBT agenda continues to Active Organisation Financial Industry.
The figures also show a gender deliver a better experience for our Building on this success, we embraced bonus gap of 64.4% median 36.6%.
the rapid acceleration of digital u A key driver behind the gap is the We have processes in place to wellbeing and are one of the few large fact that we have more men in support updating gender and title organisations to pilot a digital wellbeing senior roles which attract higher on customers banking records and platform.
In order to to support colleagues undergoing close the gender pay gap, we must gender transition.
And, we continue During 2017 we have continued to support Time to Change removing the continue to improve our gender to support our c. 20,000-strong balance in our most senior roles, colleague networks.
stigma of mental health and actively Grade #Women #Men %Women CEO 1 5 9 36 CEO 2 35 66 35 CEO 3 232 397 37 CEO 4 1,309 1,681 44 Target population CEO 3 and above 272 472 37 There were 347 senior managers in accordance with Male Female the definition contained within the relevant Companies Act legislation, which comprises our executive Executive Employees 90 76% 28 24% population and individuals who are directors of our subsidiaries.
The RBS Board of directors has fourteen members, consisting of nine male and five female Directors of Subsidiaries 184 80% 45 20% directors.
34 These resources help teach pupils about money safety in Helping young people the real world and how to avoid the dangers of fraud in a fun and interactive way.
keep their money safe MoneySense content also looks at a wide range of financial dilemmas including budgeting for a party, choosing a Were you thinking about identity theft, fraud or insurance mobile phone contract and understanding when it is as a youngster?
Probably not, but thanks to MoneySense important to have insurance.
our flagship financial education programme for 5 to 18 year olds todays young people are becoming a lot more MoneySense has now reached more than five million financially aware.
young people and over 5,000 colleagues from across the bank have signed up as MoneySense volunteers to help MoneySense has been helping young people towards deliver workshops in schools.
a better financial future for more than 23 years and the varied content aims to help them to understand the MoneySense resources are used in 66% of secondary changing nature of fraud and how they can protect schools across the UK and Ireland.
A range of resources for each age group are available including quizzes, videos and worksheets.
