176 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 Report of the Board The Non-Executive and Executive Directors present their joint The shares of RELX PLC and RELX NV are regarded as two report, together with the financial statements of the Group and separate classes of share which together form the consolidated of RELX NV the Company, for the year ended 31 December 2017. issued share capital of the Group.
In calculating earnings per share of the Group, the earnings for each company are calculated RELX PLC and RELX NV are separate, publicly-listed holding on a fully distributed basis.
The Groups usual practice is for only a companies.
RELXPLCs ordinary shares are traded on the London portion of earnings to be distributed by way of dividends.
Dividends and New York stock exchanges, and RELX NVs shares are traded paid to RELX PLC and RELX NV shareholders are, other than in on the Amsterdam and New York stock exchanges.
RELX PLC special circumstances, equalised at the gross level and reported and RELX NV have equal voting rights in RELX Group plc, which earnings per share have the same value for each RELX NV and holds all of RELX Groups operating businesses, subsidiaries and RELX PLC share.
RELX PLC, RELX NV, RELX Group plc and its subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures are together known In addition to the reported gures, adjusted profit gures are as 'RELX Group' or 'the Group'.
presented as additional performance measures used by management.
These exclude the Groups share of amortisation of This Report of the Board and the company financial statements acquired intangible assets, acquisition-related costs, tax in joint should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial ventures, disposal gains and losses and other non-operating statements and other reports set out on pages 2 to 165, which are items, related tax effects, and movements in deferred taxation incorporated by reference herein.
Summary consolidated financial assets and liabilities related to acquired intangible assets and information in euros is set out on page 184.
The consolidated include the benefit of tax amortisation where available on financial statements on pages 106 to 164 are to be considered as acquiredgoodwill and intangible assets.
part of the notes to the statutory financial statements.
The Annual Report of RELX NV within the meaning of article 2:391 of the Parent company financial statements Dutch Civil Code consists of pages 175 to 182 and, incorporated by In accordance with article 2:362 1 of the Dutch Civil Code, the reference, pages 2 to 165 and the Corporate Governance Statement individual company financial statements of RELX NV presented of RELX NV dated 14 February 2018 which is published on the on pages 179 to 182 were prepared under Financial Reporting RELX Group website www.
com is incorporated by reference Standard 101 FRS 101. herein in accordance with the Besluit inhoud bestuursverslag.
The profit attributable to the shareholders of RELX NV was 819m Principal activities 2016: 869m and net assets as at 31 December 2017, principally RELX NV is a holding company.
Its principal investment is its representing the investment in RELX Group plc under the direct47.1% shareholding in RELX Group plc.
RELX Group plc historical cost method and loans to their subsidiaries were 4,370m is a global provider of information and analytics for professional 2016: 4,318m.
Free reserves as at 31 December 2017 were and business customers across industries.
The remaining 4,095m 2016: 4,046m, comprising reserves and paid-in shareholding in RELX Group plc is held by RELX PLC.
A full surplus less shares held in treasury.
description is set out on page 71.
Dividends Financial statement presentation The Board is recommending a final dividend of 0.316 per ordinary Under the Governing Agreement between RELX PLC and RELX NV, share.
This gives total ordinary dividends for the year of 0.448 one RELX PLC ordinary share confers an equivalent economic 2016: 0.423, up6%.
The final dividend will be paid on 22 May 2018. interest to one RELX NV share.
Therefore all shareholders can Payment of this final dividend remains subject to approval of the be regarded as having interests in a single economic entity.
Company's shareholders at its 2018 Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly, the Group forms a single reporting entity for the Details of dividend cover and dividend policy are set out on page 58. presentation of consolidated financial statements.
The Group consolidated financial statements represent the interests of both sets of shareholders and are presented by both RELX PLC and RELX NV as their respective consolidated financial statements.
Areview of the Groups performance during the year is set out on pages 7 to 39, a summary of the principal risks facing the Group is set out onpages 60 to 63, and the Group statement on corporate responsibility is set out on pages 41 to 51.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Financial statements and other information Report of the Board 177 Share capital Corporate Governance All issued shares are fully paid up and carry no additional RELX NV is subject to the Dutch Corporate Governance Code obligations or special rights.
issued in December 2016 the Dutch Code.
The Dutch Code replaces the former Code issued in 2008 and is applicable to During 2017, 2,067,694 ordinary shares in RELX NV were issued financial years starting on or after 1 January 2017.
For further as follows: information on the application of the Dutch Code, see the under convertible debentures at prices between 5.099 Corporate Governance Statement of RELX NV published on the and18.470 RELX Group website, www.
com, which is incorporated into this Report of the Board by reference.
under executive share option schemes at prices between 5.403 and 16.723 significant agreements change of control Information regarding shares outstanding at 31 December 2017 The Governing Agreement between RELX NV and RELX PLC states isshown in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements.
At that upon a change of control of RELX NV for these purposes, 31December 2017, the total shares held in treasury were 52,563,100. the acquisition by a third party of 50% or more of the issued share Another 3,775,905 shares were held by the Employee benefit Trust.
capital having voting rights, should there not be a comparable offer from the offeror for RELX PLC, RELX PLC may serve notice At the 2017 Annual General Meeting, the shareholders approved upon RELX NV varying certain provisions of the Governing the reduction of the capital of RELX NV by the cancellation of up Agreement, including the governance and the standstill provisions.
to50 million of its shares held in treasury.
On 27 December 2017, 22 million ordinary shares held in treasury were cancelled on the There are a number of borrowing agreements including credit basis of this authorisation.
facilities that in the event of a change of control of both RELX NV and RELX PLC and, in some cases, a consequential credit rating Substantial holdings downgrade to sub-investment grade may, at the option of the As at 14 February 2018, based on the public database of and on lenders, require repayment and or cancellation as appropriate.
notication received from the Netherlands Authority for the Financial Markets, the Company is aware of interests in the capital Financial statements and accounting records and voting rights of the issued share capital of the Company of at The financial statements provide a true and fair view of the state least 3% by the following persons or organisations: ofaffairs of the Company and the Group as of 31 December 2017 and ofthe profit or loss in 2017.
In preparing the financial statements, RELX NV the Board ensures that suitable accounting policies, consistently Janus Henderson Group Plc applied and supported by reasonable judgements and estimates, BlackRock, Inc. have been used and applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The Board is responsible for keeping proper accounting The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation records, which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Jupiter Asset Management Ltd. financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that Massachusetts Financial Services Company the financial statements comply with the law.
The Board has FIL Limited general responsibility for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the company and to prevent and detect fraud and Authority to purchase shares other irregularities.
At the 2017 Annual General Meeting, shareholders passed a resolution delegating authority to the Board to acquire shares in Internal control RELX NV for a period of 18 months from the date of the Annual As required under sections 1.4.
3 of the Dutch Code, the General Meeting up to and including 18 October 2018, for the Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the systems of internal maximum amount of 10% of the issued capital.
During the year, control and risk management during the last financial year.
The 21 million shares were purchased under this and the previous objective of these systems is to manage, rather than eliminate, delegation of authority.
As at 31 December 2017 there were the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
Accordingly, they 52,563,100 shares held in treasury, representing 5.26% of the can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against issued shares.
A further 2.9 million shares were purchased material misstatement or loss.
The outcome of this review has between 2January 2018 and the date of this report.
been discussed with the external auditors.
A resolution to renew the delegation of the authority is to be put The Board confirmed that this report provides sufficient insights to the 2018 Annual General Meeting, together with a proposal into the functioning of the risk management and control systems for approval of the reduction of RELX NVs capital by cancellation as set out on pages 78-79 and that with regards to financial of accumulated shares held in treasury.
reporting the risk management and control systems provide reasonable assurance against material inaccuracies or loss.
They further confirmed that based on the current state of affairs, it is justied that the financial reporting is prepared on a going concern basis: and that the annual report describes those material risks and uncertainties that are relevant to the expectation of the Companys continuity for the period of twelve months after the preparation of the report.
178 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 Corporate Simplication Going concern As set out on page 3, a set of measures that will further simplify The Directors' statement on the appropriateness of adopting the the RELX Group corporate structure into a single parent company going concern basis of accounting is set out on page 79, which is have been proposed.
The simplication is subject to the approval incorporated into this Report of the Board by reference.
of both RELX NV and RELX PLC shareholders.
We expect a circular to be sent to shareholders in the second quarter of 2018, with Long-term viability statement implementation in the third quarter of 2018, subject to various The Directors statement regarding the long-term viability of conditions including shareholder approval.
An implementation of the Group as required by the UK Corporate Governance Code is the proposal would result in the merger of the Companys assets set out on page 80, which is incorporated into this Report of the and liabilities into RELX PLC.
Directors responsibility statement Auditors Each of the Directors whose names and roles can be found on Resolutions for the re-appointment of Ernst & Young Accountants pages 66 to 67 confirms that to the best of their knowledge that LLP as the Company's auditorsand to authorise the Board to determine their remuneration will be submitted to the forthcoming the consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance Annual General Meeting on 18 April 2018. with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and as adopted Signed by: by the European Union and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors Code, give a true and fair view of the financial position and profit A Habgood E Engstrom or loss of the Group: Chairman Chief Executive officer the individual company financial statements prepared in W Hauser N Luff accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 'Reduced Senior Independent Director Chief Financial officer Disclosure Framework' FRS 101 and Part 9 of Book 2 of the A Hennah Dutch Civil Code, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, M van Lier Lels financial position and profit or loss of the Company: and R MacLeod the Report of the Board includes a fair review of the C Mills development and performance of the business during the L Sanford financial year and the position of the Group as at 31 December B van der Veer 2017 together with a description of the principal risks and S Wood appointed 26 September 2017 uncertainties that it faces.
Registered ofce Neither the Company nor the Directors accept any liability to Radarweg 29 any person in relation to the Annual Report except to the extent 1043 NX Amsterdam that such liability arises under Dutch law.
The Netherlands Chamber of Commerce Amsterdam Disclosure of information to auditors Register le No: 33155037 As part of the process of approving the RELX NV 2017 financial 14 February 2018 statements, the Board has taken steps to ensure that all relevant information was provided to the Company's auditors and, so far as the Board is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company's auditors are unaware.
