8 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 RELX Group business overview RELX Group is a global provider ofinformation and analytics forprofessional and business customers across industries.
The Group serves customers in more than 180 countries and has offices in about 40 countries.
It employs about 30,000 people of whom almost half are in North America.
RELX PLCs ordinary shares are listed in London and New York, and RELX NVs ordinary shares are listed in Amsterdam and New York.
In New York the listings are in the form of American Depositary Shares ADSs, evidenced by American Depositary Receipts ADRs.
RELX PLC and RELX NV jointly own RELX Group plc.
One RELX PLC ordinary share confers an equivalent economic interest to one RELX NV ordinary share.
RELX PLC, RELX NV, RELXGroup plc and its subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are together known as the Group.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Business review RELX Group business overview 9 Market segments Segment position scientific, Technical & Medical is a global information and analytics business that helps institutions Global #1 and professionals advance healthcare, open science, and improve performance for the benefit of humanity.
Risk & Business Analytics provides customers with solutions and decision tools that combine Key verticals #1 public and industry specic content with advanced technology and analytics to assist them in evaluating and predicting risk and enhancing operational efficiency.
Legal is a leading global provider of legal, regulatory and business information and analytics that US #2 helps customers increase productivity, improve decision-making and outcomes and advance the Outside US #1 or 2 rule of law around the world.
Exhibitions is the worlds leading events business, enhancing the power of face-to-face through data Global #1 and digital tools at over 500 events, in 30 countries, attracting more than 7m participants.
For additional information regarding revenue from our business activities and geographical markets, see market segments section starting on page 13.
Financial summary by market segment Revenue Adjusted operating profit 2017 Change 2017 Change m underlying m underlying scientific, Technical & Medical 2,478 2% 913 3% Risk & Business Analytics 2,076 8% 759 8% Legal 1,692 2% 332 11% Exhibitions 1,109 6% 285 2% Unallocated items 5 7,355 4% 2,284 6% RELX Group uses adjusted and underlying gures as additional performance measures.
These measures are used by management, alongside the comparable GAAP measures, in evaluating the business performance.
Adjusted gures primarily exclude the amortisation of acquired intangible assets and other items related to acquisitions and disposals, and the associated deferred tax movements.
In 2017, we have excluded the exceptional tax credit arising as a result of the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
Reconciliations between the reported and adjusted gures are set out on page 186.
Underlying growth rates are calculated at constant currencies, and exclude the results of all acquisitions and disposals made in both the year and prior year and of assets held for sale.
Underlying revenue growth rates also exclude exhibition cycling.
Constant currency growth rates are based on 2016 full year average and hedge exchange rates.
REVENUE ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT 7,355m 2,284m 15% 12% 34% scientific, scientific, Technical Technical 40% & Medical & Medical 15% Risk & Risk & Business Business Analytics Analytics 23% Legal Legal Exhibitions Exhibitions 33% 28% 10 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 Harnessing big data across RELX Group: HPCC Systems HPCC Systems High Performance Computing Cluster is RELX Groups opensource big data technology.
It is used to analyse structured and unstructured data, giving our customers the information and insight they need.
Each of our market segments benefits from this technology, allowing our customers around the world to make better decisions, get better resultsand be more productive.
State of Florida fights public benefits fraud with LexisNexis Risk Solutions Floridas Department of Children and Families provides a rangeofprogrammes, including food assistance to low-income families.
With nearly 93% of all Florida public assistance benefit applications received electronically, there is a risk for abuse byidentity fraudsters.
Additionally, the state has the largest percentage of elderly residents in the US, who are attractive targets for fraud schemes.
The population is also highly transientand many do not have conventional bank accounts, rendering most identity management solutions useless.
These Identity Management solutions To combat this threat, in 2013 the state of Florida selected help us to achieve our goal, which isto LexisNexis Risk Solutions to support its Customer Authentication safeguard the integrity of public assistance Program to verify food assistance applicants identities.
When benefits to ensure benefits only go to aperson goes online to Floridas integrated eligibility system Floridians who truly are inneed.
toapply for benets, the state is able to quickly authenticate the applicants identity via Identity Management solutions powered Andrew McClenahan byHPCC Systems.
The applicant answers a series of questions Director, Office of Public Benefits Integrity that only the owner of the identity would be able to answer.
Florida Department of Children and Families By the end of 2013, just five months after state-wide implementation of the Customer Authentication Program, thestate estimated ithad saved nearly $15m by preventing fraudand improving efficiencies, and received the Governors Savings Award.
Since then, the total cost avoidance associated with the programme isover $840m in taxpayer benets not issueddue to suspected fraud.
That amounts to a 194 to 1return oninvestment.
$840m more than $840m saved by the state of Florida since 2013 using LexisNexis Risk Solutions technology Business review RELX Group business overview 11 Cook County, Illinois and LexisNexis Risk With recovered revenue returned directly to school districts and other community taxing bodies, the program has already Solutions had a huge impact.
And, this is nota one-time recovery of revenue: the savings Residential property tax fraud, also called homestead exemption continue because erroneous exemptions fraud, occurs in US counties when taxpayers wrongly receive residential property tax breaks on homes they dont live in as remain eliminated from future years.
theirprimary residence or receive tax exemptions for which they Thesolution is helping us recover millions otherwise dont qualify, such as those for senior citizens.
of dollars for taxpayers at a time when Cook County schools and municipalities This type of fraud costs US counties millions each year, which has struggle with budget issues.
We respect asignicant impact on funding for public services, including schools, public safety and other local needs.
In the state of Illinois, the Cook honest taxpayers while continuing our County Assessors Ofce needed an investigative tool to help detect commitment to aggressively detect and these fraudulent tax lings, so it implemented the LexisNexis pursue taxcheats.
Homestead Exemption Fraud Detection Solution.
Powered by HPCCSystems, the solution examines the homestead exemption Joseph Berrios lings of the countys more than 1.4m residential properties to Cook County Assessor ensurecompliance with State of Illinois tax laws.
Over the last fouryears LexisNexis Risk Solutions has helped the county bill morethan $47 million in lost revenue.
$47m more than $47m billed by Cook County using LexisNexis Risk Solutions technology 12 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017
