2017 performance summary Looking forward 1 2018 Outlook We reiterate our medium term outlook By the end of 2018, we expect Bank Medium term outlook on both return on tangible equity and RWAs to be lower by 5-10 billion.
This We retain our target of achieving a sub cost:income ratio.
We also now intend is despite model uplifts in Commercial 50% cost:income ratio and above 12% to accelerate the transformation of Banking in 2018 which are expected to return on equity by 2020. the bank which necessitates increased drive some RWA inflation.
The majority investment and innovation spend of the gross RWA reductions will be While we expect operating costs to together with additional restructuring within NatWest Markets legacy assets, reduce each year from 2018 to 2020, costs.
As a result operating costs, including the benefit of the anticipated given the increased level of investment excluding restructuring and litigation merger between Alawwal Bank and and innovation spend expected over the and conduct costs, will reduce Saudi British Bank, and Commercial coming years we are no longer guiding compared with 2017, but the rate of cost Banking.
reduction will be materially lower than RBS Group capital and funding issuance in 2017.
We expect to incur restructuring The NatWest Markets segment balance plans for 2018 focus on issuing charges of around 2.5 billion across sheet as at end 2017 is broadly similar 4-6 billion MREL-compliant securities.
2018 to 2019 cumulatively, of which to the expected target balance sheet of We do not currently anticipate the need c. 0.3 billion relates to the completion of the NatWest Markets Plc after the ringfor either AT1 or Tier 2 issuances.
As in the State Aid remedy and reintegration fence transfer schemes to be carried 2017, we will continue to target other of the former Williams & Glyn W&G out during 2018.
In preparation for the funding markets to diversify our funding business into UK PBB.
This is compared UK ring-fencing regime, the previously structure.
In support of the ring-fencing to previous guidance of around 1 reported operating segments were requirements and to build up RBS Plc to billion excluding the impact of W&G, realigned in Q4 2017 and a number of be renamed NatWest Markets Plc as a with around two thirds of the remaining business transfers completed.
These standalone non ring-fenced bank, we c. 1.2 billion increase being driven by changes included the NatWest Markets anticipate issuing 2-4 billion of senior costs associated with the accelerated segment absorbing the former Capital unsecured issuance from this entity in transformation.
Resolution segment other than for addition to continued reliance on short certain shipping and portfolio assets.
RBS continues to deal with a range of term funding.
Notwithstanding a planned capital significant risks and uncertainties in reduction exercise in July 2018, by 2020 In the near to medium term, we would the external economic, political and this entity is targeting a capital base expect the bank to maintain a CET1 regulatory environment and manage with a consolidated end state CET1 of ratio in excess of our 13% target given both conduct-related investigations and 14%, a leverage ratio greater than 4% a range of variables that are likely to litigation, including relating to RMBS.
and a total capital ratio of at least twice impact us over the coming years.
These Substantial additional charges and the CET1 ratio, including the benefit include: costs may be recognised in the of downstreamed internal MREL.
potential final costs of a resolution coming quarters.
with the US Department of Justice: By 2020, NatWest Markets targets a With the introduction of IFRS 9, future potential pension RWA position of c. 35 billion including impairments are expected to be more contributions and the interplay legacy assets, with the legacy assets volatile and we continue to remain with capital buffers for the bank generating minimal associated income, mindful of potential downside risks, for investment risk being run in the and an overall cost base of around particularly from single name and pension plan: 1 billion.
The consensus RWA inflation as a result of IFRS 16, view of Brexit suggests a weaker Bank of England mortgage floors Trading update UK economy in the short to medium and Basel 3 amendments: Overall, RBS has had a positive start term.
With the current high level of expected increased and pro-cyclical to 2018.
UK household debt and real wage impairment volatility as a result of compression, any increases in IFRS 9: and unemployment and interest rates th e collective impact of these items present a threat to retail impairment on our stress test results rates.
In wholesale portfolios further softening of GDP growth would be We remain committed to restarting expected to impact credit losses capital distributions when permitted, negatively.
We retain our guidance that with resolution with the US Department through the cycle losses would be in the of Justice being a key milestone to range of 30-40bps.
Note: 1 The targets, expectations and trends discussed in this section represent managements current expectations and are subject to change, including as a result of the factors described in this document and in the Risk Factors on pages 372 to 402.
These statements constitute forward looking statements, refer to Forward Looking Statements on page 407.
17 Cora How bots are changing banking Artificial Intelligence AI is fundamentally changing how customers interact with services across a number of industries from healthcare to journalism and even manufacturing.
Banking is no different, and that is why, in partnership with IBM, we have introduced Cora our helpful, digital assistant for Royal Bank of Scotland, NatWest and Ulster Bank customers.
Cora answers questions from customers 24 7, freeing up colleagues time, so they can help customers with more complex queries.
Customers can find Cora across our digital channels whenever they need help.
Whether that is when they are using online banking, or browsing our websites, she is there to solve the tricky questions.
Jane Howard, MD Personal Banking says: The great thing about Artificial Intelligence is that its a machine that learns the more you interact with it.
This has the opportunity to be game-changer for banking as we strive to offer a better service for our customers.
