Report of the Directors | Corporate Governance commitment to the Group.
The current anticipated minimum time Noel Quinn, 56 commitment, which is subject to periodic review, is around 30 Chief Executive, Global Commercial Banking days per year.
Non-executive Directors are also advised that the time they need to devote to the Group may be considerably more Noel joined HSBC in 1992 when the Group acquired Midland Bank if they serve on Board Committees or as other matters require.
All and became a Group Managing Director on 1 September 2016. non-executive Directors have confirmed they can meet this Former appointments include: Head of Specialised and Equity requirement, taking into account any other commitments they Finance, Director of Strategy & Development for Commercial have at the time of appointment, and, in practice, most devote Banking, Head of Commercial Finance Europe, Head of considerably more time.
Commercial Banking UK and Head of Commercial Banking Asia.
During their term of appointment, non-executive Directors are expected to consult the Group Chairman or the Group Company Antonio Simoes, 42 Secretary if they are considering whether to accept or vary any Chief Executive, HSBC Bank plc commitments outside the Group.
The agreement of the Group Chairman is required if any additional or changed commitment Antonio joined HSBC in 2007 and became a Group Managing might affect the time that a Director is able to devote to his or her Director on 1 February 2016.
He is a director of HSBC Bank plc role with the Group.
Former appointments include: Chief Executive Letters setting out the terms of appointment of each nonof HSBC UK: Head of Retail Banking and Wealth Management, executive Director are available for inspection at the registered Europe: and Chief of Staff to the Group Chief Executive and Group office of HSBC Holdings.
Head of Strategy and Planning.
Antonio was also formerly the Chairman of the Practitioner Panel of the FCA, a Partner of The Board diversity policy is available at www.
com investorMcKinsey & Company and an Associate at Goldman Sachs.
Induction Peter Wong, 66 Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive, Formal induction programmes are arranged for newly appointed The Hongkong andShanghai Banking Corporation Limited Directors, based on the individuals needs, skills and experience.
Typically, these consist of a series of meetings with other Directors Peter joined HSBC in 2005 and became a Group Managing and senior executives, as well as local site visits, to provide Director in 2010.
He is Chairman and non-executive Director of familiarity with the business.
Directors also receive comprehensive HSBC Bank China Company Limited and a non-executive director guidance from the Group Company Secretary on the Groups of Hang Seng Bank Limited and HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad.
He governance framework and associated policies, as well as their is also non-executive Vice Chairman of Bank of Communications duties as Directors on the Board.
Co. Limited and an independent non-executive Director of Cathay Conflicts of interest, indemnification of Directors Pacific Airways Limited.
Other appointments include President of the Hong Kong Institute of Bankers, Vice Chairman of the Hong and contracts of significance Kong General Chamber of Commerce and First Vice President, The Board has established a policy and procedures relating to Board Member and Chairman of the Executive Committee and Directors conflicts of interest.
Where conflicts of interest arise, Nominating Committee of The Community Chest of Hong Kong.
the Board has the power to authorise them.
A review of those conflicts which have been authorised, and the terms of those authorisations, is undertaken by the Board annually.
Board of Directors The Articles of Association contain a qualifying third-party Appointment, retirement and re-election of indemnity provision which entitles Directors and other Officers to Directors be indemnified out of the assets of HSBC Holdings against claims from third parties in respect of certain liabilities.
All Directors have Appointments to the Board are made on merit and candidates are the benefit of directors and officers liability insurance.
considered against objective criteria, having due regard to the benefits of the diversity of the Board.
A rigorous selection process None of the Directors had, during the year, a material interest, is followed in relation to the appointment of Directors and certain directly or indirectly, in any contract of significance with any HSBC specified senior appointments.
For further details on the company.
Each Director is routinely reminded of their obligations appointments made in 2017 please refer to the report of the in respect of transacting in HSBC Group securities and has Nomination Committee.
confirmed that he or she has complied with regulatory requirements.
The number of Directors must not be less than five nor exceed 25.
The Board may at any time appoint any person as a Director, either Training and development to fill a vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board.
The Board Training and development is provided for each Director supported may appoint any Director to hold any employment orexecutive by the Group Company Secretary.
Non-executive Directors develop office and may revoke or terminate any such appointment.
andrefresh their skills and knowledge through day-to-day Shareholders may, by ordinary resolution, appoint a person as a interactions and briefings with senior management of the Groups Director or remove any Director before the expiration of his or her businesses and functions.
During the year, all Directors were period of office.
provided with training on MiFID 2, anti-money laundering, antiNewly appointed Directors retire at the Annual General Meeting bribery and corruption, embedding good conduct, protecting AGM following appointment and are eligible for election.
Directors are nominated for annual re-election by shareholders A two-day forum for all of the Groups non-executive Directors subject to continued satisfactory performance based upon an was held during the year.
Awareness and discussion sessions assessment by the Group Chairman and the Nomination were conducted by senior executives and subject matter experts Committee.
on emerging technologies, financial crime compliance, culture and Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial three-year term conduct and business developments.
and, subject to re-election by shareholders at each AGM, are Jonathan Symonds, Chair of the Group Audit Committee GAC, typically expected to serve two three-year terms.
The Board may and Jackson Tai, Chair of the GRC, hosted a separate forum for the invite a Director to serve additional periods.
Any term beyond six chairs of the Group's subsidiary audit and risk committees.
years is subject to particularly rigorous review.
In addition, non-executive Directors sitting on risk and audit The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive committees across the Group received training on IFRS 9.
Directors are set out in a letter of appointment, which includes the expectations of them and the time estimated to meet their 126 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
