77 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTABILITY A warm welcome is extended to Carol Fairweather who joined us as a Committee member at the start of 2018.
Carol has extensive financial expertise and we are looking forward not only to the experience that she will bring to the Committee, but also to her fresh perspective and insight.
Risk remains a focus of the Committee, since it is our job to ensure that appropriate and robust policies and procedures are in place to identify and assess risk as well as manage them.
We are ever cognisant of the need to ensure that new and emerging risks are considered where appropriate to the business, including the wider economic environment, political uncertainty and impact of Brexit on the Company.
We were supported in our risk role by the Head of Risk Management and remain comfortable that risk is being appropriately managed.
Having the opportunity to invite senior management to meetings is something we AUDIT ACCOUNTABILITY AT A find valuable.
Not only do we regularly hear GLANCE from the Group Financial Controller on DOUG WEBB 2017 was another successful year for the CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE the accounting judgements and treatment Company in which we continued to build of particular transactions, but we also get on strategy, and welcomed Soumen as our great benefit from hearing from other new Chief Financial Officer.
Since one of technical specialists on topics such as tax and our key roles as a Committee is to ensure governance.
This gives us comfort that these financial integrity is maintained, we discussed topics are being properly addressed, but also and debated a number of the financing demonstrates that there is an experienced transactions throughout the year that you and quality group of people supporting will have read about already: the Rights the Executive.
Issue: the US private placement: and the KPMG remained the internal auditor bond redemptions and issues, to ensure that during 2017, although a new team was we were comfortable that the appropriate introduced to us, allowing the internal audit treatment had been applied.
function to remain fresh and independent.
The Committee is delighted that Soumen We work hard to ensure that the Companys has settled in, despite it being so busy with internal controls, of which internal audit forms refinancings although this has allowed me part, are appropriate, and further details and my fellow Committee members to get on our work in this area can be found on to know him better through our discussions page 81. on the accounting treatment being applied I am pleased to present this report of to the various transactions.
The Committee the Audit Committee for the 2017 financial is pleased that Soumens team remains year, which explains how we have challenged stable and settled and I am reassured by and gained assurance around the processes their experience.
that support financial reporting and control, I value my contact with Soumen and his to ensure the accuracy and integrity of the team, and enjoy a positive and constructive financial information and results.
relationship with them, knowing that they feel able to call me to discuss matters should DOUG WEBB the need arise, as well as keeping me abreast CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE of what is happening in the finance function when necessary.
78 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTABILITY CONTINUED COMPOSITION ROLE OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE IN THE RIGHTS ISSUE Each Committee member is independent The Committee had responsibility for three required under IFRS in order to restate and has considerable commercial experience.
areas of the Rights Issue: the comparative share metrics earnings The Committee has the relevant property and per share, dividend per share and net asset financial experience to properly discharge its 1.
The preparation of a working capital value per share.
The final treatment was duties and the Committee Chairman satisfies statement by PwC which was required for reviewed in detail by the Committee and the requirement to bring recent and relevant the prospectus.
In accordance with the included discussions with PwC.
Policy for Approval of Non-Audit Fees, we 3.
The methodology for adjusting the share authorised appointing PwC to prepare that schemes awards for the Remuneration statement.
We also appointed Deloitte, our MEETINGS Committee, based on the bonus previous auditor, to carry out the analysis of adjustment factor described above.
In 2017 we had three scheduled meetings the historic financial results.
one less than usual as we didnt feel that 2.
In the context of such a large capital The Committee also confirmed to the an extra meeting was necessary this year transaction the Committee was involved Board that it was satisfied that the Rights since the Board was meeting so regularly in discussions on the accounting treatment Issue was appropriately accounted for.
The frequency of the of the Rights Issue to ensure that it was DOUG WEBB Board meetings allowed the Committee the appropriate.
This involved reviewing the opportunity to discuss topics outside of the calculation of a bonus adjustment factor scheduled timetable, when appropriate.
MAIN ACTIVITIES DURING Monitoring the ratio and level of audit to Reviewing the adequacy of internal THEYEAR non-audit fees paid to the external auditor control systems.
Throughout the year the Committee has acted and agreeing their remuneration for Analysing and challenging the results of in accordance with its Terms of Reference the year.
internal audit reviews and managements which can be found at www.
Ensuring compliance with applicable plans to resolve any actions arising In particular, its main activities have been: accounting standards, monitoring from them.
Reviewing the integrity, consistency and developments in accounting regulations as Overseeing matters relating to tax and any key accounting judgements made by they affect the Group and reviewing the potential impact tax matters may have on management, to ensure that the quality appropriateness of accounting policies and the integrity of the Financial Statements.
of the Companys financial reporting is practices in place.
This included approving the Companys maintained, including going concern, Assessing the independence of the process behind publishing a tax strategy.
in the Companys Half and Full year valuer of the Groups property portfolio Financial Statements.
Ensuring appropriate safeguards are and gaining assurance around the in place for the detection of fraud and Ensuring that the accounting treatment valuation process.
This extends applied to the Rights Issue and the Advising the Board on whether the process to responsibility for overseeing and acquisition of the APP portfolio was supporting the preparation of the Annual monitoring the Groups anti-bribery appropriate, and that the impact of the Report taken as a whole, is fair balanced and corruption policies and procedures Rights Issue on the comparative share and understandable and provides the contained in the Companys Code of Ethics.
metrics had been correctly adjusted.
information necessary to shareholders Ensuring that the impact of the various to assess the Groups position and Chart 1 opposite sets out the significant debt financing transactions detailed further performance, business model and strategy.
matters considered by the Committee on page 34 had been accurately reflected during the year in relation to the Ensuring the process followed to in the Half year and Full year results.
support the making of the viability Examining the performance of the external statement remained robust and was and internal auditors, their objectivity, correctly followed.
effectiveness and independence, as well as Monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups the terms of their engagement and scope risk management systems and considering of their audit and agreeing the annual the adequacy of the actions being taken to internal audit plan.
identify risks and mitigate the exposure of the Group to them.
79 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CHART 1: 2017 SIGNIFICANT MATTERS Significant matter The action taken Valuation of the property portfolio The Committee ensured that there was a robust process in place to satisfy itself that the valuation of the property portfolio by CBRE, a Valuation is central to the business performance and is a significant leading firm in the UK and Continental European property markets, was area of judgement for the Committee as it is inherently subjective, carried out appropriately and independently.
The Board met twice with because the valuer must make assumptions and judgements in CBRE to review, challenge, debate and consider the valuation process: reaching its conclusions.
This is a recurring risk for the Group as it understand any particular issues encountered in the valuation: and is key to its IFRS profitability, balance sheet portfolio value, net asset discuss the processes and methodologies used.
The Chairman of the value, total property return, and employee incentives.
It also affects Audit Committee also met separately with CBRE to discuss such matters investment decisions and the implementation of the Companys which allowed him to scrutinise the valuation process and ensure the Disciplined Capital Allocation policy.
It is included on the Risk valuer remained independent, objective and effective.
Register and the process risk map as a potential key business risk.
The Committee confirmed that it was satisfied that the valuation was The Committee takes an active interest in any matter that involves not subject to undue influence and had been carried out fairly and a significant area of judgement, including the valuation.
It is appropriately, and in accordance with the industry valuation standards, responsible for the assurance of the valuation process.
and therefore suitable for inclusion in the Financial Statements.
For details of the Groups properties and related accounting policies see Note 13 and Note 1 of the Financial Statements.
For details of the results of the valuation, see Note 13 of the Financial Statements.
Significant matter The action taken During the year, the Company made a number of acquisitions The Committee considered the accounting treatment of key, complex and disposals and carried out other transactions such as the Rights transactions during 2017 including the accounting treatment applied to Issue, which were large and or complex.
Certain transactions were the Rights Issue and the acquisition of the APP portfolio, by reviewing considered to be significant because of the level of materiality and challenging managements papers on accounting proposals involved and or any unusual terms or conditions or judgements, and judgements.
and because of the risks inherent in the accounting process, Following a review of the accounting treatment for these significant including when a transaction or revenue should be recognised, and transactions, in particular the point at which each transaction should what the appropriate accounting treatment should be.
be recognised, the Committee was satisfied that all relevant issues had The accounting treatment of acquisitions, disposals and transactions been fully and adequately addressed and that the approach adopted themselves, is a recurring risk for the Group and is considered by the Company was appropriate in each case, and in accordance to be significant, since an inappropriate approach could cause with IFRS.
a misstatement of the Groups financial position and or results.
The Committee challenged the application of accounting policy and The application of the accounting treatment for each particular internal controls relating to revenue recognition and reviewed reports transaction is judged on its own particular facts and circumstances.
from the internal auditor, external auditor and management.
For further details of the accounting treatment applied to such significant transactions, see Note 1 of the Financial Statements.
FAIR, BALANCED AND The Committee has satisfied itself that the VIABILITY STATEMENT UNDERSTANDABLE controls over the accuracy and consistency The Committee ensured that the process of information presented in the Annual The Directors are required to confirm put in place in 2015 to allow the Board to Report are robust, and has confirmed to the that they consider, taken as a whole, that make the viability statement, on page 57, Board that the processes and controls around the Annual Report is fair, balanced and was robust, in line with market practice and the preparation of the Annual Report are understandable and provides the information had been correctly and properly followed.
appropriate allowing the Board to make the necessary for shareholders to assess the The Committee confirmed to the Board that it fair, balanced and understandable statement Companys position and performance, was comfortable with the process followed to which is on page 106. business model and strategy.
In order to make make the viability statement.
this statement, the due diligence exercise reported in previous years, was followed.
80 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTABILITY CONTINUED CHART 2: AUDIT AND NON-AUDIT FEES PAID TO  LLP AND DELOITTE LLP 2017 2016 2015 Paid to Paid to Paid to PwC PwC Deloitte Audit fees including related assurance services m 0.81 0.68 0.71 Non-audit fees m 0.49 0.09 0.22 Ratio of non-audit fees to audit fees % 61 13 31 The above table excludes fees paid to either PwC or Deloitte LLP in respect of joint ventures.
If these were included, the 2017 ratio of audit to non-audit fees would have been 48 per cent.
Remuneration and Independence EXTERNAL AUDITOR PwC highlighted the key areas of risk, which were primarily identified as areas The Committee considers the remuneration This is the second audit for PwC.
of judgement and complexity and were of the external auditor at least on a semiThe Committee has worked with PwC consistent with those areas identified by the annual basis and approves its remuneration.
to ensure this key area of oversight was Committee.
The level of audit materiality was It also keeps under close review the ratio of appropriately maintained.
The Committee also discussed and agreed.
audit to non-audit fees to ensure that the periodically meets privately with the lead PwC presented a detailed report of their independence and objectivity of the external partner, Craig Hughes, to discuss their work audit findings at the year end, which were auditor are safeguarded.
This is further and their observations on the Company.
A similar review of the maintained by the Policy for Approval of No areas of concern have been raised.
external auditors report was undertaken by the Non-Audit Services recognises that there In addition, the Committee Chairman Committee at the Half year.
As part of this review are certain circumstances where i PwC occasionally has meetings and telephone calls the Committee questioned and challenged the will not be used in any circumstances: ii with PwC to discuss matters as they arise work undertaken and the findings and the key PwC may be used, subject to the approval throughout the year when necessary, such assumptions made, with particular attention to of the Chief Financial Officer: and iii PwC as the accounting treatment to be applied the areas of audit risk identified.
may be used, subject to the approval of the to the Rights Issue and the various debt Audit Committee.
It is believed that this is much Effectiveness In 2017, fees for audit and related more effective and helpful than waiting to The Committee assesses the effectiveness of assurance services, excluding the SELP discuss matters at the scheduled meetings.
the external audit process on an annual basis, joint venture, amounted to 806,000 and The constructive relationship with PwC and by reviewing a number of factors: the non-audit fees amounted to 491,000. the ability to discuss matters throughout Performance in discharging the audit and Although this fee is higher than in previous the year is something the Committee finds Half year review: years, this is largely due to the work that PwC extremely helpful.
carried out for the Rights Issue prospectus, During the year, the Financial Reporting Independence and objectivity: and discussed in the Case Study.
The Committee Councils Audit Quality Review Team carried out Reappointment and remuneration.
has concluded that PwC remains independent a review of PwCs 2016 audit of the Companys and objective, and that the level of non-audit Financial Statements.
Overall, the feedback was Taking into account the views of management to audit fees is acceptable for 2017 due to the reassuring.
Points were raised from the review involved in the audit, the Committee was special circumstances that year.
Further details of PwCs audit work on investment property satisfied with the performance of PwC and of these fees, and fees in respect of the audit valuations and retirement benefit schemes.
recommended to the Board that it propose to of the Groups SELP joint venture for which Those points were discussed by the Committee shareholders that PwC should be reappointed PwC is the auditor, are provided in Note 6 ii and together with PwC, actions were agreed for the 2018 financial year.
The Company to the Financial Statements.
The three-year to refine the audit approach.
The Committee complies with the Competition and Market average of the non-audit fees as a percentage was comfortable that whilst the proposed Authority Order 2014 relating to audit of the audit fees to the year ended 2017 changes would improve the quality of the tendering and the provision of non-audit is 80 per cent.
Chart 2 sets out the ratio of audit, they were not matters which undermine services.
There are no contractual obligations audit to non-audit fees for each of the past the integrity of the 2016 Financial Statements.
which restrict the Committees choice of three years.
The recommendations have been incorporated external auditor or which put in place a The Committee is satisfied that PwC into the audit of the 2017 Financial Statements.
minimum period for their tenure.
The external continues to provide appropriate levels audit was last tendered in 2015 following Oversight of challenge, and remained independent.
which the auditor changed from Deloitte LLP At the end of 2017, PwC presented their PwC has provided written confirmation of its to PwC, and so there are no current plans to audit plan for the year ahead which the independence to the Committee.
re-tender the services of the external auditor.
Committee challenged and then approved.
81 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL REPORTING PROCESS RISK Each audit during 2017 confirmed that the relevant areas were appropriately controlled, The Group has established internal controls The Company has a strong culture of risk and the identified enhancements were and risk management systems in relation awareness embedded in decision making entered into the schedule which lists control to the process for preparing the Financial and robust processes that support the points which require improvement actions Statements.
Various checks on internal identification and management of risk.
financial controls take place throughout The Board recognises that effective risk Once each internal audit is complete, the year, including internal audits.
management is central to the achievement a questionnaire is issued by KPMG to the Developments in accounting regulations of the Groups strategic objectives and the process owner about their internal audit as and best practice in financial reporting are long-term sustainable growth of the business.
well as to the other relevant employees, to monitored by the Company and where There is an on-going process for identifying, ensure that real-time feedback is collected appropriate, reflected in the Financial evaluating and managing the principal risks on the quality and effectiveness of its audit.
Training is also provided to the faced by the Group, which has been in The results of this feedback are provided to finance teams and the Committee is kept place during the year.
The Board assumes the Committee along with detailed findings appropriately informed.
responsibility for the effective management and recommendations of the internal audits The financial reporting from each business of risk across the Group, determined by themselves.
The feedback on the internal unit is subject to review by a local finance its risk appetite, as well as ensuring that audits was largely positive and no areas of manager prior to being submitted to the each business area implements appropriate concern were brought to the Committees Group Finance function.
The results of each internal controls.
The Committee reviews the attention.
The lead KPMG partner also attends business unit are subject to further review by effectiveness of the risk management process Committee meetings to present its report.
The results are on behalf of the Board and is satisfied that then consolidated by Group Finance and are it remains robust for the financial year in INTERNAL CONTROL subject to various levels of review including by question and up to the date of this Report.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing senior management.
the adequacy and effectiveness of internal The draft consolidated statements are INTERNAL AUDIT control systems on behalf of the Board.
reviewed by various individuals including The Committee believes that the value of This review is consistent with the Code, those independent of the preparer.
The review internal audit is enhanced by having a third and covers all material areas of the Group, includes checking internal consistency, party perform this function, as this supports including risk management see page 54 of consistency with other statements, and the independent challenge of management Principal Risks and compliance with controls consistency with internal accounting records.
and gives greater access to expertise than an in relation to the process for preparing the The Committee and the Board review the internal function could provide.
performed the role since its appointment in Internal controls are regularly reviewed by The Committee received reports from 2007 and reappointment in 2014 following a the Board and the effectiveness of the Groups management and the auditor on significant tender.
During their tenure, there have been a processes to manage them are frequently judgements, changes in accounting policies, number of rotations of lead partners and audit considered by the Committee which reviews a and other relevant matters relating to managers including during 2017 to ensure schedule listing all outstanding control points, the consolidated Financial Statements.
that a fresh perspective is given, and their noting the priority attaching to them and the The Financial Statements are also subject to independence and scrutiny maintained.
progress made against agreed timeframes external audit.
Topics selected for internal audit were for resolution.
The Committee confirms that based on a review of the Groups key risks it has not been advised of or identified any COMMITTEE EFFECTIVENESS which had not been subject to recent audit.
failings or weaknesses which it regards to The formal review of the Committees The proposed internal audit programme was be significant.
effectiveness is being carried out as part of discussed and agreed with KPMG ahead of it the Board evaluation process detailed on being considered and subsequently approved page 73.
However, the quality of the papers by the Committee, although it is adapted and presentations by management, coupled during the year to incorporate any new or with the level of challenge by the Committee increased risks which materialise.
with management, PwC, KPMG and CBRE, The Committee believes that both the and the quality of discussions held, gives the process for determining the internal audit Committee comfort and assurance that it is programme, and the programme itself, are performing its role effectively.
appropriate and effective, particularly since there is scope for the Company to react to events, new information and situations which come to light during the year and include them if necessary.
