66 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 Board Directors Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Erik Engstrom 54 Sir Anthony Habgood 71 R Wolfhart Hauser 68 R N C N C Chief Executive officer Chairman Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Appointed: Chief Executive officer of RELX Appointed: June 2009 Group since November 2009.
Joined the Group Other appointments: Chairman of: Court of the Appointed: April 2013 as Chief Executive officer of Elsevier in 2004.
Bank of England and Preqin Holding Limited.
Other appointments: Chairman of FirstGroup Other appointments: Non-Executive Director Past appointments: Previously was Chairman plc and a Non-Executive Director of of Smith & Nephew plc.
of Whitbread plc, Bunzl plc, Mlnlycke Health Associated British Foods plc.
Past appointments: Prior to joining the Group Care Limited and Norwich Research Partners Past appointments: Chief Executive officer was a partner at General Atlantic Partners.
LLP and served as Chief Executive of Bunzl plc, of Intertek Group plc from 2005 until 2015.
Before that was President and Chief Operating Chief Executive of Tootal Group plc and a Director Prior to that hewas Chief Executive officer officer of Random House Inc and President of The Boston Consulting Group.
Formerly of TV Sud AG between 1998 and 2002 and Chief Executive officer of Bantam Non-Executive Director of Geest plc, Marks and andChief Executive officer of TV Product Doubleday Dell, North America.
Began his Spencer plc, National Westminster Bankplc, Service GmbH for ten years.
Formerly a career as a consultant with McKinsey.
Served Powergen plc, SVG Capital plc, and Norfolk Non-Executive Director ofLogicaplc.
as a Non-Executive Director of Eniro AB and and Norwich University Hospitals Trust.
Education: Holds a master's degree in Svenska Cellulosa Aktiebolaget SCA.
Education: Holds an MA in Economics from Medicine from  Education: Holds a BSc from Stockholm Cambridge University, an MS in Industrial Munich and a Medical Doctorate from School of Economics, an MSc from the Royal Administration from Carnegie Mellon University Technical University Munich.
Institute of Technology in Stockholm, and and an Honorary Doctorate of Civil Law from the Nationality: German gained an MBA from Harvard Business University of East Anglia.
He is a visiting Fellow School as a Fulbright Scholar.
Nationality: Swedish Nationality: British Nick Luff 50 Robert MacLeod 53 R Carol Mills 64 A C C Chief Financial officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed: September 2014 Appointed: April 2016 Appointed: April 2016 Past appointments: Prior to joining the Group Other appointments: Chief Executive Other appointments: Independent Director was Group Finance Director of Centrica plc ofJohnson Matthey Plc.
Before that was ChiefFinancial Past appointments: A member ofthe Boards Past appointments: Prior to joining Johnson officer at The Peninsular &Oriental Steam of Adobe Systems, Alaska Communications, Matthey, spent five years as Group Finance Tekelec Corporation, BlueCoat Systems, Navigation Company P&O and its afliated Director of WS Atkins plc, having joined as Xactly Corporation, WhiteHat Security companies, having previously held a number Group Financial Controller in 2003.
From 2004 to 2006, of senior finance roles at P&O.
Began his 1993 to 2002, held a variety of senior finance was Executive Vice President and General career as an accountant with KPMG.
and M&A roles with Enterprise Oil plc in Manager of the Infrastructure Products Formerly a Non-Executive Director of QinetiQ the UK and US.
Formerly a Non-Executive Group at Juniper Networks.
From 1998 Group plc and Lloyds Banking Group plc.
to 2002 was Chief Executive officer of Education: Has a degree in Mathematics from Nationality: British Acta Technology, and before Acta, spent Oxford University and is a qualied 16 years atHewlett-Packard in a number UKChartered Accountant.
Nationality: British Nationality: American Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Board Directors 67 Adrian Hennah 60 A Marike van Lier Lels 58 A Suzanne Wood 57 A C C C Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed: April 2011 Appointed: RELX NV, January 2010 Appointed: September 2017 Other appointments: Chief Financial officer RELX PLC and RELX Group plc, July 2015.
Other appointments: Group Finance Director of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.
Other appointments: Member of the of Ashtead Group plc.
Supervisory Boards of TKH Group NV, Past appointments: Chief Financial officer of Past appointments: Chief Financial officer Eneco Holding NV and NS Dutch Railways, Ashtead Groups largest subsidiary, Sunbelt of Smith & Nephew plc from 2006 to 2012. and amember of the Executive Committee Rentals Inc, from 2003 until 2012.
Previously, Before that was Chief Financial officer of of Aegon Association.
she also served as Chief Financial officer of Invensys plc, having previously held various Past appointments: Member of the two US publicly-listed companies, Oakwood senior finance and management positions Supervisory Boards of Royal Imtech NV, Homes Corporation and Tultex Corporation.
Formerly, Maersk BV, KPN NV and USG People NV, and Nationality: American a Non-Executive Director of Indivior PLC.
Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Nationality: British officer of the Schiphol Group.
Prior to joining Schiphol Group, was a member of the Executive Board of Deutsche Post Euro Express and held various senior positions with Nedlloyd.
Member of various Dutch governmental advisory boards.
Nationality: Dutch Linda Sanford 65 R Ben van der Veer 66 A C N C Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Audit Committees Appointed: December 2012 Appointed: September 2009 Other appointments: An independent Other appointments: Member of the Director of Consolidated Edison, Inc, Supervisory Boards of Aegon NV and PitneyBowes, Inc and ION Trading UK Limited, Koninklijke FrieslandCampina NV.
and a consultant to TheCarlyle Group.
Serves Past appointments: Chairman of the on the board of trustees of the New York Hall Executive Board of KPMG in the Netherlands of Science.
and a member of the Management Committee Past appointments: Senior Vice President, of the KPMG International board until his Enterprise Transformation, IBM Corporation retirement in 2008, having joined KPMG in until 2014, having joined the company in 1975.
Formerly a member of the Supervisory Board Committee membership key Formerly a Non-Executive Director of ITT Boards of Royal Imtech NV, Siemens A Audit Committees Corporation, served on the boards of Nederland NV and Tom Tom NV.
directors of The Business Council of New York Nationality: Dutch R Remuneration Committee State and the Partnership for New York City, N Nominations Committee and on the boards of trustees of the State C Corporate Governance Committee University of New York, St Johns University Committee Chairman and Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute.
All of the Directors are directors of RELX Group plc, Nationality: American RELX PLC and RELX NV.
