com Board of directors Governance www.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 77 An effective board of directors made upofdiverse and experienced members Governance framework Our committees and Board of directors committeechairmen Audit and risk committee The audit and risk committee is chaired The audit and risk committee assists the board of directors in by Angela Crawford-Ingle.
fulfilling its oversight responsibilities for the financial reporting process, the system of internal control, the audit process, and Nomination committee the companys process for monitoring compliance with laws The nomination committee is chaired and regulations and the Beazley code of conduct.
It also ensures by Dennis Holt.
that an effective risk management process exists in the major regulated subsidiaries and that the Beazley group has an Remuneration committee effective framework and process for managing its risks.
The remuneration committee is chaired by Sir Andrew Likierman.
The remuneration committee ensures that remuneration arrangements support the strategic aims of the business and Executive committee enable the recruitment, motivation and retention of senior The executive committee is chaired executives while complying with the requirements of regulatory by Andrew Horton and acts under and governance bodies, satisfying the expectations of delegated authority from the board.
shareholders and remaining consistent with the expectations of the wider employee population.
The nomination committee is focused on evaluating the board of directors, ensuring an appropriate balance of skills, considering and recommending board and committee candidates and considering board and executive committee succession.
Find out more pages 87 to 96 78 Beazley Annual report 2017 www.
com Board of directors continued Dennis Holt Andrew Horton George Blunden Chairman Chief executive officer Non-executive director Appointed: 21 July 2011 Appointed: 12 June 2003 Appointed: 1 January 2010 Experience: Dennis has more Experience: Andrew joined Experience: George is the senior than 46 years experience Beazley in June 2003 as finance independent director.
He retired in financial services markets.
Prior to that he held as senior vice president and He was formerly a main board various financial positions within director from AllianceBernstein executive director at Lloyds TSB ING, NatWest and Lloyds Bank Ltd in December 2009.
He had 2000-2001, chief executive of and was the chief financial previously been chief executive AXA UK and a member of AXAs officer for the UK wholesale of Union plc, and a director Global executive committee banking division of ING of SG Warburg Securities, 2001-2006.
He has been immediately prior to joining Seccombe, Marshall and chairman of Liverpool Victoria Beazley.
He qualified as a Campion plc and Meridian and deputy chairman of Bank chartered accountant with Investment Performance of Ireland.
Dennis was Coopers and Lybrand in 1987.
He is the chairman appointed chairman of The He joined the board of of the Charity Bank Ltd and Co-operative Bank plc in 2014.
Man Group plc in 2013 as chairman of Stonewater Ltd. Committee: Nomination a non-executive director.
Committees: Audit and risk committee chairman Committee: Executive committee, remuneration committee chairman committee, nomination committee Sir Andrew Likierman Neil Maidment David Roberts Non-executive director Chief underwriting officer Non-executive director Appointed: 25 March 2015 Appointed: 15 March 2001 Appointed: 1 November 2017 Experience: Andrew is Professor Experience: Neil joined Beazley Experience: David is chairman of Management Practice at the in 1990 and was appointed of Nationwide Building Society London Business School having to the board in 1993.
He has and vice chairman of NHS served as Dean from 2009- 33 years of Lloyds experience England.
His career has spanned and, in 2011, joined the board experience in financial services the public and private sectors as of the Lloyds Market Association, and was previously chairman well as academic life, including becoming chairman on and CEO of Bawag PSK AG, ten years as Head of the UK 1 January 2016.
Neil was Austrias second largest retail Government Accountancy elected to the Council of Lloyds bank and an executive director Service.
He has had many with effect from 1 February 2016. and member of the group non-executive director Committee: Executive executive committee at Barclays appointments, including the committee plc, where he was responsible Bank of England, and is for the international retail and currently also a non-executive commercial banking business.
director of Times Newspapers Ltd.
Prior to joining Nationwide Committees: Remuneration he was group deputy chairman committee chairman, at Lloyds Banking Group.
nomination committee His previous non-executive directorships include Absa Group SA and BAA plc.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 79 Martin Bride Adrian Cox Angela Crawford-Ingle Christine LaSala Group finance director Head of specialty lines Non-executive director Non-executive director Appointed: 5 May 2009 Appointed: 6 December 2010 Appointed: 27 March 2013 Appointed: 1 July 2016 Experience: Martin joined Experience: Adrian joined Experience: Angela is a Experience: Based in New York, Beazley in April 2009 as finance Beazley in June 2001.
Prior to chartered accountant with Christine retired as chair director.
He began his career in this, Adrian was at General Re extensive audit experience of Willis Towers Watson North insurance in 1985 and took up for eight years, writing both of multinational and listed America in 2016.
She has his first role as a finance director treaty and facultative business.
She was a partner 40 years of management, in 1996.
He trained as a general Since 2001 his responsibilities in  client leadership and financial insurance actuary, and his have included the casualty specialising in financial services experience in the insurance experience spans personal treaty portfolio and the SME for 20 years during which time industry.
This has included work and commercial lines general and large risks portfolios, she led the insurance and as an underwriter and 27 years insurance, the London market, before being promoted to head investment management as an insurance broker working life insurance and asset of specialty lines in 2008. division and retired in 2008. with large corporate and public management in both the UK Committee: Executive She is currently a partner in institution clients designing their and France.
committee Ambre Partners, a firm providing risk management programmes Committee: Executive strategic, financial and which included leadership committee operational advice.
Angela is roles at Johnson & Higgins also currently a non-executive and Marsh.
director and audit chair of Committee: Audit and risk Swinton Group Ltd and River committee and Mercantile Group plc.
Committee: Audit and risk committee chairman Executive directors Non-executive directors Where the appointment date of a director pre-dates 13 April 2016 being the date that Beazley plc became the holding company of the Beazley group this appointment date refers to their representation on the parent John Sauerland Robert Stuchbery Catherine Woods company of the Beazley group.
Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Appointed: 5 May 2016 Appointed: 11 August 2016 Appointed: 1 January 2016 Experience: John is chief Experience: Bob had previously Experience: Catherine Woods financial officer of the been appointed as a nonis a non-executive director of Progressive Corporation, executive director to the board AIB Plc, AIB Mortgage Bank, and a US based insurance holding of Beazley Furlonge Ltd, EBS Dac.
She is also the deputy company.
Prior to his current the groups Lloyds managing chairman of the board at AIB Plc, role, he was Progressives agency, where he chairs the risk senior independent director and personal lines group president committee.
He brings extensive chair of the audit committee.
for eight years, responsible for Lloyds experience, having been She was previously the finance the companys primary business CEO of Chaucer until 2015 expert on the adjudication panel unit with $17bn in revenues.
and a deep knowledge of the established by the Irish During his tenure as personal Lloyds market and distribution government to oversee the lines group president, he and operational strategies.
rollout of the national broadband led the introduction of many Committee: Audit and risk scheme.
Her executive career innovations such as Name committee was with JP Morgan where she Your Price and Snapshot, was a vice president and head the industry leading pay-as-youof the European banks equity drive offering.
He also oversaw research team.
Catherine is a significant growth of the former non-executive director companys direct marketing of An Post, and a former efforts and consumer facing member of the Electronic web and mobile technology.
Committee: Remuneration Committee: Audit and risk committee committee
