168 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 Directors Report The Directors present their report, together with the financial Company financial statements statements of the Group and RELX PLC the Company, for the year The individual company financial statements of the Company ended 31 December 2017. are presented on page 172, and were prepared under Financial Reporting Standard 101 FRS 101.
RELX PLC is incorporated as a public limited company and is registered in England and Wales with registered number 77536.
Distributable reserves as at 31 December 2017 were 1,518m RELX PLCs registered office is 1-3 Strand, London, WC2N 5JR.
2016: 1,472m, comprising reserves less shares held in treasury.
Parent company shareholders funds as at 31 December 2017 Corporate structure were 3,174m 2016: 3,112m.
RELX PLC and RELX NV are separate, publicly-listed holding companies.
RELX PLCs ordinary shares are traded on the Strategic Report London and New York stock exchanges, and RELX NVs ordinary The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to present a fair shares are traded on the Amsterdam and New York stock review of the Group during the financial year.
RELX PLC and RELX NV have equal voting rights in which includes a review of the Groups business areas, a financial RELX Group plc, which holds all of RELX Groups operating review, the principal risks facing the Group, any important events businesses, subsidiaries and financing activities.
RELX PLC, affecting the Group since 31 December 2017, and the likely future RELX NV, RELX Group plc and its subsidiaries, joint ventures and developments in the Groups business, is set out on pages 2 to 63 associates are together known as RELX Group or the Group.
which are incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
The Directors Report, inclusive of the Strategic Report Financial statement presentation incorporated therein, forms the management report for the Under the Governing Agreement between RELX PLC and RELX NV, purposes of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and one RELX PLC ordinary share confers an equivalent economic Transparency Rule 4.1.
interest to one RELX NV ordinary share.
Therefore, all shareholders can be regarded as having interests in a single economic entity.
Dividends Accordingly, the Group forms a single reporting entity for the The Board is recommending a final dividend of 27.7p 2016: 25.7p presentation of consolidated financial statements.
The Group per ordinary share to be paid on 22 May 2018 to shareholders consolidated financial statements represent the interests of both appearing on the Register at the close of business on 27 April 2018. sets of shareholders and are presented by both RELX PLC and Payment of this final dividend remains subject to the approval of the RELX NV as their respective consolidated financial statements.
Companys shareholders at its 2018 Annual General Meeting AGM.
This Directors Report and the financial statements of the Group Together with the interim dividend of 11.7p 2016: 10.25p per and Company should be read in conjunction with the other reports ordinary share, paid in August 2017, the total ordinary dividends set out on pages 2 to 104.
A review of the Groups performance for the year will be 39.4p 2016: 35.95p.
during the year is set out on pages 8 to 52, the principal risks facing the Group are set out on pages 60 to 63, and the Group statement Details of dividend cover and dividend policy are set out on page 58. on corporate responsibility is set out on pages 42 to 52.
Corporate Governance The shares of RELX PLC and RELX NV are regarded as two The Company has complied throughout the year with the provisions separate classes of share which together form the consolidated of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the UK Code, which issued share capital of the Group.
In calculating the earnings per is publicly available on the Financial Reporting Council website share of the Group, the earnings for each company are calculated www.
Details of how the main principles of the UK Code on a fully distributed basis.
The Groups usual practice is for only a have been applied and the Directors statement on internal control portion ofearnings to be distributed by way of dividends.
Dividends are set out in the Corporate Governance report on pages 72 to 80, paid to RELX PLC and RELX NV shareholders are, other than in which are incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
special circumstances, equalised at a gross level and reported earnings per share have the same value for each RELX PLC and Greenhouse gas emissions RELX NV share.
The Company is required to state the annual quantity of emissions In addition to the reported figures, adjusted figures are presented in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent from Group operational as additional performance measures used by management to activities.
Details of our emissions during the year ended assess the performance of the business.
These exclude the Groups 31 December 2017 and the actions being taken to reduce them share of amortisation of acquired intangible assets, acquisitionare set out in the Corporate Responsibility section of the Strategic related costs, tax in joint ventures, disposal gains and losses and Report on pages 51 and 52, which are incorporated into the Directors other non-operating items, related tax effects, and movements Report by reference.
Further details can be found in our online indeferred taxation assets and liabilities related to acquired Corporate Responsibility Report at www.
intangible assets, and include the benefit of tax amortisation where available on acquired goodwill and intangible assets.
Directors In 2017, the exceptional tax credit arising as a result of the The names of the Directors who served on the Board during the US Tax Cuts and Jobs Act has been excluded from our adjusted year, and changes to the Board, are set out on pages 66, 67, 76 and measures.
77, which are incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
