Shareholder engagement Board Committees Communication with shareholders is given high priority by the The Board has seven standing committees and a Chairmans Board.
Extensive information about HSBC and its activities is Committee.
In the case of the FSVC and the Philanthropic & provided to shareholders in its Annual Report and Accounts, the Community Investment Oversight Committee, membership Strategic Report and the Interim Report as well as at includes co-opted non-Director members as well as non-executive www.
To complement these publications, there is regular dialogue with The Chairs of each Committee report matters of significance to the institutional investors.
Enquiries from individuals on matters Board after each meeting and the minutes of the meetings are relating to their shareholdings and HSBCs business are made available to all Board members.
The detailed roles and responsibilities of each Committee are set Directors are encouraged to develop an understanding of the out in its terms of reference, which can be found on the website at views of major shareholders.
com about-hsbc corporate-governance boardAs SID, Jonathan Symonds is available toshareholders if they committees.
have concerns that cannot be resolved or for which the normal Interaction with principal subsidiaries channels would be inappropriate.
He may be contacted via theGroup Company Secretary at 8 Canada Square, London The Board manages relationships with the regions through seven E145HQ.
There are close interactions between the subsidiary boards and the Group Board and their The AGM and other general meetings respective committees, including the sharing of minutes and a The 2018 AGM will be held at theQueen Elizabeth II Conference requirement for certain appointments to subsidiary boards to be Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE on approved by the Group Board.
Friday 20 April at 11.00am and a live webcast will be available on As explained in more detail in the reports of the GAC and the GRC www.
A recording of the proceedings will be available on pages 128 and 130, this interaction is reinforced through an on www.
com shortly after the conclusion of the AGM until Audit and Risk Committee Chairs' Forum.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the meeting.
subsidiary audit and risk committees globally are invited to attend Shareholders may send enquiries to the Board in writing via the the forum to raise and discuss current and future global risk and Group Company Secretary, HSBC Holdings plc, 8 Canada Square, audit issues.
London E14 5HQ or by sending an email to shareholderquestions@hsbc.
Board members are encouraged to, and do, make visits to the regions and attend principal subsidiary meetings as guests.
Shareholders may require the Directors to call a general meeting Similarly, directors from the regions regularly are invited to attend other than an AGM as provided by the UK Companies Act 2006. committee meetings at a Group level.
Requests to call a general meeting may be made by members representing at least 5% of the paid-up capital of HSBC Holdings The GAC and GRC make a number of recommendations to the that carries the right of voting at its general meetings excluding Board in relation to the preparation of the financial statements any paid-up capital held as treasury shares.
A request must state which are supported by certificates from the principal subsidiaries.
the general nature of the business to be dealt with at the meeting Whistleblowing and may include the text of a resolution that may properly be moved and is intended to be moved at the meeting.
A request may The GAC and the CVC are responsible for reviewing the Groups be in hard copy form or inelectronic form and must be whistleblowing procedures and receive regular updates on authenticated by the person or persons making it.
A request relevant concerns raised under these procedures, together with maybe made in writing to HSBC Holdings at its UK address, management actions taken in response.
referred to in the paragraph above or by sending an email to Committee effectiveness shareholderquestions@hsbc.
At any general meeting convened on such request, no business shall be transacted except The effectiveness of the Committees is evaluated as part of the that stated by the requisition or proposed by the Board.
overall performance evaluation of the Board and through annual effectiveness reviews at a Committee level.
In addition, the Committees review the papers and the effectiveness of each meeting as a standing agenda item to ensure that they continue to be effective, challenging and well-managed, and review a rolling planner of proposed committee business.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 127 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Corporate Governance 2017 Board and Committee attendance Philanthropic Financial & Community Group System Conduct & Investment Group Audit Group Risk Remuneration Nomination Vulnerabilities Values Oversight AGM Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 1 8 8 7 7 7 7 6 3 held Group Chairman 1 Mark Tucker n a 3 3 2 2 2 Douglas Flint 1 6 6 Executive Directors Stuart Gulliver 1 8 Iain Mackay 1 8 Marc Moses 1 8 Non-executive Directors Phillip Ameen 1 8 8 Kathleen Casey 1 8 8 7 Laura Cha 1 7 7 6 3 3 Henri fide Castries 1 6 4 4 Lord Evans of Weardale 1 7 7 6 3 4 Joachim Faber 1 8 6 5 Sam Laidlaw 1 3 3 2 2 2 2 Irene Lee 1 8 John Lipsky 1 8 7 7 7 6 Rachel Lomax 1 3 3 3 3 2 2 2 2 Heidi Miller 1 8 7 7 David Nish 1 6 8 4 4 8 Jonathan Symonds 1 8 8 5 5 5 Jackson Tai 1 7 7 7 Pauline van der Meer Mohr 1 8 7 6 6 9 Paul Walsh 2 2 0 1 0 1 Board meetings in 2017 were held in London, New York and Hong Kong.
In addition to the Board meetings listed there were also Chairmans Committee meetings held in 2017.
1 Appointed to the Board and as Chair of the Nomination Committee on 1 September 2017.
Appointed as Group Chairman on 1 October 2017.
2 Resigned from the Board 30 September 2017.
3 Appointed to the Group Remuneration Committee 26 May 2017 4 Stepped down from the Group Risk Committee 30 November 2017.
5 Resigned from the Board 28 April 2017.
6 Resigned from the Board 28 April 2017.
7 Appointed to the Group Remuneration Committee 26 May 2017.
8 Appointed as interim Chair of the Nomination Committee from 28 April 2017 to 1 September 2017.
Appointed as Senior Independent Director on 28 April 2017.
9 Resigned from the Board 21 April 2017. reviews presentations to external analysts including the key Group Audit Committee financial metrics relating toHSBCs strategic actions.
Members The GAC assesses the adequacy of resources of the accounting and financial reporting function.
It also monitors the legal and Jonathan Symonds Chairman regulatory environment relevant to its responsibilities.
Phillip Ameen Linkages with principal subsidiary audit committees Kathleen Casey The GAC maintains links with the audit committees of The Hong David Nish Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, HSBC North America Holdings Inc. HSBC Bank Canada, HSBC Bank plc, HSBC Latin Role and responsibilities America Holdings UK Limited, HSBC Bank Middle East Limited The GAC has non-executive responsibility for reviewing matters and HSBC Private Banking Holdings Suisse SA the Principal relating to financial reporting, including Pillar 3 disclosures, and Subsidiaries.
the effectiveness of internal financial control systems.
The During the year, in addition to the annual Audit and Risk Committee also safeguards the independence of the Group Committee Chairs Forum, the Chairman attended an audit Internal Audit function and oversees its performance.
committee meeting of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Governance Corporation to discuss key judgements made in the Bank of Communications impairment assessment.
The Group Finance Director, Group Chief Accounting Officer, Group Head of Internal Audit, Group Financial Controller and other Any new appointments to the audit committees of the Principal members of senior management routinely attend meetings of the Subsidiaries are also reviewed by the GAC.
The external auditor also attended all meetings.
The meets with any proposed new chairs of the Principal Subsidiary Chairman of the GAC had regular meetings with management to audit committees.
discuss agenda planning and specific issues as they arose during Internal controls the year.
The GAC assesses the effectiveness of the internal control system How the Committee discharges its responsibilities for financial reporting and any developments affecting itin support Financial reporting of the Boards assessment of internal control over financial reporting in accordance with section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley The GAC reviews HSBCs financial and reporting judgements and Act.
their application to the Groups financial reporting, including Pillar 3 disclosures, Costs to Achieve and significant items.
It also 128 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 The GAC has received confirmation that executive management The Committee has complied with the relevant parts of the has taken or is taking the necessary actions to remedy any failings Competition and Markets Authority Final Order on the statutory or weaknesses identified through the operation of the Group's audit market for the year ended 31 December 2017. framework of controls.
Principal activities and significant issues considered Further detail of how the Board reviews the effectiveness of during 2017 keyaspects of internal control can be found on page 133.
Internal control framework External audit The GAC continued to monitor the progress being made to The GAC reviews the external auditors approach, strategy for the upgrade entity level controls.
During 2017, the GAC undertook a annual audit and audit findings.
series of deep dives to monitor the remediation of identified control deficiencies, noting that good progress was made during All non-audit services provided by the external auditor are prethe year.
The GAC continued to monitor the remediation of approved by theGAC in accordance with the auditor controls over access management in IT.
independence policy toensure that services do not create a conflict.
Details of the significant engagements for non-audit IFRS 9 implementation services are contained in Note 6.
The GAC continued to receive detailed presentations and updates A policy is in place and monitored by the GAC on hiring employees from management on the Groups readiness to implement IFRS 9 or former employees of the external auditor.
and considered the possible commercial impact of IFRS 9 on the global businesses.
The GAC regularly meets privately with the external auditor and the GAC Chairman maintains regular contact with the audit Bank of Communications BoCom partner throughout the year.
The GAC received regular updates on the assumptions Fees payable to PwC for the year ended 31 December 2017 underpinning the valuation of BoCom.
It monitored indicators totalled $129.7m, of which $44.9m or 34.6% was payable in of impairment, both macro and BoCom specific, and reviewed respect of non-audit services.
A further breakdown of the fees the results of the impairment assessments carried out by paid to the auditors for each of the last three financial years can be management.
found inNote 6 on the Financial Statements.
Resolution planning The GAC reviewed the findings of the Financial Reporting The Group is required to have in place a Group Recovery Plan that Council's audit quality review carried out on the 2016 audit and sets out recovery options to be initiated in the event of the Group endorsed PwC's proposed action plan in response.
coming under severe financial stress.
During 2017, the GAC The GAC considered PwC to be independent and PwC, in received updates on the structure of the Group Recovery Plan.
The accordance with professional ethical standards, provided the GAC GAC considered the Group Recovery Plan and its integration with with written confirmation of its independence for the duration of the Groups Risk Management Framework.
Establishment of the ring-fenced bank The GAC has therefore recommended to the Board that PwC Progress on the establishment of HSBC UK, the ring-fenced bank, bereappointed as auditor.
Resolutions concerning the was monitored by the GAC during 2017.
The GAC considered the reappointment of PwC and their audit fee for 2018 will be accounting judgements in relation to the creation of HSBC UK.
proposed to shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
Internal Audit Internal Audit The GAC concluded that the Internal Audit function remained The GAC approves Internal Audits annual plan, resource and effective.
budget, and reviews the performance and effectiveness of the Group Head of Internal Audit.
The Group Head of Internal Audit External auditor reports to the Chairman of the GAC and administratively to the During the year, the Committee assesses the effectiveness of PwC Group Chief Executive.
The Committee regularly meets with the as the Groups external auditor, using a questionnaire which Group Head of Internal Audit without other management present.
focuses on the overall audit process, its effectiveness and the Compliance with Regulatory Requirements quality of output.
The Board is satisfied that each member of the GAC is Changing regulatory landscape independent according to SEC criteria, may be regarded as audit The GAC received briefings on the significant forthcoming committee financial experts for the purposes of section 407 of the changes in the regulatory landscape.
Plans around the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and has recent and relevant financial implementation of IFRS 9 were reviewed.
experience for the purposes of the UK and Hong Kong Corporate Governance Codes.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 129 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Corporate Governance Significant accounting judgements considered during 2017 included: Key area Action taken Expected impact of Since 2014, the GAC has considered the progress of the project to implement IFRS 9 and the key judgements related to its IFRS 9 implementation, including the expected impacts disclosed and the approach to transition disclosures.
Topics addressed include: the approach to the incorporation of forward economic guidance for expected credit losses ECL and the economic scenarios to be applied at 1 January 2018, the operating model and approach to governance of ECL, impact assessments and dry runs including key learnings and how these issues are being addressed, expected commercial impacts of ECL and status updates on implementation challenges to systems and governance processes.
Bank of During the year, the GAC considered the regular impairment reviews of HSBCs investment in BoCom.
The GAC reviewed a Communications Co. number of aspects of managements work in this area, including the sensitivity of the result of the impairment review to Limited BoCom estimates and assumptions of projected future cash flows.
The audit committee considered the models sensitivity to long-term impairment testing assumptions including the continued appropriateness of the discount rate.
Appropriateness of The GAC received reports from management on the recognition and amounts of provisions, as well as the existence of provisioning for legal contingent liabilities for legal proceedings and regulatory matters.
Specific matters addressed included accounting judgements in proceedings and relation to provisions and contingent liabilities arising out of: a investigations by regulators and competition and law regulatorymatters enforcement authorities around the world into trading on the foreign exchange markets: b investigations of HSBCs Swiss Private Bank by a number of tax administration, regulatory and law enforcement authorities: and c investigations into historical sales of US mortgage securitisations by The United States Attorney for the District of Colorado for potential violations of The Financial Industry Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989, 12 U. S. C. 1833a.
Quarterly and annual The GAC considered key judgements in relation to quarterly and annual reporting.
It reviewed draft presentations to external reporting analysts and key financial metrics included in HSBCs strategic actions.
Loan impairment, The GAC considered loan impairment allowances for personal and wholesale lending.
For personal lending this included a review allowances and charges of the adequacy of and movement in collective impairment allowances, and consideration of portfolio-specific characteristics.
For wholesale lending, the GAC considered managements key judgements used to establish the appropriate level of individual allowances on material individually assessed cases and whether management overlays were appropriate on collective allowances.
Specific attention was applied to credit risk in the UK and the implications of Brexit from a credit perspective.
Valuation of financial The GAC considered the key valuation metrics and judgements involved in the determination of the fair value of financial instruments instruments.
The GAC considered the valuation control framework, valuation metrics, significant year-end judgements and emerging valuation topics.
Viability statement Under the obligations of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Directors have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks for the Group and parent company.
The GAC has considered the Directors judgement in concluding that theGroup and parent company will be able to continue in operation and meet liabilities as they fall due, and that it is appropriate that the viability statement covers a period of three years.
Goodwill impairment The GAC noted that no impairment was identified as a result of the annual goodwill impairment test and subsequent review for testing any impairment indicators.
Following the full impairment of GPB Europe goodwill in 2016 along with an improved performance outlook for RBWM Europe, there are no longer any CGUs considered sensitive to key assumptions.
Tax-related judgements The GAC considered the recoverability of deferred tax assets, in particular in the US.
The committee also considered managements judgements relating to the tax indemnity agreed to by HSBC as part of the sale of its Brazilian operations in 2016.
This includes consideration of the key inputs and assumptions used to estimate any obligation under the indemnity.
UK customer The GAC considered the provisions for redress for mis-selling of payment protection insurance PPI policies in the UK and the remediation associated redress on PPI commissions earned under certain criteria, including managements judgements regarding the effect of the time-bar for claims ending August 2019.
In addition, the GAC monitored progress on the remediation of operational processes and associated customer redress.
regularly attend GRC meetings in order to contribute to Group Risk Committee discussions relating to their areas of expertise.
Members The GRC works closely with the GAC to ensure there are no gaps, that any areas of significant overlap are appropriately addressed Jackson Tai appointed Chairman effective from 25 April 2017 and to improve inter-committee communication.
The chairmen of Joachim Faber stepped down as Chairman effective 25 April 2017 both these committees engage on the agendas of each others and resigned on 30 November 2017 committee meetings and attend as guests as appropriate.
This further enhances the linkages and the flows of information John Lipsky between the GRC and GAC.
Heidi Miller The GRC meets with the Group Chief Risk Officer and, separately, Rachel Lomax resigned on 28 April 2017 with the Group Head of Internal Audit and external auditors without management present at the majority of its meetings.
Role and responsibilities The GRC has non-executive responsibility for the oversight of How the Committee discharges its responsibilities enterprise risk management, risk governance and internal control At each meeting, the GRC reviews the Group Risk Profile report systems other than internal financial control systems, which are which identifies the key issues and common themes arising from overseen by the GAC.
In forming a holistic view of risk, the GRC is the Groups enterprise risk reports.
This report includes a supported by the FSVC and CVC, which are the Board committees synthesised view of the Groups risk appetite statement, top and responsible for overseeing risks relating to financial crime, cyberemerging risks and the Group risk map.
It clearly sets out which crime and information security, anti-bribery and corruption, and for Board committee has accountability for the monitoring and culture and conduct respectively.
These two committees escalate oversight of each risk and issue and identifies any areas where and report second order risks to the GRC.
Appropriate linkages management is required to assess vulnerabilities via stress testing.
and information flows between these three committees are further Page 63 provides further information on the top and emerging enhanced by cross membership and close engagement of the risks, the risk map and the risk appetite for the Group.
The GRC members and the committee attendees.
receives presentations on a range of topics, including stress Governance testing and briefings on developments in its principal markets.
In addition, the GRC requests reports and updates from management In carrying out its responsibilities, the GRC is closely supported by on risk-related issues for in-depth consideration and receives the Group Chief Risk Officer, Group Finance Director, Group Head of Internal Audit, Group Financial Controller, Global Head of regular reports on matters discussed at the Risk Management Meeting of the Group Management Board.
Regulatory Compliance and Global Head of Risk Strategy, who all 130 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 The GRC reviews any revisions to the Group risk appetite committees to participate in GRC meetings and thematic reviews, statement RAS bi-annually and any proposed changes are receiving regional updates and conducting holistic deep dives and recommended to the Board.
It reviews managements assessment sharing GRC highlights with the subsidiaries, the GRC has further of risk and provides scrutiny of managements proposed enhanced its connectivity and linkages with the principal mitigating actions.
The GRC programmes forward-looking and thematic agendas During 2017, the GRC has provided challenge and review to the which are supported by input from all three lines of defence within Groups regulatory submissions relating to capital management the global businesses and regions.
The Committee also conducts and liquidity adequacy assessments.
It has continued to maintain deep dives on the risk implications of strategic matters, risks oversight of the Groups regulatory and internal stress testing specific to regions, significant projects and key topical risks that programmes with specific review and challenge of the design, key are identified during the GRCs deliberations and discussion.
By assumptions and outcomes of the principal tests conducted.
extending invitations to the chairmen of principal subsidiary risk Principal activities and significant issues considered during 2017 The Group risk appetite Following its bi-annual reviews, the GRC did not recommend any material changes to the overall level of Risk Appetite in statement RAS and 2017.
The GRC expanded its focus on non-financial risk and significant work was undertaken to define forward-looking monitoring of the Group exposure based on metrics taking into account the inherent level of risk as well as the performance of our control risk profile against the environment.
RAS Capital and liquidity The GRC has fully engaged management in evaluating and challenging the Groups liquidity and funding risk appetite and the effectiveness of the liquidity and funding risk framework.
The GRC continued to review the Groups approach to capital planning to ensure it is comprehensive, rigorous and forward looking.
The GRC reviewed and challenged both the Group Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment Process and Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment.
Stress testing The GRC conducted a comprehensive review and challenge of the scenarios and approach to the PRA stress tests and reviewed the results of both the Annual Cyclical Scenario and Biennial Exploratory Scenario stress tests.
The GRC continued to review and oversee the regulatory and internal global stress testing programmes throughout the year.
Execution risk Regular reports were received from the Group Chief Operating Officer, who updated each meeting on the progress and status of the Groups highest-priority change and transformation programmes and mitigating measures being introduced to manage the identified risks appropriately.
The GRC placed priority on monitoring and challenging managements assessment of execution risk and corresponding mitigating actions, as evidenced by thematic reviews on the execution risks at launch of our required ringfencing in the UK, on the progress of remediating high residual risks in non-financial risks, and the implications of economic growth rates for our China strategy.
Internal control and risk The GRC reviewed the Groups risk management framework and system of internal control other than internal financial management control systems, which were covered by the GAC and the developments affecting them over the course of 2017, as part of the Boards assessment of internal control.
Deep dive reviews The GRC conducted in-depth reviews of the risk implications relating to the Groups approach to model risk, to changes in economic growth rate assumptions for the Groups China strategy as well as execution risks arising from required ringfencing in the UK.
The GRC also examined the Groups management of its non-financial risks, including its ability to remediate high residual risks.
Connectivity between the The GRC has enhanced the connectivity and flow of information both to and from the Subsidiary Risk Committees during GRC and Subsidiary Risk 2017.
There has been more focused participation by the principal Subsidiary Risk Committee chairmen at GRC meetings.
In Committees addition, the GRC Chairman has attended risk committee meetings in Latin America, Europe, Middle East and Asia Pacific regions.
The linkages with the Group and subsidiaries was further strengthened at the annual Non-Executive Director and Subsidiary Audit and Risk Committee Chairmens Forum held in Hong Kong.
Committee effectiveness The GRC Chairman has addressed the actions agreed at the beginning of the year arising from an external independent effectiveness review conducted at the end of 2016.
Leonard Schrank non-Director member resigned on 30 June Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee 2017 Members Sir William Patey non-Director member resigned on 30 June 2017 Lord Evans of Weardale Chairman John Raine non-Director member appointed on 1 September Kathleen Casey 2017 Jackson Tai The Honourable Juan Zarate non-Director member Michael Burgess non-Director member appointed on The eight non-Director members support the Committees work 1 September 2017 and resigned on 11 December 2017 and between them have extensive experience in geopolitical risk, Nick Fishwick, CMG non-Director member financial crime risk, international security, cybersecurity and law enforcement matters.
Dave Hartnett, CB non-Director member Role and responsibilities Lord Hogan-Howe non-Director member appointed on 1 September 2017 The Committee has non-executive responsibility for the oversight of matters related to financial crime and system abuse, in William Hughes, CBE QPM non-Director member resigned on particular anti-money laundering, sanctions, terrorist financing and 30 June 2017 proliferation financing, anti-bribery and corruption and David Irvine non-Director member cybersecurity.
It is also responsible for monitoring, reviewing and Clovis Meath Baker non-Director member appointed on advising the Board on the effectiveness of the policies and 1 September 2017 procedures established by management to ensure that HSBC meets its obligations to regulatory and law enforcement agencies.
Nehchal Sandhu non-Director member HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 131 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Corporate Governance Principal activities and significant issues considered Group Remuneration Committee during 2017 Members Financial crime Pauline van der Meer Mohr Chair The Committee monitored the Groups progress on the implementation of its Global Standards programme, and reviewed Henri fide Castries appointed on 26 May 2017 and discussed findings from country visits conducted by the Sam Laidlaw resigned on 28 April 2017 Monitor.
John Lipsky Anti-bribery and corruption David Nish appointed on 26 May 2017 The Committee reviewed the activities underway to address key Paul Walsh resigned on 21 April 2017 bribery and corruption risks and managements progress with the implementation of a more robust anti-bribery and corruption Role and responsibilities compliance framework.
The Committee is responsible for setting the overarching Engaging with the Monitor principles, parameters and governance framework of the Groups remuneration policy, and the remuneration of executive Directors The Committee was responsible for liaising with the Monitor to and other senior Group employees.
The Committee regularly ensure his recommendations were acted on.
reviews the Groups remuneration policy in the context of The information security environment and cybersecurity risk consistent and effective risk management, and the regulatory The Committee reviewed HSBCs progress towards improving the requirements of multiple jurisdictions.
No Directors are involved in Groups cybersecurity and the actions being taken to mitigate deciding their own remuneration.
It also monitored significant developments A full report on the role and activities of the Committee is set out in the information security environment and progress delivering on pages 141 to 164. strategic financial crime risk management IT solutions.
Nomination Committee Conduct & Values Committee Members Members Mark Tucker Chairman appointed on 1 September 2017 Pauline van der Meer Mohr Chair Laura Cha Laura Cha Sam Laidlaw resigned on 28 April 2017 Lord Evans of Weardale John Lipsky Rachel Lomax resigned on 28 April 2017 Rachel Lomax resigned on 28 April 2017 Jonathan Symonds Pauline van der Meer Mohr Role and responsibilities Jonathan Symonds appointed as interim Chair from 28 April 2017 The Committee has non-executive responsibility for oversight of to 1 September 2017 culture and conduct risk.
It is responsible for the Groups policies, Paul Walsh resigned on 21 April 2017 procedures and standards and ensuring that the Group conducts business responsibly and consistently adheres to the HSBC Role and responsibilities Values.
The CVC is also responsible for Group policies and The Committee leads the Board appointment process, agrees the procedures for capturing and responding to whistleblowing criteria for any appointments and engages independent external reports.
The CVC reports to the GAC where necessary in relation search consultants, as required.
At the conclusion of this process, to allegations relating to accounting, internal controls over the Committee will nominate potential candidates for appointment financial reporting or audit matters.
It is also responsible for succession planning for both Principal activities and significant issues considered senior executive roles, as well as executive and non-executive during 2017 Directors, and for determining the membership of Board committees.
Conduct In the exercise of its responsibilities, the Committee regularly The Committee reviewed the Groups conduct approach and reviews the Boards structure, size and composition, including how effectively global programmes were being implemented skills, knowledge, experience, independence and diversity.
Deep dives were undertaken on the Singapore, China and Middle East operations and the Global Principal activities and significant issues considered Businesses to determine how effectively the conduct programme during 2017 was embedding.
Succession planning Sustainability In 2016, a committee was established with specific responsibility The Committee was responsible for reviewing how effectively the for succession planning for the Group Chairman.
The process was Group sought to satisfy itself that it was meeting its sustainability led by the Chairman of the Nomination Committee at the time, commitments.
Sam Laidlaw, and the Senior Independent Director, Rachel Lomax.
The committee, comprising all members of the Nomination Diversity Committee, including the chairs of the other principal Board The Committee monitored the Groups refreshed approach to committees, was assisted and advised by independent external Diversity and Inclusion and the updating of the Group Diversity search consultants.
This process culminated on 12 March 2017 and Inclusion Policy.
following a recommendation from the committee, and unanimous endorsement by the Board, with the announcement that Mark Further information, including the Group's Statements on Tucker would be appointed as the new Group Chairman, with Conduct, the Group Diversity and Inclusion Policy and the effect from 1 October 2017.
Statement on Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking can be found at www.
During 2017, the Nomination Committee led the succession process for the Group Chief Executive Officer.
The Committee, chaired by Jonathan Symonds on an interim basis from April 2017 132 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
