Viability statement Viability statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board of Directors the Board of RBSG the bank have assessed the viability of the bank taking into account the current position of the bank, the Boards assessment of the banks prospects, and the banks principal risks, as detailed in the strategic report on pages 46 and 47.
The Boards assessment is further informed by the application of regulatory standards of capital and liquidity adequacy and stress test thresholds under extreme conditions.
The Board consider a period of three Assessments of the risks of the years to be an appropriate period greatest concern are captured through for the assessment to be made.
This the banks processes for continuously period is within the banks strategic identifying and effectively managing plan and regulatory and internal the principal top and emerging stress testing periods.
risks, as detailed on page 46 and 47 of the strategic report.
These The banks business and strategic assessments provide a view on the plans provide long term direction and impact of the top risks crystallising, are reviewed on, at least, an annual both individually and in combination.
basis, including multi-year forecasts These risks are outlined in the Risk showing the expected financial position Overview and further discussed in throughout the planning horizon.
the Risk Factors, both contained in The base case plan indicates that the the Annual Report and Accounts on bank will have sufficient capital and pages 150 and 156 and 372 to 402, liquidity resources over the three year respectively, and include political, assessment period.
legal, macroeconomic, regulatory, operational and execution risks.
The banks base case plan is also tested in a series of extreme stress scenarios On the basis of this robust assessment as part of internal and external of the principal risks facing the bank, stress testing.
Results from the stress the Boards review of the business scenarios, including managements and strategic plans and other matters response, are used as part of the considered and reviewed during the Internal Capital Adequacy year, and the results of the stress Assessment Process ICAAP and tests undertaken, the Board has a the Internal Liquidity Adequacy reasonable expectation that the bank Assessment Process ILAAP.
These will be able to continue in operation processes are summarised in the and meet its liabilities as they fall due Capital and Risk Management section over the period of the assessment.
of the Annual Report and Accounts on pages 157 to 165.
