com Active investors Beazleys investment team favours a variety ofinvestment strategies for different elements of the companys $4.9bn portfolio, some of them passive to limit fees.
However, as chief investment officer Stuart Simpson explains, the teams overall approach to its role is anything but passive Stuart Simpson, who took on the role The skills of Beazleys investment of chief investment officer from 2016, team played an important role in the observes: In investment management, companys success in 2017, generating conservatism does not mean being slow a return of 2.9%.
The team was off the mark and decisiveness need not restructured in 2014, with the recruitment be rash.
Sometimes you need to of Stuart Simpson, who had headed act quickly and decisively in pursuit Lloyds investment function, and Linda of a conservative strategy, to extract Zuberi, who was responsible for global additional value or to protect returns.
credit investments at another insurance company.
Since 2015, the team has An example of the latter occurred on the delivered strong returns through a series evening of 8 November 2016, the date of carefully judged portfolio adjustments of the US general election.
As the result within the constraints of a conservative began to crystallise, the team foresaw a investment strategy.
sharp jump in US bond yields as markets Stuart Simpson anticipated higher economic growth Chief investment officer and inflation.
Beazley investment portfolio mix Investment grade credit 44.6% Government, quasi government 28.4% and supranational Cash and cash equivalents 9.0% Hedge funds 7.7% Illiquid credit assets 3.7% Equity funds 3.4% Senior secured loans 1.8% Other credit 1.4% Strategic report www.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 15 In the brief window before yields rose From 3% of total investments at the Lower investment expenses have also significantly a matter of hours they end of 2016, equities made up as much contributed to Beazleys investment reduced the duration of Beazleys bond as 6% during the year.
In 2016, management portfolio, to protect against losses in returned 22% for the year as a whole, of most of the groups fixed income this scenario.
outperforming the global equity portfolio was brought in-house, with benchmark by more than 3%, largely significant savings in management fees.
As yields rose in the following days and thanks to overweight exposure to Also, many of Beazleys externally weeks, this move insulated Beazleys emerging market equities.
Although managed investments, including portfolio from losses of as much as $16m.
equities only averaged 4% of total equities, utilise strategies that avoid investments in the course of the year, the high fees associated with active Equally effective in 2017 was the they generated a quarter of the total fund management.
decision taken early in the year to return.
increase Beazleys exposure to equities.
We see a role for active stock picking Additional investments were made in emerging markets and our managers during the year, with a particular focus delivered a good return, net of expenses, on emerging market equities which the on these investments in 2017, says team regarded as relatively undervalued.
However in developed markets we prefer essentially passive and systematic strategies with lower fees.
Beazleys overall investment framework excluding cash and cash equivalents remains unchanged.
Between 75% and 85% is invested conservatively in a core portfolio of government bonds and highly rated corporate debt.
That leaves between 15% and 25% available for investments in more volatile capital growth assets with higher expected return, including high yield debt, illiquid credit, equities, hedge funds, and systematic absolute return investments, similar to hedge funds but with lower fees.
Looking ahead to 2018, Stuart Simpson notes that bond yields are generally higher than in recent years, which should be supportive of investment returns.
However, despite a generally benign global economic background, there are many developing risks for financial markets, including the long awaited tightening of monetary policies and ongoing geo-political tensions.
Beazleys investment team Given these uncertainties, the ability of Beazleys investment team to respond quickly to market developments is likely to remain key.
