20 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 Risk & Business Analytics Business overview Risk & Business Analytics provides customers with solutions and We use the power of data and advanced analytics to help our decision tools that combine public and industry specic content customers make better, timelier decisions.
Our innovative with advanced technology and analytics to assist them in evaluating solutions enable organisations to manage risks like identity and predicting risk and enhancing operational efficiency.
theft, fraud, money laundering and terrorism, and prevent Risk & Business Analytics is headquartered in Alpharetta financial crimes, and insurance and government benefit Georgia, with further principal operations in Florida, Illinois scams.
We help those without traditional credit histories and Ohio in North America, London and Amsterdam in Europe obtain access to funds, assist agencies to nd uncollected and Shanghai in Asia Pacic.
It has 8,100 employees and serves revenue, and research ways to improve business outcomes for customers in more than 170 countries.
We also work with law enforcement to solve crimes.
We advise farmers with their efforts in precision Revenues for the year ended 31 December 2017 were 2,076m, agriculture and work with airlines to improve their operations compared with 1,906m in 2016 and 1,601m in 2015.
In 2017, and services for passengers.
We help customers in the 80% of revenue came from North America, 15% from Europe petrochemicals, energy and fertiliser industries to make and the remaining 5% from the rest of the world.
Subscription better trading and planning decisions.
By bringing clarity sales generated 35% of revenues, transactional sales 63% to information, we ultimately help make communities safer, and advertising 2%.
insurance rates more accurate, commerce more transparent, The business is organised around market-facing industry sector business decisions easier and processes more efficient.
groups: Insurance Solutions, Business Services, Government Solutions, Health Care Solutions, as well as Data Services including banking, energy and chemicals, aviation, agriculture and human resources.
LexisNexis Risk Solutions maintains over 78bn records Insurance Solutions, the largest segment, provides comprehensive data, analytics and decision tools for personal, commercial and Since 2013, the Florida Department of Children and Families life insurance carriers in the US to improve critical aspects of their has used our identity management solutions to prevent food business.
Information solutions, including the most comprehensive stamp fraud, achieving a total cost avoidance of over $840m US personal loss history database, C. L. U. E. help insurers assess in taxpayer benets not issued due to suspected fraud risks and provide important inputs to pricing and underwriting insurance policies.
Additional key products include LexisNexis LexisNexis Risk Solutions performs over 100m identity Data Prell, which provides information on customers directly into verication checks and over 100bn customer and the insurance workstream and LexisNexis Current Carrier, which transaction screening requests annually, supporting identies insurance coverage details and any lapses in coverage.
industries such as banking, ntech and e-commerce In the US, we are focused on delivering innovative decision tools LexisNexis Risk Solutions works with more than 75% through a single point of access within an insurers infrastructure.
of Fortune 500 companies, eight out of 10 of the worlds LexisNexis Active Insights, our solution for active risk management, top banks and 95 out of the top 100 personal lines connects proprietary linking algorithms with vast amounts of insurance companies data to proactively inform insurers of key events impacting their policyholders.
We are advancing our strategy todrive more Accuity has information on 22,000 banks and 95 of consistency and efficiency in claims through our solution suite, the worlds largest 100 banks use its data Claims Compass.
Our Risk Classier solution, which uses public and motor vehicle records and predictive modelling, is used FlightGlobal analyses 2.5bn travel segments every year by more than 20% of the top 50 life insurers tobetter understand worth about $385bn and tracks 100,000 commercial risk and improve underwriting efficiency.
ights daily, or more than 35m a year We continue to make progress outside the US.
In the UK, contributory solutions including No Claims Discount module, which automates verication of claims history, and new offering Policy Insights, a predictor of motor claims loss, are being integrated into the LexisNexis Informed Quotes platform to deliver data in real-time into the quoting process of an insurance transaction.
In China, the Genilex joint venture is delivering key vehicle data to auto insurers and is looking to add more analytics solutions.
In India, our Intelligence Exchange contributory platform and Risk Insights solution are used by life insurers to predict, better assess and manage risk within the underwriting and claims management processes.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Business review Risk & Business Analytics 21 Business Services provides organisations with state-of-the-art Government Solutions provides identity intelligence to US risk management, including: financial crime compliance, fraud federal, state and local law enforcement and government and identity management, consumer and business credit risk agencies to help solve criminal cases and identify fraud, waste assessment, and collections.
These include solutions for andabuse in government programmes.
In addition to providing watch-list screening, due diligence, identify verication and identity theft solutions for tax agencies to help ensure legitimate authentication, credit scoring and skip tracing.
Our big data taxpayers receive tax refunds, the group began providing business technology HPCC Systems, vast alternative data repository intelligence solutions allowing government agencies to nd and analytic linking capabilities provide valuable information additional fraud and property tax.
and analytics that are used to help solve complex global issues, The Public Safety Data Exchange PSDEX is a contributory like financial inclusion and financial transparency.
database of more than 1,300 law enforcement agencies.
The The investments we made in business risk over the past few years PSDEX compiles data from law enforcement agencies across continue to bear fruit with the launch of additional products in the US to help them solve crimes, identify threats and anticipate 2017.
We brought to market the latest version of our Business future threats.
It is also linked to public records data and served Instant ID offering and broadened data coverage in our business back to agencies to accelerate criminal investigations through risk suite.
The launch of our Risk Defense Platform has proven key solutions, such as Accurint Virtual Crime Center.
successful with the delivery of holistic fraud prevention solutions In the healthcare sector, Government Solutions gained momentum for large enterprise customers.
Global expansion continues to in educating government healthcare agencies on the value of using accelerate Business Services growth with increasing adoption robust, accurate data and analytics to identify relationships and of our products by leading and innovative global companies.
patterns among healthcare providers, pharmacies and patients In January 2018, RELX Group announced it had agreed to acquire to pinpoint illegal distribution of opioids.
Government Solutions ThreatMetrix, a leader in the global risk-based authentication continued to grow its contributory database footprint in the health, sector, headquartered in San Jose, California.
ThreatMetrixs human services: tax and revenue: and public safety markets.
technology analyses connections among devices, locations, Health Care Solutions utilises socioeconomic, consumer, anonymised identity information and threat intelligence, and provider and medical claims data to deliver leading identity, combines this data with behavioural analytics to identify high-risk fraud, compliance and health risk analytics solutions across key digital behaviour and transactions in real time.
stages of healthcare to enable intelligent decision-making for payers, providers, life sciences organisations and pharmacies.
In 2017, weenhanced our LexisNexis Socioeconomic Health Score and Attributes to patients health risk based on their socioeconomic prole.
Data and analytics for the global commercial Global provider of news, price benchmarks, aviation and travel industry data and research to the energy, chemical and fertiliser industries LexisNexis Active Insights VerifyHCP World Compliance An active risk management solution that The VerifyHCP solution provides a proven The most comprehensive collection of watch provides timely alerts of recent changes approach to help payers keep their provider lists in the industry, including sanctions, occurring in the household to help insurers directories current and improve compliance enforcements, politically exposed persons enhance customer relationships with with US state and federal regulations PEPs, state-owned enterprises SOE, better service adverse media and special collections Claims Compass Risk Defense Platform Data analytics suite with LexisNexis Claims Innovative solutions for payments and compliance An innovative fraud prevention and identity Datall, LexisNexis Police Records through professionals, from comprehensive data and management platform that seamlessly Claims Compass, LexisNexis Claims Medical software to manage risk and compliance, to delivers the broadest of solutions including the Discovery and LexisNexis Claims Analyzer exible tools to optimise payments pathways latest in machine learning that adapts to everthat improves the claims process from first changing fraud schemes, simplifying efforts notice of loss, triage, investigation and to detect and prevent risks associated with the resolution through recovery merging of digital and physical identities Accurint Virtual Crime Center Policing platform used for analytics, crime analysis and investigations linking public records to national law enforcement data for a complete picture across jurisdictions 22 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 Data Services include: Accuity, a provider of services and This activity is stimulated by competition among insurance solutions to the banking and corporate sectors focused on companies, high levels of carrier advertising and rising levels payment efficiency, Know Your Customer KYC, Anti-Money ofinternet quoting and policy binding.
As a result, we continue Laundering AML and compliance: ICIS, an information and toexpand our services to make it easier for the consumer to data service in chemicals, energy and fertilisers: XpertHR, an transact with an insurer throughout the insurance process.
online service providing regulatory guidance, best practices and A number of factors support growth in banking and financial tools for human resource professionals: Nextens, a provider of services markets, including cross-border payments and tools and services for tax professionals: FlightGlobal, a leading trade finance levels.
Escalating anti-money laundering fines, provider of data and analytics for the global commercial aviation high-prole anti-bribery and corruption cases, growth through and travel industry: Proagrica, a provider of software, connectivity consumer and business credit expansion, increased fraud losses solutions, data, analytics and media streams for the global and heightened regulatory scrutiny impact growth opportunities agriculture sector: and EG, which delivers a mix of high-quality for us with all entities, including financial institutions, e-commerce, data, decision tools and high-value news and information to the retail, communications, mobile and media companies.
The rise UKs commercial real estate market.
in ntech and alternative lending also positively inuences our In 2017, we continued to reshape our portfolio, exiting areas not trajectory.
In collections, demand is driven mainly by the elevated core to our strategy.
A number of media titles and brands were levels of consumer debt and the prospect of recovering that debt.
divested, including New Scientist, Personnel Today, Community Growth in government markets is driven by the increasing Care and Landleven.
demand for our contributory solutions to combat criminal activity, fraud and tax evasion.
The level and timing of demand in this Market opportunities market is influenced by government funding and revenue We operate in markets with strong long-term growth in demand considerations.
In healthcare, there are numerous growth drivers for high-quality advanced analytics based on industry information for identity and fraud analytic solutions including the expansion and insight, including: insurance underwriting transactions: ofcompliance requirements driven by new regulations.
insurance acquisition, retention and claims handling: healthcare, tax and public benets fraud: financial crime compliance: business Growth in the global energy and chemicals markets is driven risk: fraud and identity solutions: due diligence requirements by increasing trade and demand for more sophisticated surrounding customer enrolment: security and privacy information solutions.
Aviation information markets are being considerations: and data and advanced analytics for the banking, driven by increases in air trafc and in the number of aircraft energy and chemicals, human resources and aviation sectors.
Growth in agriculture markets is being driven by adoption of technology and data solutions plus increasing In the insurance segment, growth is supported by increasing supply chain connectivity.
transactional activity in the auto, property and life insurance markets and the increasing adoption by insurance carriers of more sophisticated data and analytics in the prospecting, underwriting and claims evaluation processes, to assess underwriting risk, increase competitiveness and improve operating cost efficiency.
Transactional activity is driven by growth in insurance quoting and policy switching, as consumers seek better policy terms.
REVENUE BY FORMAT REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHICAL MARKET REVENUE BY TYPE Rest of world Advertising 2,076m 2,076m 2,076m Print 3% 5% 2% Face-to-face Subscription Europe 2% 35% 15% North America Transactional Electronic 80% 63% 95% Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Business review Risk & Business Analytics 23 Strategic priorities Business model, distribution channels and competition Our strategic goal is to help businesses and governments achieve Our products are for the most part sold directly, typically on better outcomes with information and decision support in their asubscription or transactional basis.
Pricing is predominantly individual markets through better understanding of the risks ona transactional basis for insurance carriers and corporations, and opportunities associated with individuals, other businesses, and primarily on a subscription basis for government entities.
By providing the highest quality In the insurance sector, our competitor Verisk sells data and industry data and decision tools, we assist customers in analytics solutions to insurance carriers but largely addresses understanding their markets and managing risks efficiently different activities to ours.
Principal competitors in Business and cost effectively.
To achieve this, we are focused on: Services and government segments include Thomson Reuters delivering innovative new products: expanding the range of risk and major credit bureaus, which in many cases address different management solutions across adjacent markets: addressing activities in these segments as well.
international opportunities in selected markets to meet local needs: further growing our data services businesses: Data Services competes with a number of information and continuing to strengthen our content, technology and providers on a service and title-by-title basis including: Platts, analytical capabilities.
Thomson Reuters and IHS as well as many niche and privately owned competitors.
2017 financial performance 2017 2016 Underlying Acquisitions Currency Total m m growth disposals effects growth Revenue 2,076 1,906 8% -4% 5% 9% Adjusted operating profit 759 686 8% -2% 5% 11% Underlying revenue growth remained strong across all key in adjacent verticals.
The US market environment returned to segments in 2017.
Underlying profit growth broadly matched historical trends in the fourth quarter, having been not quite as underlying revenue growth.
favourable earlier in the year.
The international initiatives continued to progress well.
The difference between the reported and underlying growth rates primarily reflects In Business Services, further development of analytics that help the impact of exchange rate movements and portfolio changes our customers to detect and prevent fraud and to manage risk including the disposal of New Scientist and other magazines, across the financial and corporate sectors continued to drive and the sale of our majority stake in a property title services joint growth, in a positive US and international market environment.
Growth in the government and healthcare segments was driven by Underlying adjusted operating profit growth broadly matched continued development of sophisticated analytics, and other Data underlying revenue growth as we continued to pursue our Services continued to drive growth through organic development.
The margin improvement reflects a positive effect from portfolio changes.
2018 outlook The fundamental growth drivers of Risk & Business Analytics In Insurance we continued to drive growth through enhanced remain strong, and we expect underlying operating profit growth analytics, the extension of datasets, and by further expansion to continue to broadly match underlying revenue growth.
REVENUE ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT m m Underlying growth 8% Underlying growth 8% 759 2,076 1,906 686 2016 2017 2016 2017 24 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 LexisNexis Risk Classifier: helping people protect their familys financial future Legal & General America is a wholly owned subsidiary of Legal & General Group Plc, the London-based company which has been in business for over 180 years, helping people protect against unforeseen circumstances in their lives and save for a better financial future.
Troy Thompson of Legal & General America and team Legal & General America has been in business for over 68 years About LexisNexis Risk Classier andhas more than 1m current customers.
In 2016 alone, the insurer Using RELX Groups HPCC Systems helped over 94,000 families obtain life insurance, with a combined super-computing power, LexisNexis coverage of more than $55bn.
In the event of a tragedy, life insurance Risk Classifier assesses aproposed proceeds can help pay the bills, continue a business, finance future insureds risk profile anddistills needs including childrens education or pay for funeral costs.
Improving theunderwriting and consumer Traditionally, the time to process fully underwritten life insurance experience, the Risk Classifier score policies averages 30 days and includes an invasive medical is delivered in real time without the examination.
However the expectations, needs and purchasing need for an invasive medical habitsof todays consumers have changed.
As a result, many examination or blood and urine tests.
consumers drop out of the application process.
Legal & General America understood this and wanted to meet those needs.
The insurer selected LexisNexis Risk Solutions and its Fair Credit Reporting Act FCRA governed advanced risk assessment solution, LexisNexis Risk Classier, to help individuals obtain life insurance more easily, quickly and underwritten at a fair value.
The underwriter can now price policies in a matter of hours rather than days and attract more customers, limit their reviews to more complex cases that require their valuable expertise and lower underwriting expenses by properly classifying applications up front and avoiding more costly and invasive procedures.
Business review Risk & Business Analytics 25 Our mission is to protect people and ultimately close the life insurance gap.
The number of uninsured and under-insured families is staggering.
Wewant our customers to be satisfied, and we want to be able to offer life insurance simply.
By speeding up the process, LexisNexis Risk Classifier appeals to consumers of all ages and increased our output.
Troy Thompson Senior Vice President and Chief Actuary, Legal & General America 30 from 30 days to hours reducing the time it takes to underwrite a lifeinsurance policy 26 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 Rolls-Royces business is about service, and keeping aircraft flying with our engines on them.
To do that successfully, we want to avoid surprises for customers while managing costs.
We wanted an experienced partner to help further develop our data collection capabilities.
We needed a completely autonomous data set and the independence ofFlightGlobals data was the attraction.
At Rolls-Royce, we are keen to pioneer novel uses of data, and we are delighted this is an industry first.
Nick Ward Head of Solution Management, Digital OEM Solutions, Rolls-Royce 14,000 number of Rolls-Royce civil aero engines in service around the world Business review Risk & Business Analytics 27 FlightGlobal: helping to keep jet aeroengines flying Rolls-Royce, which has its Civil Aerospace headquarters in Derby intheUK, is a world-leader in engineering and propulsion systems.
Itsaero engines power the fleets of more than 250 airlines and thousands of individual business jet operators.
Nick Ward of Rolls-Royce Rolls-Royce makes most of its aerospace revenues from About FlightGlobal providing aftermarket services.
Knowing how its engines FlightGlobal is an industry-leading data provider are performing as close to real time as possible is vital so withone of the worlds most comprehensive data itcan support its customers speedily and efficiently.
stores on virtually every aspect of the global air transport industry.
That includes deep data on over Like others in the industry, Rolls-Royce has relied on one 28,000 aircraft in the world airline fleet, the schedule satelliteor airband radio-based digital datalink called plans for 900 airlines and live tracking of 100,000 daily the Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting flights.
Linking these datasets is a data integration System ACARS to report data on its engines.
However, challenge but generates significant value.
as a services innovator Rolls-Royce has continued to look for improvements in reliability and efficiency.
FlightGlobals Tracked Utilisation solution generates data per aircraft equipped with Rolls-Royce engines within three days of each tracked flight, meaning the company can now rely on an independent record of its customers experience that identifies any gaps in ACARS.
Tracked Utilisation also allows the company to release highly-skilled staff to focus on their core jobs solving problems and creating value for customers.
Rolls-Royce is the first in the industry to deploy Tracked Utilisation and, following a successful trial period, has been rolling out the product during 2017.
