Our business model and strategy Our Brands Our brands are our main connection with customers.
Each takes a clear and differentiated position that will help us strengthen our relationships with our customers, stand out in the market, and build the value of our brands.
NatWest serves customers in England and Royal Bank of Scotland is committed Ulster Bank operates both in the Wales, supporting them with their banking to serving Scottish communities and Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland.
needs, at all stages in their lives.
Exceptional service sits at the heart of Lombard is the UKs largest provider of Adam & Company provides progressive Coutts, a business that has been built on asset finance, helping to take businesses private banking, tailoring its services and understanding the needs of their private to the next level with a forward-looking solutions to match each client and their and commercial clients.
Child & Co is one of the oldest private banks Drummonds has served private banking As the bank of the British Armed Forces, in the UK, providing bespoke banking customers for over 300 years, providing Holts prides itself on understanding the services from the legal heart of London.
complexities of serving in the military and providing a personalised service.
Isle of Man Bank is the community bank RBS International is one of the worlds NatWest Markets offers its customers global and the islands oldest native bank, leading offshore banks, operating under market access, providing them with trading, offering retail, private and business three distinct brands RBS International, risk management and financing solutions banking services to local customers.
NatWest and Isle of Man Bank.
through its trading and sales operations.
23 23 Our business model and strategy Building a more sustainable bank Our long term success is dependent on our ability to generate value for society by providing products, services and facilities that are useful to people and the communities in which we operate.
Our value creation model is a simplified way of showing how this works, including the way we use resources, skills and relationships to deliver value for all our stakeholders.
One of the ways by which we meet the expectations of our shareholders is by delivering the best possible service for customers to meet their needs.
At the same time, we recognise our responsibility towards society as a whole.
It is only by supporting our customers and communities to succeed that we will be become a more sustainable bank.
Our key resources and relationships RBS provides financial services to individuals and businesses, primarily in the UK and Ireland.
We rely on financial, human and intellectual, social and relationship, infrastructure and natural capital to do so.
We leverage these forms of capital through our expertise, technology and customer focus across our different brands.
This helps to improve the quality of customer service.
We also seek to create sustainable value for our shareholders and other stakeholders, including customers, employees, and civil society.
Inputs How we earn income Financial Natural Our purpose is to serve our customers well We earn income by providing lending We make use of shareholder capital 690 GWh of energy consumed and and deposit services to our customers.
and other forms of financial capital, 8,700 tonnes of paper used in 2017. including 367.0 billion in customer The bank has reduced total carbon We incur operating expenses in deposits.
emissions linked to energy and providing these services, and accept business travel by 39% since 2014. risk: including credit risk, liquidity risk Social and Relationship The electricity we buy in the UK is from and currency risk.
renewable sources, further reducing our environmental impact.
The operating profit generated by 19 million customers in the UK and the bank is either re-invested to Republic of Ireland.
improve products and services for our customers or returned to shareholders.
Infrastructure Human and Intellectual Building a safe and customer-focused bank is central to our ability to We now have a trained TechXpert in A capable, caring and motivated create value.
every branch to help our customers get workforce of 71,924 permanent the most from our digital services.
We recruited 216 The main source of our income is the also provide telephony and webchat graduates and 255 apprentices.
interest income earned from loans and and self service options like ATMs and advances to our personal, business Over 64,600 employees underwent Cash Deposit Machines.
Our customers and commercial customers.
We also training by the Chartered Banker also have access to our fleet of mobile earn fees from transactions and other Professional Standards Board branches covering more than 600 services provided to our customers.
CB:PSB, with 94% of applicable communities every week, and 11,500 We pay interest to customers and employees achieving the CB:PSB Post Office branches where they can other investors who have placed Foundation Standard carry out every day transactions facedeposits with us and bought our debt to-face.
The difference between in Determined to Lead, our core these is our net interest income.
We management system for the bank to also pay benefits to our customers, support our leaders putting our values through loyalty products such as our into practice every day.
24 How we create value for customers and society Sustainable Energy Protecting customers money Supporting business We have over twenty-five years Keeping money safe and accessible Providing working capital and experience in supporting the for our depositors, including lending to help businesses meet sector.
We were recognised by preventing 485,000 cases of their goals, including 28.8 billion InfraDeals as the leading lender attempted fraud amounting to in lending to small and mediumto the UK renewables sector by 244 million in the UK.
There has sized enterprises across England, 4 number of transactions over the been a sustained improvement Scotland and Wales.
past six years 2012-2017. in the number of customers impacted by fraud in 2017 with 2 a 26% reduction from 2016.
We completed over one million Financial Health Checks with our Supporting local communities personal, private and business Our Skills & Opportunities customers.
Fund distributed 2.5 million to Tax payments Payment of 1.46 billion in tax 110 organisations that support people from disadvantaged to the UK Government, which supports central government and communities to access the skills 1 and opportunities they need to local authority spending.
Helping customers build their financial capability skills or to start or develop a new Offering lending advice and 5 business in 2017. services to individuals.
Supporting customers with financial life events, including 33.9 billion of Empowering customers gross new mortgage lending to help our customers buy homes.
MoneySense Following a successful pilot we launched FreeAgent, free cloudMoneySense is the longest running based accounting software which bank-led financial education helps small and medium sized programme in the UK, which has Enterprise enterprises keep track of their helped over five million young finances and report taxes digitally.
We supported over 3,830 people learn about money for We are making good progress in people through our enterprise over 23 years.
3 using artificial intelligence to help programmes.
Our programme is designed to help customers to get answers to simple teachers and parents equip young questions without needing to go people with the financial skills they to a branch or use an automated need to manage their money now telephone service.
We now have 5.5 million active We are determined to make users regularly enjoying the speed the bank a great place to work and convenience of our mobile banking app.
We launched Building a great place to work to outline our Customers can also now tell Life saving skills commitment to giving our us about travel plans, make employees a fulfilling job, fair Over 40,000 colleagues completed international payments, manage pay, excellent training and CPR training.
Three colleagues helpful alerts, message us at good leadership.
have since had to apply their anytime and get personalised training, which helped save notifications through the app.
Notes: 1 C omprises 443 million corporate tax, 504 million irrecoverable VAT, 237 million bank levies and 273 million employer payroll taxes.
2 D ata relates to reported attempted fraud cases and prevented third party losses in the UK not including policy declines for debit cards.
3 Includes people supported through the following enterprise programmes during 2017: The Princes Trust, Skills & Opportunities Fund and Entrepreneurial Spark.
4 SME lending balances in over 9,854 postcode sectors across England, Scotland and Wales.
5 Data is compiled by Project North East PNE and is based on the total spend allocated by each Regional Board.
