Report of the Directors | Corporate Governance adopted by all major Group operating companies and set out programmes and budget.
The annual review of the effectiveness the key business initiatives and the likely financial effects of of the Groups system of risk management and internal control those initiatives.
over financial reporting was conducted with reference to the COSO framework.
The annual review of other controls was IT operations: centralised control is exercised over all IT undertaken using the Groups risk management framework, developments and operations.
Common systems are employed further details of which can be found on pages 66 to 69.
Based on for similar business processes wherever practicable.
the assessment performed, the Directors concluded that for the Subsidiary certifications to the GRC: half-yearly confirmations year ended 31 December 2017, the Groups internal controls were areprovided to the GRC from the risk committees of principal effective.
subsidiary companies confirming that the committees have challenged management on the quality of the information Internal audit provided, reviewed the actions proposed by management to address any emerging issues or trends indicating material The Global Internal Audit function, which is centrally controlled, divergence from the Groups risk appetite and that the risk provides independent and objective assurance of the design management and internal control systems in place are andoperating effectiveness of the Groups framework of risk operating effectively.
management, control and governance processes, focusing on the The key risk management and internal control procedures over areas of greatest risk.
As mentioned previously, the Group Head of financial reporting include the following: Internal Audit reports to the Chairman of the GAC and frequent meetings are held between them during the year.
Executive Disclosure Committee: chaired by the Group Company management is responsible for ensuring that issues raised by the Secretary, this Committee supports the discharge of the Global Internal Audit function are addressed within an appropriate Groups obligations under relevant legislation and regulation and agreed timetable.
Confirmation to this effect must be provided including the UK and Hong Kong Listing Rules, the Market to Global Internal Audit.
Abuse Regulation and SEC rules.
In so doing the Committee isempowered to determine whether a new event or circumstances should be disclosed, including the form and Going concern and viability timing of such disclosure, and review all material disclosures made or to be made by the Group.
The membership of the The Directors considered it appropriate to prepare the financial Disclosure Committee includes the Group Finance Director, statements on the going concern basis.
Group Chief Risk Officer, Chief Legal Officer, Group Chief Under the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors must Accounting Officer, Group Head of Communications, Global also provide a viability statement.
They must state whether Head of Investor Relations, Group Head of Strategy and theGroup will be able to continue in operation and meet its Planning and Group Financial Controller.
The integrity of liabilities, taking into account its current position and the principal disclosures is underpinned by structures and processes within risks it faces.
They must also specify the period covered by, and the Global Finance and Global Risk functions that support the appropriateness of, this statement.
rigorous analytical review of financial reporting and the The Directors have specified a period of three years to maintenance of proper accounting records.
They are satisfied that a forward-looking Financial reporting: the Groups financial reporting process is assessment of the Group for this period is sufficient to enable controlled using documented accounting policies and reporting areasonable statement of viability.
In addition, this period is formats, supported by detailed instructions and guidance on covered by the Groups stress testing programmes, and its internal reporting requirements, issued to all reporting entities within projections for profitability, key capital ratios and leverage ratios.
the Group in advance of each reporting period end.
The Notwithstanding this, our stress testing programmes also cover submission of financial information from each reporting entity scenarios out to five years and our assessment of risks are beyond is subject to certification by the responsible financial officer, three years where appropriate.
and analytical review procedures at reporting entity and Group Based upon their assessment, the Directors have a reasonable levels.
expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation Subsidiary certifications to the GAC: half-yearly confirmations and meet liabilities as they fall due over the next three years.
are provided to the GAC from the audit committees of principal In making their going concern and viability assessments, the subsidiary companies regarding whether their financial Directors have considered a wide range of detailed information statements have been prepared in accordance with Group relating to present and potential conditions, including projections policies, present fairly the state of affairs of the relevant for profitability, cash flows, capital requirements and capital principal subsidiary and are prepared on a going concern basis.
The internal control responsibilities of the GRC and GAC were The Directors have carried out a robust assessment of each risk complemented by the activities of the CVC and the FSVC which, facing the Group to determine the principal risks to its long-term respectively, oversaw conduct-related risk matters and financial viability, including those that would threaten its solvency and crime compliance.
Collectively, these controls are designed to liquidity.
They have determined that the principal risks are the provide effective internal control within the Group.
Groups top and emerging risks as set out on pages 63 to 66.
The GRC and the GAC have received confirmation that executive The Directors have assessed that all of the top and emerging risks management has taken or is taking the necessary actions to identified are considered to be material and, therefore, appropriate remedy any failings or weaknesses identified through the to be classified as the principal risks to be considered in the operation of the Group's framework of controls.
They also appraised the impact that these deficiencies in the design and operational effectiveness of a principal risks could have on the Groups risk profile, taking number of controls were identified.
Significant improvement in account of mitigating actions planned or taken for each, and thecontrol environment has been observed as a result of compared this with the Groups risk appetite as approved by the managements progress on the execution of the remediation Board.
At 31 December 2017, there were four heightened top and programme.
emerging risks: economic outlook and capital flows, geopolitical The Directors, through the GRC and the GAC, have conducted an risk, cyber-threat and unauthorised access to systems and data annual review of the effectiveness of the Group's system ofrisk management.
management and internal control covering all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls, risk management systems, the adequacy of resources, qualifications and experience of staff of the accounting and financial reporting function and the Global Risk function, and their training 134 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017
