Strategic Report Our strategy We have developed a long-term strategy that reflects our purpose and enables us to capture value from our international network.
Two-pronged long-term strategy Develop our international network Invest in wealth and retail businesses with local scale To serve enterprises across geographies and facilitate international trade and capital flows, thereby helping our To make the most of global social mobility, wealth creation clients to grow their business.
and long-term demographic changes in our select retail banking and wealth management markets.
Value of the network and our strategy Access to global growth Lower risk profile and Strong capital and opportunities volatility from our funding base geographically diversified Our unparalleled network covers CET1 ratio of 14.5% supported by universal banking model countries accounting for increased shareholders equity to approximately 90% of global GDP, meet new regulatory requirements We operate a balanced universal trade and capital flows.
We have since the end of 2010. banking model across both aleading presence in large and wholesale and retail businesses fast-growing economies.
Four interconnected, global andwe are geographically businesses share balance sheets diversified.
This has resulted in a Our network covers all of the worlds andliquidity in addition to strong lower risk profile and lower earnings 30 largest trade corridors forecast commercial links.
volatility compared to our global for 2030.
Our business model has areexpected to have a compound remained resilient through business Stable shareholder returns annual growth rate well in excess cycles, and it helps ensure stable Industry leading dividend ofGDP growth expectations from funding and liquidity.
approximately $65bn declared 2016 to 2030. from2011 to 2017 as well as circa$5.5bn of share repurchases.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 10 Our strategy Long-term trends Increasing connectivity and global Our strategy positions Global merchandise exports flows of trade, finance and data are $tn us to capitalise on several key drivers of GDP growth.
2030 forecast 36.8 2016 15.8 Source: Global Insights Comparative World Overview.
Emerging market economies are Shipping volumes, measured by expected to be twice the size of weight of goods unloaded developed economies by 2050. million metric tonnes 2016 35% 65% 10,282 1990 67% 33% 4,126 Key Developed markets Source: United Nations Conference Emerging and transition markets onTrade and Development.
The middle class is expected to grow Size of middle class population byover two billion people from 2017 bn to2030, driven by growth in Asias 2030 35% 65% 5.4 middle class.
2015 54% 46% 3.0 Key Source: Global Economy and Development Rest of the world atBrookings, The Unprecedented Expansion Asia ofthe Middle Class 2017.
Climate change is accelerating and Renewables share of megawatts global temperatures are trending installed capacity for plants in operation in G20 countries significantly higher.
Investment in % renewable energy capacity will be 2050 requirement 71 needed to limit the global temperature 2016 32 increase to 2C.
Key Required by 2050 as per IEA 66% 2C scenario Source: OECD, Investing in Climate, Current 2016 Investing in Growth 2017.
The scenario assumes a 66% probability of keeping the mean global surface temperature rise throughout the 21st century to below 2C above pre-industrialised levels.
Client examples Trina Solar Trina : Reckitt Benckiser RB : Zhejiang Geely: Morgan McKinley: China, renewable UK, consumer goods China, automotive Ireland, professional energy services Global consumer health Leading automobile andhygiene company.
HSBC served Exporter of solar panels Global recruitment agency HSBC acted as financial as sole financial adviser globally.
Trinas aim is to with operations in Ireland, adviser and lead financier forZhejiang Geely on two bring Chinas green energy UK, EMEA and APAC.
In toReckitt Benckiser on interlinked China outbound solutions to countries along 2017, Morgan McKinley its $18bn acquisition of investments, one in the Belt and Road Initiative expanded HSBCs global route, and has thus stepped Mead Johnson Nutrition Malaysian carmaker Proton mandate to include crossCompany, a leader in infant Holdings and the second in up its overseas investment, border Global Trade and and childrens nutrition.
Lotus Advance Technologies, particularly in the ASEAN Receivables Finance This acquisition marked a subsidiary of Proton region.
HSBC created a GTRF facilities and oneof the largest UK into based in the UK.
These digital platform for Trina GlobalLiquidity and Cash US transactions and transactions were enabled that gave its headquarters Management GLCM considerably strengthened by collaboration between atransparent view of its services in Canada and RBs presence in developing HSBC teams in mainland ASEAN-region subsidiaries Japan.
HSBCs one-team markets, particularly China.
China, Hong Kong, cash positions and set up approach, not separated Singapore, Malaysia acash pool in Singapore to byproduct, was cited by and London.
seamlessly connect Trinas the client as being a key HSBC accounts globally.
driver in the decision to switch to HSBC.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 11 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
