com Our key differentiators continued Diversified business We target a diverse underwriting portfolio and actively manage the different insurance cycles to achieve consistent results year on year The diversification of an insurers The outcome for Beazley as a whole forward plans for significant growth in portfolio shows its worth most clearly was a modest underwriting profit in these markets that will further reduce in years in which one or more lines of a year in which the Lloyds market is our net exposure to claims spikes or business incur heavy losses.
This proved expected to incur a material underwriting economic weakening in the US.
to be the case in 2017 with the treaty loss.
reinsurance division recording a The principle of diversification also combined ratio of 107% and the Geographic diversification also plays an extends to the management of our cash property division a combined ratio of important role in our business.
Balancing this, our specialty historical focus primarily on the US investment portfolio, which generated lines division, the companys largest, market is beginning to weaken due to a return of 2.9% in 2017, includes delivered a combined ratio of 89%.
the growth of our business in Europe, a variety of uncorrelated asset classes Asia and Latin America.
Our specialty to maximise risk-adjusted performance lines division, in particular, is driving see page 47.
Growing our network of Beazley offices Barcelona Birmingham Dublin Ipswich Leeds London Manchester Munich Paris Oslo New office Existing office Strategic report www.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 05 Diversified portfolio The spread of our overall portfolio by division and the impact this diversification has had on our combined ratio over the past eight years can be seen in the chart below.
Diversified portfolio achieves consistent combined ratiothrough market cycles 160% 140% 120% 100% 80% 60% 40% 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Lines of business Diversified portfolio 06 Beazley Annual report 2017 www.
com Our key differentiators continued Diversified business Marine Political, accident Managed gross & contingency We help insure in excess of 20% of the premiums growth worlds ocean-going tonnage and are the In addition to traditional lines such as pre-eminent leader of voyage and tow contract frustration, expropriation and credit, business in the London market.
We insure bydivision $m we insure a growing number of businesses 60% of the Forbes List of the 25 Biggest against terrorism and political violence.
We have Our personal accident product is written extensive experience insuring a wide on both an insurance and reinsurance basis variety of cargoes including project cargo, and covers a number of niche classes.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 07 Property Reinsurance Specialty lines Weve protected clients ranging from The reinsurance team specialises in writing Specialty lines comprises management Fortune 1000 companies to homeowners worldwide property catastrophe, per risk, liability and professional liability risks, through 25 years of natural and man-made aggregate excess of loss and pro-rata including cyber liability, underwritten catastrophes.
We underwrite this business business, and casualty clash.
Approximately for clients on both a primary and excess through three platforms: Lloyds, the US 80% of our top clients have reinsured with basis in North America, Europe and and Singapore, with a business focus us for 20 years or more.
Our clients are served both by on commercial property, engineering and our underwriters at Lloyds and by our local construction risks and select homeowners underwriters in hubs around the world.
