com Moments of truth Unlike other products and services, the quality of an insurance policy cannot be fully assessed at the time of purchase.
However, the natural catastrophes of 2017 gave Beazleys claims teams ample opportunity to demonstrate thevalue of the companys coverage Strategic report www.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 11 Hurricane Irma US Virgin Islands September 2017 The remnants of a plane in a ditch on the St. Thomas airport runway after Hurricane Irma In the wake of such devastating events, The trio of hurricanes Harvey, Irma The inhabitants of the US access to relief supplies is critical.
In and Maria that devastated large Virgin Islands USVI are the USVI, this depends heavily on the areas of Texas, Florida and the air and sea ports managed by the Virgin Caribbean in August and September used to storms.
As the port caused total insured losses now Hurricane Irma, which authoritys website puts it: Just about estimated between $90-95bn.
For everything that is used or consumed by Beazley, advanced technology and ripped through the islands the residents of the US Virgin Islands in particular satellite imagery enabled as a category five storm enters the islands through boat or by funds to be sent to policyholders far on6 September 2017, was plane.
Food, clothing, machinery, mail, faster than would have been possible furniture, vehicles, building supplies, even a few years ago.
Two weeks medical equipment it all enters later, another category five through the ports.
In 2005 when Katrina hit New Orleans, it might have taken us storm Maria delivered Beazley was among the insurers that 90 days to get money into the hands a second massive blow.
moved swiftly to supply the funds needed of our policyholders, says Trevor Self, to enable the Virgin Islands Port Authority head of property claims at Beazley.
Inthe weeks following the to rebuild.
The first cheque for $5m This time around we were able to hurricanes, almost athird for damage from Irma was paid on do it much faster.
of the islands 108,000 20 September and the second for a further $5m was paid seven days later.
residents applied for Beazleys entire limit was thus disbursed assistance from the Federal within three weeks of the storm.
Two Harveys tail months after the storms, nearly three quarters of Irma thepopulation remained without power.
Katia Jose Total estimated insurance market losses for large catastrophes in 2017 March of the hurricanes: By early September four named storms were churning across the Gulf of Mexico $100bn Credit: Hilary Swift The New York Times Redux Eyevine 12 Beazley Annual report 2017 www.
com Moments of truth continued California wildfires Tubbs fire, Napa County October 2017 Since May 2016, Beazley, in common Its all about a more efficient claims Technology plays an with other Lloyds insurers, has been service.
For the client that equates to a important part in delivering working with McKenzie Intelligence better claims service, says Trevor Self.
Services, a company founded by British Now we can send an adjuster out on excellent claims service, military intelligence veterans seeking to one trip rather than three or four, and butit is not the whole story.
apply military knowhow and technology we instruct our adjusters to bring particularly high resolution satellite architects or engineers along with imaging in the service of the private them, as needed, so that they can sector.
The technology was first quantify costs up front.
employed after the Fort McMurray wildfires in the summer of 2016 in Technology plays an important part Alberta, Canada.
Since then it has been in delivering excellent claims service progressively refined.
In conjunction with after a natural catastrophe, but it is Beazleys exposure maps, reliable by no means the whole story.
Good satellite imagery can enable the right advance planning is also essential.
experts to be sent, posthaste, to the Beazleys property team has a detailed Total impact of losses to Beazley for scene of expected damage to ascertain catastrophe plan embedded in its large natural catastrophes in 2017 the cost.
annual business plan, ensuring that when a storm or earthquake hits, the damage can be ascertained swiftly.
$200- In many cases, advance payments are wired to the policyholder, ahead of the 300m final determination of the claim.
com Annual report 2017 Beazley 13 First wind, then earth and fire While a sequence of massive storms Beazleys exposure to these events was through facultative reinsurance, were striking the Caribbean, Mexico was contending with catastrophes of but the need to respond swiftly was nevertheless pressing.
a number of schools that were On 7 September a magnitude destroyed or badly damaged by the 8.1 earthquake, the largest to hit Mexico quakes were in urgent need of repair.
in more than a century, killed at least 90 people and destroyed or damaged Within 24 hours of notification of more than 40,000 homes in the the Mexican earthquakes we had southern state of Chiapas.
Less than advanced funds to our cedents in a fortnight later, on 19 September, a Mexico, says reinsurance claims magnitude 7.1 quake hit a more densely manager Stephen Black.
Less than populated region south of Mexico City, a month later, we were doing the causing 370 deaths and extensive same for our cedents in the US after damage.
Our business is based on strong, long term relationships in situations such as these we understand the pressures our clients are under and make every effort to give them our full support.
