Strategic Report How we do business Supporting sustainable growth We conduct our business intent on supporting the sustained success of our customers, people and communities.
Customers We aim to be the worlds leading Taking responsibility for Customer recommendation international bank and strive for the service we provide RBWM excellence.
Operating with high standards of United Kingdom Hong Kong Our customers are at the heart of conduct is central to our long-term 2017 2017 61% 61% everything we do and we are working success and ability to serve customers, 2016 2016 50% 39% to make life simpler, faster and better and we have clear policies, frameworks Percentage of customers providing an 8 or for them.
and governance in place to support our abovescore out of 10.
In Hong Kong the survey delivery of that commitment.
These methodology changed in 2017, with surveys Understanding our customers migrated from telephone to online.
This may cover the way we behave, design affect the comparison with prior year figures.
In this section we focus on our global products and services, train and business with the largest amount of incentivise employees, and interact customers.
We also measure and with customers and each other.
Our Complaints resolution report on customer data for Retail Conduct Framework guides activities to Time taken to resolve complaints Banking and Wealth Management strengthen our business and increases excluding PPI complaints RBWM and Commercial Banking our understanding of how the decisions inanother eight markets within our we make affect customers and other RBWM CMB Environmental, Social and stakeholders.
Details on our Conduct 16% 15% Governance ESG Update.
Framework are available at XX% XX% www.
com and for further 13% XX% 14% XX% information on conduct, see Our largest global business pages 61 and 77.
71% 71% RBWM XX% XX% Senior leaders have ultimate responsibility Supports approximately 37 million 2017 2016 2016 2015 for customer service standards and customers worldwide Key monitor these through key metrics Same day or next working day aligned to performance objectives.
Between 2-5 days These include: Our largest markets Longer than 5 days United Kingdom How customers feel about 2017 figures do not include First Direct UK More than $401bn in customer accounts recommending us: and complaint volumes, which were not available attime of publication.
They are not expected The speed and quality of complaint Hong Kong tomaterially impact results.
More than $477bn in customer accounts The targets for each of these metrics are For more information about what we have done, see our ESG reporting available on carefully set and managed to instil the www.
com our-approach right behaviours among our employees.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 22 How we do business Customers What customers are telling us In 2017, our CMB and RBWM customers told us there were three main issues that we needed to focus on to improve their experience of our products and services: What our customers are telling us Our response Accessibility Customers in all of our channels have provided feedback on Increased capacity in our contact centres.
length of queues in branches, call waiting and handling time Introduced new multi-channel appointment booking tools.
in our contact centres, the length of appointments with our Added biometrics to make it easier for customers to authenticate relationship managers, and the complexity of logging on to themselves using their unique voice and digital fingerprint.
our online and mobile banking.
Complexity Customers told us our processes and procedures are too Delivered training to 53,500 employees globally to use plain complicated which affects the quality and length of time language in communicating with our customers.
required to service our customers day-to-day.
For our commercial customers we have simplified options on their online platform, HSBCnet.
Fees and charges Our industry can be complex, and our customers can find it Introduced instantaneous text message notifications in difficult to understand when and why they will be charged for Hong Kong to provide application status and account servicing our services.
This has helped many customers to better manage their accounts and to avoid incurring charges.
A digital transformation Our customers are becoming increasingly digitally oriented intheir everyday lives.
This means their expectations of us arechanging.
Customers are now using branches less often.
In the future, we will have fewer but better branches and our front-line employees will be using a greater range of technology to support all our customers needs.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 23 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Strategic Report | How we do business Our employees Our employees are key to our success.
Creating a diverse and Employee retention We are focused on creating a diverse inclusive environment and inclusive environment where people We believe that a diverse and inclusive can speak up, build their skills and 85.7% workforce is critical to running a develop their careers.
We want our 2016: 81.7% sustainable and successful business.
employees to feel that they can Our approach aims to increase and contribute to our purpose and fulfil leverage diversity of thought to drive theirpotential with our support.
Gender diversity statistics greater innovation, better manage risks, 12 Holdings Board 71% Giving employees a voice enhance collaboration and improve 5 29% workforce agility.
Since 2012, we have been hosting Group Management 12 86% Board GMB HSBCExchange to give employees a Our commitment 2 14% voice.
Exchanges are meetings with no We are committed to enabling a thriving Combined Executive 135 75% Committee and agendas, where managers and leaders environment where people are valued, 45 25% direct reports simply listen and employees do the respected and supported.
Its an innovative approach that business value by drawing on the leadership 2,393 27% provides a forum for people to share richness of ideas, backgrounds, styles 112,390 48% All employees their views on any issue and talk about and perspectives of our employees.
122,239 52% what matters most to them.
Key Gender balance at senior leadership Male Our monthly employee survey We focus on improving gender balance Female Snapshot tests the views of a in senior leadership across the Group.
representative sample of colleagues on Our objective was for the female share Female share of senior leadership topics such as our strategy, regulation, of our senior leadership to be more headcount culture and customer experience.
than 26.3% by the end of 2017, and we % Results are presented to the Group achieved 26.8%.
This is a 1.4 percentage Management Board and relevant point increase on our 2016 year-end 26 executive committees of the global position and is an improvement to the 25 functions and businesses, regions trend year on year.
23 Employee networks 22 Whilst 77% of employees feel able to Our seven global employee networks 21 speak up when they see behaviour play a key role in building community, 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 which they think is wrong and 72% highlighting opportunities and achieving believe that HSBC is genuine in its our diversity and inclusion ambitions.
Combined Executive Committee and direct commitment to encourage colleagues The networks focus on gender, age, reports was reported as at 30 June 2017 to the UKs Hampton Alexander Review and includes tospeak up, a smaller proportion of ethnicity, LGBT, faith, working parents the Executive Directors, Group Managing employees 61% say that where they and carers, and ability.
Additionally we Directors and their direct reports excluding work people can state their opinions have common interest groups sharing administrative staff.
without fear of negative consequence.
experiences and engaging with others Senior leadership refers to employees both internally and externally.
performing roles classified as 0, 1, 2 or 3 The insight from Snapshot surveys, in our Global Career Band Structure.
Exchanges and other employee Employees FTEs by region engagement initiatives, informs policy, Whistleblowing % process and strategy across the Group 9.0 We work hard to create an environment and helps leadership make decisions 7.0 in which people feel able to speak up, that take employees into account.
butunderstand that employees may not 4.0 always feel comfortable raising concerns through their regular escalation channels.
54.0 There will also be some circumstances which require more discretion.
We operate a global whistleblowing 26.0 standard, HSBC Confidential, which allows individuals to report matters of concern confidentially.
We also maintain Key an external email address for concerns Asia about accounting and internal financial Europe Middle East and North Africa controls or auditing matters North America @hsbc.
Latin America TheGroup has a strict policy  against those whoraise concerns.
All allegations ofretaliation reported are escalated toseniormanagement.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 24 27 How we do business Our employees continued HSBC Confidential is overseen by our Common themes: 1,585 Conduct & Values Committee and Allegations of internal fraud by staff.
Cases were raised during 2017 2016: 1,102 Group Audit Committee.
Investigations Issues with staff behaviour and cases.
All cases are subject to investigation.
are carried out thoroughly and personal conduct.
independently, drawing on the In 30% of the closed cases in 2017 Weaknesses in adherence to expertiseof a variety of teams, including 2016: 34%, allegations were information security protocols.
Regulatory Compliance, Human substantiated in whole or in part and Resources, Legal, Financial Crime Risk, appropriate remedial action taken.
Information Security and Internal Audit.
HSBC continues HSBCs purpose is to connect people Anti-bribery and corruption toapply global initiatives to improve with opportunities.
With this purpose As part of financial crime risk taxtransparency such as: comes the responsibility to protect our management, we have a global anticustomers, our communities and the The US Foreign Account Tax bribery and corruption policy.
The policy integrity of the financial system.
Compliance Act FATCA : gives practical effect to global initiatives The OECD Standard for Automatic Non-financial risks such as the Organisation of Economic Exchange of Financial Account Co-operation and Development OECD We use a range of tools to monitor and Information also known as the Convention on Combating Bribery of manage our non-financial risks including Common Reporting Standard : Foreign Public Officials in International our risk appetite, risk map, top and Business Transactions and Principle 10 The Capital Requirements Directive IV emerging risks and stress testing of the United Nations Global Compact.
CRD IV Country by Country processes.
In 2017, HSBC completed We continue to invest in technology and Reporting: and amulti-year Operational Risk training: in 2017 98% of our workforce The OECD Base Erosion and Profit Transformation Programme, the purpose was trained via a mandatory e-learning Shifting BEPS initiative.
of which was to make it easier to course My Financial Crime Risk manage operational risk consistently in We do not expect BEPS or similar Responsibilities.
This included the implementation initiatives adopted by national of a new operational risk management Tax governments to adversely impact framework ORMF and system of HSBCs results.
Taxes paid by region record.
The new ORMF provides an $bn Human rights end-to-end view of non-financial risks, 0.5 0.3 enhancing focus on associated controls Our statement on modern slavery can and the capital we hold.
It provides a 0.4 be found on www.
com platform to drive forward-looking risk 2.7 our-approach measuring-our-impact.
awareness and assist management Our supplier code of conduct takes into focus.
Further details may be found $6.8bn account legislation on modern slavery inthe Risk section on page 63 and and human rights: over 4,000 of our page77.
largest suppliers have signed the code.
2.3 Financial crime compliance Supporting sustainable growth 0.6 HSBC operates in many countries In 2017 we launched our strategy to Key around the world.
As part of financial support sustainable growth, which UK crime risk management, we have built focuses on three main areas: sustainable Rest of Europe astrong financial crime compliance Asia finance: sustainable networks and Middle East and North Africa system with a global footprint, and have entrepreneurship: and future skills.
North America a dedicated Financial Crime Risk team.
Fulldetails are available in our ESG Latin America We have invested heavily in training Supplement released in November 2017. andcommunication for all employees.
This year we contributed $136m to We apply the letter and the spirit of the Our risk appetite has been set formally.
charitable programmes and our law in all territories where we operate.
Further details may be found in the employees volunteered 272,000 hours We have adopted the UK tax authoritys Risksection on page 63. to community activities during the Code of Practice on Taxation for Banks.
We continue our flagship As a consequence, we pay our fair share environmental partnership, the HSBC of tax in the countries in which we Water Programme.
We continue to strengthen our For more information about what we have processes to help ensure our banking done, see our ESG reporting available on services are not associated with any www.
com our-approach arrangements known or suspected to measuring-our-impact.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 25 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Strategic Report | How we do business Sustainable finance Each and every one of us has a stake Provide $100bn of sustainable financing and investment 1 indeveloping a sustainable economic by 2025 system.
It is the combined responsibility of all players in society to respond to We provide $100bn of financing and $10.5bn climate change, rapid technological investments, including facilitation, to evolution and continuing globalisation develop clean energy, lower-carbon Volume of green, social, sustainability bonds facilitated by HSBC in 2017 tosecure a prosperous future.
technologies, and projects that HSBC Asset Management launched contribute to the delivery of the Paris Since its foundation in 1865, HSBC has three low-carbon funds in 2017.
Agreement and the UN Sustainable adapted to and helped serve the needs Development Goals.
Source: Dealogic HSBC portion of notional value.
It has financed economic growth, fostered international trade and overcome events such as Source 100% of our electricity from renewable sources 2 economic crises.
We recognise that by 2030, with an interim target of 90% by 2025 governments, corporations, the We source 100% renewable electricity financialsystem and civil society 27% via direct investment or purchases via areallstakeholders in mitigating power purchase agreements that of signed renewable power theeffectsofclimate change and purchase agreements directly help the financing of new  challenges.
Now more than ever, there is a need todevelop the skills, business innovation Reduce our exposure to thermal coal and actively manage and low-carbon solutions needed to 3 the transition path for other high-carbon sectors secure long-term prosperity for all.
ForHSBC, these are the key elements To reduce our exposure, we expect In addition we expect to: ofsustainable growth that HSBC todiscontinue the financing of: routinely reinforce lending criteria caninfluence.
new thermal coal mines or new indeveloping countries, taking into Our network covers many of the worlds customers dependent on thermal account the state of climate transition largest and fastest growing trade coalmining: and and access to alternative sources of corridors and economic zones.
As such, energy in individual countries: and new coal-fired power plants in we are uniquely positioned to provide developed countries.
actively engage with clients in highthe connections needed to foster carbon sectors to support and influence sustainable growth across borders their transition strategies, review their andgeographies.
approach to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and assess their exposure We have a proud record of supporting topotentially stranded assets.
the communities and environments inwhich we operate and our global sustainability strategy builds on Adopt the recommendations of the Task Force on Climatethislegacy.
4 related Financial Disclosures TCFD to improve transparency HSBCs sustainable finance The Financial Stability Board FSB disclosures.
This year, HSBC is reporting commitments established the Task Force on Climatequalitatively on the governance, strategy In our November Environmental, related Financial Disclosures in 2015 to and risk management components of the Social, Governance ESG Update, develop recommendations for more recommendations published in 2017.
See we published our five sustainable effective and efficient climate-related our first TCFD disclosure on page 27. financecommitments.
In this section wesummarise key aspects of each commitment we aim to fulfil.
Lead and shape the debate around sustainable finance 5 For our full commitments see our ESG andinvestment Supplement released in November 2017.
We aim to do this in two ways: 20 Establish a Centre of Sustainable Number of  industry Finance to provide thought leadership forums of which HSBC is a member.
about climate change and the role of the financial services sector.
For more information about what we have done, see our ESG reporting available on Drive the sustainable finance agenda www.
com our-approach by promoting the development of measuring-our-impact.
sector activities such as industry-wide definitions, standards, tools and metrics to improve market analysis ofsustainability issues and impacts.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 26 How we do business Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures TCFD Initial response to the Financial Stability Board Reducing global carbon dioxide emissions is a critical challenge for everyone.
We recognise its importance and seek to be a leader in managing climate change risk while developing opportunities with and for our customers.
We welcome the new disclosure recommendations from the FSB taskforce, which assist the understanding of climate-related risks, and we were a signatory to the June 2017 TCFD report.
This represents our first disclosure under the framework.
We recognise this will evolve and expand over time.
Governance Sustainability is a key concern of the HSBC Group Management Board, with five presentations taking placeduring 2017.
HSBCs 2016 Statement on Climate Change may be found on our website at www.
The site gives information on our approach to low high carbon transition, managing our direct impact and partnerships.
Our Climate Business Council CBC, established in 2010, is an internal strategic committee whose role is to coordinate across the bank, identifying and developing products and services to meet customers sustainable finance needs.
There is also a group-wide ESG steering group, chaired by the Group Finance Director, leading our approach to ESG issues, including external disclosure and materiality considerations.
Strategy HSBCs strategy is to connect customers to opportunities across a diversified range of products and services.
This, along with our geographical presence in developing markets, gives us a unique opportunity to engage with our customers and support their transition strategies.
HSBC has committed to directing $100bn of financing and investment to the low-carbon economy by 2025.
In order to facilitate the transition to the low-carbon economy for us and our clients, during 2017 we created aGlobal Head of Sustainable Finance and an HSBC Centre of Sustainable Finance.
Additionally, via training, we have expanded our in-house sustainability expertise to approximately 1,300 employees across the Group.
We are committed to strengthening our role as a thought leader in the financial services industry.
During 2017, HSBCs Global Research Climate Change Centre was ranked number one by Extel and HSBC was the second-ranked bookrunner by Dealogic for green, social and sustainability bonds.
We will work with our customers in all our businesses to develop sustainable products and support innovation.
Risk Climate risk, both physical and transition, is an increasing risk.
During 2017 the Executive Risk Management Committee approved a framework for measuring transition risks across our loan portfolio.
We have identified Management the higher transition risk sectors as oil and gas, metals and mining, power and utilities, automobiles, building and construction, and chemicals.
We actively engage with clients in these sectors to support their transition strategies.
We monitor and report our exposure internally, and will do so externally in 2018.
Over time we expect a reduction in the carbon intensity of our portfolio.
Our Sustainability risk policies cover all our lending to sensitive sectors and we apply the Equator Principles toproject finance.
Details are available at www.
We also manage the physical risks to our global network relating to climate change by undertaking regular operational stress testing and contingency planning.
Next steps The HSBC Centre of Sustainable Finance, Risk Management and Finance will work with external experts to develop climate-related scenario analysis and related disclosures.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2017 27 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
