75 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE EFFECTIVENESS Considering the diversity policy: and Recommending the election re-election by shareholders of the Directors, having due regard to their performance and ability to continue to contribute to the Board, taking into consideration the skill, experience and knowledge required along with the need for progressive refreshing of the Board.
Details of the skills and experience each Director brings to the Board, are set out on pages 64-65.
ROLE OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE A key principle of the Code is to ensure that the Board and its Committees have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company and its business to enable each Director to effectively discharge his or EFFECTIVENESS AT A GLANCE GERALD CORBETT her duty to act in the best interests of CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE shareholders and other key stakeholders, I am the Chairman of the Nomination and to ensure that the business operates Committee and this section sets out our work effectively in delivering the strategy.
The Committee therefore spent time ensuring that the Company has the right RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE people in the right places to operate NOMINATION COMMITTEE effectively and deliver our strategy.
To do The Nomination Committee is responsible for: this, the Nomination Committee regularly reviews the size, structure and composition Regularly reviewing the skills and of the Board and makes recommendations experience of the Board to ensure that it about new appointments and ensures that is the right structure, size and composition the appointment process is formal, rigorous taking into account skills, independence, and transparent.
knowledge and diversity to operate The Nomination Committees role in effectively and to deliver on strategy: considering the succession planning needs Leading the process for Board of the Board and its Committees as well as appointments.
To identify and nominate understanding the succession plans for the for Board approval, candidates to fill Board Leadership team, should ensure that a strong vacancies, identifying the skills required pipeline of diverse and talented individuals for the role, appointing a search firm, is available to support the Company, meet recognising the benefits of diversity, and its future business objectives and achieve its in the case of the Non-Executive Directors, strategic goals.
ensuring that they will have sufficient time for the role: Ensuring the Companys leadership skills are fully aligned with the Companys longterm strategy: Considering succession planning for the Executive and Non-Executive Directors and ensuring that succession planning is in place for members of the Leadership team: 76 SEGRO PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE EFFECTIVENESS CONTINUED The Group HR Director regularly presents APPRAISAL PROCESS APPOINTMENT OF to the Board on the Companys succession CAROL FAIRWEATHER The expertise and performance of the planning and talent development programme.
Directors is considered as part of the annual As mentioned on page 63, the Committee The Companys strategy is well established review of the Board and its Committees.
made a decision during the year to start the and its execution not dependent on any The annual appraisal of the Chairman is led process to recruit Non-Executive Directors to one individual.
For Executive Directors and by the Senior Independent Director, who ensure orderly succession.
The Committee for roles in the Leadership team, plans are meets annually with the Non-Executive agreed a role specification and in particular in place for sudden, unforeseen absences, Directors to discuss the performance of identified the required skills and attributes.
for medium-term orderly succession and the Chairman.
The Chairman leads the The Zygos Partnership was appointed to lead for longer-term succession.
These plans are appraisal of the Chief Executive by arranging the search as they have undertaken previous then used to provide development plans a meeting of Non-Executive Directors to Non-Executive Director searches and have for our most talented people and to ensure discuss his performance.
The Non-Executive a good understanding of the Company and that looking forward, we have the right Directors agreed that the Chief Executive its culture.
A long list of candidates was people to deliver our strategy.
We encourage was performing well, executing his tasks circulated to all of the Directors for comments regular contact between members of senior with energy and leading the executive team before it was considered by the Committee management and the Board.
This may be in an effective way.
The performance of the which agreed the short list.
The first round by a Board presentation, a tour of assets or other Non-Executive Directors is appraised of interviews were with the Chairman and a one-to-one session with Non-Executive by the Chairman whilst the Executive Chief Executive, while other members of the Directors to discuss a specific issue.
Directors are appraised by the Chief Executive Committee and Soumen Das were involved in with feedback from other Directors where subsequent interviews.
The Committee met to DIVERSITY appropriate.
The Board is satisfied that all discuss their conclusions and were pleased to The Directors are committed to having a Directors possess relevant experience and recommend Carols appointment to the Board.
balanced Board which recognises the benefits appropriate levels of independence, and real of diversity in its broadest sense and the value estate, financial and commercial experience SUCCESSION PLANNING that this brings to the organisation in terms of across various industries.
In 2019, letters of appointment for four of skills, knowledge and experience.
the Non-Executive Directors will expire or With respect to gender specifically, the APPOINTMENT OF DIRECTORS will be due for renewal.
As mentioned in the Board aspires to promote greater gender Following the appraisal process, the Chairmans letter on page 63, the Committee diversity.
It recognises that how we select and has been spending time planning for the Nomination Committee concluded that brief executive search partners and how we medium-term orderly rotation of its Noneach of the Directors continued to make an specify the skills and experience needed for Executive Directors.
effective contribution to the Board.
It also a role are important elements in this regard.
Below the Board, the Committee considered the time commitments of the NonIn selecting candidates for Board positions, considers succession planning regularly as Executive Directors and concluded that each the Committee will only use the services of it recognises the importance of creating Director is able to commit sufficient time to the executive search firms who have signed up to and supporting a suitably talented diverse Company and to fulfil their duty to promote the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive pipeline of leaders ready to serve as the next the success of the Company.
We are members of the generation of plc Directors.
It reviews the As detailed on page 63, during the year 30%Club which aims to achieve a minimum skills and experience of the current Board, the Nomination Committee reappointed 30 per cent of women on FTSE 100 and considers whether they are appropriate Martin Moore for a second three-year boards.
Our Board Diversity Policy supports to support the delivery of the Companys term, since the Committee considered his broadening diversity in the widest sense as strategic goals both now and in the future.
performance continued to be effective, and well as endorsing this 30 per cent target.
he made a valuable contribution to meetings, In the final selection decision, all Board demonstrating commitment to the role.
appointments are made on merit and relevant In accordance with the Code, each of experience, against the criteria identified by the Directors will submit themselves for the Committee with regard to the benefits of re-election at the 2018 AGM, save for diversity, including gender.
Margaret Ford who will retire at the AGM The Board recognises that the pace at on19 April 2018. which we can improve will depend, to some extent, on the availability of vacancies as well as suitable candidates.
It therefore supports the aspirations of the Hampton Alexander review to identify and develop the next generation of female talent.
For further details of the Groups approach to gender diversity below the Board, please see pages 44 and 45.
