14 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 Scientific, Technical & Medical Business overview scientific, Technical & Medical is a global information and We help researchers make new discoveries, collaborate with analytics business that helps institutions and professionals their colleagues and give them the knowledge they need to advance healthcare, open science, and improve performance ndfunding.
We help governments and universities evaluate for the benefit of humanity.
and improve their research strategies.
We help doctors save Elsevier is headquartered in Amsterdam, with further principal lives, providing insight for physicians to nd the right clinical operations in Boston, New York, Philadelphia, St. Louis and answers and we support nurses and other healthcare Berkeley in North America, London, Oxford, Frankfurt, Munich, professionals throughout their careers.
Our goal is to expand Madrid and Paris in Europe, Bejing, Chennai, Delhi, Singapore and the boundaries of knowledge for the benefit of humanity.
Tokyo in Asia Pacic and Rio fide Janeiro in South America.
It has 7,500 employees and serves customers in over 180 countries.
Revenues for the year ended 31 December 2017 were 2,478m, compared with 2,320m in 2016 and 2,070m in 2015.
In 2017, We enhance the quality of research output by organising 42% of revenue by geographical market was derived from North the review, editing and dissemination of 17% of the worlds America, 25% from Europe and the remaining 33% from the scientific articles rest of the world.
Subscription sales generated 72% of revenue, transactional sales 26% and advertising 2%.
ScienceDirect, the worlds largest database of peer-reviewed primary scientific and medical research, Elsevier serves the needs of scientific, technical and medical has 14m monthly unique visitors markets by organising the review, editing and disseminating of primary research, reference and professional education content, as well as by providing a range of database and decision tools.
Scopus is the leading abstract and citation database of research literature, with over 70mpublications and Elseviers customers are scientists, academic institutions, 1.4bn citation records from 5,000 publishers research leaders and administrators, medical researchers, doctors, nurses, allied health professionals and students, as well SciVal offers insights into the research performance as hospitals, research institutions, health insurers, managed of over 9,000 research institutions healthcare organisations, research-intensive corporations and governments.
All these customers rely on Elsevier to provide ClinicalKey, the agship clinical reference platform, high-quality content and critical information for making scientific isaccessed by more than 4,400 institutions and medical decisions and create innovative tools to help focus research strategies, increase research effectiveness, improve medical outcomes, and enhance the efficiency of healthcare and Elsevier journals have at some point featured articles healthcare education.
by173 of 174 science and economics Nobel prize winners since 2000 In the primary research market during 2017, 1.6m research papers were submitted to Elsevier.
More than 20,000 editors managed the peer review and selection of these papers, resulting in the publication of over 430,000 articles in about 2,500 journals, many of which are the foremost publications in their eld and a primary point of reference for new research.
This content was accessed by about 14m unique visitors on average per month, with over 900m full-text article downloads last year.
In 2017, Elsevier launched 26 new subscription and open access journals, including Materials Today Physics, Joule from Cell Press and The Lancet Planetary Health.
ScienceDirect, the worlds largest database of peer-reviewed primary scientific and medical research, hosts over 15m pieces ofcontent and 38,000 e-books.
Flagship journals include Cell andThe Lancet family of titles.
Elsevier is also a global leader in scientific, technical and medical reference markets, providing authoritative and current professional reference content.
Flagship titles include works suchas Grays Anatomy, Nelsons Pediatrics and Netters Atlas ofHuman Anatomy.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Business review scientific, Technical & Medical 15 For academic and corporate researchers, significant products Elseviers agship clinical reference platform, ClinicalKey, include Scopus, Reaxys and Knovel.
Scopus, the leading abstract provides physicians, nurses, and pharmacists with access to and citation database of peer-reviewed literature with over 70m leading Elsevier and third-party reference and evidence-based publications from more than 22,500 active journals and 5,000 medical content in a single, fully integrated site.
ClinicalKey international publishers, allows researchers to track, analyse is growing well, and is currently accessed by more than and visualise the worlds research output.
shortest path to chemistry research answers, supporting the In medical education, Elsevier serves students of medicine, early stages of drug development in the pharmaceutical industry, nursing and allied health professions in a number of formats exploratory chemistry research in academia, and product including electronic books and electronic solutions.
For example, development in industries such as chemicals and oil & gas.
Sherpath, an adaptive teaching and learning solution for nursing Knovel is a decision support tool for engineers that helps them and health education, provided highly focused, personalised to select the right materials, a mission-critical use case in andadaptive learning paths for over 33,000 users at over 400 product development across chemicals, oil & gas and other institutions in 2017. engineering-focused industries.
For healthcare professionals, Elsevier develops products to Elsevier serves academic and government research administrators deliver patient-specic solutions at the point of care to improve through its Research Intelligence suite of products.
Its clinical solutions include Interactive Patient bibliometric data from Scopus and other data types such as patent Education, which provides patient education and discharge citations and usage data, SciVal is a decision tool that helps information, and Care Planning, which provides a data-driven institutions to establish, execute and evaluate research strategies.
framework to support nurses in undertaking procedures.
Pure is an enterprise research management solution that aggregates an organisations research information from Arezzo, an active clinical decision support engine integrated numerous internal and external sources into a single platform with clinical care systems, matches evidence-based guidelines and ensures the data that drives strategic decisions is trusted, with patient and disease information and dynamically evaluates comprehensive and accessible in one place.
Our Analytical best-practice treatment options.
Services team provides accurate, unbiased analysis on research performance by combining high-quality data sources with technical and research metrics expertise.
Expert LookUp is an online tool that helps funding bodies nd the best peer reviewers for evaluating grant applications.
The leading abstract and citation database of Ready-to-use tools to analyse the world of peer-reviewed literature features tools to track, research, and establish, execute and evaluate analyse and visualise scholarly research the best strategies for research organisations The worlds largest database of scientific Premier life sciences journal with the One of the worlds leading medical journals andmedical research articles highest impact factor in biochemistry since 1823 and molecular biology This chemical compound and reaction Combines leading reference and evidenceAn innovative research management and synthesis database enables the shortest path based medical content into its fully integrated social collaboration platform to chemistry research answers, supporting clinical insight engine specialised for doctors, drug discovery, chemical R&D and education nurses, or pharmacists 16 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 In every market, Elsevier is applying advanced machine learning Strategic priorities ML and natural language processing NLP techniques to help Elseviers strategic goal is to lead the way in providing information researchers, engineers and clinicians perform their work better.
solutions that advance science, technology and health.
To achieve For example, in research, NLP and ML techniques classify scientific this, Elsevier creates solutions that reect deep insight into the content and organise it thematically, enabling the users to get way its users work and the outcomes they are seeking to achieve: faster access to relevant results and related scientific topics.
strives for excellence in content, service and execution: constantly In parallel, advanced information extraction and NLP techniques adapts and revitalises its products, business models and are applied to extract the most important information for scientific technology: and leverages its institutional skills, assets and concepts in concise summaries.
Elsevier also applies advanced resources to promote innovation and efficiency.
ML techniques that detect trending topics per domain, helping Elseviers strategic priorities are to: continue to increase researchers decide where to focus their research.
Coupled with content volume and quality: expand content coverage, building the automated proling and extraction of funding body information out integrated solutions and decision tools combining Elsevier, from scientific articles, this process supports the whole third-party and customer data: increase content utility, using researcher journey: from planning, to execution and funding.
Smart Content to enable new e-solutions: combine content In health, Elsevier uses machine learning to enable clinicians with analytics and technology, focused on measurably improving to search for both images and text, improving the success rates productivity and outcomes for customers: and continue to drive in the retrieval of the right content with sufficient associated operational efficiency and effectiveness.
This helps health professionals perform their work In the primary research market, Elsevier aims to grow volume better, get the latest high quality information on best practices through new journal launches, expansion of author-pays journals and state-of-the-art care, and save more human lives.
and growth from emerging markets: enhance quality by building on our premium brands: and add value to core platforms by Market opportunities implementing new capabilities such as advanced recommendations scientific, technical and medical information markets have good on ScienceDirect and social collaboration through Mendeley.
The importance of research and development to economic performance and competitive In clinical reference markets, priorities are to expand content positioning is well understood by governments, academic coverage and ensure consistent and seamless linking of content institutions and corporations.
This is reected in the long-term assets across products.
growth in research and development spending and in the number of researchers worldwide.
Growth in health markets is driven Business model, distribution channels and competition by ageing populations in developed markets, rising prosperity Science and medical research is principally disseminated on in developing markets and the increasing focus on improving apaid subscription basis to the research facilities of academic medical outcomes and efficiency.
Given that a significant institutions, governments and corporations and, in the case proportion of scientific research and healthcare is funded of medical and healthcare journals, to individual practitioners directly or indirectly by governments, spending is influenced and medical society members.
For the past decade content by governmental budgetary considerations.
The commitment has been provided free or at very low cost in over 100 countries to research and health provision does, however, remain high, and territories in the developing world through Research4Life, even in more difficult budgetary environments.
For a number of journals, advertising and promotional income represents a small proportion of revenues, predominantly from pharmaceutical companies in healthcare titles.
REVENUE BY FORMAT REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHICAL MARKET REVENUE BY TYPE Advertising 2,478m 2,478m 2,478m 2% Print 19% Transactional Rest of 26% North world 33% America 42% Electronic Subscription 81% 72% Europe 25% Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Business review scientific, Technical & Medical 17 Over the past 15 years, alternative models for the dissemination of share their institutions research via institutional repositories research have emerged.
While it is expected that paid subscription for greatest impact.
will remain the primary distribution model, Elsevier has long Electronic products, such as ScienceDirect, Scopus and ClinicalKey, invested in alternative business models to address the needs of are generally sold direct to customers through adedicated sales customers and researchers.
Open access journals are one such force that has ofces around the world.
In 2017, we published over 27,000 open access articles, sometimes facilitate the sales and administrative process for adouble-digit growth on the previous year, making us the second remaining print sales.
Reference and educational content is sold largest open access publisher in the world.
Over 1,890 of directly to institutions and individuals and accessed on Elsevier Elseviers journals now offer the option of funding publication platforms.
Sometimes it is still sold in printed book form through anddistribution via a sponsored article fee.
retailers, wholesalers or directly to end users.
Next to subscription and open access journals, Elsevier has also Competition within science and medical reference content invested in other models to address the needs of the research is generally on a title-by-title and product-by-product basis.
SSRN for example is an open-access online preprint Competition in research and reference products is typically community where researchers post early-stage research, prior with learned societies and professional information providers, topublication in academic journals.
Mendeley data enables such as Springer Nature, Clarivate Analytics and Wolters Kluwer.
researchers to make their research data publicly available by Decisiontools face similar competition, as well as from software providing an open research data repository.
Bepress, which companies and internal solutions developed by customers.
joined Elsevier in 2017, helps academic libraries showcase and 2017 financial performance 2017 2016 Underlying Acquisitions Currency Total m m growth disposals effects growth Revenue 2,478 2,320 2% 0% 5% 7% Adjusted operating profit 913 853 3% -1% 5% 7% Key business trends remained positive in 2017, with underlying analytics, and evolving our technology platforms.
Databases & profit growth slightly exceeding underlying revenue growth.
tools continued to drive growth across market segments through the launch of enhanced functionality and content development.
The difference between the reported and underlying growth rates primarily reflects the impact Print books, which now represent around 10% of divisional of exchange rate movements and portfolio changes, including the revenues, saw continued sales declines with return rates at acquisitions of Plum Analytics and bepress, and the disposal of historical levels, following higher than average return rates in the certain international pharma promotion assets.
The decline in print pharma promotion revenues, which represent less than 5% of the divisional total, returned to historical Underlying adjusted operating profit growth of 3% was slightly rates of decline after a stronger prior year.
ahead of revenue growth, with an underlying margin improvement offset by portfolio effects.
2018 outlook Electronic revenues saw continued good growth, partially offset Our customer environment remains largely unchanged.
Overall by further print declines.
In primary research we continued to we expect another year of modest underlying revenue growth, with enhance customer value by providing broader content sets across underlying operating profit growth continuing to exceed underlying our research offering, increasing the sophistication of our revenue growth.
REVENUE ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT m m Underlying growth 2% Underlying growth 3% 2,478 913 2,320 853 2016 2017 2016 2017 18 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 SciVal is a very powerful tool for us as it allows individual researchers and academic leaders to evaluate their place in the world and put their performance story in their own hands.
As we continue to grow as a university, the ability to track our progress using SciVal presents exciting opportunities for our institution.
Keith Webster Dean of University Libraries, Carnegie Mellon University 9,000 author profiles from Carnegie Mellon University arelisted inSciVal Business review Scientific, Technical & Medical 19 SciVal: helping Carnegie Mellon University evaluate its place in the world Founded in 1900, Carnegie Mellon University CMU is a global research university known for its world-class, interdisciplinary programmes in arts, business, computing, engineering, humanities, policy and science.
CMU is based in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and has over 13,900 students representing 109 countries with 1,391 faculty from 42 countries.
Keith Webster of Carnegie Mellon University Given the focus of interdisciplinary research at CMU, it is About SciVal particularly critical for the university to provide individual faculty SciVal offers quick, easy access to the members with an understanding of the impact of their research research performance of over 9,000 and how it compares with competitor institutions.
This easy-to-use proved to be a powerful tool to demonstrate not just output but research and analysis solution has also interdisciplinary impact.
By using SciVals sophisticated unparalleled power and flexibility.
It analytics, CMU is able to showcase and curate university research enables customers to visualise research output as well as help researchers to identify the best places performance, benchmark relative to topublish their research, manage their information products, peers, develop collaborative partnerships findpotential funding sources and collaborate with external and analyse research trends.
The universitys strategic direction will focus on advanced data analytics super-computer theevolving scholarly record and a recognition that a scholars technology, SciVal allows users to instantly contribution to their field is not solely in the form of traditional process an enormous amount of research output.
CMU hopes to work with SciVal to understand information to generate powerful data this transition and how researchers might best showcase their visualisations in seconds.
SciVal is work in the global scholarly record.
powered by the Scopus database which covers records from over 22,500 active journals of 5,000 publishers worldwide and is the data source of choice for world class ranking and assessment exercises.
RELX Groups HPCC Systems big data technology provides the SciVal analysis engine.
