34 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 Exhibitions Business overview Exhibitions is the worlds leading events business, enhancing the We help match customers with the right solution.
Our events power of face-to-face through data and digital tools at over 500 enable customers to learn about a market, source products events, in 30 countries, attracting more than 7m participants.
and complete transactions, generating billions of dollars of Reed Exhibitions is a global business, headquartered in London revenues for the economic development of local markets and and has further principal ofces in Paris, Vienna, Moscow, national economies around the world.
Norwalk Connecticut, Mexico City, So Paulo, Abu Dhabi, Beijing, Tokyo and Sydney.
Reed Exhibitions has 4,000 employees worldwide, and its portfolio of events serves 43 industry sectors in 30 countries.
More than 500 events are in the Reed Exhibitions portfolio Revenues for the year ended 31 December 2017 were 1,109m compared with 1,047m in 2016 and 857m in 2015.
In 2017, 21% 43 industry sectors are served in 30 countries across of Reed Exhibitions revenue came from North America, 39% the globe from Europe and the remaining 40% from the rest of the world Each year we host around 130,000 exhibitors attracting on an event location basis.
more than 7m participants Reed Exhibitions organises market-leading events which are relevant to industry needs, where participants from around the Our digital products increase the value of our events to world meet face-to-face to do business, to network and to learn.
participants, enabling them to make new contacts and Its events encompass a wide range of sectors.
They include meet face-to-face to do business.
In 2017, 200 events construction, cosmetics, electronics, energy and alternative offered matchmaking and the vast majority of customers energy, engineering, entertainment, gifts and jewellery, using the matchmaking service reported higher value healthcare, hospitality, interior design, logistics, manufacturing, and satisfaction pharmaceuticals, real estate, recreation, security and safety, transport and travel.
Market opportunities Growth in the exhibitions market is influenced both by businessto-business marketing spend and by business investment.
Historically, these have been driven by levels of corporate profitability, which in turn has followed overall growth in gross domestic product.
Emerging markets and higher growth sectors provide additional opportunities.
Reed Exhibitions broad geographical footprint allows it to effectively and efficiently capture growth opportunities globally as they emerge.
As some events are held other than annually, growth in any one year is affected by the cycle of non-annual exhibitions.
Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Business review Exhibitions 35 Strategic priorities In 2017 Reed Exhibitions launched 36 new events.
These included Reed Exhibitions strategic goal is to deliver measurably higher many events which delivered on the strategy of taking sector value and improved outcomes to its customers.
It is achieving expertise, customer relationships and leading brands from one this by being the best at understanding and responding to those market and extending them into new geographies using local customers needs and business objectives and the changing operational capability.
Strong brands and value propositions in long established areas Reed Exhibitions delivers a platform for industry communities continued to be expanded into new geographic markets such to conduct business, to network and to learn through a range as Oceanology International in the USA.
of market-leading events in all major geographic markets and Reed Exhibitions is active in developing exhibition markets higher growth sectors, enabling exhibitors to target and reach with launches in Mexico, Brazil, South Korea, South Africa, new customers quickly and cost effectively.
Organic growth will be achieved by continuing to generate greater Emerging high potential sectors were served through innovative customer value through combining the best of face-to-face with and highly curated launches such as Esports Bar and MIPIM data and decision tools, launching new events, and by leveraging Property Tech Summit.
its global network and technology platforms for faster and more agile development and deployment of innovation.
Reed Exhibitions Reed Exhibitions Japan continued its successful launch is also actively shaping its portfolio through a combination of programme, with 14 launches in multiple segments and locations.
strategic partnerships and acquisitions in faster growing sectors After the successful 2016 launch of ComplexCon the fashion and geographies, as well as by withdrawing from markets and portfolio Agenda continued to reect the changing nature of the industries with lower long-term growth prospects.
fashion industry by launching the direct-to-consumer Agenda Reed Exhibitions is committed to continuously improving Festival.
customer solutions and experience by developing global The POP culture portfolio continued its successful run of launches technology platforms based on industry databases, digital tools with new events in South Korea Comic Con Seoul and by serving and analytics.
By providing a variety of services, including its new sub-sectors such as table top gaming through the PAX integrated web platform, the company continues to drive up Unplugged launch.
customer satisfaction by proactively putting the right buyers and sellers together on the event oor.
Increasingly, digital and A number of acquisitions and investments were completed during multichannel services such as active matchmaking are becoming 2017.
These included MCM Comic Con in the UK, Caf Seoul in a normal part of the customer expectation and product offering, South Korea and three tness shows in Australia.
enhancing the value delivered through attendance at the event.
Using customer insights, Reed Exhibitions has developed an innovative product offering that underpins the value proposition for exhibitors by broadening their options in terms of the type and location of stand they take and the channels through which they can address potential buyers.
MIPIM: The worlds property market ISC West: International security conference Emerald City Comic Con: A premier comic book and pop culture convention LONDON World Travel Market: Premier global event Automotive World: Japans largest show Manufacturing World Nagoya: Central Japans for the travel industry for advanced automotive technologies manufacturing industry trade event Retail Business Technology Expo: InterCHARM: International perfumery and Batimat France: A leading international A leading event for the retail industry cosmetics exhibition trade fair for the building industry 36 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 Business model, distribution channels and competition Reed Exhibitions is the global market leader in a fragmented Over 70% of Reed Exhibitions revenue is derived from exhibitor industry, holding less than a 10% global market share.
Other fees, with the balance primarily consisting of admission charges, international exhibition organisers include UBM, Informa and conference fees, sponsorship fees and online and ofine some of the larger German Messen, including Messe Frankfurt, advertising.
Exhibition space is sold directly or through local Messe Dsseldorf and Messe Munich.
Competition also comes agents where applicable.
Reed Exhibitions often works in from industry trade associations and convention centre and collaboration with trade associations, which use the events to exhibition hall owners.
promote access for members to domestic and export markets, and with governments, for which events can provide important support to stimulate foreign investment and promote regional and national enterprise.
Increasingly, Reed Exhibitions is offering visitors and exhibitors the opportunity to interact before and after the show through the use of digital tools such as online directories, matchmaking and mobile apps.
REVENUE BY FORMAT REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHICAL MARKET EVENTS REVENUE BY SOURCE Electronic North 1,109m 1,109m 1,109m 4% America 21% Other 28% Rest of world 40% Europe Exhibition 39% fees 72% Face-to-face 96% Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Business review Exhibitions 37 2017 financial performance 2017 2016 Underlying Acquisitions Currency Total m m growth disposals effects growth Revenue 1,109 1,047 6% 1% 5% 6% Adjusted operating profit 285 269 2% -1% 5% 6% Underlying revenue growth rates exclude exhibition cyclingeffects.
Exhibitions achieved strong underlying revenue growth in 2017, We continued to pursue organic growth opportunities, launching a slight acceleration from the prior year, with underlying 36 new events, and piloting several data analytics opportunities.
operating profit growth reecting cycling-out effects.
Overall growth remained good in Europe and strong in Japan and Underlying revenue growth was 6%.
After portfolio changes and China.
The US continued to see differentiated growth rates by six percentage points of cycling-out effects, constant currency industry sector.
Revenues in Brazil continued to reect the revenue growth was 1%.
The difference between the reported general weakness of the wider economy.
Most other markets and constant currency growth rates reects the impact of continued to grow strongly.
exchange rate movements and portfolio changes, including the acquisition of MCM Comic Con UK, Cafe Seoul South Korea and 2018 outlook Fitness Australia, and the disposal of a number of small events.
We expect underlying revenue growth trends to continue.
In 2018 we expect cycling-in effects to increase the reported Underlying adjusted operating profit growth was 2% reecting revenue growth rate by four to five percentage points.
REVENUE ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT m m Underlying growth 6% Underlying growth 2% 1,109 285 1,047 269 2016 2017 2016 2017 38 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017 INTERPHEX: a catalyst for business growth and innovation SKAN, headquartered in Switzerland, is the global market leader in barrier isolation technology used for aseptic drug manufacturing in the pharmaceutical industry.
The company has built its success on product innovation and isolator customisation.
SKANs guiding principle is Together, Always One Step Ahead, a philosophy it has applied to increasing business advantage during its 14-year partnership with INTERPHEX.
SKAN established its US subsidiary in 2002 and exhibited at INTERPHEX in New York for the first time in 2003.
Today, SKAN US sales and services account for nearly 40% of SKAN global revenues, and INTERPHEX is SKANs premier event in North America, providing a vital platform for product demonstration, new business generation and customer outreach.
In 2017, SKAN launched its newly patented NANOX catalyst technology which helps to achieve breakdown and removal of hydrogen peroxide more efficiently.
INTERPHEX 2017 generated over 200sales leads for SKAN, with many high quality sales leads requiring immediate follow up.
The company also delivered a technical presentation at INTERPHEX Live which was filmed and made available online.
This video has gone on to generate over 1,000 on-demand views, extending SKANs partnership with INTERPHEX beyond the event.
About INTERPHEX International Pharmaceutical Expo INTERPHEX Larry Cabeceiras of SKAN isNorth Americas leading event dedicated to pharmaceutical, biotechnology and device innovation, technology and knowledge, from development through to commercialisation.
Located in New York, itbrings more than 10,500 global industry professionals and530 leading suppliers together each year.
It providesa unique combination of exhibition, technical conference, workshops, partnering opportunities, networking events and awards, designed to drivequality, productivity and costefficiency in an increasingly competitive global market.
In 2017 the event supported more than 20 North American and worldwide technology launches.
Business review Exhibitions 39 The volume of sales leads generated at our booth, and the overall networking opportunities available to us during INTERPHEX, far exceeds all the other US events SKAN attends on an annual basis.
Larry Cabeceiras President, SKAN US 10,500 industry professionals from49countries attended INTERPHEX in 2017 40 RELX Group Annual reports and financial statements 2017
