OUR VALUE CREATION MODEL ever more complex channels and a talent pool of local management UNILEVER HAS A PROVEN BUSINESS MODEL THAT 70% of our leaders are local.
SUPPORTS LONG-TERM, COMPOUNDING GROWTH Our strategy see page 10 and our category strategies see pages 11 AND SUSTAINABLE VALUE CREATION.
and 12 harness these strengths to deliver competitive top and bottom Our business activities span a complex, global value chain.
Starting line growth, and capital efficiency which in turn drives underlying with consumer insights, we track changing consumer sentiment earnings per share, free cash flow and return on invested capital through our 25 People Data Centres around the world.
Through and ultimately attractive returns for shareholders.
To respond further close collaboration between marketing and R&D, we use our insights to the increasing pace of change and the need to go further and to inform product development, leveraging our 900 million annual faster in value creation, we are accelerating our C4G programme R&D spend.
of organisational change to create a faster, simpler organisation.
We work with thousands of suppliers and spend around 34 billion on goods and services, including approximately 13 billion on ingredients Combined with C4G, in April 2017, we set out financial targets to and raw materials for our products.
Our global manufacturing further accelerate shareholder value.
These include underlying sales operations across more than 300 factories in 69 countries turn these growth ahead of our markets, which in current market conditions materials into products.
we expect to translate into underlying sales growth of 3-5% each year up to 2020, projected savings of 6 billion by 2019 and an expansion Our products are then distributed via a network of more than 400 of underlying operating margin from 16.4% to 20% by 2020.
Return globally coordinated warehouses to 25 million retail stores, from large on Invested Capital is expected to be sustained in the high teens and supermarkets, hypermarkets, wholesalers and cash and carry, to dividends will continue to rise, reflecting increased confidence in the small convenience stores, as well as other fast-growing channels outlook for profit growth and cash generation.
such as e-commerce, out-of-home and direct-to-consumer.
We work in close partnership with customers to ensure our brands are Sustainable value creation also means investing for the long term, always available and properly displayed.
which is why the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan USLP is at the heart of our business model and Vision to grow our business, We are the second largest advertiser in the world, based on media whilst decoupling our environmental footprint from our growth and spend.
Alongside more conventional advertising, we create an increasing our positive social impact, in turn contributing to the increasing amount of tailored content ourselves to market our brands, United Nations Sustainable Development Goals see page 15. using digital channels that are better targeted, more personalised and provide more accurate consumer insights.
And in doing so, our value Our strategy and business model continue to deliver growth that is chain cycle repeats itself.
consistent, competitive, profitable and responsible.
Between 2009 and 2017 it has delivered underlying sales growth of 4.3% a year while Underlying our value chain is a set of defining strengths which set operating margin expanded by 390 basis points to 16.5%.
In 2017 free us apart from our competitors: our portfolio of global brands and cash flow increased to over 5 billion while return on invested capital local jewels: a presence in more than 190 countries with 58% of our was 19.2%.
Longer term, Unilever has grown dividends by an average turnover in emerging markets: deep distribution capability through of 8% per year over the last 37 years, with no reductions.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report 9
