Our investment case Overview We have a compelling investment case which is underpinned by our leading positions in large growth markets, our portfolio of trusted and innovative products and our attractive financial profile.
Our relationship with our customers is key to our success, and in the last two years, we have achieved a #1 and #2 ranking in the global Patient View survey, which captures feedback from over 500 patient groups around the world.
Leading market positions Diversified chronic care business with strong brands in large and structurally and differentiated products growing markets We have leading positions in chronic care markets valued We are a well-balanced business.
at c. $10 billion and which are growing at 4%5% per annum on average due to fundamental structural trends.
We operate globally across all key geographies.
Our leading market positions: Our differentiated products and technologies portfolio addresses a wide range of increasingly prevalent chronic Advanced Wound Care Ostomy Care conditions, including those arising as a result of cancers, diabetes, vascular disease, multiple sclerosis, spinal cord Global advanced Global injury and Crohns disease.
wound dressing ostomy We have an extensive product portfolio that includes market-leading brands.
3 We market and sell our products through a number Global silver dressings US of channels to a broad range of customers.
2 Global hydrocolloid UK and France dressings No.
1 Global alginate and gelling Continence & Critical Care fibre dressings Retailer in intermittent catheters in the US No.
1 Infusion Devices US fecal management Global disposable infusion systems sets for insulin pumps No.
1 Our resources and relationships Page 16 Our market environment Operational review Page 10 Page 38 ConvaTec Group Plc 02 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 Innovative pipeline Focused on efficiency, and proven clinical strong cash generation performance and growth We have a long and successful track record of developing We look to simplify the way we do business, and drive and commercialising innovative products that deliver productivity and efficiency to free up resources, reinvest proven outcomes.
in our business and drive growth.
During the last five years we have successfully launched We continue to believe that material productivity gains are over 60 products.
achievable over the medium and long term.
A number of actions are in progress following the 2017 execution issues.
Our development pipeline includes: We continue to drive existing initiatives and launch new projects in areas where we see clear opportunities.
Products at concept In future, in line with most peers, we will provide guidance on adjusted EBIT margin, instead of adjusted gross margin, while continuing to report on our progress in delivering 24 productivity improvements.
Products in development We are a cash generative business, with cash conversion around 80%.
29 We operate in structurally growing chronic care markets, with strong brands, differentiated products and a strong Products at or nearing and innovative R&D pipeline.
launch 11 Our resources and relationships Our strategy Page 16 Page 22 ConvaTec Group Plc 03 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
