STRATEGIC REPORT OUR MATERIAL MATTERS AngloAmericans stakeholders include our customers, OUR MATERIAL MATTERS host communities, employees and unions, partners, governments, multinational organisations, broader civil society, trade associations and suppliers, in addition to our shareholders who own the business.
In some instances we participate in multi-stakeholder initiatives where, by definition, multiple stakeholder groups are involved to provide a more collaborative and holistic view on the issues facing the industry.
UNDERSTANDING WHAT IS IMPORTANT TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS OUR APPROACH TO DETERMINING WHAT IS IMPORTANT AND OUR BUSINESS Identifying and evaluating matters that are of common In line with best-practice corporate reporting, material interest to our stakeholders and to our business, AngloAmericans Annual Report includes a and understanding how they may affect our ability to create comprehensive assessment of not only the principal value over time, are integral to our planning processes and risks facing the business, but also those matters that help support the delivery of AngloAmericans strategy.
our stakeholders and we believe have a material bearing on the success of the business over time.
Our process for determining those matters involves three steps: consultation, analysis and approval.
By engaging with our stakeholders and being aware of their perspectives, and by understanding the risks we The consultation process in 2017 involved extensive face, we are better placed to make informed decisions desktop research, including: review of the Group Risk that help support the delivery of our strategy.
Register: global media coverage and analyst reports on AngloAmerican and the mining sector: and analysis of minuted Board and executive discussions.
We also STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT conducted an external consultation survey with a wide Our licence to operate depends on constructive range of stakeholders, including investors, communities, relationships with a wide and diverse range of stakeholders.
customers, suppliers, governments, civil society and Effective stakeholder engagement helps us to better industry groups.
We will continue to conduct such communicate our business performance, decisions and engagement on a regular basis.
activities that may have a material impact on, or are of significant interest to our stakeholders.
STAKEHOLDER GROUPS ENGAGEMENT OPPORTUNITIES Investors Annual General Meeting, investor roadshows, one-on-one meetings, results webcasts and investor days Communities Socio-Economic Assessment Toolbox SEAT, surveys, community accountability forums, and complaints and grievance procedures Principal risks Governments and Ongoing engagement across all levels of multilateral institutions government national, regional and local and multilateral organisations e. g. UN, EU, World Bank in relation to policy and legislation of relevance to responsible business practices Employees and Face-to-face dialogue between employees BOARD CAPITAL trade unions and line managers, employee surveys, INSIGHTS STRATEGY REVIEW ALLOCATION dialogue through established industrial relations channels and meetings with unions Suppliers and Focused supplier events, strategic supplier contractors relationship management, local procurement and small business development initiatives Material Civil society NGOs, faith One-on-one interactions, stakeholder groups, academia partnerships and initiatives matters Customers Commodity and product-specific marketing and one-on-one meetings Industry business Association memberships, industry events, associations peer-to-peer meetings 14 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 CONSULTATION SURVEY Strategic report MATERIAL MATTERS IN 2017 The matters identified through our materiality process Each material matter covers a number of topics and issues, were naturally numerous and wide-ranging.
These were and some also intersect with specific principal risks facing then analysed and prioritised by senior management, and the Group, as identified in the Group Risk Register.
Principal then reviewed and approved by the Board.
risks are those risks, or combination of risks, that would threaten the business model, future performance, solvency In order for us to report against these material matters or liquidity of AngloAmerican.
An analysis of the Groups effectively, highlight connectivity and demonstrate how principal risks, including mitigation strategies, can be found they affect the delivery of our strategy, we have set them on pages 42-45 of this report.
out under the headings listed in the table below.
For our Principal risks See pages 42-45 Matters identified as material to our stakeholders and our business include: MATERIAL MATTERS AREAS OF IMPACT Strategic element: Safety and Health business.
A safe and healthy workforce contributes to an B C Protecting the safety and health of employees and contractors engaged, motivated and productive workforce that mitigates is a fundamental human rights issue facing Anglo American operational stoppages, and reduces potential legal liabilities.
Pillars of value: and the mining industry.
While protecting our workforce from Safety is also considered a principal risk.
Further details on this harm is a moral imperative, our focus on zero harm also principal risk can be found on page 44. constitutes a direct investment in the productivity of the Strategic element: Environmental impacts and climate change mining for our local stakeholders.
Understanding the effects A B Responsible environmental management, including the of climate change on our business and how it may impact our value chain is important as we strive to maximise the management of water consumption and discharge, is a major Pillars of value: opportunities associated with the transition to a lowfactor in legal compliance and permitting, but also plays a significant role in improving the balance of value from carbon future.
Strategic element: Meeting our commitments to Working closely with host communities and governments governments and society A B C to undertake integrated planning and share the benefits of mining helps AngloAmerican to avoid and mitigate adverse Acting in an ethical and responsible manner is fundamental Pillars of value: social impacts including after a mine closes, optimise to AngloAmerican realising the significant business benefits development opportunities and maintain our socio-political gained from building trusted and constructive relationships with our stakeholders.
Strategic element: Workforce culture and capability We aim to foster a high performance culture, through an C organisation structure that is fit for purpose, resourcing this To deliver on our business objectives, we rely on a capable and structure with the best capability and empowering our people engaged workforce that behaves in a manner that is consistent Pillars of value: with AngloAmericans values and Code of Conduct.
Strategic element: Operational and cost performance deliver its financial improvement targets and minimise A B C The mining sector continues to face operating cost inflation, the number of unplanned operational stoppages that affect production.
including labour costs, energy costs and the impact of Pillars of value: ore grade deterioration.
This is also considered a principal risk.
Further details on this principal risk can be found on page 45.
In order to deliver our profitable growth strategy and to maintain our competitive position, AngloAmerican must Strategic element: Political and regulatory These factors are also considered principal risks.
Further A B C AngloAmerican operates or has projects in a number details on this principal risk can be found on page 42. of countries where there is political instability and where Pillars of value: the regulatory environment for the mining industry is uncertain.
Strategic element: Macro-economic environment fundamental shifts in market forces.
These factors are also A B considered principal risks.
The Marketplace review on pages Economic slowdown in those countries that are major consumers of the Groups products could have a negative 11 to 13 gives more detail on the macro-economic Pillars of value: impact on demand for those products.
Demand may also environment facing the Group.
be negatively affected by product substitution and or PILLARS OF VALUE STRATEGIC ELEMENT A Safety and Health Production Portfolio B Environment Cost Innovation C Socio-political Financial People For more on our pillars of value People See page 10 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 15
