ABOUT US AT A GLANCE OUR PURPOSE UNILEVER IS ONE OF THE WORLDS LEADING CONSUMER UNILEVER HAS A CLEAR PURPOSE TO MAKE SUSTAINABLE GOODS COMPANIES, MAKING AND SELLING AROUND 400 LIVING COMMONPLACE.
WE BELIEVE THIS IS THE BEST WAY BRANDS IN MORE THAN 190 COUNTRIES.
TO DELIVER LONG-TERM SUSTAINABLE GROWTH.
Every day, 2.5 billion people use our products to feel good, look good As the pace of change accelerates in our markets, we are creating and get more out of life.
Our range of world-leading, household-name a stronger, simpler and more agile business.
These changes will brands includes Lipton, Knorr, Dove, Axe, Hellmanns and Omo.
Thirteen help us to deliver our Purpose and our Vision to grow our business, of the worlds top 50 brands are owned by Unilever, up from twelve the whilst decoupling our environmental footprint from our growth and previous year, with our nearest competitor owning just five, according increasing our positive social impact.
to Kantars brand footprint report in May 2017.
However volatile and uncertain the world becomes, Unilevers Purpose In 2017 we had 13 billion euro brands.
In addition our portfolio also and Vision will remain because we believe that managing for the includes trusted and iconic local brands designed to meet the specific long term is the best way for us to grow.
We are well placed to deliver needs of consumers in their home market such as Bango long-term value through our strategy, category strategies and the in Indonesia, Pureit in India and Suave in the United States.
Our Unilever Sustainable Living Plan USLP, launched in 2010.
These are geographic reach gives us an unparalleled global presence, supported by a transformational change agenda which combines our including a unique position in emerging markets which generate own actions with a stakeholder approach to external advocacy and 58% of our turnover.
Our scale and reach mean we are well placed to capture the economic opportunities presented by the United Nations During 2017, Unilever operated across four categories.
The largest Sustainable Development Goals SDGs.
Find out more about how we was Personal Care, followed by Foods, Home Care and Refreshment.
are creating value from the SDGs on page 15.
Each one is discussed in more detail on pages 11 and 12.
In April 2017, we announced our intention to combine our Foods and Refreshment The USLP is a value driver in its own right.
Our commitment to the categories which took effect on 1 January 2018 and the divestment of USLPs three big goals of improving health and well-being for more our Spreads business, which we expect to complete in mid-2018 after than 1 billion people by 2020, halving our environmental footprint a 6.825 billion offer from KKR in December 2017.
These changes by 2030, and enhancing livelihoods for millions by 2020 has delivered will accelerate our strategy of long-term, sustainable shareholder growth for the business.
In 2016, 18 of our top 40 brands qualified as value creation.
In this Annual Report and Accounts, we report the Sustainable Living brands, growing 50% faster than the rest of the performance of Foods and Refreshment separately because they business, while delivering more than 60% of Unilevers growth.
Their were separate categories for the reporting period.
They will be success is driven by the growing consumer demand for brands that reported together from 2018 onwards.
have purpose at their core.
Our 2017 Sustainable Living brands will be announced in May 2018 once the analysis is complete.
Find out more Our business activities span a complex global value chain.
See page 9 about our Sustainable Living brands on pages 11 to 13. for more details.
At the heart of our business is a workforce of 161,000 people who are driven by our Purpose and empowered to excel in our The USLP also delivers lower costs through reduced waste, energy fast-changing markets.
Unilevers Code of Business Principles the and packaging.
It lowers risks in our supply chain by securing a Code, and the 24 policies that support it Code Policies, set out the sustainable supply of critical raw materials such as palm oil and standards required from all our employees.
The Code Policies cover tea.
And it also increases trust in our business - particularly among a number of areas, including countering corruption eg anti-bribery, consumers, employees, investors and governments.
respecting people eg respect, dignity and fair treatment and We work in partnership with governments and other organisations to safeguarding information.
Together, the Code and Code Policies drive transformational change across society with initiatives to help help us put our values of Integrity, Respect, Responsibility and realise the SDGs.
These are themselves opportunities to grow our Pioneering into practice.
See page 16 for more on our Code and business by addressing unmet challenges while alleviating major Code Policies.
social and environmental issues, such as climate change and Our employees are supported by a management team with representatives deforestation, creating more opportunities for women and enhancing from around 90 countries.
In emerging markets, more than 70% of our livelihoods, promoting health and well-being and championing country leadership teams are local.
It is this combination of global sustainable agriculture and food security.
strength and deep local expertise which lies at the heart of our Our track record over the past eight years proves our multi-stakeholder success in developing strong, consumer-relevant innovation.
model of long-term, compounding, sustainable growth is working for To harness these global and local advantages we have changed the shareholders.
See page 18 for more details.
At the same time, we have way we are organised.
Central to this strategy is the accelerated helped more than 601 million people improve their health and hygiene.
implementation of Connected 4 Growth C4G, the largest change We have enabled 1.6 million small-scale retailers and 716,000 smallholder programme Unilever has undergone in the last ten years to create farmers to access initiatives aiming to increase their incomes or improve a faster, simpler organisation.
Our new C4G organisation is now fully their agricultural practices.
And we have sourced 56% of our agricultural operational.
We expect the benefits of C4G to be realised progressively raw materials sustainably.
C4Gs strategic role is explained in more detail This Annual Report and Accounts provides further detail on our on page 10. performance during the year and how our business model is delivering A further change to make Unilever a simpler and more flexible accelerated returns for shareholders and a more sustainable way of business has been a review by the Boards of our dual-headed legal doing business for the benefit of all our stakeholders.
The review by the Boards is continuing and the outcome about our performance on pages 6 and 7. will be announced in due course.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report 1
