Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 Viability statement The Board considers the Companys financial status and viability Conclusion on a regular basis as part of its programme to monitor and Based on the consolidated financial impact of the sensitivity manage risk.
The Board has concluded that the most relevant analysis and associated mitigating internal controls and risk outlook period for this review should be three years Viability management actions, as described in detail for each principal Period.
Three years has been chosen taking into account the risk on pages 32 to 36, the Directors concluded that the Companys research and development and production cycles Company will be able to operate within its existing bank and its ability to respond in a timely manner to reasonably covenants and maintain sufficient bank facilities and cash possible Company specific and market events.
In addition, reserves to meet its funding needs over the Viability Period.
the Board has taken into consideration the Companys solid business model, its diverse product portfolio and the growing Confirmation of longer-term viability markets and market segments that it operates in.
These The assessment of principal risks facing the Company and attributes enable the Company to deliver relatively consistent, robust downside sensitivity analysis, all of which are described recurring revenue across the AWC, Ostomy Care, CCC and above and on pages 30 to 36, leads the Board to a reasonable Infusion Device franchises.
expectation that the Company will remain viable and continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they become due over the The annual strategic planning and budgeting processes were Viability Period through to December 2020. used as the starting point for assessing the Companys viability.
While the annual strategic planning process and associated The Groups Going Concern Statement is detailed on page 97. financial plan covers a period of five years, the first three years of the plan are considered as a combination of latest 2018 The Strategic report was approved by the Board of Directors budget and 20192020 strategic plan to contain the key on 14 February 2018 and signed on its behalf by: assumptions that will provide the most appropriate information on which to assess viability, and a reasonably visible time horizon.
Assessing viability In making their assessment, the Board took into account the potential impact of the principal risks that could prevent the Paul Moraviec Company from achieving its strategic objectives.
Following an Chief Executive Officer assessment of the Principal Risks and Uncertainties facing the Group, the Board continue to adopt similar scenarios to 2016 and believe these are still appropriate to encapsulate our risk profile.
The principal risks used in the assessment are described in detail in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section of this Annual Report on pages 30 to 36.
Plausible downside scenarios were then designed to conduct sensitivity analysis and measure the financial impact these risks would bring to the business.
The plausible downside scenarios were modelled individually and in combination.
These included the impacts of a global change in macroeconomic trends causing a significant appreciation of the US dollar against all other currencies, Frank Schulkes commercial execution headwinds causing flat organic revenue Chief Financial Officer growth in the Viability Period, no gross margin improvements achieved associated with the Companys Margin Improvement Programme and significant capital overspend across the Viability Period.
Consideration was also given to a number of other individual risks and events.
In the Boards estimation these events would not plausibly occur to a level of materiality that, in themselves, would endanger the Companys viability.
In the Boards assessment of viability, the scenarios have assumed that external debt is repaid as it becomes due, or will be refinanced as and when required.
ConvaTec Group Plc 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
