Greencoat UK Wind PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 Strategic Report Introduction acquisitions at the best possible price.
The Investment Managers relationships across the sector are also The Directors present their Strategic Report for the important.
Details of the Directors who held ofce during the year and as at the date of The Group invests in both onshore and offshore wind this report are given on pages 22 to 24. farms with the amount invested in offshore wind farms being capped at 40 per cent.
Investment Objective The Companys aim is to provide investors with an The Board believes that there is a significant market in annual dividend that increases in line with RPI inflation which the Group can continue to grow over the next while preserving the capital value of its investment few years.
portfolio in the long term on a real basis through reinvestment of excess cash flow and the prudent use Structure of portfolio gearing.
The target return to investors is The Company is a UK registered investment company an IRR net of fees and expenses of 8 per cent.
to 9 per with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The 2017 dividend of 6.49 pence per annum is The Group comprises the Company and Holdco.
targeted to increase in line with December 2017 RPI Holdco invests in SPVs which hold the underlying wind to 6.76 pence for 2018.
Progress on the objectives is farm assets.
The Group employs Greencoat Capital LLP measured by reference to the key metrics on page 1. as its Investment Manager.
Investment Policy Discount Control The Group invests in unlevered operating UK wind The Articles of Association require a continuation vote farms predominantly with a capacity of over 10MW, by shareholders if the share price were to trade at an which sell the power produced and associated green average discount to NAV of 10 per cent.
or more over benets to creditworthy UK offtakers under route-toa 12 month period.
Notwithstanding this, it is the market power purchase agreements.
intention of the Board for the Company to buy back its own shares in the market if the share price is trading at The Group is structured to be a utility friendly buyer a material discount to NAV, providing of course that it and co-investor in utility owned wind farms.
The Group is in the interests of shareholders to do so.
is wholly independent and is not tied to any particular utility or developer.
Review of Business and Future Outlook A detailed discussion of individual asset performance As the Group has no borrowings at wind farm level, and and a review of the business in the year together with only limited borrowing at the Group level, the annual future outlook are covered in the Investment dividend is sufciently protected against lower power Managers Report on pages 9 to 21. prices.
At the same time, it has the ability to benefit from higher power prices as the Group is not required Key Performance Indicators to be locked into long term xed price contracts.
The Board believes that the key metrics detailed on The Group has used debt facilities to make additional page 1, which are typical for investment entities, investments in the year.
This has enhanced the Groups together with cash generation will provide attractiveness to sellers since execution risk is greatly shareholders with sufficient information to assess how diminished, with the Group effectively being a cash effectively the Group is meeting its objectives.
The Group will continue to use debt facilities to make further investments.
Ongoing Charges The ongoing charges ratio of the Company is 1.24 per The Group will look to repay its drawn debt facilities cent.
of the weighted average NAV for the year to by renancing them in the equity markets at 31 December 2017.
This is made up as follows and has appropriate times in order to refresh its debt capacity.
been calculated using the AIC recommended While debt facilities are drawn, the Group benets methodology.
from an increase in investor returns because 31 December 31 December borrowing costs are below the underlying return on 2017 2016 investments.
Total management fee 1.11% 1.16% In contrast to the PFI infrastructure sector smaller in Directors fees 0.03% 0.04% terms of total equity invested and occupied by larger Ongoing expenses 0.10% 0.13% funds, where links to developers may be beneficial in sourcing new acquisitions, independence is of key Total 1.24% 1.33% importance for the Company to continue to make 04 GREENCOAT U K W I N D Strategic Report continued Ongoing Charges continued out a robust assessment of the risks facing the Group, including those principal risks that would threaten Based on the 31 December 2017 NAV of 1,144.0 its business model, future performance, solvency million, the ongoing total management fee is 1.06 per or liquidity.
Assuming no change in NAV, the 2018 ongoing charges ratio is expected to be 1.15 per cent.. As it is not possible to eliminate risks completely, the purpose of the Groups risk management policies and The Investment Manager is not paid any performance procedures is not to eliminate risks, but to reduce them or acquisition fees.
and to ensure that the Group is adequately prepared Corporate and Social Responsibility to respond to such risks and to minimise any impact if the risk develops.
Environmental, Social and Governance Matters The Group invests in wind farms and the environmental The spread of assets within the portfolio ensures that benets of renewable energy are widely known.
the portfolio benets from a diversied wind resource and spreads the exposure to a number of potential The Group relies on the Investment Manager to apply technical risks associated with grid connections and with appropriate environmental, social and governance local distribution and national transmission networks.
In policies to the investments the Group makes.
The addition, the portfolio includes 6 different turbine Groups approach to responsible investing, including manufacturers, which diversies technology and the environmental standards it aims to meet, are set maintenance risks.
Finally, each site contains a number out in the policies in place at the Investment Manager.
of individual turbines, the performance of which is Responsible investing principles have been applied to largely independent of other turbines.
each of the investments made.
These policies require the Group to make reasonable endeavours to procure the ongoing compliance of its portfolio companies with its policies on responsible investment.
Further details on these policies may be found on the Companys website: www.
The Investment Manager monitors compliance at the investment phase and reports on an ongoing basis to the Board.
Employees and Ofcers of the Company The Company does not have any employees and therefore employee policies are not required.
The Directors of the Company are listed on page 73.
Diversity The Groups policy on diversity is detailed in the Corporate Governance Report on page 31.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties In the normal course of business, each investee company has a rigorous risk management framework with a comprehensive risk register that is reviewed and updated regularly and approved by its board.
The key risks identied by the Board to the performance of the Group are detailed below.
The Board maintains a risk matrix setting out the risks affecting both the Group and the investee companies.
This risk matrix is reviewed and updated at least annually to ensure that procedures are in place to identify, mitigate and minimise the impact of risks should they crystallise.
This enables the Board to carry Deeping St. Nicholas 05 Greencoat UK Wind PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 Strategic Report continued Risks Affecting the Group could adversely impact the market price for renewable energy or the value of the green benets earned from Investment Manager generating renewable energy.
The Government has The ability of the Group to achieve its investment evolved the regulatory framework for new projects objective depends heavily on the experience of the being developed but has consistently stood behind the management team within the Investment Manager and framework that supports operating projects as it more generally on the Investment Managers ability to understands the need to ensure investors can trust attract and retain suitable staff.
of the Group depends upon the ability of the Investment Manager to identify, select and execute Electricity Prices further investments which offer the potential for Other things being equal, a decline in the market price satisfactory returns.
of electricity would reduce the portfolio companies revenues.
of the Groups The Investment Management Agreement includes key revenues are exposed to the oating power price.
man provisions which would require the Investment Manager to employ alternative staff with similar The Groups dividend policy has been designed to experience relating to investment, ownership, withstand significant short term variability in power nancing and management of wind farms should for prices.
A longer period of power price decline would any reason any key man cease to be employed by the materially affect the revenues of investee companies.
The Investment Management In general, independent forecasters expect UK Agreement ensures that no investments are made wholesale power prices to rise in real terms from following the loss of key men until suitable current levels, driven by higher gas and carbon prices.
replacements are found and there are provisions for a reduction in the investment management fee during Wind Resource the loss period.
It also outlines the process for their The investee companies revenues are dependent replacement with the Boards approval.
In addition, the upon wind conditions, which will vary across seasons key men are shareholders in the Company.
and years within statistical parameters.
The standard deviation of energy production is 10 per cent.
over a Financing Risk 12 month period 2 per cent.
Since long The Group will finance further investments either by term variability is low, there is no significant borrowing or by issuing further shares.
The ability of diversication benefit to be gained from geographical the Group to deliver expected real NAV growth is diversication across weather systems.
dependent on access to debt facilities and equity capital markets.
There can be no assurance that the The Group does not have any control over the wind Group will be able to borrow additional amounts or resource but has no gearing at wind farm level and has renance on reasonable terms or that there will be a designed its dividend policy such that it can withstand market for further shares.
significant short term variability in production relating to wind.
Before investment, the Group carries out Investment Returns Become Unattractive extensive due diligence and relevant historical wind A signicantly strengthening economy may lead to data is available over a substantial period of time.
The higher future interest rates which could make the listed other component of wind energy generation, a wind infrastructure asset class relatively less attractive to farms ability to turn wind into energy, is mitigated by investors.
In such circumstances, it is likely that there generally purchasing wind farms with a proven will be an increase in ination to which the revenues operating track record.
and costs of the investee companies are either indexed When acquiring wind farms that have only recently or signicantly correlated or an increase in power entered into operation, only limited operational data prices due to greater consumption of power or both.
In these instances, the acquisition Both would increase the investment return and thus agreements with the vendors of these wind farms may would provide a degree of mitigation against higher include a wind energy true-up which will apply once future interest rates.
2 years operational data has become available.
Under Risks Affecting Investee Companies this true-up, the net load factor will be reforecast Regulation based on all available data and the purchase price will be adjusted, subject to fide minimis thresholds If a change in Government renewable energy policy and caps.
were applied retrospectively to current operating projects including those in the Groups portfolio, this 06 GREENCOAT U K W I N D Strategic Report continued Risks Affecting Investee Companies continued balances of 5.9 million 2016: 5.9 million excluding cash balances within investee companies, which are Asset Life sufficient to meet current obligations as they fall due.
Wind turbines may have shorter lives than their expected The major cash outows of the Group are the payment life-span of 25 years.
In the event that the wind turbines of dividends and costs relating to the acquisition of do not operate for the period of time assumed by the new assets, both of which are discretionary.
The Group Group in its business model or require higher than had 265 million 2016: 100 million of outstanding expected maintenance expenditure to do so, it could debt as at 31 December 2017.
The Group is expected have a material adverse effect on investment returns.
to continue to comply with the covenants of its banking facilities going forward.
The Group invests in companies that own operating wind farms with an appropriate track record.
The The Directors have reviewed Group forecasts and Group performs regular reviews and ensures that projections which cover a period of not less than maintenance is performed on all wind turbines across 12 months from the date of this report, taking into the wind farm portfolio.
Regular maintenance ensures account foreseeable changes in investment and the wind turbines are in good working order, consistent trading performance, which show that the Group has with their expected life-spans.
Health and Safety and the Environment On the basis of this review, and after making due The physical location, operation and maintenance of enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation wind farms may, if inappropriately assessed and that the Company and the Group have adequate managed, pose health and safety risks to those resources to continue in operational existence for the involved.
Wind farm operation and maintenance may foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to result in bodily injury or industrial accidents, particularly adopt the going concern basis in preparing the if an individual were to fall from height, fall or be financial statements.
crushed in transit from a vessel to an offshore Longer Term Viability installation or be electrocuted.
If an accident were to occur in relation to one or more of the Groups As further disclosed on page 31, the Company is a investments and if the Group were deemed to be at member of the AIC and complies with the AIC Code.
fault, the Group could be liable for damages or In accordance with the AIC Code, the Directors are compensation to the extent such loss is not covered required to assess the prospects of the Group over a by insurance policies.
In addition, adverse publicity or period longer than the 12 months associated with reputational damage could ensue.
The Directors conducted this review for a period of 10 years, which it deemed appropriate, The Board reviews health and safety at each of its given the long term nature of the Groups investments scheduled Board meetings and Martin McAdam serves which are modelled over 25 years, coupled with its as the appointed Health and Safety Director.
The long term strategic planning horizon.
Group engages an independent health and safety In considering the prospects of the Group, the consultant to ensure the ongoing appropriateness of Directors looked at the key risks facing both the Group its health and safety policies.
and the investee companies as detailed on pages 5 to Going Concern 7, focusing on the likelihood and impact of each risk as well as any key contracts, future events or timescales The Groups business activities, together with the that may be assigned to each key risk.
The Directors factors likely to affect its future development, also tested the Companys ability to remain viable performance and position, are set out in the under several robust downside scenarios.
The Group faces a number of risks and uncertainties, as set out above.
As a sector-focused infrastructure fund, the Group aims The financial risk management objectives and policies to produce stable and inating dividends while of the Group, including exposure to price risk, interest preserving the capital value of its investment portfolio rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk are discussed in on a real basis.
The Directors believe that the Group is note 18 to the financial statements.
well placed to manage its business risks successfully over both the short and long term and accordingly, the The Group continues to meet day-to-day liquidity Board has a reasonable expectation that the Group will needs through its cash resources.
be able to continue in operation and to meet its As at 31 December 2017, the Group had net current liabilities as they fall due for a period of at least assets of 3.3 million 2016: 5.3 million and had cash 10 years.
07 Greencoat UK Wind PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 Strategic Report continued Longer Term Viability continued While the Directors have no reason to believe that the Group will not be viable over a longer period, they are of the opinion that it would be difficult to foresee the economic viability of any company with any degree of certainty for a period of time greater than 10 years.
On behalf of the Board Tim Ingram Chairman 25 February 2018 Corriegarth 08
