STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Risk events may occur in one or more of the assessment is initially performed on the OVERALL APPROACH OUR INTEGRATED GROUP RISK AND ASSURANCE FRAMEWORK following categories: Strategic, Operational, inherent risk, i. e the risk that exists in the The Board has ultimate accountability for the Top down and bottom up approach on risk Financial or Regulatory.
The residual risk Groups risk management process and for Oversight from the Board and Executive Committee on all risk identification, assessment and mitigation is undertaken remaining considering key controls is then determining the nature and extent of the risk at all levels within the Group.
Within each operation, responsibility for the evaluated.
This approach facilitates the that it is willing to take.
These processes are implementation of procedures to comply with identification and monitoring of the based on the Groups risk philosophy which the Groups risk philosophy and risk effectiveness of the key controls.
Further acknowledges that profits are in part the management framework rests with the senior mitigating actions are then identified.
Effective management management team, which is accountable to Key responsibilities Principal Risks the Group faces are identified of risks and opportunities is essential to the the operations CEO and Divisional CEO.
Has overall responsibility for ensuring the Group risk management process and agreed through this process.
achievement of the Groups strategic priorities.
and systems of internal control are robust and continuously monitored RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS The Group and operating unit risk registers are The Board has delegated responsibility for the Formulates the Groups strategy and defines the Groups risk appetite and culture discussed regularly at Quarterly Business Risk management is the process by which the detailed monitoring and review of the Reviews and Executive Committee meetings key objectives and the risks in achieving them effectiveness of the Groups risk management Monitors the nature, extent and management of risk exposure for the Groups to ensure that changes to risks are identified are identified, evaluated, prioritised and principal risks processes to the Audit Committee.
and monitored early and to ensure controlled.
The risk management process is THE The Group aims to embed its risk Provides direction and sets the tone on the importance of risk management implementation of the mitigating actions.
agreed annually with the Audit Committee.
BOARD management procedures within its existing During 2017 the risk management process B oard and Executive Sub-Committees perform oversight activities in line In summary, the Senior Risk Management business processes and corporate governance hasbeen improved by the introduction of a with their Terms of Reference process is illustrated to the left.
The implementation of this risk common risk list, enabling risks to be rolled up management philosophy is supported by an In addition, all entities complete an Annual and allowing removal of one layer of analysis.
Remuneration Nominations HSE Treasury appropriate balance of policies and Controls Self-Assessment, which is designed Committee Committee Committee Committee The foundation of Seniors Risk Management performance metrics that are reported on to highlight any significant gaps in the internal approach is a half-yearly Risk Assessment regularly and designed to enable the effective control system and require development of Review, although risks are continuously monitoring of progress against agreed improvement initiatives.
Supports and challenges the Board in monitoring risk exposure in line monitored by the Executive Committee and objectives.
with its Terms of Reference the Board.
Senior plcs risk management process adopts a top down and bottom up At a minimum, the Group aims to ensure that Reviews the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal approach and is integrated with the annual any individually significant event that: control systems AUDIT strategic planning process.
Twice a year a risk has or may result in the potential to Independent Assurance the Third Line of Defence assessment review is performed at Group COMMITTEE compromise its ability to achieve its level and by each operation.
Cross functional External Group Risk Other External business objectives: or teams are involved to ensure that the full Audit and Assurance Assurance range of risks to the business are considered.
could lead to a material breach of policies The risks to achievement of strategic and procedures: or objectives are identified, evaluated and ranked Operational Oversight the Second Line of Defence could impact the delivery of earnings as to likelihood of occurrence and potential Development and implementation of strategy, operational plans, policies, materially at a local operational level impact to the Group.
The impact is not only procedures and budgets considered in current year financial terms, is identified, reported on and actioned through EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Monitoring of operating and financial performance but also in more strategic terms.
The risk the Groups risk management procedures.
DIVISIONAL Assessment and control of risk including emerging risks MANAGEMENT Prioritisation and allocation of resources Lead and co-ordinate Group risk and control related processes DEFINE AND Assesses and supports the Group in mitigating the Groups COMMUNICATE risks including: STRATEGIC GROUP OBJECTIVES CORPORATE Policies and Control Specialist Business FUNCTIONS Procedures Self-Assessments Support Reviews IDENTIFY MONITOR, AND EVALUATE REVIEW RISKS AND AND UPDATE OPPORTUNITIES O perational Management the First Line of Defence Operational units identify, assess and mitigate their key risks SENIOR RISK Risk assessments are reviewed and discussed by OPERATING UNITS MANAGEMENT Divisional Management.
PROCESS EVALUATE EXISTING IMPLEMENT PROCESSES, CHANGES CONTROLS AND RESOURCES IDENTIFY IMPROVEMENTS AND ALLOCATE RESPONSIBILITY 24 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 25 RISK OWNERSHIP AND CONTROL OVERSIGHT AND INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIONS TO MITIGATE RISK PRINCIPAL GROUP RISKS 1 3 4 PRICE-DOWN PRESSURES During 2017 the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group have been reassessed.
Following this review two risks identified as principal Customer pricing pressure is an ongoing challenge The Group works closely with its customers to find innovative ways to produce products risks in the 2016 Annual Report & Accounts are no longer considered to be principal risks and two have been added.
The two risks which are no within our industries, driven by the expectations of at a lower cost, thus helping them to meet pricing challenges.
longer considered to be principal risks are: airlines, land vehicle operators and governments The Group is able to consider bundles of products that in total help achieve customer Employee Retention Improvements in the Groups succession planning process, together with ongoing in-house development programmes seeking to purchase more competitively priced pricing challenges.
has reduced both the likelihood, and resulting impact, of not being able to attract, develop and retain high quality individuals.
This could continue to put pressure on the Groups future operating margins.
Where appropriate, the Group will actively pass work to some of its cost competitive Strategy The Group has strengthened the strategic planning process, thereby reducing the likelihood of the Groups strategy not being facilities such as Mexico, Thailand, the Czech Republic, South Africa, Brazil, India, China appropriately formulated, communicated and effectively executed.
and Malaysia with a view to helping satisfy customer challenges.
2 5 ACQUISITIONS The principal potential risks and uncertainties, together with actions that are being taken to mitigate each risk, are: Failure to execute an effective acquisition and M&A opportunities continue to be evaluated and discussed at the Boards strategic integration programme would have a significant review.
Processes are in place to ensure that the Group will be aware of emerging Increased risk Decreased risk Risk unchanged N New risk impact on the Groups ability to generate long-term acquisition opportunities.
The Group has a well-established acquisition framework that includes proven valuation, Areas of strategic priorities as described on pages 16 and 17. due diligence and integration processes.
1 2 3 4 5 6 Consistently strong free cash flow generation gives the Group capacity to execute a targeted acquisition programme.
Post-acquisition reviews are conducted as appropriate.
RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIONS TO MITIGATE RISK PROGRAMME PARTICIPATION 1 2 3 4 2 3 Long-term growth in demand, including participation The Group has developed a portfolio of businesses that are exposed to markets which NEW AIRCRAFT PLATFORM DELAYS in future development programmes in the Groups exhibit fundamental long-term growth characteristics.
Significant shipset content has been secured on a The Group monitors programme development and launch timing of new aircraft major markets, is an essential foundation for future number of new aircraft platforms currently under platforms very closely, utilising internal customer relationships and market intelligence.
Customer value is driven through constructive and co-operative relationships with key growth.
Failure to secure profitable new programme customers in each market, providing innovative customer solutions and quality products development or in initial phases of production.
A cautious approach is taken to both capital investment in new programmes, to wins could have a severe impact on the Groups These include the Airbus A350, A320neo, the delivered on time and in line with specifications.
minimise the time between installation and utilisation of new capital equipment, and to Boeing 737 MAX and Bombardiers CSeries regional the projected build rates and associated revenue in financial projections.
The Group ensures that its operations are sufficiently well capitalised to be able to bid jet.
Delays in the launch or ramp-up in production of competitively on new programme opportunities, and maintains close control over these platforms could have a material adverse The growing breadth of Seniors exposure to a comprehensive and diverse range of operating costs to ensure that operations remain competitive on existing programmes.
impact on the Groups rate of organic growth.
aerospace and land vehicle platforms, together with its broad exposure in global The Group utilises an internal contract approval process, comprising both financial and industrial markets, means that the Groups future organic growth profile is not overly dependent on any individual new aircraft platform.
non-financial analyses, to ensure that bids are submitted and won at acceptable margin levels.
This Policy will be updated in 2018 as part of our continuous improvement 2 3 4 5 IMPORTANCE OF EMERGING MARKETS initiative.
Customers desire to move manufacture of The Groups strategy of developing a portfolio of high value-added engineering components to lower-cost countries could render manufacturing companies has meant that over time it has generally evolved away from the Groups operations uncompetitive and have an products where the direct threat of lower-cost country manufacture is significant.
In addition, certain The Group successfully employs a strategy of retaining commercial and engineering customers require global programme support as expertise close to customers locations, principally in North America and Europe.
they respond to increasing domestic demand in a Thisenables effective support to be readily given to its customers, whilst increasing number of these emerging markets.
manufacturing at above-average growth rates in lower-cost country locations where itmakes sense to do so and with customer agreement.
The Group has an increasing presence in emerging markets via its facilities in Mexico, Thailand, the Czech Republic, South Africa, Brazil, India, Malaysia and China.
Each of these operations, individually and in combination, has a healthy number of viable opportunities for further expansion either to supply domestic markets or to support customers increasingly global needs.
In 2017 the Mexico facility has been reshaped as a focus factory: capacity expansion is underway in Malaysia and has just been completed in Czech Republic.
26 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 27
