Our business model Creating sustainable value Resources and relationships We are a global medical we need to create value products and technologies People and culture group.
At the heart of our Our people are key to our success.
Their skill and dedication enable us to fulfil our Purpose.
We aim to create a safe, fair and business model is our Purpose high-quality working environment.
We invest in the development of our employees and encourage the sharing of feedback and to improve the lives of the ideas.
We actively promote our values-based culture which focuses on earning the trust of all our stakeholders.
To fulfil our Research and development Purpose we must run our We have world-leading innovation capabilities that develop business in a responsible way safe and reliable products and technologies which meet customer needs throughout their care journey.
Feedback from and deliver sustainable value the people who use and prescribe our products forms a key part of our development process.
Manufacturing processes We have an international manufacturing footprint which includes our own manufacturing facilities and third-party contract manufacturing capabilities.
Embedded across all our operations are extensive quality, regulatory and environmental management processes which aim to ensure that our products are safe, meet regulatory requirements and minimise environmental impacts such as greenhouse gas emissions see the GHG emissions table on page 20.
Marketing engagement To better understand our customers needs and to gather feedback on our products and services we engage regularly with our customers and the healthcare community through several channels including our dedicated sales teams and our direct-to-customer platforms.
We also provide educational information and support.
Sales and distribution Overall approach to corporate responsibility We sell our products in over 110 countries in a variety of Our overall approach to corporate responsibility is ways.
Our Infusion Devices franchise has a concentrated aimed at supporting delivery of our Purpose.
It can be business-to-business customer base and our other summarised as: franchises sell directly to customers and via an extensive Identifying our key stakeholders the people we touch, network of distributors and wholesalers, who take our how they interact with our products, operations, activities products to market.
and value chain, and the issues that are relevant to them.
Adopting a logical process for prioritising those issues, Partners to identify the most material matters.
We rely on partners, including healthcare professionals who Responding to the priorities by developing appropriate provide us with feedback on our products and third-party strategies, policies, programmes and performance manufacturers, suppliers and distributors who support the indicators, and reporting regularly and transparently on sale of our product portfolio.
Within the relevant ethical and our progress.
regulatory frameworks, we aim to build long-term collaborative relationships based on trust.
Our 2017 Corporate Responsibility Report CR Report, which is available on our website, www.
com Financial resources , sets out our approach to our most We have an attractive financial profile and generate significant important CR-related issues under six headings, which are free cash flow.
As a public listed company we have access to identified in the adjacent business model graphic.
These capital through our shareholder base.
We also have access to issues create both risks and opportunities, and have been sources of third-party capital through our relationships with identified through a robust materiality assessment which banks and other financial institutions.
is described in our CR Report.
Our resources and relationships Page 16 ConvaTec Group Plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 e l p o e p r u Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 o g n i l b a n E W o r k i n s r g e r m e s p o o t s n u s i c b l r y o f w g i t n h i r o e u v i r l e p D a r t n e r s How we create and Benefits our business capture value model creates Customers Our products and services give people living with chronic conditions greater confidence, mobility and freedom.
They also help healthcare providers deliver better outcomes Design in a cost effective way.
strategy R&D investment: $41.2m Our people We reward our employees and provide them with benefits including training and development programmes in a positive work Develop environment which encourages full Market, sell, Improving innovative engagement and offers opportunities and gather the lives of products for all.
customer the people and feedback we touch technologies Salaries and benefits paid: $471.9m Shareholders We generate returns for shareholders.
Dividends and scrip dividend paid and proposed in respect of the year ended 31 December 2017: $111.5m Manufacture Healthcare providers In addition to supplying our products and services, we provide healthcare providers with support, advice and value-based healthcare solutions.
People living with chronic conditions, and the medical profession Through our engagement programmes we increase awareness and understanding of certain chronic conditions and our marketleading R&D capabilities advance clinical practices.
We add value by Wider stakeholders Engaging with our customers and healthcare professionals to better We create socio-economic benefits understand their needs.
for a range of stakeholders including Building customer insights into our development process to enhance our generating income for governments product portfolio.
through the payment of tax and Developing and successfully commercialising our innovative product pipeline providing employment in the to create a portfolio of differentiated products and strong brands.
communities we operate in and Creating products with proven clinical performance capabilities that address across our supply chain.
Embedding responsible business practices across all our operations.
Tax paid: $46.9m Principal risks and uncertainties Page 30 ConvaTec Group Plc 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 n o i t u b i r t C n o o n c s e c r i v m i n o g n o o u c r e p o l i a c n o e s t a g n i k a M y l t n e r a p s n a r t d n a y l l a c i h t e g n i v a h e B
