Our strategy Our strategy is designed to drive sales and earnings momentum by building on our strong portfolio of differentiated products with leading positions in large structurally growing markets.
We look to excel across the following three strategic drivers: growth, innovation and efficiency.
Strategic driver 1 Growth We aim to optimise revenue and adjusted EBITDA growth from our strong portfolio of differentiated products and focus on the following priorities: Leveraging our existing capabilities, technologies and Building direct and deeper engagement with our customers commercial platforms to enter new addressable market through investing in direct-to-consumer platforms: segments and geographic regions: Developments during the year Developments during the year Completing the acquisition of Woodbury Holdings which Continuing the global roll-out of our Avelle System which is expands the scale and scope of our US direct-to-consumer now available in 20 markets around the world including the activities.
UK, Germany, France, Canada, Australia and South Africa.
Expanding our direct-to-consumer me programme with Over the medium term, this increasing global presence will the launch of me recovery, details of which are included on help us to capture a larger share of the disposable segment page 42, and our me continence care programme, details within the total $1.5 billion NPWT sector.
of which are included on page 21.
Continuing to advance our position in the global $1.3 billion Increasing our sales capability in key markets including China foam market as demand for our FoamLite ConvaTec and the US.
dressing continued to grow following the products successful launch in September 2016.
Future priorities Launching our Esteem Flex Convex one-piece System and Continue to execute strategies that focus on broadening enhancing a number of our other ostomy care products to and deepening relationships with customers.
drive growth and attract a new and younger customer base.
Introducing our GentleCath Glide catheter as part of our phased entry into the European catheter market.
Launching neria guard, our new infusion set.
Future priorities Key performance indicators see page 28 Continue to build momentum with our Avelle System and Group revenue growth expand our market presence in new geographies.
Adjusted EBITDA growth Continue our phased entry into the large European catheter market.
Principal risks and uncertainties see pages 30 to 36 Continue to build momentum in the turnaround of Ostomy Macroeconomic and Foreign Exchange Care through further enhancement of the franchises offering.
Governmental Social Health Care Policy Continue exploring the use of infusion device products, Intellectual Property and Product Innovation particularly neria guard, for applications beyond insulin.
Regulatory Product Quality and Safety Ethics, Bribery and Corruption Data Loss Mistreatment Business insight Our strategy is designed to capitalise on our fundamental strengths and the trends and dynamics in our market place.
We measure execution of our strategy against our key performance indicators and manage the risks we face through our risk management process.
Our markets Page 10 KPIs Page 28 Principal risks and uncertainties Page 30 Remuneration report Page 78 ConvaTec Group Plc 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 Strategic developments during the year Leveraging our market-leading technologies and capabilities to grow share in attractive end markets We are continuing to advance our position in the global $1.3 billion foam market, one of the fastest growing segments of the advanced wound care dressing market.
We successfully launched our FoamLite ConvaTec dressing in September 2016 in France, the worlds second biggest wound care market.
During the year the product, which is manufactured at our Deeside plant, has been rolled out globally and is now available throughout Asia, Latin America, the US, Australia and Europe.
Designed to manage low to non-exuding chronic and acute wounds such as superficial wounds, including skin abrasions and tears which do not require the absorbency of regular foam dressings, FoamLite ConvaTec dressing protects fragile skin, defends it against infection and creates a moist wound-healing environment.
The thin and flexible foam dressing, which conforms to the skin, is easy to apply, re-position and remove.
Through the addition of FoamLite ConvaTec dressing to our product portfolio, which includes AQUACEL Foam dressing for moderate to highly exuding wounds and AQUACEL Foam Pro dressing for protection, we can now offer customers a broad range of simple solutions to address a wide variety of needs and help them resume their daily lives.
As a dermatology specialist, I perform small surgeries that need a light foam dressing to support superficial wound care.
In my experience, FoamLite ConvaTec dressing is easy to apply, and patient tolerance when removing the dressing is good.
For small surgical incisions, our outcomes have been remarkable.
Dr. Vincent Orlandini, Department of Dermatology, Bordeaux Hospital University Centre, Bordeaux, France Strengthening direct engagement with our customers Enhanced product portfolio driving growth Building on the success of our leading 180 Medical direct-to-home catheter In September 2017 we commenced our advanced pouching system APS business, in 2017 we acquired Woodbury Holdings Woodbury, a national programme which covers the upgrade of a number of our products.
distributor of incontinence and urinary catheter products.
Since the launch of our ostomy range in the 1970s, we have been renowned Woodbury expands both the scale and scope of our US direct-to-consumer for the manufacture of best-in-class wafers the part of the system that activities and stimulated the creation of our Home Distribution Group HDG.
fits around the stoma and connects the pouch to the body.
In particular, As US healthcare extends into the home environment, HDG serves as a Durahesive and Stomahesive, our highly differentiated hydrocolloid skin forward extension of the clinicians office by providing essential medical barriers, are seen as gold standard.
However, parts of our pouch range have products and facilitating flexible methods of payment.
Our focus on, and aged and their manufacture is complex involving a large number of stock responsiveness to, resolving the needs of each individual customer is key to keeping units SKUs.
Through the APS programme we will upgrade our the strength of our overall customer relationships and has helped us become pouch portfolio to provide customers with greater comfort and a more the leading specialist retailer of intermittent catheters in the US.
modern look and feel while maintaining the quality of our proven skin barriers.
Our customers comfort is our priority and the enhancements we are introducing address requests from both nurses and customers to improve the look and feel of some products.
Furthermore, in line with our strategic priorities, Enhancing our market position in fast-growing geographies our new and enhanced APS portfolio together with our planned additional Our Ostomy Care business in China delivered good growth and increased its product launches, will enable us to drive growth and attract a new and younger market share from 3.9% to 5.6%.
This strong performance was driven by a customer base.
The enhancements will also reduce the number of SKUs number of factors.
In particular, we have increased our sales coverage across significantly and make material sourcing and manufacture more efficient.
the Chinese market and strengthened our relationships with ostomy nurses to increase their familiarity with our products and provide them with support to make ostomy care simple and accessible.
In the past year ConvaTec has revitalised its brand and business in China by working more closely with enterostomal therapists through training and education programmes and by supporting them in their daily work.
Ms. Wang Ling, president of Chinas Enterostomal Therapy Society.
ConvaTec Group Plc 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our strategy continued Strategic developments during the year Developing innovative tailored solutions to meet patients needs As leaders in advanced wound care and, in line with our purpose to improve the lives of the people we touch, we set out to develop innovative Negative Pressure Wound Therapy NPWT products, which work by creating a vacuum at the wound surface.
Our research indicated the suitability of our proprietary Hydrofiber Technology within an NPWT system by providing an effective wound healing interface under negative pressure.
These findings informed the development of our Avelle NPWT System, an innovative and unique disposable negative pressure device which can be used for up to 30 days.
Our Hydrofiber Technology, which gels upon contact with fluid, absorbs fluid and provides an optimal moist wound healing environment, whilst counteracting in-growth of tissue into the dressing to ease dressing changes.
The Avelle NPWT System is discreet and easy to use.
It has visual rather than audible alarms to minimise disturbance to the user during therapy and also features a one-way valve, which allows the dressing to be easily disconnected from the pump so that NPWT can still be applied to the wound surface during showering.
The Avelle NPWT System, the first device to combine NPWT and Hydrofiber Technology, is a significant development in advanced wound care.
ConvaTec Group Plc 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 Number of new Strategic driver 2 products launched Innovation We aim to continue our long and successful track record of 16 developing and commercialising new innovative technologies.
We will also evolve a range of value-based solutions to address AWC customer needs.
This strategy enhances our position in our FoamLite ConvaTec new Dressing sizes existing markets and accelerates our access to new markets.
Avelle NPWT System Pump Carry Bag Sensi-Care Skin Protectant Incontinence Wipes Developments during the year Launched 16 new products across our franchises.
These new products are detailed in the adjacent table and include: In AWC, we expanded our Avelle NPWT System with the Ostomy Care launch of a pump carry bag and added new sizes to our Esteem Flex Convex Japan FoamLite ConvaTec dressing range.
We also expanded Accuseal Convex CTF our skin care range with the launch of our Sensi-Care Skin Esteem Urostomy with Accuseal tap Protectant Incontinence Wipes, which are designed to APS one-piece closed clean, moisturise and protect skin in patients with EuroTec Varimate strips incontinence associated dermatitis.
In Ostomy Care, we expanded our one-piece offering with the global launch of Esteem Urostomy with Accuseal tap and upgraded a number of products in our one-piece CCC closed pouch range to our Advanced Pouch System format.
GentleCath Glide We also launched our new Varimate strips and introduced CE EU our Esteem Flex Convex high output pouch to the Flexi-Seal Protect FMS Japanese market.
fide HP-free GentleCath catheter In CCC we launched our new Flexi-Seal Protect Faecal DEHP-free Op-suction sets Management System which is designed to manage faecal Enfit feeding tubes incontinence whilst providing the best patient skin and tissue protection.
We also launched our GentleCath Glide intermittent catheter range into the EU and we upgraded several of our catheter and operation suction set product Infusion Devices designs.
neria guard by Unomedical In Infusion Devices we launched our new neria guard 1 MiniMed Mio Advance by Medtronic Diabetes system which is designed to provide rapid and pain- 2 t:lock by Tandem Diabetes minimising cannula application via a retracting and contained needle within a precision-designed and integral device unit which reduces the risk of needle-stick injuries.
MiniMed Mio Advance trademarks of Medtronic MiniMed, Inc. 2. t:lock trademark of Tandem Diabetes, US.
Future priorities Commercialise our significant development pipeline including 24 products at concept phase, 29 at development phase and 11 nearing launch.
Further details about our development pipeline are included on page 19.
Key performance indicators see page 29 Number of products launched Number of new product development programmes Principal risks and uncertainties See page 30 to 36 Operational and Supply Chain Intellectual Property and Product Innovation Product Quality and Safety Regulatory ConvaTec Group Plc 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Our strategy continued Strategic developments during the year Evolving our Margin Improvement Programme In the fourth quarter of 2015, we launched our MIP, to drive efficiencies in our manufacturing and distribution cost base.
Originally our MIP was targeting a minimum net improvement to adjusted gross margins of 300 basis points bps by 2020.
In 2016 we made good progress and delivered 130 bps of adjusted gross margin benefit of which approximately 90 points were driven by the MIP and the remainder by foreign exchange.
However, in 2017 as detailed in the Chief Executives review on page 6, we experienced supply constraints in both our AWC and Ostomy Care franchises and once safety stock had been depleted, a build-up of backorders and lost orders.
Whilst MIP delivered a cost out benefit to adjusted gross margin, this was more than offset by headwinds and cost increases described in the Chief Executives review on page 6.
Including pricing and product mix effects, overall there was a negative impact on adjusted gross margin of 70 basis points.
With favourable foreign exchange impacts of 80 bps, adjusted gross margin increased 10 bps year on year to 61.0%.
We anticipate that we will see additional productivity benefits from the lower cost of labour in Haina, and our LEAN projects in 2018, although some of the headwinds will remain, such as depreciation and wage inflation, restricting adjusted gross margin growth in 2018.
We will continue to drive existing initiatives and launch new projects in five areas where we see clear opportunities.
These are outlined on the following page.
We are already building detailed plans for new projects and validating the opportunities and, expect modest productivity gains in 2018 as the majority of these programmes will deliver in 2019 and beyond.
We believe that the overall scale of the cost out opportunities, in dollar terms, is similar to our previous target over the medium to long term.
A number of actions are in progress following our experience in 2017 and these are also detailed on the following page.
Leadership has also been strengthened.
Our adjusted gross margin ambition remains, compared to best in class peers, and we continue to believe that material productivity gains are achievable over the medium to long term.
As detailed in the CFOs review on page 48, in the future, in line with most peers, we will provide guidance on adjusted EBIT margin instead of adjusted gross margin, whilst continuing to report on our progress in delivering productivity improvements.
ConvaTec Group Plc 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 Strategic driver 3 Efficiency We strive to simplify the way we operate to reduce complexity, increase efficiency and free up resources to reinvest elsewhere in our business.
Developments during the year included Experiencing significant supply issues in AWC and Ostomy Care as a result of the events described in the Chief Executives review on page 6 which led to a build-up of backorders and some loss of orders and impacted on our MIP.
Progressing our manufacturing optimisation programme with the closure of our Greensboro plant in the US and the transfer of 20 Ostomy Care and ten AWC production lines to Haina in the Dominican Republic.
We also completed our planned manufacturing plant reduction from 11 manufacturing plants to eight nine including our EuroTec plant which was outside the scope of our MIP.
As at 31 December 2017, approximately 84% of our manufacturing workforce is now in lower cost countries.
Now trained c. 90% of our manufacturing workforce in LEAN manufacturing principles with the number of trained employees increasing by around 20% year on year.
Further progress implementing our Ostomy Care Advanced Pouching System APS lines in our plants in Haina and Slovakia.
Leadership strengthened with the appointment of Donal Balfe as our new Executive Vice President Global Operations.
Future priorities Progressing a number of initiatives focused on improving project management, operating reviews and cross-functional collaboration.
Improved cost efficiency in supply chain and distribution.
Driving our LEAN productivity programmes.
Key performance indicators see page 29 Adjusted gross margin Adjusted EBIT margin Principal risks and uncertainties see page 32 and 36 Operational and Supply Chain Budget and Forecasting ConvaTec Group Plc 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
