Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 Directors report The Directors present their Annual Report on the aairs of the Group, together with the Financial Statements and auditors report, for the year ended 31 December 2017.
The Corporate governance report set out on pages 64 to 69 forms part of this Directors report and is incorporated by reference.
Disclosures elsewhere in the Annual Report are cross-referenced where appropriate.
Taken together, the Strategic report on pages 4 to 59 and this Directors report fulfil the requirements of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules to provide a management report.
Post balance sheet events Details of significant events since the balance sheet date are contained in Note 28 to the Financial Statements.
An indication of likely future developments in the business of the Company and details of research and development activities are included on page 19 and 24 to 25 of the Strategic report.
Disclosure of information to the auditor Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Annual Report confirms that: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and the Director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provision of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Deloitte have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Going concern and longer-term viability The Directors have, at the time of approving these Financial Statements, a reasonable expectation and a high level of confidence that the Group and the Company has the adequate liquid resources to meet its liabilities as they become due and will be able to sustain its business model, strategy and operations and remain solvent for a period of at least 12 months from 14 February 2018.
Thus the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these Financial Statements.
The Code requires the Directors to assess and report on the prospects of the Company over a longer period.
This longer-term viability statement is set out on page 37.
Financial instruments Information about the use of financial instruments by the Company and its subsidiaries is contained in Note 26 to the Financial Statements.
Branches of the Company There are no branches of the Company.
Dividends 1 We are targeting a payout ratio of between 35% and 45% of Adjusted Net Income over time and it is our intention to pay an interim and a final dividend in respect of each financial year in the approximate proportions of one-third and two-thirds, respectively, of the annual total dividend.
We may periodically reassess this policy to reflect, among other things, our growth prospects, capital efficiency and the profitability of the Company, whilst also maintaining appropriate levels of dividend cover.
Any decision to declare and pay dividends will be made at the discretion of the Directors and will depend on, among other things, applicable law, regulation, restrictions, the Groups financial position, working capital requirements, restrictions on dividends in the Groups banking facilities, finance costs, general economic conditions and other factors the Directors deem significant.
In February 2017 the Company carried out a capital reduction to convert the amount standing to the credit of the share premium account to distributable reserves to facilitate its ability to declare and pay dividends subject to the discretion of the Directors.
Further, a shareholders resolution was passed at the Companys first Annual General Meeting to authorise the Directors to implement a scrip dividend scheme within three years from the date of the 2017 AGM for those shareholders who elected to avail of such scheme.
During the year the Directors resolved to pay an interim dividend of 1.4 per share on 20 October 2017.
A scrip dividend scheme was also implemented for the 20 October 2017 interim dividend, with 377,948 new shares issued accordingly.
The Directors recommend a final dividend for the year of 4.3 per share 2016: nil which, together with the interim dividend, makes a total for the year of 5.7 per share 2017: nil.
The final dividend, if approved by the Shareholders, will be paid on 17 May 2018 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 6 April 2018.
Certain financial measures in this Annual Report, including Adjusted Net Income, are not prepared in accordance with IFRS.
All adjusted measures are explained and reconciled to the most directly comparable measure prepared in accordance with IFRS on pages 54 to 57.
ConvaTec Group Plc 97 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors report continued Capital structure Share capital As at 31 December 2017, the Companys issued share capital consisted of 1,951,850,599 ordinary shares of 10p each.
Further details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with details of the movements in the Companys issued share capital during the year are shown in Note 22 to the Financial Statements.
As at 31 December 2017 the Company had only one class of share consisting of ordinary shares of 10p each.
Acquisition of Companys own shares At the end of the year, the Directors had authority, under the shareholders resolutions of 11 May 2017, to purchase through the market up to 10% of the Companys ordinary shares at prices per share at the higher of: i up to 105% of middle market quotations of the price of shares for the five business days prior to the date of purchase: and ii an amount equal to the higher of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid at the time of purchase.
This authority expires at the date of the Companys 2018 AGM and the Company will seek its renewal at the AGM.
It is confirmed that no acquisition of the Companys own shares have been made under such authority.
Shareholders rights The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are governed by the Companys Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding.
Subject to applicable law and the Articles of Association, holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive all shareholder documents, including notice of any general meeting, attend, speak and exercise voting rights at general meetings, either in person or by proxy, and participate in any distribution of income or capital.
Restrictions on voting There are no specific restrictions on voting rights, save in situations where the Company is legally entitled to impose such restrictions usually where amounts remain unpaid on shares after request, or the shareholder is otherwise in default of an obligation to the Company.
Currently all issued ordinary shares are fully paid.
There are no agreements between holders of securities in the Company that are known to the Company and may result in restrictions on transfer or on voting rights.
Shares held by the Companys employee benefit trust The Companys offshore employee benefit trust the EBT is used to purchase the Companys shares for the benefit of employees, including satisfying outstanding awards made under its employee share plans.
In respect of all shares held in the EBT, the trustee has waived its right to receive dividends.
As at 31 December 2017, 4,204,211 shares were held in the EBT representing approximately 0.22% of the Companys issued share capital.
Further details regarding the EBT are contained in Note 22 to the Financial Statements.
Restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares The transfer of ordinary shares is governed by the general provisions of the Companys Articles of Association and applicable legislation.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares other than: i as set out in the Articles of Association: and ii certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority the Listing Rules whereby Directors and certain officers and employees of the Company require approval to deal in the ordinary shares in accordance with the Companys share dealing policies and the Market Abuse Regulation.
Directors The membership of the Board and biographical details of the Directors are included in the Governance section on pages 62 and 63.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the Code, the Companies Act and related legislation.
The Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The powers of the Directors are described in the Boards terms of reference, which can be found at www.
com and in the Corporate governance report on pages 64 to 69.
Significant agreements There are a number of other agreements that take eect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company such as commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, property lease arrangements and employees share plans.
None of these are considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
Furthermore, the Directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss of oce or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Directors indemnities The Company has made qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its Directors which were made during the year and remain in force at the date of this report.
Company Secretary The Company Secretary provides ongoing support to the Board in relation to corporate governance issues and compliance with the Listing Rules.
She is responsible for establishing, implementing and monitoring the corporate governance framework, attending all Board and committee meetings, advising on effective Board processes, advising on Directors statutory duties, disclosure obligations and Listing Rule requirements, and working in conjunction with investor relations and corporate affairs regarding dialogue with investors.
ConvaTec Group Plc 98 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 Political donations No political donations, including non-EU political parties, were made during the period.
Information about the Companys lobbying and charitable activities is included in the Companys Corporate Responsibility Report, which is available on our website, www.
Substantial shareholdings At 31 December 2017, the Company had been notied, in accordance with chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following voting rights as a shareholder of the Company.
of ordinary Percentage of Shareholder shares voting rights Nature of holding Novo Holdings A S 389,318,793 19.95% Direct holding GIC Private Ltd 160,440,416 8.2199% Direct Indirect holding Financial instruments Companies owned by Nordic Capital 143,158,828 7.34% Direct Indirect holding Pelham Capital 97,850,000 5.01% Direct holding Financial instruments The Capital Group Companies, Inc 97,418,767 4.9911% Indirect holding Artisan Partners 96,257,676 4.93% Indirect holding Harbor International Fund 58,975,446 3.02% Direct holding During the period between 31 December 2017 and 14 February 2018, being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Annual Report, the Company received the following notications under Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
of ordinary Percentage of Shareholder shares voting rights Nature of holding Harbor International Fund 58,537,591 2.99% Direct holding Below 3% Relationship agreement with controlling shareholders The Company entered into, on listing, a relationship agreement with Nordic Capital and Avista as controlling shareholders as required by Listing Rule 9.2.
2A R 2 a. Nordic Capital was entitled to appoint two Non-Executive Directors to the Board for so long as it and its associates were entitled to exercise, or to control the exercise of, 25% or more of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially all matters at general meetings of the Company.
Nordic Capital and Avista together were each entitled to appoint one Non-Executive Director to the Board for so long as they and their associates were entitled to exercise, or control the exercise of, 10% or more of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially all matters at general meetings of the Company.
On listing, Raj Shah and Thomas Vetander were appointed as Non-Executive Directors for Nordic Capital and Kunal Pandit was appointed as Non-Executive Director for Avista.
Following the sell down of the shareholdings of Nordic Capital and Avista, Thomas Vetander and Kunal Pandit ceased to be Directors on 31 March 2017 and Raj Shah ceased to be a Director on 8 September 2017.
The relationship agreement automatically terminated for each of Nordic Capital and Avista upon them respectively ceasing to hold 10% or more shares in the Company.
As such the agreement terminated with respect to Avista on 31 March 2017 and to Nordic Capital on 6 June 2017.
Until 31 March 2017 for Avista and 6 June 2017 for Nordic Capital, the Company complied with the independence provisions of the relationship agreement, and so far as the Company was aware, Avista and Nordic Capital and their associates also complied with the independence provisions.
Novo Holdings A S Novo became a significant shareholder on 31 March 2017 and the Company entered a relationship agreement with Novo on such date as required by Listing Rule 9.2.
Given its significant investment in the Company, Novo is entitled to appoint one Non-Executive Director to the Board for so long as they and their associates are entitled to exercise, or control the exercise of, 10% or more of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially all matters at general meetings of the Company.
In the financial period to 31 December 2017 and also from 31 December 2017 to 14 February 2018, being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Annual Report, the Company has complied with the independence provisions of the relationship agreement, and so far as the Company is aware, Novo and their associates also complied with the independence provisions.
Related party transactions Details of the Companys related party transactions are contained in Note 27 to the Financial Statements.
Disabled employees Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
In the event of members of sta becoming disabled every eort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of the Group that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
Diversity The Group considers a diverse workforce as critical to its success.
Information about the Groups initiatives to achieve diversity across the business, including specific objectives, are contained on page 18 and in the Companys Corporate Responsibility Report for the year ended 31 December 2017, which is available on our website, www.
ConvaTec Group Plc 99 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Directors report continued Employee consultation The Group places considerable value on creating a positive collaborative working environment and to ensuring that all employees are engaged and motivated.
Details of employee engagement are provided on page 17.
Employee share schemes In addition to the discretionary share schemes operated as part of the Groups long-term incentives, detailed in the Remuneration report on pages 84 to 85 and 87 to 88, the Group operates an all employee share scheme globally.
The Directors believe that such a scheme is a benefit to the Company as it facilitates the ability for all employees to purchase shares in the Company, thus enabling them to benefit directly from the anticipated growth and success of the Company in the future.
The Executive Directors may participate in the UK all-employee share scheme, an HMRC approved savings related share option plan, on the same basis as other eligible employees.
All participants may invest up to the limits operated by the Company at the time set in line with HMRC guidance.
Shares acquired through the Groups share plans rank pari passu with existing ordinary shares in issue and have no special rights with regards to voting, rights to dividend, control of the Company or otherwise.
All of the Groups employee share plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
On a change of control, options and awards granted to employees under the Groups share plans may vest and become exercisable, subject to the satisfaction of any applicable performance conditions at that time.
Greenhouse emissions reporting The disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions required by law are included in the Strategic report on pages 20 to 21.
Relationships with capital providers Throughout the year, a comprehensive and active programme of meetings to discuss strategy and performance was conducted by the Executive Directors.
The Chairman and Deputy Chairman held a shareholder consultation meeting in September 2017 where a range of governance and remuneration issues were discussed with shareholders.
The Chairman has also met with a number of the Companys largest shareholders to discuss performance.
The Chair of the Remuneration Committee has also written to shareholders in January 2018 to engage with them regarding the performance measures and targets for annual incentive and long-term incentive arrangements.
Listing Rules compliance with LR 9.8.
4R The information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.
4R can be found in the following locations: Section Applicable sub-paragraph within LR 9.8.
4R Location 1 Interest capitalised Group Financial Statements, Note 3, page 119 2 Publication of unaudited financial information Not applicable 4 Details of long-term incentive schemes Remuneration Committee report, pages 84 to 85 and 87 to 88 5 Waiver of emoluments by a Director Not applicable 6 Waiver of future emoluments by a Director Not applicable 7 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable 8 Item 7 in relation to major subsidiary undertakings Not applicable 9 Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary Not applicable 10 Contracts of significance Not applicable 11 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder Not applicable 12 Shareholder waivers of dividends Not applicable 13 Shareholder waivers of future dividends Not applicable 14 Confirmation of relationship agreement Directors report, page 99 Special business The Annual General Meeting will be held at Reading Town Hall, Blagrave Street, Reading, Berkshire RG1 1QH, on 10 May 2018 at 11.00am.
Notice of the meeting, containing details of the resolutions to be put to the meeting, will be available on the Companys website.
Clare Bates Company Secretary 14 February 2018 ConvaTec Group Plc is registered in England No.
10361298 ConvaTec Group Plc 100 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
