Key performance indicators We measure our performance against our Strategic driver strategic priorities through both financial and Growth non-financial KPIs.
We believe that these KPIs 1 Group revenue and revenue growth $m represent meaningful and relevant measures of our performance and are an important, .
illustration of our ability to achieve our objectives under each of our strategic drivers.
Our strategic drivers Performance in 2017 Growth At constant currency, revenue grew 4.1% to $1,765m.
We aim to optimise revenue and adjusted EBITDA growth from AWC revenues grew 2.6%, with foam, silver and surgical our strong portfolio of differentiated products.
cover dressing continuing to drive growth offset by supply constraints and changes to French reimbursement rates.
Innovation Ostomy Care grew 3.0%, with good momentum in the US, We aim to continue our long and successful track record of Latin America, China and Japan.
However, this growth was developing and commercialising new innovative technologies offset by supply constraints which significantly impacted the for the benefit of customers and healthcare providers.
CCC revenues increased 7.0%, reflecting good growth in our GentleCath portfolio and HDG business, Efficiency offset by planned MIP-related product rationalisation.
We strive to simplify the way we operate to reduce complexity, Infusion Devices grew 5.2%, supported by our partners increase efficiency and free up resources to reinvest elsewhere new product launches.
Risks Operational and Supply Chain Macroeconomic Governmental Social Health Care Policy Intellectual Property and Product Innovation Regulatory Product Quality and Safety Ethics, Bribery and Corruption 2 Adjusted earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA growth $m m -.
m. m. Performance in 2017 At constant currency, adjusted EBITDA fell 4.4% to $505m, primarily driven by headwinds and other costs which offset the benefits of margin improvement initiatives.
This, in addition to an increase in Operating Expenses, driven by a full year of public company-related costs, commercial investments and the inclusion of Woodbury and EuroTec, further diluted EBITDA.
Revenue and EBITDA growth at constant currency.
Certain financial measures in this Annual Report, including adjusted results Risks above, are not prepared in accordance with IFRS.
All adjusted measures are Operational and Supply Chain reconciled to the most directly comparable measure prepared in accordance Macroeconomic and Foreign Exchange with IFRS on pages 54 to 57.
Governmental Social Health Care Policy Intellectual Property and Product Innovation Business insight In order to deliver our strategic goals, which our KPIs measure, we must Regulatory manage the risks that could impact our business.
Product Quality and Safety Ethics, Bribery and Corruption Our market environment Page 10 Data Loss Mistreatment Our strategy Page 22 Principal risks and uncertainties Page 30 ConvaTec Group Plc 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Overview01 Strategic report04 Governance60 Financial statements102 Other information168 Strategic driver Strategic driver Innovation Efficiency 3 Number of products launched 5 Adjusted gross margin %... AWC Ostomy Care CCC Infusion Devices Performance in 2017 Performance in 2017 In 2017 we continued to commercialise our development While our MIP, along with sourcing and supply chain initiatives, pipeline and launched 16 new products across our franchises delivered a cost out benefit to adjusted gross margin, this was three new products in our AWC franchise, five new products more than offset by headwinds and cost increases as detailed in each of our Ostomy Care and CCC franchises and three new in the Chief Executives review on page 6.
Including pricing and products in Infusion Devices.
Details of these new products are product mix effects, overall there was a negative impact of set out on page 25.
With favourable foreign exchange impacts of 80bps, adjusted gross margin increased 10 bps year on year.
Risks Operational and Supply Chain Risks Governmental Social Health Care Policy Operational and Supply Chain Intellectual Property and Product Innovation Macroeconomic and Foreign Exchange Regulatory Product Quality and Safety Product Quality and Safety 4 Number of new product development programmes 6 Adjusted EBIT margin %... Concept Development At or nearing launch Performance in 2017 Performance in 2017 Building on our world-leading research and development Adjusted EBIT margin fell 210 bps to 25.9% as a result of the capabilities, we will continue to drive innovation to develop gross margin performance described above and the increased technologies that anticipate and address the needs of people Operating Expenses, which are detailed on the previous page living with chronic conditions.
We continue to maintain a in relation to EBITDA KPI 2. strong and healthy pipeline of innovation and have 11 new product development programmes at or nearing the launch Risks phase through broad-based innovation across all of our Operational and Supply Chain franchises.
See our new product development pipeline on Macroeconomic and Foreign Exchange page 19.
Governmental Social Health Care Policy Intellectual Property and Product Innovation Risks Regulatory Operational and Supply Chain Product Quality and Safety Intellectual Property and Product Innovation Ethics, Bribery and Corruption Regulatory Data Loss Mistreatment Product Quality and Safety Certain financial measures in this Annual Report, including adjusted results above, are not prepared in accordance with IFRS.
All adjusted measures are reconciled to the most directly comparable measure prepared in accordance with IFRS on pages 54 to 57.
ConvaTec Group Plc 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
