STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT RISKS OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT OUR RESPONSE TO THE MEMBERS OF SENIOR PLC Carrying value of work-in-progress and finished goods 105.8m Subjective estimate Our procedures included the following: The Group is engaged to manufacture Test of detail: For a sample of work-in-progress and 1.
OUR OPINION IS UNMODIFIED Refer to the Audit Committee Report goods that are specific to customers finished goods we assessed whether the projected cost of We have audited the financial statements of Senior plc the Company OVERVIEW in the Governance section, Note 2 requirements, and most items are built inventories including cost to complete for work-in-progress for the year ended 31 December 2017 which comprise the Consolidated Materiality: Group financial statements as a whole significant accounting policies and to order.
The markets that the Group items were in excess of their net realisable value and Income Statement, Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Note 17 inventories.
2.6m serves are very price competitive, and whether anappropriate write down to net realisable value Consolidated and Company Balance Sheet, Consolidated and Company 5% of Group profit before tax from continuing operations new products attract production had beenrecognised.
Statement of changes in Equity, Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, learning curves that impact Coverage and the related notes, including the significant accounting policies in Test of detail: From identified inventories with negative 84% of Group revenue manufacturing costs during the early Note 2. gross margins, we selected asample and assessed the stages of a products life cycle.
As a 92% of Group profit before tax appropriateness of the level of provision.
In our opinion: 91% of Group total assets consequence, there is a risk that products may cost more than expected Assessing transparency: Assessing the adequacy of the the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Risks of material misstatement to produce compared to the projected Groups disclosures in respect of inventories.
Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2017 cost when the original sales prices and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: Recurring risks for the Group Carrying value of work-inOur results were set.
This would result in products We found the valuation of work-in-progress and finished progress and finished goods the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in being sold at amounts lower than cost goods to be acceptable.
Provisions for uncertain accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as and accordingly there is a risk that the tax positions adopted by the European Union: carrying value of certain items of inventory both work-in-progress and Recurring risks for the Recoverability of the Parent the Parent Company financial statements have been properly finished goods are carried at in excess Parent company Companys investment in prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including of net realisable value.
subsidiaries FRS101 Reduced Disclosure Framework: and Provision for uncertain tax positions the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the 17.6m Subjective valuation Our procedures included: requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Group operates in a number Our tax expertise: Use of our own tax specialists to 2.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS: OUR ASSESSMENT OF RISKS Refer to the Audit Committee Report of different tax jurisdictions and assess the Groups tax positions, its correspondence with OF MATERIAL MISSTATEMENT in the Governance section, Note 2 Basis for opinion judgement is required to determine the relevant tax authorities, and to analyse and challenge We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on significant accounting policies and Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, tax provisions across the Group the assumptions used to determine provisions for tax Note 21 tax balance sheet.
Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and principally in the US.
uncertainties based on our knowledge and experiences of described below.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement the application of the tax legislation.
We also assessed the Determination of provisions for tax is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.
Our audit opinion is whether or not due to fraud identified by us, including those which impact of changes in US tax legislation on the Group.
consistent with our report to the Audit Committee.
uncertainties is subject to judgement in hadthe greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of assessing the probable outflow of taxes Assessing transparency: Assess the adequacy of the resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement We were appointed as auditor by the shareholders of Senior plc at that will be borne by the entity relating Groups disclosures in respect of tax and uncertain tax team.
We summarise on the page opposite the key audit matters, in theAnnual General Meeting on 21 April 2017 therefore the year ended to matters where the relevant tax positions.
decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion 31 December 2017 is our first year acting as auditors.
authoritys final assessment of the tax above, together with our key audit procedures to address those matters Our results treatment is uncertain.
We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and we remain and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those We found the level of provisions for tax uncertainties to be independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements procedures.
These matters were addressed, and our results are based The transfer pricing tax risk provision acceptable.
including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose held is a key risk due to its size and the entities.
No non-audit services prohibited by that standard were of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our subjective nature of the arms length provided.
opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we basis to which the pricing should do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
There is a risk that the provisions for tax uncertainties recorded are over or under stated.
Recoverability of the Parent Companys investment in its subsidiary GROUP REVENUE GROUP PROFIT BEFORE TAX GROUP TOTAL ASSETS 259.9m Low risk, high value Our procedures included: The carrying amount of the Parent Carrying value: We compared the carrying amount of the Refer to Note 37 accounting policies Companys investment in its subsidiary investment with the subsidiarys draft statutory balance and Note 39 investments in represents 60% of its total assets.
Its sheet to identify whether its net assets, being an 8% 9% subsidiaries and Company Balance 16% recoverability is not at a high risk of approximation of its minimum recoverable amount, was in Sheet.
significant misstatement or subject to excess of its carrying amount and assessed whether the significant judgement.
However, due to subsidiary has historically been profit-making.
Group Group profit Group its materiality in the context of the Our results revenue before tax total assets Parent Company financial statements, We found the Parent Companys assessment of the 91% 84% 92% this is considered to be the area that recoverability of the investment in subsidiaries to be had the greatest effect on our overall acceptable.
Full scope for Group audit purposes 2017 Residual components Arises from total profits and losses that made up Group profit before tax 72 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 73 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GOVERNANCE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SENIOR PLC CONTINUED Corporate governance disclosures Irregularities ability to detect 3.
OUR APPLICATION OF MATERIALITY AND 4.
WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT ON GOING We are required to report to you if: Our audit aimed to detect non-compliance with relevant laws and ANOVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE OF OUR AUDIT CONCERN regulations irregularities that could have a material effect on the The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at We are required to report to you if: we have identified material inconsistencies between the knowledge financial statements.
In planning and performing our audit, we 2.6m determined with reference to a benchmark of Group profit before we acquired during our financial statements audit and the Directors we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to considered the impact of laws and regulations in the specific areas tax from continuing operations, of which it represents 5%.
statement that they consider that the Annual Report and financial ofanti-bribery and corruption.
We identified these areas through the Directors statement in Note 2 to the financial statements on the statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and Materiality for the Parent Company financial statements as a whole was use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material discussion with the Directors and other management as required by provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the auditing standards, from our sector experience, and from inspection capped at 2.3m, determined with reference to a benchmark of uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Groups position and performance, business model and strategy: or Company total assets, and then capped at 90% of the overall Group Parent Companys use of that basis for a period of at least 12 months ofthe Groups legal correspondence.
In addition we had regard to laws and regulations in other areas including financial reporting, and company materiality.
from the date of approval of the financial statements: or the section of the Annual Report describing the work of the Audit Committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by and taxation legislation.
We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or the related statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 23 is us to the Audit Committee.
uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding 130,000 in addition to materially inconsistent with our audit knowledge.
We considered the extent of compliance with those laws and other identified misstatements that warranted reporting on qualitative regulations that directly affect the financial statements, being antiWe are required to report to you if the Corporate Governance Statement We have nothing to report in these respects.
does not properly disclose a departure from the eleven provisions of the bribery and corruption, as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.
For the remaining laws and regulations, we made UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our Of the Groups 34 reporting components excluding the Parent 5.
WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT ON THE OTHER review.
enquiries of Directors and other management as required by auditing Company, we subjected 23 components to full scope audits for Group INFORMATION IN THE ANNUAL REPORT standards, and inspected legal correspondence.
We have nothing to report in these respects.
The Directors are responsible for the other information presented in the We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team Annual Report together with the financial statements.
Our opinion on The components within the scope of our work, including the Parent 6.
WE HAVE NOTHING TO REPORT ON THE OTHER and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the the financial statements does not cover the other information and, Company, accounted for the percentages illustrated on page 72. audit.
This included communication from the Group to component audit MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly teams of relevant laws and regulations identified at Group level, with The remaining 16% of total Group revenue, 8% of Group profit before BY EXCEPTION stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
tax and 9% of total Group assets is represented by 11 reporting arequest to report on any indications of potential existence of Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, irregularities in these areas, or other areas directly identified by the components, none of which individually represented more than 5% of our opinion: consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the any of total Group revenue, Group profit before tax or total Group component team.
information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the assets.
For these residual components, we performed analysis at an adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent As with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection financial statements or our audit knowledge.
Based solely on that work aggregated Group level to re-examine our assessment that there were Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received ofirregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.
no significant risks of material misstatement within these.
from branches not visited by us: or omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.
Strategic report and Directors report The Group team instructed component auditors as to the significant the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Based solely on our work on the other information: 8.
THE PURPOSE OF OUR AUDIT WORK AND TO WHOM areas to be covered, including the relevant risks detailed above and the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement information to be reported back.
The Group team approved the with the accounting records and returns: or WE OWE OUR RESPONSIBILITIES we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic Report component materialities, which ranged from 0.2m to 1.0m, This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, and the Directors report: certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not excluding the component materiality for the Parent Company, which inaccordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. made: or in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial was set at 2.3m, having regard to the mix of size and risk profile of the Ouraudit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the year is consistent with the financial statements: and Group across the components.
The work on 14 of the 23 components we have not received all the information and explanations we require Companys members those matters we are required to state to them was performed by component auditors and the rest, including the audit for our audit.
inan auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with of the Parent Company, was performed by the Group team.
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone the Companies Act 2006.
other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for The Group team visited 7 component locations in the US, Malaysia and Directors remuneration report our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Thailand to assess the audit risk and strategy.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be conference meetings were also held with these component auditors audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Directors responsibilities Robert Brent Senior Statutory Auditor and all others that were not physically visited.
As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 71, the for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor meetings, the findings reported to the Group team were discussed in Directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements Chartered Accountants Disclosures of principal risks and longer-term viability more detail, and any further work required by the Group team was then including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view: such internal 15 Canada Square Based on the knowledge we acquired during our financial statements performed by the component auditor.
control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of London audit, we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to: financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether E14 5GL the Directors confirmation within the viability statement on page 23 due to fraud or error: assessing the Group and Parent Companys ability 23 February 2018 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters GROUP PROFIT BEFORE TAX facing the Group, including those that would threaten its business related to going concern: and using the going concern basis of model, future performance, solvency and liquidity: accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to the principal risks disclosures describing these risks and explaining do so.
how they are being managed and mitigated: and 2.6m Auditors responsibilities Whole financial the Directors explanation in the viability statement of how they have statements materiality Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the 0.2m1.0m assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have 52.2m financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, Range of materiality at done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and 23 components whether due to fraud or other irregularities see below, or error, and to their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation 0.13m issue our opinion in an auditors report.
Reasonable assurance is a high Misstatements reported that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its to the Audit Committee level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, accordance with ISAs UK will always detect a material misstatement including any related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities PBT qualifications or assumptions.
or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they Group materiality Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the viability could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.
We have nothing to report in this respect.
A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRCs website at frc.
74 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 75
