STRATEGIC REPORT THE PURPOSE TO REWARD JOURNEY THE PURPOSE TO REWARD JOURNEY Our purpose Mining has a smarter, safer future.
Using more precise extraction technologies, less energy and water, we are reducing our physical footprint for every ounce, carat and kilogram of precious metal or mineral.
We are combining smart innovation with the utmost consideration for our people, their families, local communities, our customers, and the world at large to better connect the resources in the ground to the people who need and value them.
And we are working together to develop better jobs, better education and better businesses, building brighter and healthier futures around our operations in our host countries and ultimately for billions of people around the world who depend on our products every day.
Anglo American is re-imagining mining to improve peoples lives.
Our strategy Our strategy is to secure, develop and operate a portfolio of high quality and long life resource assets, from which we will deliver leading shareholder returns.
We achieve this through innovative practices and technologies in the hands of our world class people towards a common purpose.
Portfolio Innovation People A B C The quality and long life of our mineral Across every aspect of our business, we Our people are critical to all that we do.
assets are the foundation of our global are thinking innovatively about how we The partnerships we build locally and globally business.
We focus on securing and operating ensure the safety of our people, enhance are central to maintaining our regulatory and assets that offer the most attractive long term our sustainability performance, and deliver social licences to operate and our sustained value-creation potential, as measured by superior value for all our stakeholders.
sustainable cash flow and returns.
From exploration to delivering our products We create inclusive and diverse working The scale and diversity of our portfolio to our customers, FutureSmart Mining is our environments that encourage and support allows us to leverage our financial resources, innovation-led approach to sustainable mining.
high performance and innovative thinking.
technical expertise, and supplier relationships This approach, coupled with the operational Our Organisation Model ensures we have the towards delivery on our potential and to the improvements being delivered from our unique right people in the right roles doing the right benefit of our customers, creating a measured Operating Model, is fundamentally changing value-adding work at the right time, with clear risk profile and supporting strong returns.
the way we extract, process and market our accountabilities that minimise work duplication products, and will provide the next step-change and increase capability and effectiveness.
in operating and financial performance.
For more on Portfolio For more on Innovation For more on People See pages 16-19 See pages 29-31 See pages 20-28 Capital allocation Underpinning our strategy, we have a value-focused approach to that are subject to a demanding risk framework and that meet our capital allocation, with clear prioritisation: maintain asset integrity: stringent value criteria and, in the event of there being excess cash, ensure a strong balance sheet: and pay dividends to our this is returned to shareholders.
shareholders, determined on an earnings-based payout ratio.
For more on Capital allocation Discretionary capital is then allocated towards growth investments See pages 32-33 Delivering our strategy We track our strategic progress on an ongoing basis using KPIs that are based on our seven pillars of value: Pillar of value Description Pillar of value Description Safety and Health To do no harm to our workforce Production To sustainably produce valuable product To be competitive by operating Environment To minimise our impact on the environment Cost as efficiently as possible To partner in the benefits of mining with local Socio-political To deliver sustainable returns Financial communities and government to our shareholders To create a sustainable competitive advantage People through capable people and an effective, For our KPIs performance driven organisation See pages 34-35 Our values Our values guide everything we do Safety Care and respect Integrity Accountability Collaboration Innovation The main elements of the remuneration package are basic salary, Reward AngloAmericans directors remuneration policy is designed annual bonus and long term incentive plan LTIP.
to encourage delivery of the Groups strategy and creation of Full details are set out in the Directors remuneration report on stakeholder value in a responsible and sustainable manner.
pages 88-115 Annual bonus Long term incentive plan LTIP Annual bonus performance measures include: The LTIP performance measures are aligned to 50% on underlying earnings per share EPS.
EPS is one of the our strategic objectives over a three-year performance period.
Groups key financial measures of performance and is set on an Vested LTIP awards are subject to clawback and must be held annual basis to ensure targets are demanding yet realistic for an additional two years to encourage alignment of executive and shareholder interests.
The remaining measures include project delivery, business improvement, stakeholder engagement and talent management The LTIP performance measures and weightings are: A modifier is applied depending on the extent to which 70% subject to Group Total Shareholder Return TSR, with safety and sustainability targets are met two-thirds relative to the Euromoney Global Mining Index and one-third relative to the constituent of the FTSE 100 index To help ensure sustainable long term performance, 60% of any annual bonus is deferred into shares for a minimum 30% subject to a balanced scorecard of financial and strategic of three years and is subject to clawback.
objectives, including environmental and health targets.
10 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017
