GREENCOAT U K W I N D Report of the Directors The Directors present their Annual Report, together Major Interests in Shares with the consolidated financial statements of significant shareholdings as at 15 February 2018 are Greencoat UK Wind PLC for the year to 31 December detailed below.
The Corporate Governance Report on pages 31 Ordinary to 34 form part of this report.
shares held % 15 February Details of the Directors who held ofce during the year Shareholder 2018 and as at the date of this report are given on pages 22 to 24.
Newton Investment Management 9.46 Investec Wealth & Investment 5.52 Capital Structure Legal & General Investment Management 5.01 The Company has one class of ordinary shares which Fidelity Worldwide Investment 4.85 carry no rights to xed income.
Shareholders are entitled to all dividends paid by the Company and, on Baillie Gifford 4.32 a winding up, provided the Company has satisfied all Insight Investment 4.20 of its liabilities, the shareholders are entitled to all of Tilney Group 4.01 the surplus assets of the Company.
Rathbones 3.33 Shareholders will be entitled to attend and vote at all Sarasin 3.14 general meetings of the Company and, on a poll, to one vote for each ordinary share held.
significant shareholdings as at 31 December 2017 are Authority to Purchase Own Shares detailed below.
The current authority of the Company to make market Ordinary purchases of up to 14.99 per cent.
of its issued share shares held % capital expires at the conclusion of the 2018 AGM.
31 December Special resolution 13 will be proposed at the Shareholder 2017 forthcoming AGM seeking renewal of such authority Newton Investment Management 9.40 until the next AGM or 30 June 2019, whichever is Investec Wealth & Investment 5.44 earlier.
The price paid for the shares will not be less than the nominal value or more than the maximum Legal & General Investment Management 5.07 amount permitted to be paid in accordance with the Fidelity Worldwide Investment 4.84 rules of the UK Listing Authority in force at the date of Baillie Gifford 4.32 purchase.
This power will be exercised only if, in the Insight Investment 4.03 opinion of the Directors, a repurchase would be in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
Any shares Tilney Group 3.92 repurchased under this authority will either be Rathbones 3.25 cancelled or held in treasury at the discretion of the Sarasin 3.23 Board for future resale in appropriate market conditions.
Companies Act 2006 Disclosures The Directors believe that the renewal of the In accordance with Schedule 7 of the Large and Companys authority to purchase shares, as detailed Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and above, is in the best interests of shareholders as a Reports Regulations 2008 the Directors disclose the whole and therefore recommend shareholders to vote following information: in favour of special resolution 13. the Companys capital structure is detailed in note The Directors also recommend shareholders to vote in 15 to the financial statements and all shareholders favour of resolutions 11 and 12, which renew their have the same voting rights in respect of the share authority to allot equity securities for the purpose of capital of the Company.
There are no restrictions satisfying the Companys obligations to pay the equity on voting rights that the Company is aware of, nor element of the Investment Managers fee, and also any agreement between holders of securities that their authority to allot equity securities for cash either result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 11 or on voting rights: by way of a sale of treasury shares.
25 Greencoat UK Wind PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 Report of the Directors continued Companies Act 2006 Disclosures continued Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions there exist no securities carrying special rights with As the Group has outsourced operations to third regard to the control of the Company: parties, there are no significant greenhouse gas emissions to report from the operations of the Group.
the Company does not have an employees share scheme: In relation to the Groups investee companies, the level of greenhouse gas emissions arising from the low the rules concerning the appointment and volume of electricity imports and from operation and replacement of Directors are contained in the maintenance activity is not considered material for Companys Articles of Association and the disclosure purposes.
Further, as the assets are Companies Act 2006: renewable energy generators, they reduce carbon dioxide emissions on a net basis at a rate of there exist no agreements to which the Company approximately 0.4t CO2 per MWh.
is party that may affect its control following a takeover bid: and Risks and Risk Management The Group is exposed to financial risks such as price there exist no agreements between the Company risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk and and its Directors providing for compensation for the management and monitoring of these risks are loss of ofce that may occur because of a takeover detailed in note 18 to the financial statements.
Independent Auditor Investment Trust Status The Directors will propose the reappointment of BDO The Company has been approved as an investment LLP as the Companys Auditor and resolutions trust under sections 1158 and 1159 of the Corporation concerning this and the remuneration of the Taxes Act 2010.
As an investment trust, the Company Companys Auditor will be proposed at the AGM.
is required to meet relevant eligibility conditions and ongoing requirements.
In particular, the Company So far as each of the Directors at the time that this must not retain more than 15 per cent.
of its eligible report was approved are aware: investment income.
The Company has conducted and monitored its affairs so as to enable it to comply with there is no relevant audit information of which the these requirements.
Auditor is unaware: and Diversity and Business Review they have taken all the steps they ought to have A business review is detailed in the Investment taken to make themselves aware of any audit Managers Report on pages 9 to 21 and the Groups information and to establish that the Auditor is policy on diversity is detailed in the Corporate aware of that information.
Annual Accounts Directors Indemnity The Board is of the opinion that the Annual Report, Directors and Ofcers liability insurance cover is in taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable place in respect of the Directors.
The Companys and provides the information necessary for Articles of Association provide, subject to the shareholders to assess the performance, strategy and provisions of UK legislation, an indemnity for Directors business model of the Company.
in respect of costs which they may incur relating to the The Board recommends that the Annual Report, the defence of any proceedings brought against them Report of the Directors and the Independent Auditors arising out of their positions as Directors, in which they Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 are are acquitted or judgement is given in their favour by received and adopted by the shareholders and a the Court.
resolution concerning this will be proposed at the Except for such indemnity provisions in the Companys AGM.
Articles of Association and in the Directors letters of appointment, there are no qualifying third party indemnity provisions in force.
26 GREENCOAT U K W I N D Report of the Directors continued Dividend The Board recommended an interim dividend of 16,693,745, equivalent to 1.6225 pence per share with respect to the 3 month period ended 31 December 2017, bringing total dividends with respect to the year to 57,312,248, equivalent to 6.49 pence per share as disclosed in note 8 to the financial statements.
Subsequent Events significant subsequent events have been disclosed in note 21 to the financial statements.
Strategic Report A review of the business and future outlook, going concern statement and the principal risks and uncertainties of the Group have not been included in this report as they are disclosed in the Strategic Report on pages 4 to 8.
On behalf of the Board Tim Ingram Chairman 25 February 2018 Bishopthorpe 27
