247149 RIT R&A pp001-pp017 26 02 2018 11:07 Page 5 | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Our Strategy & Business Model Introduction ver the last three years shareholders This section aims to provide a clear and succinct overview of our strategy and business model, in Ohave benefited from a total return of particular: 48% compared to 41% from the market.
what we are trying to achieve Strategic Aims : We believe that our active management of equity how we go about it Investment Approach : exposure, combined with early identification of opportunities and themes across multiple asset classes, how well we have done Measuring Performance is more likely to lead to long-term outperformance.
We and KPIs : would hope to display healthy participation in up markets, and reasonable protection in down markets.
Over time, how we structure our remuneration Incentive this should allow us to compound ahead of markets Structure : and throughout the cycles.
Indeed, since your Companys listing in 1988, we have participated in 75% of the market our Governance and Group Structure.
upside but only 39% of the market declines.
This has resulted in our NAV per share total return compounding at Strategic Aims 11.4% per annum, a meaningful outperformance of Our strategic aims are best illustrated by our Corporate global equity markets.
Over the same period the total Objective: return to shareholders was 12.6% per annum.
to deliver long-term capital growth, while preserving Investment Approach shareholders capital: to invest without the constraints of The strategic aims are expressed in more practical terms a formal benchmark, but to deliver for shareholders in our Investment Policy: increases in capital value in excess of the relevant indices over time.
to invest in a widely diversified, international portfolio across a range of asset classes, both quoted and We believe this accurately reflects our long-term aims.
unquoted: to allocate part of the portfolio to exceptional However, we have sought to provide further clarification managers in order to ensure access to the best external to assist shareholders in understanding what we are talent available.
trying to achieve for them over time in particular because we differ from many other large trusts who It is this policy which guides us as we manage your always aim to be fully invested in quoted equities.
So, while we retain at our core an equity bias, we nonetheless have the freedom to invest your portfolio The most important objective is long-term capital growth across multiple asset classes, geographies, industries while preserving shareholders capital.
The essence of and currencies.
This has been the basis of our style over our investing DNA is about protecting and enhancing many years combining thematic investing with shareholders wealth.
individual securities, and private investments with public There may be times when we will deliberately place stocks.
The long-term success of your Company has protection of shareholders funds ahead of growth as been drawn from a distinctive blend of stocks, private happened during the latter stages of the dot-com era and investments, equity funds, absolute return and credit, all also in the run up to the most recent financial crisis.
overlaid with currency positioning and macro exposure However, we also recognise that such market timing is management.
unlikely to be sustainable in the long term.
We believe the extent of our global reach and unique network allows us to maximise our ability to deploy capital effectively.
We seek to capitalise on an in-house ince your Companys listing in 1988, we investment team working closely with our core external Shave participated in 75% of the market managers, investing in funds which are largely closed to new investors, and cannot be accessed by a retail upside but only 39% of the market declines.
This has resulted in our NAV per share total return compounding at 11.4% per annum, a Above all, our approach is long term.
For example, in meaningful outperformance of global equity relation to private investments, we are not constrained by the typical industry model of a limited life partnership.
Over the same period the total This means we can hold such investments over an return to shareholders was 12.6% per annum.
extended period and choose to realise at an optimum RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2017 5 247149 RIT R&A pp001-pp017 26 02 2018 11:07 Page 6 Our Strategy & Business Model time.
On quoted investments, we aim to avoid being e believe the extent of our global reach forced sellers of stocks if we are comfortable with their underlying fundamentals, even if it means incurring shortWand network of contacts allows us to term losses.
maximise our ability to deploy capital effectively.
We seek to capitalise on an Measuring Performance and KPIs optimal blend of an in-house investment While we believe our success can only really be measured over the long term, we also recognise that team working closely with our core external providing shareholders with a comparator against which managers, investing in funds which are to measure our performance over shorter periods is largely closed to new investors, and cannot important.
be accessed by a retail investor.
The strategic aims highlighted on the previous page, reflect the desire to produce real capital growth and to While there was a sense of complacency in many areas exceed markets over time.
These are reflected in the of the market, we remained resolutely long term, following targets or Key Performance Indicators KPIs : consistent with our target of multi-generational wealth creation.
Where we deemed the risks too great, we used 1.
Absolute Outperformance: NAV total return in excess our flexibility to tilt the portfolio to emphasise capital of RPI plus 3.0% per annum: preservation over and above the pursuit of short-term growth.
Over 2017, one of our key portfolio measures 2.
Relative Outperformance: NAV total return in excess net quoted equity exposure averaged 44% of NAV.
of the ACWI: and Reflecting this approach, our NAV total return for the year 3.
Share price total return or Total Shareholder Return was 8.2%.
This outperformed our absolute KPI RPI plus TSR.
3.0% of 7.1%, while our relative KPI the ACWI, returned 16.5% over the year.
Our Chief Investment The first of these KPIs reflects the desire to produce Officer CIO, Ron Tabbouche, provides a more detailed strong absolute returns with a meaningful premium analysis of the portfolio returns in the Investment above inflation.
The second reflects our unconstrained global investment Our premium averaged 6.7% over the year, compared to approach and the desire to outperform markets.
4.5% for 2016, though measured at year ends, it Consistent with many investment companies, we use the narrowed from 9.0% to 6.7%, with the result that the ACWI which we believe is an appropriate comparator for TSR over the year was 5.8%.
On currency, we use a blended index consisting of 50% of the ACWI Over the last three years, shareholders have benefited measured in Sterling and 50% of the ACWI measured in from a TSR of 48.3%, compared to the markets of local currencies.
However, we also retain the flexibility to 41.3%, and over ten years, the figures are 118.6% for take an unconstrained approach to our currency our shares and 100.4% for the market.
positioning: for example, in early 2008 we had no exposure to Sterling ahead of its significant fall in value Incentive Structure later that year.
Our approach to remuneration incorporates the Directors Remuneration Policy as well as company-specific Our wholly-owned subsidiary, J. Rothschild Capital structures designed to attract, motivate and retain the Management Limited JRCM, is tasked with managing high-quality individuals we need to deliver our long-term the portfolio to deliver a NAV return.
The approach is designed to align with, the return to our shareholders is through share price and reinforce, these strategic aims.
We therefore also consider the TSR as our third KPI.
The Chairman of RIT Capital Partners plc, as well as JRCM and Spencer House Limited SHL employees, 2017 Performance participate in two principal plans: Overall the portfolio delivered steady performance in 2017, in no small measure reflecting our cautious stance, 1.
The Annual Incentive Scheme AIS : and at a time when developed equity markets marched to 2.
6 Report and Accounts December 2017 RIT Capital Partners plc 247149 RIT R&A pp001-pp017 26 02 2018 11:07 Page 7 | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Our Strategy & Business Model The AIS is designed to incentivise staff through a share in As RIT is characterised under accounting standards as an the total NAV outperformance against the Absolute investment entity, its consolidated income statement Outperformance hurdle and the Relative Outperformance includes the full income and expenses of both JRCM and hurdle.
In addition to this formulaic pool, AIS awards are GVQ.
Further information on the results of the respective also made for individual performance against qualitative businesses is set out in note 6 on page 55. measures.
We continue to focus on costs, whether our own direct The second main aspect of the remuneration approach is costs or the fees charged directly or indirectly by external an LTIP which provides a longer-term incentive of up to fund managers.
In order to provide investors with 10 years using Share Appreciation Rights SARs, which information on the costs of RITs own investment vest if RITs TSR is above the hurdle of RPI plus 3.0% per business, we calculate an Ongoing Charges Figure OCF annum over three years.
based on recommendations from the Association of Investment Companies AIC.
These assume no change Further details of remuneration are provided in the in the composition or value of the portfolio therefore it Directors Remuneration Report on pages 31 to 38. excludes transaction costs and direct performancerelated compensation and excludes finance costs.
For Governance and Group Structure 2017, our own OCF amounted to 0.66%, with further Our Chairman, Lord Rothschild, is responsible for the information provided on page 85. leadership of the Board and the Company.
RIT is a selfmanaged investment company and the management of In addition to our own costs, our investment policy the investment portfolio has been delegated to JRCM.
includes the allocation of part of the portfolio to thirdJRCM is also responsible for the administration of the party managers, which have their own fees.
These portfolio as well as acting as corporate company include long-only equity and hedge fund managers, as secretary.
well as private equity and absolute return and credit funds.
The managers fee structure is a key consideration JRCM is chaired by Lord Rothschild, with the day-to-day in our investment diligence, with the decision made on running of the business under the management of an the basis of expected returns, net of all fees.
To assist Executive Committee led by myself as Chief Executive shareholders, we estimate that the average annual Officer CEO.
JRCM executives represent RITs interests management fees for external managers represent an on the SHL board.
additional 1.23% of average net assets.
This excludes performance fees which are typically paid for Full details of the RIT Board and the JRCM Executive outperformance against an index or an absolute hurdle.
Committee are provided on pages 19 to 22.
Further information on fees is provided on page 39.
In December, we agreed the profitable sale of our thirdWe have built a strong and capable team at JRCM, which party investment management subsidiary, GVQ efficiently copes with the ever-changing environment Investment Management Limited GVQ.
The sale is whether in the shape of heightened concerns regarding expected to complete in early 2018.
While this has a cyber security or the ongoing developments in the modest impact on our NAV, for 2018, we will no longer regulatory environment.
I would like to record my sincere be required to include GVQs revenues and costs in the thanks to all of our people here in St Jamess Place, both Consolidated Income Statement, with other income and employees as well as those who support our business in operating expenses falling accordingly.
At the year end, the RIT Group employed 55 people excluding GVQ, with 43 working for JRCM, our investment management subsidiary.
Our Real Assets portfolio includes Spencer House as well as other properties in St Jamess, London.
These are maintained Francesco Goedhuis by SHL which employs 12 people.
In addition to premises Chief Executive Officer management, this subsidiary also operates a profitable J. Rothschild Capital Management Limited events business.
A breakdown of the gender balance of the Directors of the Company and also the senior managers and employees of the Group is set out on page 40.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2017 7
