Strategic report STRATEGIC REPORT MARKETPLACE REVIEW MARKETPLACE REVIEW A CAUTIOUSLY POSITIVE OUTLOOK The world economy recovered slightly in 2017, providing % the basis for a more positive outlook for the first time in five World 2015 3.4 years.
According to the IMF, global GDP growth was 3.6% 2016 3.2 for 2017, moderately higher than its April forecast of 3.5%.
2017 3.6 The IMF has also increased its growth forecast slightly for Eurozone 2015 2.0 2018, from 3.6% to 3.7%.
2016 1.8 Over the course of the year, there were broad-based 2017 2.1 upward revisions in the Eurozone, Japan, emerging Asia, China 2015 6.9 emerging Europe and Russia where growth outcomes 2016 6.7 in the first half were better than expected more than 2017 6.8 offsetting downward revisions for the US and the UK.
India 2015 8.0 China continued to surprise on the upside, relative to 2016 7.1 commentators expectations, as a number of measures 2017 6.7 proved to be positive for the economy.
South Korea 2015 2.8 Commodity prices also fared well, with prices for the 2016 2.8 majority of AngloAmericans products performing better 2017 3.0 than the market had expected.
Japan 2015 1.1 2016 1.0 2017 1.5 CHINAS SLOWDOWN United States 2015 2.9 While concerns continue to be raised around China and 2016 1.5 its economy, the authorities policy of gently moderating 2017 2.2 growth appears to be working.
The IMF forecast growth Source: IMF WEO October 2017 rate for the country increased further to 6.8% in 2017 2016: 6.7%, reflecting stronger economic growth in the first half of the year, as well as robust external demand for The US faced significant policy uncertainty during Chinas products and services.
The IMFs growth forecast 2017, associated with the Trump administrations slow reflects a slower rebalancing of activity away from reform implementation and lags in the renegotiation of investment towards services and consumption, despite the North American Free Trade Agreement with Mexico higher projected debt potentially limiting the scope for and Canada.
The progress on tax reform, which has the further fiscal stimulus.
According to the IMF, if recent potential for positive near term growth effects, has been efforts to curb the expansion of credit are accelerated, this slow.
Meanwhile, tax legislations and debt ceiling issues would help further to reduce the remaining risk of a sharp are unresolved and will likely lead to further debate growth slowdown in China, which would have adverse between the parties.
In South Africa, the Mining Charter was gazetted.
The Chinas 19th Party Congress in October marked the start Chamber of Mines brought an application to judicially of the New Era for Xi Jinping and the Communist Party.
review and set aside this latest Charter.
The Chamber By 2020, Beijing seems likely to prioritise financial also sought to interdict the Minister of Mineral Resources deleveraging, poverty reduction and environmental from implementing the Charter, pending finalisation of protection, with less focus on economic-growth targets.
In order to avoid the hearing of exit from large-scale fiscal stimulus and a slowing housing the interdict application, the Minister gave a written market may add some downward economic pressure.
undertaking that his department will not implement or apply the provisions of the Charter in any way, pending final resolution of the judicial review.
On 17 February 2018, GLOBAL POLITICAL AND POLICY ENVIRONMENT the Chamber of Mines and the Department of Mineral Growth in most of the advanced economies accelerated Resources jointly agreed to postpone the court application during the first half of 2017, relative to the second half of in respect of the Reviewed Mining Charter, that was due 2016, with both domestic and external demand contributing to be heard in the High Court on 19 to 21 February.
The US is estimated to have Anglo American believes that the postponement will provide grown by 2.2% in the year, with Japan and South Korea by the opportunity to engage in order to reach an amicable 1.5% and 3.0%, respectively.
The Eurozone is expected to solution for the benefit of all stakeholders.
have expanded by 2.1%, with Germany, France and Italy having estimated growth rates of 2.1%, 1.6% and 1.5%, respectively.
The one exception was the UK, where growth is estimated to have reduced to 1.7%.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 11 STRATEGIC REPORT MARKETPLACE REVIEW Indexed 2017 prices 1.5 Change in average annual price 2017 vs 2016 Anglo American 16% Palladium 42% Metallurgical coal 31% Thermal coal 31% 1.0 Copper 27% Iron ore 22% Nickel 8% fide Beers price index 3% Platinum 4 % 0.0 Dec 2017 Jan 2017 Platinum Metallurgical coal Anglo American basket price fide Beers price index Palladium Thermal coal Copper Iron ore Platts 62% CFR China Nickel Source: Anglo American Commodity Research In India, the IMF economic growth projection for 2017 was reaching $7,000 tonne for the first time in three years.
The revised down to 6.7% 2016: 7.1%, reflecting lingering higher average prices also brought greater scrap volumes disruptions associated with the currency exchange initiative to the market, helping to offset some of the primary introduced in November 2016, as well as transition costs supply shortfall.
related to the launch of the national Goods and Services Over the long term, the market is expected to remain tight.
The GST promises the fiscal Demand for refined copper continues to grow, with potential unification of Indias vast domestic market, and is among upside from electric vehicles EVs, their associated several reforms being implemented that may result in a infrastructure, and the renewable-energy sector.
Supply is more positive growth outlook.
expected to continue to struggle to meet growing demand, given the limited project pipeline, declining grades and more COMMODITY REVIEW challenging mining conditions.
Diamonds Nickel demand increased by 5%, driven primarily by Early signs are that global consumer demand for increases in global stainless steel output, which rose by diamond jewellery registered positive growth in 2017 6%.
On the supply side, threatened mine closures in the in US dollar terms, following a marginal increase in 2016.
Philippines had less of an impact on ore supply than Sustained diamond jewellery demand growth in the US was was initially expected, while a partial lifting of a ban on once again the main contributor to this positive outcome.
ore exports from Indonesia, together with a ramp-up Demand for diamond jewellery by Chinese consumers grew of new Indonesian nickel pig iron production, saw refined marginally in local currency and dollar terms.
In contrast, production recover some of the losses seen during 2015 consumer demand for diamonds softened in India and the and 2016.
This was not enough, however, to prevent an Gulf states, both in local currency and dollar terms, while overall deficit in the refined nickel market, which helped to Japans consumer demand growth was flat in local currency lift prices to an average of 472 c lb, 8% higher than in 2016. and lower in dollars.
Overall, the nickel market saw a second consecutive year of Diamond producers primary stocks are estimated to deficit, though LME stocks remained at high levels.
Looking have reduced considerably during the first half of 2017, ahead, demand for nickel may experience a potentially as sentiment in the midstream improved and rough and significant boost from batteries for EVs, which is expected polished inventories normalised for businesses in this to keep the nickel market in focus over the years ahead.
segment of the value chain.
However, as a result of US Precious metals retailers tightly managing their inventories and the earlier Primary platinum supply in 2017 declined by 2%, owing timing of Diwali in India, there was a slight seasonal build-up mainly to lower Russian shipments, as sales from inventory, of polished inventory in the midstream going into the fourth and output from alluvial deposits declined.
Overall, early indications are that additional supply remained relatively flat, despite processing facility consumer marketing undertaken during the main selling issues experienced by some in the industry.
The modest season had a positive effect on polished demand in the US, decline in primary platinum supply was, to a large extent, China and India in the final quarter of the year, leading to a offset by increased secondary supply 3% as autocatalyst beneficial effect on overall polished inventories.
recycling increased to record levels.
Base metals Gross platinum demand was 5% lower, mainly as a result of Global refined copper consumption grew by 2% in 2017, a steep decline -14% in platinum demand from Chinese with China, which now accounts for almost 48% of global jewellery manufacturers and Japanese investment bar sales refined demand, continuing to display robust demand returning to more normal levels.
Autocatalyst demand growth 3%, notably from the infrastructure, home remained robust, with increased light-duty diesel vehicle appliance and machinery sectors.
production outside Europe and higher demand from the Copper prices averaged 280 c lb in 2017 2016: 221 c lb, heavy-duty diesel sector offsetting the decline of light-duty reflecting a tighter market, as disruptions to supply during diesel vehicle production within Europe.
Demand from the the first half of the year more than offset ramp-ups of new industrial sector returned to record levels 7%, with the supply.
This led to the first annual decline in copper mine electrical 12%, glass 24% and petroleum 13% output since 2011.
The tight market, coupled with renewed demand segments experiencing double digit growth.
investor confidence, saw prices surge in the fourth quarter, 12 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 Price Index, 1 January 2017 1.0 Strategic report Average platinum prices were 4% lower as the market Iron ore prices fared significantly better than in 2016, with moved into surplus, owing to lower gross platinum demand the CFR China 62% Fe benchmark averaging $71 dmt, and increased secondary supply, despite the modest 2016: $58 dmt, though with significant volatility decline in primary production.
On the supply side, the net addition of around 40 Mt of low-cost Australian and Brazilian iron ore Primary palladium supply declined by 2%, reflecting displaced both higher-cost seaborne and domestic Chinese lower shipments from Russia.
Grade-related price spreads widened significantly as supply increased strongly 17%.
Outflows from Exchange steelmakers preferred high-grade iron ore as they focused Traded Funds ETFs continued in 2017 and, over the past on increased productivity owing to high costs of coking coal, three years, more than 1.5 million ounces of metal has high steelmaking margins, and environmental restrictions.
returned to the market, providing much needed market liquidity in a time of strong autocatalyst demand.
Palladium The metallurgical coal market experienced another year autocatalyst demand reached new highs and grew 6%, of supply tightness and pronounced price volatility.
The with the strongest growth occurring in North America, as focus on safety in the Chinese domestic coal sector and new emissions legislation resulted in higher loadings, and accompanying shutdowns continued into 2017, while with China also posting significant gains.
In the industrial structural reforms, which aim to eliminate excess capacity sector, growth in demand from the chemicals sector more and restore sector profitability, remain on track.
Meanwhile, than offset declines in demand in both the electrical and Australian export volumes were disrupted by a series of dental sectors.
events, including Cyclone Debbie, mine shutdowns and port queues.
Chinese and Australian disruptions have While all palladium supply rose by 3%, gross demand was necessitated increased supply from other regions to fill the 10% higher than in the prior year, resulting in the market gap, including from the US, Mozambique, Indonesia and remaining in deficit.
The persistent market deficits of the Mongolia.
As with iron ore, price differentials between past six years have had a significant impact on the palladium higherand lower-grade coals have widened, reflecting market, with the price trading at around $1,000 ounce by steelmakers drive for productivity, as well as relative the end of 2017, at a premium to platinum for the first time tightness at the premium end of the market.
in 16 years, and averaging 42% higher than in 2016.
The thermal coal market also saw the positive price effects In the near future, platinum markets are expected to remain of the Chinese domestic market rationalisation, which balanced, with limited potential for demand growth or supported both coal imports into China and the seaborne upside for mine output from South Africa or elsewhere.
On the supply side, Australia was stable, while Palladium is expected to remain in deficit for the foreseeable Indonesia was constrained by mining issues arising from future as petrol engine automotive demand continues its ongoing wet weather.
The Atlantic region saw coal prices upward trend, with limited opportunity for an increase in supported by higher electricity prices, partly driven by primary production.
With palladium trading above platinum, nuclear outages in France.
it is becoming more likely that platinum is substituted back into petrol autocatalysts.
The timing and extent of such a move remains uncertain, but is not expected in the short OUTLOOK term owing to practical and regulatory hurdles.
Although commodity markets and prices are becoming Bulk commodities more positive, the sustainability of certain commodities very Global steel demand is estimated to have increased by positive recent performance remains uncertain, with risks around 2% in 2017, supported by healthy demand to the Asian outlook in particular.
Demand for niche-grade conditions in a number of markets.
In China, consumption materials is starting to provide an opportunity for some remained robust, rising by an estimated 2-3%, driven by commodity producers, which may persist for some time.
an extended upswing in the property cycle and continued However, as supply struggles to either catch up with growth in infrastructure investment.
The governments demand growth, or adjust downwards in line with any crackdown on polluting and inefficient industry has reduction in demand, it is likely that there will be ongoing eliminated an estimated 120 Mt of basic oxygen furnace commodity price volatility that reflects the normal dynamics BOF and electric arc furnace EAF capacity, and all illegal of the industry.
induction furnace capacity, over the past three years.
These reforms, as well as additional seasonal closures over winter, sharply increased profit margins, encouraging the remaining BOF and EAF producers to increase productivity through the use of higher-quality raw materials and higher scrap rates.
Such changes also reduced Chinas ability to maintain exports at the record levels of recent years, allowing other regions to plug the gap.
In 2017, crude steel output, excluding China, rose by an estimated 5%, or 40 Mt in 2017, much of this growth being supported by scrap and direct-reduced iron-based steel production from the US, Turkey, Iran, India and Vietnam.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 13
