DELIVERING LONG-TERM VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS respond to local competition, and remains a highly attractive growth OUR CONSUMERS and margin opportunity in an ever more connected world where its emerging market footprint is a major asset.
Meeting the needs of consumers is at the heart of our value creation model and strategy.
We reach them through our four categories.
HOME CARE OUR HOME CARE CATEGORY GENERATED TURNOVER OF PERSONAL CARE 10.6 BILLION, ACCOUNTING FOR 20% OF UNILEVERS OUR PERSONAL CARE CATEGORY GENERATED TURNOVER TURNOVER AND 13% OF OPERATING PROFIT.
OF 20.7 BILLION, ACCOUNTING FOR 39% OF UNILEVERS Home Care includes two global brands with turnover of 1 billion or TURNOVER AND 46% OF OPERATING PROFIT.
more, namely Dirt is Good Omo and Persil and Surf.
Other leading The category is our largest and includes five brands with turnover brands include Comfort, Domestos, Sunlight, Cif, Pureit, the water of 1 billion or above, Axe, Dove, Lux, Rexona and Sunsilk and other purification brand and Blueair, the air purification business.
household names such as TRESemm, Signal, Lifebuoy and Vaseline.
Personal Care has leading global positions in hair, skin cleansing Home Cares strategic role is to grow profitability and it made good and deodorants, and strong local positions in skin care and oral care.
progress during 2017, generating underlying sales growth of 4.4% Its prestige range leads in premiumising our brand portfolio with and increasing operating margin by 130 basis points to 10.8%.
turnover of 425 million from brands such as Dermalogica.
Its emerging markets footprint, accounting for 80% of turnover, and its leading brands delivered leadership positions in seven of its top Personal Cares strategy is to deliver competitive growth in its core, ten markets.
This resilience came against a slowdown in several key while evolving the overall portfolio in response to market trends.
markets, combined with commodity inflation and currency fluctuations.
It has four markets generating turnover of more than 1 billion: However, premiumisation, portfolio evolution and expansion in new US, India, Brazil and Indonesia, highlighting its emerging market geographies all contributed to strong growth in South Asia, Africa strengths which generated 12.5 billion of turnover.
Underlying sales and the region of North Africa, Middle East, Turkey, Russia, Ukraine growth in the category during 2017 was 2.9%, a slowdown from 2016, and Belarus.
while operating margin rose 140 basis points to 19.8%.
In more challenging European, South East Asian and some Latin Growing the core and evolving areas such as naturals, prestige and American markets, investment in core brands resulted in growth for baby was a key focus of innovation and investment in 2017.
The Simple Radiant in Brazil, Comfort in China and Sunlight in Indonesia.
This was sensitive skin care range was rolled out to new markets, while several complemented by successful launches of Surf laundry detergents and brands such as Dove and Sunsilk launched natural extensions.
In Sunlight Dishwashing tablets in Central & Eastern Europe, combined India, Lever Ayush, a brand formulated using ayurvedic ingredients with the continued success of Domestos toilet blocks in Europe and was launched and offers a range of skin, hair and oral care products.
liquid laundry detergents in South East Asia.
Future growth markets Hijab Fresh, a hand and body lotion specifically developed for Muslim have been strengthened by the announcement to purchase the home consumers, was launched in Indonesia.
Other launches included KJU care and personal care business of Quala S. A. in 2017 which will add Perfumed by Lux in China, capitalising on the appeal of Korean beauty, brands in north Latin America, and Unilevers joint venture to form and Signals White Now Correction range in Europe.
North America EAC Unilever Myanmar Company Limited.
launched two brands: the millennial-focused hair care and skin cleansing brand, Love Beauty & Planet and ApotheCARE Essentials, Consistent with Unilevers Connected 4 Growth programme, Home Care a range of apothecary-inspired haircare products.
met changing consumer trends with local innovations launched at speed.
The Italian Cif team identified the potential for nozzles to deliver The business faced pressure in two of its largest markets, Brazil and either a spray or a foam and launched within seven months.
Comfort Indonesia, due to difficult economic conditions which affected volumes.
Sakura, a millennial-inspired cherry blossom fragrance in Japan and North America saw growth increase in hair care and skin cleansing China, was launched in five months.
while in Europe, consumers remain cost conscious and the retail environment challenging.
Capitalising on the increased penetration of dishwash machines, Sun dishwasher tablets with improved Several acquisitions were completed in line with the categorys performance, were launched within 12 months.
Carver Korea was bought to strengthen our footprint in skin its innovation in laundry by launching Persil Powergems, a revolutionary care in China, Japan and South Korea.
Hourglass, a luxury colour format with a new concentrated formula which both lowers our cosmetics brand, Schmidts Naturals deodorant brand and Sundial greenhouse gas footprint and delivers high performance.
Brands, a US hair care and skin care company serving multicultural and millennial consumers were acquired in 2017.
An agreement was Home Cares innovations responded quickly to consumers desires for also announced in 2017 to acquire the home care and personal care hygiene, natural ingredients and products that care for sensitive skin.
business of Quala S. A. adding hair and male grooming brands in north Seventh Generation, a US acquisition in 2016 and a pioneer of plant-based Latin America.
products, grew by double digits.
Sensitive, a growing segment addressing skin sensitivity, saw the launch of Dirt is Good Sensitive Persil, Omo in 24 The category has several Sustainable Living brands such as Axe, countries while Neutral, another 2016 acquisition, is now in 11 countries.
Dove, Rexona, Lifebuoy and Smile Signal and Pepsodent which are central to the ambitions of the USLP.
Dove, Lifebuoy and Signal have The category continued to help consumers improve their health and programmes to achieve Unilevers goal of improving health and welllivelihoods notably through its Sustainable Living brands such as Cif, being for more than one billion people by 2020.
Dove launched the Dirt is Good, Domestos, Radiant and Surf.
Domestos, with double digit Real Beauty Pledge in 2017 which promises that Dove will: always growth in 2017, helped more than ten million people gain improved feature real women, never models, in campaigns: will portray women access to a toilet while the Domex brand in India launched a low-cost as they are in real life and will help girls build body confidence toilet cleaner for low income groups.
SmartFoam, a new rinse-efficient, and self-esteem to realise their potential.
Axes positioning, which water-saving technology already available in South Africa under the embraces the individuality of real, modern men, supported Unilevers Sunlight brand, was incorporated into the Rin Radiant detergent bar work on Unstereotype.
in India while Rin also grew its Career Ready Academy, a programme to help young people and women shine in their chosen career through The media landscape continues to fragment, requiring efficiencies in language, presentation and entrepreneurial training.
producing marketing content and more efficient use of existing assets.
This approach helped Personal Care meet savings targets from Home Cares priority in the year ahead is to remain agile and continue to zero-based budgeting, expanding margins.
Low volume growth and reinvest savings from its 5S programme see page 10, ensuring continued short-term volatility are risks but Personal Care is well-positioned to resilience to persistent competitive pressures and economic headwinds.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report 11 DELIVERING LONG-TERM VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS CONTINUED Unilevers Connected 4 Growth initiative means Foods is better placed to take advantage of local insights at increased speed.
A third of FOODS AND REFRESHMENT Foods regional and local innovations reached the market in less Foods and Refreshment combined into a single category on 1 January than seven months.
At the same time, the categorys strong global 2018.
In this Annual Report and Accounts the categories will be presence also provides critical scale, for example Hellmanns reported separately because they were separate categories for the relaunch was undertaken in more than 25 markets.
They will be reported together from 2018 onwards.
The new category is well-positioned to continue top and bottom line REFRESHMENT growth, improve operating margins and leverage its portfolio.
OUR REFRESHMENT CATEGORY GENERATED TURNOVER OF 9.9 BILLION, ACCOUNTING FOR 18% OF UNILEVERS FOODS TURNOVER AND 15% OF OPERATING PROFIT.
OUR FOODS CATEGORY GENERATED TURNOVER OF Refreshment includes three brands with turnover of 1 billion 12.5 BILLION, ACCOUNTING FOR 23% OF UNILEVERS or above, Heartbrand eg Walls, Magnum and Lipton, alongside household names including Brooke Bond and Ben & Jerrys.
Its TURNOVER AND 26% OF OPERATING PROFIT.
premium positioned brands includes T2, Pure Leaf and Taj Mahal in Our two global Foods brands with turnover of 1 billion or above - Knorr tea, and Grom and Talenti in ice cream.
Refreshments strategic role and Hellmann's account for almost two thirds of the category turnover is to deliver growth and cash while generating margin improvement.
The rest of the turnover is generated by smaller Performance was strong, with the highest growth in half a decade, brands including local jewels such as Bango in Indonesia, Maizena in Latin driven by an acceleration of growth in tea and ice cream.
America, Kissan in India, and Robertsons in South Africa.
In December 2017, we signed an agreement to dispose of our global Spreads The categorys underlying sales growth increased 4.9% reflecting business.
More details on page 18. strengthened emerging market performance resulting from continued focus on core brands, portfolio evolution and addressing key consumer Foods enjoyed a good year with continued consistent and profitable trends.
These include premiumisation, health and wellness, and growth with underlying sales up 1.0% and operating margin increasing out-of-home consumption.
Profitability grew with operating margins 80 basis points to 18.2%.
Strong growth was delivered in emerging increasing 380 basis points to 13.5%.
Margins were boosted by markets, which account for 46% of turnover with a compound annual zero-based budgeting, C4G and future finance savings.
Ice cream growth rate of about 7% based on the last three years.
The broad-based benefited from improved channel mix and its cash contribution has growth was particularly driven by Indonesia, Philippines, China, Mexico, more than doubled over four years.
Nearly all our markets had growth Argentina, Nigeria, South Africa, India, Pakistan and Turkey.
The with China, India and Turkey delivering double-digit performances, performance was driven by core businesses such as cooking products, meal while Europe enjoyed a fourth year of growth in ice cream.
North makers, and mayonnaise while benefiting from innovation and renovations America remained challenging in a competitive context, but strengthened and a focus on accessibility through our channels.
Brazil had a challenging as the year progressed.
year because of recession, although there were signs of improving trends in the second half led by Hellmanns portfolio relaunch and Knorrs In Ice Cream, performance was fuelled by premium and on-trend Know Me Better campaign launch promoting its all-natural seasonings.
Magnum delivered double-digit growth, driven by Magnum Doubles and the launch into premium pints, sitting alongside our In developed markets conditions were more challenging, however premium brands such as Talenti and Grom Gelato.
Ben & Jerrys progress was made on portfolio modernisation, where consumer expanded on-the-go with the launch of the Pint Slices format in the demand continues to focus on greater naturalness and authenticity.
US, while the Wich range continued growth in Europe.
In the freeUnilever has responded with new Knorr Sides launches in the US and from segment, Unilever continued its growth of the Ben & Jerrys natural, organic, vegetarian and free from Knorr offerings in Europe.
non-dairy range and expanded Swedish Glace into new markets.
Hellmanns launched its purpose-led On the Side of Food campaign along with a new visual identity.
This global brand activity was supported Premiumisation of tea saw the acquisition of Pukka Herbs, the fastest by local jewels such as Unox, Conimex and Pot Noodle entering ongrowing organic tea brand, and Tazo in North America, responding trend segments including plant based, snacking and chilled.
to demand for speciality teas.
These join Refreshments premium Tea portfolio of Sir Thomas Lipton, T2, which continues its roll out, and the Digital activation continues to be a strategic focus for Foods, with Pure Leaf brand.
Innovation in health and wellness included the launch innovations and advertising campaigns based on a digital and mobileof a range of Lipton benefit-led teas, entering new premium segments.
Both Hellmanns On the Side of Food and Knorrs Know Me Better campaigns were designed to engage consumers Refreshment continued to build a stronger and more agile business.
in conversations on sustainable nutrition.
Unilever Food Solutions, More than half of Refreshment innovation projects were regionally led.
which directly supplies restaurant operators and distributors, had Breyers Delights, our response to the low calorie, high protein trend another year of impressive growth.
It generated turnover of 2.7 billion in North America reached the market in under six months.
Turnover and is well placed to capitalise on rising out-of-home food consumption.
momentum came through developing channels.
On-the-go continues It delivered broad based growth, including double digit underlying sales strongly in markets with.
com delivery service and platforms providing growth in China, its biggest market.
Premium tea brands gave access to premium restaurants, hotels and department stores as well as Our Sustainable Nutrition strategy, launched in 2016, is central to our partnerships with retailers.
strategic ambition to be recognised as a progressive foods company.
It was spearheaded by Hellmanns and Knorr, which are both Sustainable The category has several Sustainable Living brands including Ben & Living brands.
Knorr continued to deliver sustainable sourcing and Jerrys, Breyers, Brooke Bond and Lipton.
Markets featuring Brooke fortification programmes and maintained its commitment to raising Bonds purpose-led advertising, centred on finding common ground animal welfare standards, while Hellmanns made significant progress over tea, grew almost three times faster than others.
Our I am Walls in shifting to sustainably sourced oils and cage-free eggs, with the latter programme continued to employ micro entrepreneurs across 25 delivered into the US three years ahead of the original commitment.
countries while our purchase of climate-friendly ice cream freezer Hellmanns ketchup introduced a variant sweetened with honey and cabinets continued, increasing to around 2.6 million.
Responsible another made with red and green tomatoes, reducing food waste.
nutrition was another strategic driver for Refreshment with 90% of our Additionally, 39% of our Foods and Refreshment portfolio, based on packaged ice cream by volume containing 250 calories or fewer per sales volume, is compliant with Unilevers highest nutritional standards, portion calculated based on 87% of global ice cream sales volume.
that are aligned with World Health Organization criteria.
Our recently acquired businesses Sir Kensingtons in the US and Me Terra in Brazil are well aligned to our Sustainable Nutrition strategy.
12 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017
