OUR STRATEGY Our strategy helps us deliver top and bottom line growth in GROWING THE CORE, EVOLVING THE PORTFOLIO AND a fast-changing world.
It is underpinned by Connected 4 Growth DEVELOPING CHANNELS ARE AT THE HEART OF OUR C4G, a significant organisational change programme which aims to create a faster, simpler organisation while creating a culture STRATEGY TO DELIVER LONG-TERM, COMPOUNDING of empowerment, collaboration and experimentation.
We expect the GROWTH AND SUSTAINABLE VALUE CREATION.
benefits of C4G to be realised progressively during 2018 and 2019.
WINNING WITH BRANDS AND INNOVATION WINNING THROUGH CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT Consumer preferences are changing and they are taking radically C4G plays a significant role in driving competitive growth, but different paths when purchasing brands.
We must therefore innovate it is also responsible for margin expansion to deliver profitable faster to respond to these changes.
While the level of innovation growth.
Through sharper financial discipline governing overhead will vary by category, depending on market requirements and spending, and our zero-based budgeting approach, we are reducing brand strategies we use 70:20:10 as a general percentage guideline.
costs as well as uncovering new and innovative ways of working.
The 70 innovation projects are global roll-outs, such as Baby In the supply chain, we have rolled out the 5S: smart programme Dove which was launched in 19 markets in 2017.
Local innovations across all categories.
5S drives cost savings, but it is more than marketed through global brands make up the 20 part of our a conventional cost saving exercise.
It examines the business for portfolio, such as the launch of Comfort Sakura in Japan.
The improvements more broadly across the entire value chain, driving 10 are hyper-local launches such as the Sunsilk Yuya range savings through smart buying, smart sourcing and smart product in Mexico which respond directly to local requirements.
portfolio, all of which leverage our Partner to Win programme.
5S To enable this, C4G has created more than 200 Country Category also drives revenue and margin through smart mix and smart pricing Business Teams CCBTs which are multifunctional entrepreneurial which we deliver through our Net Revenue Management programme.
units which break down silos by combining marketing, R&D, customer In Home Care alone, the 5S programme has delivered material development and supply chain expertise.
They have ownership of their savings of 450 million in 2017. own profit and loss account and are empowered to take decisions for Customer development is using virtual reality tools to test ahead their local requirements.
Through CCBTs, we are aiming for more of new launches, savings costs and cutting project times compared relevant innovations, which are rolled out faster.
We are already seeing to traditional methods using physical store mock-ups.
an improvement in time to market across our portfolio.
At the same time, we are seeing more rapid local innovations to meet local trends.
In marketing, we are creating more of our own content in house while CCBTs are supported by 45 Brand Communities, which ensure global making existing assets go further.
Our 17 U-Studios in 12 countries collaboration and best practice sharing.
are creating content for brand teams faster and around 30% cheaper than external agencies.
In addition, we are using our global and Consumers increasingly seek brands that are authentic and which agency networks in order to access efficient production solutions and they can trust.
Our Sustainable Living brands are a key differentiator locations.
We continue to apply zero-based budgeting to improve in this regard.
In 2016, 18 of our top 40 brands were Sustainable efficiencies in areas such as brand and marketing investment.
Living brands which combine a powerful purpose with products contributing to the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan.
See page 13 Related principal risks see pages 28 to 29 : Supply chain, for more.
Sustainability, Climate Change Related principal risks see pages 28 to 30 : Brand preference, Economic and political instability, Portfolio management, Safe and high-quality products, Sustainability, Climate Change WINNING IN THE MARKETPLACE WINNING WITH PEOPLE We reach 2.5 billion consumers every day through 25 million retail At the heart of C4G is a founders mindset that will power long-term stores.
We are constantly evolving our portfolio through our C4G value creation.
It involves more collaboration, more experimentation approach to reach consumers in all income brackets.
This stretches through test and learn, embracing failure to gain insight and an from our prestige range in Personal Care, built from carefully obsession with customers and consumers.
An owners mindset selected acquisitions such as Carver Korea and Hourglass, down to empowers our people to take responsibility for delivering business Domex, a new toilet detergent innovation in powder format launched results.
Through our CCBTs and Brand Communities, they take in just seven months for the lowest income groups in India.
But we innovations from global teams and land them in markets.
But they also reach wide into new geographies, with brands expanding to meet are also empowered, and provided with the resources, to develop future pockets of growth such as Pure Leaf tea in North America and local innovations with speed.
Sunlight dishwash in Central & Eastern Europe.
C4G gives our people licence to take responsibility for resources, Data is key to informing innovation, gathered from publicly available driving efficiency improvements through zero-based budgeting information, but also from our 25 People Data Centres around the and reinvesting the proceeds in higher growth areas.
These identify trends and insights from social listening and entrepreneurial culture we are also changing the way our people engaging with consumers with ideas for new launches and formats.
are rewarded, with more long-term share-based incentive schemes Alongside innovation, customer development is a key driver of growth.
that reward both business performance and progress on our Unilever Our Category Channel Development Leaders sit on our CCBTs and Sustainable Living Plan USLP targets see page 7. work closely with our marketing professionals so products are available To ensure we develop the right capabilities and skills needed for when and where consumers want them, in the format they prefer, these different ways of working and new entrepreneurial leadership utilising Net Revenue Management, supported by compelling and qualities, we are investing in continuous, always-on learning relevant communications.
programmes that are available when people need them in the E-commerce remains a key and growing channel.
Our online most relevant format.
business is now close to delivering 4% of Unilever turnover.
We have Attracting and retaining the best talent is vital to value creation more than 800 people dedicated to building our business through and our Purpose of Making Sustainable Living Commonplace is a numerous online channels such as Amazon, Taobao in China, online clear differentiator, with 72% of employees believing sustainability grocery websites, as well as direct-to-consumer models deployed drives growth in the business.
In 2017, Unilever was the number by Dollar Shave Club, T2 and a number of our prestige brands.
one FMCG graduate recruiter in 44 countries.
Related principal risks see pages 28 to 30 : Customer relationships, Related principal risks see pages 28 to 30 : Talent, Business Economic and political instability, Portfolio management, transformation, Sustainability Sustainability, Climate change 10 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017
