products are stocked and available.
If the pilot is successful we hope OUR PARTNERS to roll the partnership out to other markets where we have a large number of small-scale retailers.
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT AND PARTNERSHIP IS E-commerce remains a key and growing channel.
Our online business ESSENTIAL TO GROW OUR BUSINESS AND TO REACH is now close to delivering 4% of Unilever turnover.
We are actively THE AMBITIOUS TARGETS SET OUT IN THE USLP.
driving e-commerce sales in 39 markets.
Our focus is to build a Our Code of Business Principles and Code Policies guide how we balanced e-commerce business model, growing across e-retailers, interact with our partners among others suppliers, customers, bricks and mortar online sales and direct-to-consumer businesses.
governments, Non-Governmental Organisations NGOs and trade We continue to roll out our Perfect Store concept to online channels, associations.
Only authorised and appropriately trained employees ensuring shoppers can find variants of Unilever brands quickly and or representatives can engage with these groups and a record should easily, regardless of screen size or device.
be kept of all interactions.
All engagement must be conducted: in a transparent manner with honesty, integrity and openness: in GOVERNMENTS compliance with local and international laws and in accordance We co-operate with and engage with governments, regulators with Unilevers values see page 1. and legislators, both directly and through trade associations, in the development of proposed legislation and regulation which may affect SUPPLIERS our business interests.
All employees involved in political engagement Delivering Unilever's Vision of growing our business, whilst decoupling must promote our corporate principles and comply with our Code of our environmental footprint from our growth and improving our Business Principles and Code Policies.
We do not support or fund positive social impact, is not something we can achieve on our own.
political parties or candidates or any groups that promote party Every day, we work with thousands of suppliers who are helping us interests.
No political contributions were made in 2017.
Our participation achieve success in the countries where our products are sold.
Our in policy discussions is varied, covering macro topics like climate suppliers help us innovate, create value, capacity and capability, change, through to detailed product safety standards.
We engage deliver quality and service and drive market transformation with with stakeholders directly as Unilever or through membership responsible and sustainable living.
of representative organisations, including trade associations.
A significant portion of our growth comes from innovation, delivering TRADE ASSOCIATIONS leading-edge products into the marketplace.
We anticipate that We are members of and support a number of trade associations around 70% of our innovations are linked to working with our strategic and similar organisations which help us to advance our public policy suppliers.
That's why we invest in long-term mutually beneficial interests.
We keep a record of our trade association memberships relationships with our key suppliers through our Partner to Win and membership fees, which is regularly updated.
We also engage programme, so we can share capabilities and co-innovate for shared with peer companies, both individually and in coalitions, on issues growth.
Partner to Win is about shaping the next horizon together and of mutual interest.
This includes working together to implement is a unique opportunity to unlock value for Unilever and our partners.
sustainable business strategies and drive change.
It helps us strengthen supplier and customer collaboration, it enables improved overall end-to-end operational efficiency and mutual These associations reflect our global scale and presence across capability building and sharing.
We list our major global memberships in the Engaging with Stakeholders section on our website.
We are CUSTOMERS registered in the Transparency Register of the European Union.
Our In a fragmented channel landscape, those companies that best serve trade association memberships in the US can be found on the FAQ their shoppers and customers with bespoke solutions will benefit section of the Unilever USA website.
Unilever serves consumers through ten different channels: hyper and supermarkets, e-commerce, out of home, drug stores, Our businesses are active at a local level participating in trade small stores, discounters, Food Solutions, Unilever International, associations in our markets and contributing to public policy and prestige channel and global retail.
We serve around 25 million retail interest group debates in areas such as safety and environmental stores globally of which we cover eight million directly and another impact, sustainable sourcing and nutrition.
They do so in clear 17 million indirectly through wholesale and cash & carry.
Unilever alignment with global priorities and closely follow local laws has had a historic competitive advantage through its distributor and Unilevers Code of Business Principles and Code Policies.
network covering around seven million stores, which contribute NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANISATIONS to approximately 20% of our turnover.
We are building transformational partnerships in collaboration Hyper and supermarkets represent around 50% of our current with NGOs and other stakeholders who share our vision for a more turnover and are under growth and margin pressure with shoppers sustainable future.
These partnerships are instrumental in improving moving to discounters and e-commerce.
Experiential concepts play the quality of peoples lives, achieving our USLP targets and driving an important role to ensure that Unilever brands enjoy the best the growth of our business.
positioning and visibility in store.
To respond to these challenges In collaboration with NGOs, we build programmes on the ground to in Europe, in partnership with our customer Carrefour, we created implement our brands social missions in addition to advancing our the Aisle of Joy concept which is currently in over 1,000 stores and efforts in areas such as sustainable sourcing and distribution driving ice cream growth.
Similarly, our Whats for dinner programme often in partnership with governments and other private sector has approximately 190,000 touchpoints in Europe and ensures proximity organisations.
We drive scale through new business models, digital of Unilever food products with relevant ingredients.
We are rolling out a technology solution to connect retailers to We recognise that our actions alone cannot achieve the system change distributors.
We are also upskilling small-scale retailers by necessary to overcome the worlds major challenges, such as climate professionalising their store operations.
For instance, our Kabisig change and poverty.
Our leadership engages with stakeholders Summits in the Philippines train both retailers and their suppliers in through platforms such as the World Economic Forum, UN Global stock control, financial management, sales and customer service.
To Compact, the World Business Council for Sustainable Development date, over 87,000 owners have attended summits, delivering a and the Consumer Goods Forum, championing a more inclusive model significant uplift in our turnover.
of capitalism and the pursuit of long-term value creation for the In Kenya, we have formed a partnership with Mastercard to offer a low benefit of multiple stakeholders.
Partnerships with NGOs are crucial risk credit solution for the purchase of Unilever products.
This not only to deliver the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals see increases the earnings potential of retailers, but ensures that our page 15.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report 17
