STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED The number of cyber attacks continues to rise.
A cyber risk workshop was held with the Group Executive Committee and this resulted RISK MANAGEMENT ACTIONS TO MITIGATE RISK There is a risk that the Group is subjected to external in a number of actions being identified.
1 threats from hackers or viruses potentially causing CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BREACH The Group continues to monitor developments in cyber security threats.
critical or sensitive data to be lost, corrupted, made Corporate governance legislation such asthe UK The Group has well-established governance policies and procedures in all key areas, inaccessible, or accessed by unauthorised users, The Group has security controls in place including policies and procedures.
Bribery Act and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices including aGroup Code of Business Conduct, anti-bribery procedures, a Health & Safety resulting in financial loss.
The Group may lose Act, regulations and guidance such as the UK Charter, and various policies and procedures over the review and reporting of risk Employees have received awareness training on cyber related issues.
access to its systems for a period of time resulting Corporate Governance Code and global health and management and internal control activities.
in missed deliveries and other business impacts.
In 2018 the Groups Information Security Policy will be strengthened and a maturity safety regulations are increasingly complex and Governance updates are provided to the Board and Executive Committee at appropriate assessment against it conducted across the Group.
A serious breach of these rules and intervals, and to key operational management.
regulations could have a significant impact on the EU sites have performed a gap analysis against the requirements of the General Data Groups reputation, lead to aloss of confidence on All employees are required to complete annual Code of Conduct training.
More than Protection Regulations GDPR which come into force on 25 May 2018. the part of investors, customers or other 90% ofemployees have completed the 2017 Code of Conduct training.
N 1 2 5 INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGICAL CHANGE stakeholders and ultimately have a material adverse A risk assessment on the Failure to Prevent the Facilitation of Tax Evasion regulations impact onthe Groups enterprise value.
In order to continue to win new business and The Group has a technology council which meets regularly to discuss innovation and has beencompleted.
achieve profitable growth the Group must innovate.
All employees have received awareness training on Modern Slavery.
There is a risk that the Group does not continue to The Group is a member of the Advance Manufacturing Research Centre which focusses innovate and implement technological change Enquiries have been made of the supply chain to ensure that they have procedures in on advance machining and materials research.
resulting in its technology becoming uncompetitive place toprevent Modern Slavery.
Global Marketing Teams are engaged to ensure that customer requirements and There has been increased focus on export compliance at our US sites.
The Board has received an update on Directors responsibilities.
The Group continues to invest in improving technology.
Technology Roadmaps in support of the Groups Strategic Plan will be further developed FINANCING AND LIQUIDITY 2 3 5 to ensure that investment is appropriately targetted.
The Group could have insufficient financial resources The Groups overall treasury risk management programme focuses on the to fund its growth strategy or meet its financial unpredictability of financial markets, and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on The Senior Operating System will be developed to include best practice tools for obligations as they fall due.
Compliance with financial policies and exposure limits are reviewed by the Groups NEW PRODUCT INTRODUCTION N 1 2 3 4 5 Treasury Committee on a regular basis.
The ability to introduce new products in line with The Group is experienced in bidding and launching new products.
Formal New Product The Group enters into forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge the exchange risk theplan at point of contract award is important if Introduction NPI processes, such as Advanced Product Quality Planning APQP, are arising on operations trading activities in foreign currencies: however, it does not enter theGroup is to achieve its strategic objectives.
used in some parts of the Group.
into or trade financial instruments, including derivative financial instruments, for There is a risk that new programmes or products There is a Group Contract Review Policy which helps to ensure that large, new speculative purposes.
arenot introduced to schedule, quality and cost programme bids have been reviewed by senior managers.
Non-advocate support is atatime when new programmes are ramping up.
The Groups hedging policy was updated and approved by the Board in December 2017. provided to sites with challenging NPI proposals.
Thiscould result in delays, cost overruns and This will be rolled out across the Group early in 2018. disappointed customers.
The status of NPI programmes is subject to regular review by divisional and Group The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves, banking facilities management to ensure that any cost, quality or schedule issues are identified and dealt and revolving credit facilities, and by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash with promptly.
flows, matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities and paying close The provision of non-advocate support will continue to be provided as required to ensure attention to the projected level of headroom under the covenants contained in its approporiate challenge and rigour is applied to the NPI process.
The Senior Operating System will be developed to include best practice tools for new GEOPOLITICAL IMPACT 2 4 product introduction.
The UK decision in June 2016 to leave the EU, the The Board ensures that it is kept informed of Brexit and US trade developments so that election of a new President in the US and other it can assess the impact on the Group and take action as appropriate.
likely geo-political events has created uncertainty An initial discussion with UK CFOs on the likely impact of Brexit has been held.
over the future impact on international trade and the ability to retain and recruit foreign nationals.
In 2018 a cross-functional Brexit committee will be formed and a risk assessment conducted.
CYBER INFORMATION SECURITY 1 28 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 29 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY OPERATING IN AN ETHICAL, ENVIRONMENTALLY AND SOCIALLY SUSTAINABLE MANNER IS A KEY DRIVER IN VALUE CREATION in an internal auditing programme on contractor control and have shared learning.
We plan to 20 20 WORKPLACE WORKPLACE extend this approach in 2018.
OBJECTIVES The Group-wide safety of contractors In 2015, we launched our management policy has been revised.
20 20 vision for sustainability, Selection and approval procedures have been a five-year strategy, following HEALTH & SAFETY ETHICS EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT SUPPLY CHAIN HEALTH & SAFETY upgraded to ensure that all contractors working an assessment of materiality on Senior Operating Businesses are capable of Objectives Objectives Objectives Objectives The health and safety of our employees with our key stakeholders.
working to the highest safety standards.
All our Continue towards our goal Act in accordance with Seniors Develop a Group HR Framework Implement a Responsible continues to be of upmost priority and remains Our vision has three core businesses have reviewed contactor of zero harm through effective business principles and values, with improvement objectives for SupplyChain Management one of our key business objectives.
themes: Workplace, management against this revised policy and management systems, employee upholding a zero tolerance learning, diversity and equality.
Policyand communicate it Environment and This year we have extended our Zero Harm have completed actions to address any engagement and defining approach to bribery and toallsuppliers.
Progress programme with a behavioural element we shortfalls.
The Group continues to partner Progress have called the Senior Essential Behaviours.
During 2017 our Corporate Health and Safety Progress Progress with world class training providers A Responsible Sourcing Policy To devise these behaviours a core team of staff review programme has been revised.
The A 28% reduction in our Lost Time Rolled out advanced ethics and to develop our leadership pipeline hasbeen adopted.
Key suppliers received training to gather information from our programme has been extended to give a Injury Rate and a 23% reduction compliance programmes training and capability.
We have launched havebeen included in the global businesses through a series of numeric assessment of the implementation of inour Total Recordable Injury Rate across the Group.
Perform, our new global assessmentprocess.
These workshops generated a huge our Zero Harm Golden Rules as well as a more compared with 2016. performance management system amount of data which was combined with our in-depth review of current performance.
Through robust The Senior Essential Behaviours existing Zero Harm policies and experience from the Senior businesses were subject to a succession planning and talent for Health & Safety have been external research to generate a set of health and Corporate Safety review in 2017, meaning we management process we have developed and we are engaging safety behaviours bespoke to Senior.
To help us conducted 34 in total.
identified high potentials: they with our leadership teams on with this process we engaged a leading have appropriate development The combined focus on behavioural safety and implementing to all levels in our consultancy.
We actively appoint our safety review programme have resulted in business.
and develop local talent in all our There are behaviours for three main groups a positive effect on our injury rates for the global geographies to encourage ofour staff: Everyone, Supervisors Team Group as a whole.
When compared to our diversity and inclusion across the Leaders, and Managers Leadership.
The 2016 annual figure the 2017 Total Recordable Group.
behaviours fall into four main categories: Injury Rate fell by 23% and the Lost Time Standard, Communication, Risk Management Injury Rate reduced by 28%.
They are interconnected, forexample: Everyone should Follow the ENVIRONMENT COMMUNITY Rules, but Supervisors also must Ensure INJURY RATES Compliance.
Managers must Follow the 4.0 Rules but also Set High Standards.
3.48 3.5 The Essential Behaviours are being 2.97 2.95 2.94 3.0 CARBON EMISSIONS WATER CONSUMPTION WASTE RECYCLED CERTIFICATION COMMUNITY GIVING communicated through workshops with the 2.49 2.5 business leadership teams.
Half of our Objectives Objectives Objectives Objectives Objectives 2.0 1.78 businesses attended these workshops in 2017 Reduce carbon emissions through Limit the environmental impacts Reduce the overall quantity of Establish formalised environmental Establish positive and meaningful 1.36 with the remaining scheduled to be completed 1.5 improved energy consumption and of our products and processes waste generated and improve management systems in all relationships with all the 1.13 1.03 0.95 0.93 in the first half of 2018.
through more efficient water proportion of materials reused businesses to reduce the communities in which Senior 0.67 consumption.
operates and provide financial 0.5 Our focus on machinery safety has continued Progress support to local charities and 0.0 with a concerted effort to ensure safety control Progress Progress Emissions of CO tonnes per m Progress 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2 good causes.
systems are the best we can achieve on all our revenue have decreased from 81 Water consumption for 2017 was Following a thorough review of All legacy Senior businesses now Total Recordable Injury Rate equipment regardless of age.
The equipment waste streams and categorisation, have certification under IS0 14001. in 2016 to 65 for 2017.
0.26 Megalitres m turnover Progress Lost Time Injury Rate designated as high priority through risk compared with 0.30 in 2016. we can report that 91% of our Our businesses continue to The remaining businesses are assessment has been completed and we are waste produced was recycled in interact in a positive way with progressing well.
now at the point where the continuous risk 2017 compared to 81% in 2016. communities local to the facility.
assessment process is managing these risks.
Where we have a number of businesses situated together they have also been involved 30 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 31 Rate per 100 employees STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED We believe that we have extended our Zero Please refer to the Corporate Governance Harm strategy with a world class behavioural Report on pages 42 to 44 for further information DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION ENVIRONMENT programme, our intention is to further develop on Corporate Ethics and the Code of Conduct.
CO TO TURNOVER Senior plc is committed to ensuring 2 We continued to progress our environmental this in 2018 and extend its reach further into equalopportunities, fairness of treatment, 2017 update WATER CONSUMPTION 90 management programmes in 2017 with our businesses.
dignity, work-life balance and the 86.14 85.47 85.58 The 2017 Code of Conduct training improvements across the Group in our energy We continue to monitor and report on water elimination of all forms of discrimination 85 programme was completed by all employees 81.28 intensity megawatt hours per m revenue usage.
Businesses incorporate water saving inthe workplace for employees and job 80 and waste recycling in particular.
It is a CO to revenue initiatives as they continue to refine production 2 Modern Slavery awareness training was applicants.
Senior aims to create a working tonnes of CO 2 requirement for all Senior businesses to attain processes: an example of this is Senior 75 delivered to all employees environment in which all individuals can emitted per an accreditation to ISO 14401: we have Flexonics Brazil where they have installed m revenue make best use of their skills, free from ETHICS 70 Work was undertaken with our supply chain achieved this for all existing businesses with watertreatment plant and equipment to discrimination or harassment, and in The highest ethical standard to ensure that the risk of exposure to 65.00 one business a more recent acquisition re-usewater and to ensure that the water 65 whichall decisions are based on merit.
Senior remains committed to the highest Modern Slavery is minimised scheduling accreditation in 2018. thathas been used can be returned back 60 standard of ethics and a zero tolerance towards The Groups Equality, Diversity and 2015 2016 2017 2013 2014 tolocalfresh water supply.
We performed a gap analysis against the bribery and corruption.
Our ethics and business Inclusion policy is contained within the requirements of the General Data Protection In 2017 some of our businesses have taken conduct programme commits us to conducting Code of Conduct and requires Seniors Regulations GDPR in-house some chemical processing which business fairly, impartially and in compliance employees to treat everyone they meet in ENERGY INTENSITY was previously outsourced.
This has meant with local laws and regulations and to acting Our plans for 2018 the course of business with respect, CARBON EMISSIONS 210 anincrease in water usage at some of these with integrity and honesty in our business We will update and reissue the Senior Code fairness and dignity.
Employees are required 204 205 Our Scope 1 and 2 emissions have been 202 facilities.
The programme is underpinned of Conduct to comply with the Code of Conduct and 200 independently verified in accordance with the by the Code of Conduct, which provides a clear the policies included therein.
During the 194 195 All employees will be required to complete International Standard on Assurance framework on which to base decisions when Energy year, all employees received training on the 190 the 2018 Code of Conduct training intensity Engagements 3410 Assurance engagements 184 conducting day-to-day business.
It does this by: Code of Conduct.
185 MWh m programme on greenhouse gas statements ISAE 3410.
180 revenue clearly setting out the behaviour expected of In addition, Seniors operating businesses 175 We will update and reissue the Group WASTE RECYCLED 171 CDP is a not-for-profit charity that runs the all employees: adopted local policiesas a means of 170 Responsible Sourcing Policy global disclosure system for investors, In 2016, we recycled 81% of our waste with helping to achieve these aims.
165 providing guidelines which help employees companies, cities, states and regions to anumber of our businesses achieving zero Training on the GDPR will be delivered to 160 The table below shows the diversity 2015 2016 2017 to apply our values: and 2013 2014 manage their environmental impacts.
Over the waste to landfill where local conditions are employees as appropriate oftheSenior Groups Board of Directors, past 15 years they have created a system favourable to recycling opportunities.
In 2017 enabling employees to raise a concern or ask Executive Committee and Operational which is used by a broad spectrum of leading we have achieved a Group figure of 91% a question if in doubt.
Senior Management in 2017 by gender.
WATER CONSUMPTION companies and institutions.
ofwaste recycled or recovered, achieving our Acting ethically is an enabler of our business, Gender 2020 target three years early.
This is a result 0.50 Senior submit data and information related to providing competitive advantage by Male Female ofa concerted effort by the businesses to 0.45 EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Climate Change on an annual basis to CDP.
strengthening long-term relationships and 0.38 0.40 examine waste stream categorisation and Total Group 81% 19% 0.36 This means that we must detail how we protecting the Groups reputation.
In our autonomous and collaborative structure 0.35 recycling opportunities.
The total amount of 0.31 0.30 Board of Directors 62% 38% manage our emissions of carbon and describe Water intensity our operating businesses actively engage via a 0.30 0.26 waste produced by the Group in 2017 reduced Megalitre m We use various forms of communication and Executive Committee 75% 25% in detail how we consider carbon and the 0.25 range of activities that are culturally appropriate turnover by 18% compared to 2016. training, both in-person and through electronic environment in the way we conduct our 0.20 Operational for the business: for example, regular meetings media, to embed the ethics and integrity 0.15 business and plan for the future.
Senior Management 88% 12% with employee representative bodies, long requirement across the Group.
We investigate 0.10 service awards, an employee App, holiday Investors, businesses and policy makers use 0.05 any alleged violations or complaints and take The Board seeks to ensure a diverse parties, and engagement surveys.
As well as the data and insights from CDP to make better 0.00 the necessary action.
A register of reported workforce that supports all employees, 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 our annual Spring Roadshow when members decisions, manage risk and capitalise on incidents is maintained by the Group Company irrespective of age, disability, gender, race, of the Executive Team visit all our sites to opportunities.
Secretary and the Board receives regular religion or sexual orientation.
We will not present a business update, all our operations updates.
accept any form of unlawful discrimination A panel of experts in CDP grade the hold regular All-hands meetings.
We have also This excellent result indicates Senior plc has A against our colleagues or any third parties submissions on a scale of A to F. The Group recognises that the use of thirdcreated a global network of Communications implemented a range of actions to manage climate A Leadership be they potential employees, customers, change, both in its own operations and beyond.
party intermediaries can increase potential Champions to share knowledge and best B For 2017 Senior plc were graded as an subcontractors, suppliers or members of Companies at Leadership level show evidence of at Management bribery and corruption risks within the markets practice and support their local business with B A-putting us in the Leadership category.
least one of the following: meaningful targets and the public.
All employees have an equal in which we operate.
All external sales agents C internal communications and engagement.
Thismeans that we are in the leading group emissions reduction activities and verified or assured chance to contribute and to achieve their C Awareness working on behalf of Senior across the world ofour peer companies.
This is an excellent emissions data.
We strive to reflect the diversity are required to operate in compliance with the achievement and vindication of the efforts D Disclosure of the communities at all levels within our Code of Conduct.
The Code requires a ofallour businesses and the corporate team.
workforce which Senior operates in.
Senior pre-appointment due diligence and risk plc is an equal opportunities employer.
assessment to be undertaken, prior to SUPPLY CHAIN engaging or re-appointing any sales agent and In accordance with the Equality Act 2010 SUMMARY OF ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Our businesses have communicated the requires them to be issued with the Code, Gender Pay Gap Information Regulations requirements of the Corporate Responsible 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 ensuring that they understand, acknowledge 2017, which came into force in April 2017, Sourcing Policy to key suppliers.
Energy intensity MWh m revenue 204 202 194 184 171 and accept its requirements.
Senior has undertaken a gender pay gap Scope 1 GHG tCO e 9,466 11,475 12,092 10,906 10,348 2 reporting exercise, the results of which Scope 2 GHG tCO e 51,151 56,787 56,482 59,578 55,941 2 will be published on the Companys Essential Beha ESSENTIAL B viours EHAV fo IO r... URS FOR... website in line with requirements.
Scope 3 GHG tCO e 5,631 2,796 4,130 4,089 4,123 2 Supervisors & Managers & Tonnes CO emitted per m of revenue 85.47 86.14 85.58 81.28 65 2 Theme Everyone Team Leaders Leadership Water usage in megalitres 275 314 264 288 268 Standards Follow Rules Ensure Complianc p e Set High S g tandards Percentage of waste recycled or recovered 71% 81% 82% 81% 91% Communication Speak Up p p Encourag ge the Team Communicate Open p ly y Water usage per m of revenue 0.36 0.38 0.31 0.30 0.26 Risk Manag gement Be Mindful Promote Risk Awareness Confront Risk Involvement Get Involved Engage the Team Involve the Workforce 32 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 33 Thousands Thousands Thousands STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The Group highlights five financial and two ORGANIC ADJUSTED EARNINGS NET CASH FROM RETURN ON CAPITAL non-financial metrics to measure progress REVENUE GROWTH M PER SHARE P OPERATING ACTIVITIES M EMPLOYED % in implementing its strategy.
6.3% 0.1% 10.6% -1.0ppts 110.9 1,023 18.98 962 100.3 99.4 18.9 14.37 14.39 12.9 11.9 The Groups financial objectives are as follows: CO emissions m revenue is an estimate 2 ofthe Groups carbon dioxide emissions to achieve organic revenue growth at intonnes divided by the Groups revenue constant exchange rates in excess of the inmillions.
rate of inflation: Lost time injury frequency rate is the number to increase the Groups return on revenue 16 17 15 16 17 15 16 17 15 16 17 of OSHA or equivalent recordable injury margin each year: and illness cases involving days away from The Group delivered strong organic revenue The Group benefited from a reduction in its The Groups net cash from operating activities The Groups return on capital employed to increase adjusted earnings per share on work per 100 employees.
growth due to positive contribution from adjusted tax rate as defined on page 21 to has improved.
The Group has been able to reduced in 2017 to 11.9% due to the impact an annual basis by more than the rate of both divisions.
In Aerospace, growth was 17.5% which offset the 3% reduction in fundan increased level of capital expenditure oflower profits compounded by increased The Group collects its environmental data in inflation: primarily driven by increased build rates on adjusted profit before tax defined in Note 9 of1.3 times depreciation and proposes capital expenditure.
accordance with the guidelines specified by large commercial aircraft programmes, partly and resulted in a 0.1% improvement in adjusted a5.8%increase in the annual dividend.
Capital to generate sufficient cash to enable the the Global Reporting Initiative GRI, to the offset partly by lower revenue from certain earnings per share.
expenditure is defined as purchase, net of Group to fund future growth and to follow extent that this is currently practicable, and has military programmes.
Increased revenue in disposal, of property, plant and equipment and aprogressive dividend policy: and applied the greenhouse gas conversion factors Flexonics was driven by revenue growth intangible assets.
Depreciation comprises contained within the GRI Guidelines and the to maintain an overall return on capital from truck and off-highway and upstream oil depreciation of property, plant and equipment Defra DECCs 2016 Conversion Factors for employed in excess of the Groups cost of andgas markets.
and amortisation of intangible assets excluding Company Reporting.
The Group has used capital and to target a pre-tax return in those from acquisitions.
thefinancial control approach to define its excess of 15%.
organisational boundary and reports data These financial objectives are supported fromits wholly-owned or majority-owned by two non-financial objectives: operations.
Billed or metered sources represent the basis of the majority of our to reduce the Lost Time Injury Rate greenhouse gas emissions.
per 100employees to 0.5 by 2020: and Despite 2017 being a challenging year for the Approval to reduce the Groups energy intensity Group, three out of five financial targets were The Strategic Report from pages 1 to 35 RETURN ON REVENUE CARBON DIOXIDE LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY tonnes CO per m revenue to 77 by 2020.
In addition, good progress was made wasapproved by the Board of Directors on MARGIN % EMISSIONS RATE INCIDENTS PER 100 The key performance indicators KPIs are towards the two non-financial objectives and 23February 2018 and signed on its TONNES M REVENUE EMPLOYEES P. A. determined as follows: the Group was pleased to see CO emissions behalf by 2 and Lost Time Injury Rates decrease in 2017.
Organic revenue growth is the rate of The Group remains on track to meet its 2020 David Squires growth of Group revenue, at constant safety, energy and water usage improvement -1.2ppts 18% DECREASE 28% DECREASE Group Chief Executive exchange rates, excluding the effect of goals.
Further details of the Groups 85.6 acquisitions and discontinued activities.
81.3 12.7 performance record in this regard, including its 1.03 Return on revenue margin is the Groups long-term performance trends, are shown on 0.93 65.0 adjusted operating profit divided by revenue.
9.3 8.1 Adjusted operating profit is defined in 0.67 A summary of the year-on-year movements in Note9.
these KPIs and the main drivers of the changes Adjusted earnings per share are defined are described opposite.
Net cash from operating activities is availablefrom the Consolidated Cash 15 16 17 15 16 17 15 16 17 Flow Statement.
During the year, the Group experienced a The Group has achieved an 18% reduction The Group continued to focus on the Zero Return on capital employed is the Groups number of factors that reduced the margin.
incarbon dioxide emissions CO e per m Harm programme with the addition of 2 adjusted operating profit divided by the Aerospace margins were impacted by revenue.
This has been realised in the main by behavioural safety into our Zero Harm average of the capital employed at the start volume reductions on mature programmes the reduction in emission factors for electrical programme.
In 2017 we achieved a 28% and end of the period, capital employed and the ramp-up of new aircraft production scope 2 emissions in some of our operational reduction in the Lost Time Injury Rate and a being total equity plus net debt defined in programmes.
Margins in Flexonics were regions due to a different, less carbon 23% reduction in the total Recordable Injury Note 32c.
impacted by the mix of markets driving intensive fuel mix.
We are mindful that these Rate.
In 2018 the Zero Harm programme will volume growth.
could rise again in the future depending on continue to evolve as we embed our Essential commodity costs, fuel source availability and Behaviours for Health and Safety into our local policy objectives.
34 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 SENIOR PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2017 35
