STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS MODEL OUR BUSINESS MODEL AngloAmerican draws upon a number of key inputs from both its central expertise and its diversified operating businesses that, through expert allocation, development, extraction and marketing, create sustainable value for our shareholders and our diverse range of stakeholders.
GROUP INPUTS Financial Other natural resources Relationships with footprint, providing a suite Our corporate centre allocates Mining and processing our stakeholders of options for delivering value our financial resources where activities have long been major Open and honest engagement over the long term.
OUR UNIQUELY they can be put to work most users of water and energy.
Our with our stakeholders is critical Plant and equipment DIVERSIFIED effectively to deliver optimal technical and social expertise in gaining and maintaining our Our procurement and financial returns for our combines to provide advice social and legal licences to technical teams form strong PORTFOLIO shareholders.
and hands-on support to the operate and, therefore, the relationships with major operations to mitigate our sustainability of our business.
Know-how suppliers to deliver tailored water and energy We engage with a wide range Quality We link our industry-leading equipment and other solutions requirements, while also of stakeholders to ensure technical and marketing to enable best in class The high quality and long developing new technologies effective two-way relationships.
knowledge to ensure we invest operating performance that have the potential to life of our mineral assets our efforts and capital in key Ore Reserves and and cost-effectiveness.
significantly reduce our leverage points in the mine to Mineral Resources from which we will deliver environmental footprint.
We have an extensive resource leading shareholder returns.
base across our businesses and across a wide geographic People OUR PEOPLE-CENTRIC Our people are the business.
We aim to resource the organisation VALUE CHAIN with a capable, engaged and productive workforce and are We will invest in those points in the committed to ensuring value chain that provide us with the no harm comes best return on our investment.
to any of MATERIALITY GOVERNANCE HOW our people.
AND RISK Our governance controls ensure we WE Identifying and effectively respond to those matters CREATE understanding our material that have the potential to cause financial, matters and risks is critical operational and reputational harm to our DISCOVER PLAN AND SHARED in the development and business, while acting ethically and with BUILD VALUE delivery of our strategy.
integrity for the benefit of all our stakeholders.
For our Material matters People See pages 14-15 Our simplified For our Governance Report OUR INNOVATIVE Organisation Model See pages 63-116 allows our businesses to CORE PROCESSES design structures and roles that provide clear accountability Discovery and appropriate authority Our award winning exploration teams discover mineral to get our work done.
deposits in a safe and responsible way to replenish the resources that underpin our future success.
Innovation Model Our strengthened in-house technology capability provides world class, innovative solutions across our assets, supporting the delivery of step-change operating performance.
OPERATING BUSINESS INPUTS Operating Model Financial mine production plans to Relationships with underpin our future success The application of our Operating Model drives a Our businesses strong ensure we provide products our stakeholders both to extend the lives of more stable, predictable and higher level of focus on working capital to our customers around the Working within our social existing mines and to operating performance, resulting in improved management, productivity world, meeting their specific performance framework, it is provide longer term nearsafety, productivity and lower costs.
and cost discipline helps to technical and logistical the goal of our operations to asset and greenfield options.
build and sustain constructive Project development Plant and equipment cash flows.
relationships with our Other natural resources The successful development Our businesses implement communities and host Know-how It is critical that our businesses local procurement policies and execution of our capital countries that are based Our businesses work closely responsibly manage all the that support suppliers based projects reduces expenditure on mutual respect, with our Technical function and natural resources used in their in the host communities close transparency and trust.
and ensures predictability Marketing business to apply processes, given the finite to our operations making a of outcome against our innovative mining methods nature of mineral resources, Ore Reserves and significant socio-economic performance and technologies to realise scarcity of water and energy Mineral Resources contribution and building objectives.
even greater value from our sources at some of our Our exploration teams stronger communities, as well resource base, and optimise operations, and input cost work with our businesses as lowering logistics costs.
to discover mineral deposits in a safe and responsible way to replenish the resources that 06 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report OUTPUTS GROUP PRODUCTION ATTRIBUTABLE FREE Our outputs are the products that 1 GROWTH CASH FLOW meet the growing consumer and other demands of the worlds developed 5% $4.9 billion and maturing economies.
Mining and Increase over 2016 processing activities also result in the unavoidable disturbance of land and TOTAL WATER CO EQUIVALENT 2 WITHDRAWALS EMISSIONS seabed, generation of mineral residue, Value creation 3 use of fresh water and energy, as well as Assets that offer either 306 Mm 18.0 Mt atmospheric emissions and water discharges, in isolation or in combination all of which we strive to minimise through with other assets in the our innovative approach.
portfolio the most attractive long term value-creation potential.
Diversification The diverse composition and scale of our portfolio create a measured risk profile, allowing us to leverage resources, expertise and relationships to deliver STAKEHOLDER VALUE strong returns.
As we strive to deliver sustainable returns to our Our Organisation Model ensures we have the right shareholders, we are acutely aware of the potential people in the right roles doing the right value-adding value creation we can offer to our full range of work.
From the financial, technical, marketing and other stakeholders.
Through our core business activities expertise provided from the corporate centre, through employing people, paying taxes to governments our entire value chain from mine to market, it is our and procuring from host communities we make people that create the sustainable value that all our a significant and positive contribution to the stakeholders demand and expect.
Beyond our direct mining activities, we create and sustain jobs, build infrastructure, support education, and help improve healthcare for employees and local communities.
MINE PROCESS MOVE MARKET END OF LIFE PLAN INVESTORS SUPPLIERS $1.02 $2.1 billion Total dividends paid and Local procurement Across every aspect of our business, we are thinking proposed per share expenditure innovatively about how we work to ensure the safety GOVERNMENT LOCAL COMMUNITIES of our people, enhance our sustainability performance, and deliver industry-leading margins and returns.
$3.1 billion 120,812 2 Taxes borne and collected Jobs created and Marketing maintained through The value from our mineral resources and market positions EMPLOYEES enterprise development is optimised by our dedicated Marketing business, driving programmes since 2008 appropriate commercial decisions across the value chain $3.4 billion from mine to market including working directly to 3 Wages and benefits paid tailor products to our customers specific needs.
Sustainability model Integrating sustainability into core business processes has been a longstanding priority for AngloAmerican.
The corporate centre drives the sustainability agenda and offers expert advice, and hands-on support, to operations facing complex sustainability challenges.
SAFETY AND HEALTH PRODUCTION HOW WE MEASURE ENVIRONMENT COST THE VALUE WE CREATE SOCIO-POLITICAL FINANCIAL Our seven pillars of value underpin PEOPLE everything we do.
Each pillar has defined Key Performance Indicators KPIs and For our KPIs targets that we set the business and See page 34 against which we measure performance, both financial and non-financial.
1 Pro forma growth in copper equivalent production, excluding disposals.
2 Based on numbers disclosed within the Groups income statement and excludes the impact of certain associates and joint ventures.
3 Includes social security costs of $141 million borne by the Group and $774 million of taxes collected on behalf of employees and paid to government.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 07
