A CHANGING WORLD A MIXED ECONOMIC OUTLOOK UNILEVER OPERATES IN THE FAST-MOVING CONSUMER This pace of change comes as market conditions across many of GOODS FMCG INDUSTRY, ONE OF THE LARGEST AND our markets remain challenging.
There are, however, grounds for MOST COMPETITIVE INDUSTRIES IN THE WORLD.
optimism as local currencies are stabilising and real wages are making a recovery.
We are starting to see signs of improvement The top 25 global FMCG players generate sales of over 500 billion in in some of the large emerging markets such as India and China markets characterised by their highly dynamic nature.
Rapid change is but others, notably Brazil, are suffering economic problems with now a constant, caused by fragmentation throughout the value chain, consumers spending less.
This requires further rapid, local responses requiring fast, innovative and profitable responses in areas such as from brands.
supply chain, customer development, marketing and brand innovation.
In Europe, the industry is seeing high promotion levels keeping prices In response we have taken a number of strategic actions including down.
Volumes are slowly picking up in certain markets.
Consumers, the sale of our Spreads business, the integration of our Foods and while remaining cost conscious, are also seeking occasions to buy Refreshment categories, the announcement or completion of 12 more premium and prestige products in return for economising on acquisitions in faster growing segments and channels, and the some of their routine household shopping.
In North America, although acceleration of our Connected 4 Growth C4G change programme.
GDP performance is positive, this has not translated into significant Launched in 2016 to create a faster, simpler organisation, we are growth in our markets.
realising C4Gs benefits through digitally connected end-to-end marketing, R&D and supply chain, and a more agile organisation LONGER-TERM MACRO FORCES leveraging our global scale and local expertise.
Our markets are also shaped by systemic macro forces which impact at a different pace.
We periodically review these trends to ensure our FASTER PACE OF CHANGE strategy and plans are fit for the future.
Based on our latest macro There is no doubt that the business environment is changing at forces analysis, we believe there are four distinct but overlapping a faster pace than ever.
These changes bring challenges but also trends that will shape the world over the next ten years: the multipolar significant opportunity.
We see changes in a number of areas, notably world, the environment under stress, digital and technology revolution in consumer preferences, route-to-market channels, media and and people living differently see pages 10 to 18 for our response.
brand communication and the competitive landscape.
Slow global growth is accentuating the financial and political Consumers are taking radically different paths when purchasing polarisation within countries.
Nationalist and protectionist tendencies brands, often combining both offline and online channels where are rising, threatening the progress of globalisation and free trade influencers are a growing force.
Younger consumers are prioritising in recent decades.
meaning over materialism, demanding brands with a point of view and more authenticity, transparency and sustainability.
More people Strains on the natural environment are intensifying with the impacts moving into the global workforce, especially in emerging markets, of climate change and water scarcity increasingly visible.
Momentum is is resulting in long-term shifts in demand for products with greater gathering globally to tackle climate change following the Paris Agreement, convenience and time-saving attributes, notably in Foods and Home which came into force in 2016, aiming to limit temperature rise this century Care, but without sacrificing quality or sustainability benefits.
The to below 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels.
Concerns about the trend of growing middle classes continues, albeit challenged by planet and society are matched by concerns about our own health.
Obesity incomes rising only slowly in some emerging markets and inequality kills more people than hunger, while many populations struggle to find increasing globally.
sufficient nourishment in their diets, presenting opportunities to meet these growing consumer needs.
Channels to reach consumers are also fragmenting, with less reliance on big box retailers as e-commerce continues to grow, driven in Companies continue with the rapid development of new technologies.
The global FMCG e-commerce These include artificial intelligence, robotics, voice technology and channel continues to grow by 30% a year according to the latest virtual reality to engage with consumers in new ways.
Data, and the industry reports.
Specialist channels, such as drug stores, continue Internet of Things, are disrupting traditional business models using to grow in significance as do discount and convenience stores.
technologies such as blockchain and increasingly sophisticated smart devices.
Digitisation also comes with risk, at an individual, government The proliferation of diverse digital and social media channels has led and company level, over data privacy and security as well as brand safety.
Digital advertising is playing an increasingly important role in brand advertising now around 40% of Consumers are now living in communities that are becoming more the total advertising market.
However, tackling viewability standards diverse with fragmented identities.
Younger generations, especially and fraud in digital advertising through verification of views and Millennials and Generation Z, are having a powerful influence on demonstrating the value of digital advertising spend are ongoing cultural norms such as diversity and gender.
Older generations will challenges for the industry.
exert a strong economic influence with the number of people aged 80 and over expected to triple by 2050.
Migration is having a profound Responses to change are predicated on the need for efficiency and effect on national identity.
Today, one in 30 people are international margin improvement as competition intensifies.
Some global players migrants living abroad, a 40% rise since 2000.
People are encouraged are adopting models prioritising cost-cutting over long-term investment.
to move, in part, by the rise of global megacities of ten million-plus Local players present a growing challenge.
They react swiftly with inhabitants.
These will rise from 31 to 41 by 2030.
Such urbanisation innovations meeting local trends, one reason why responses, such is expected to create an additional 500 million one-person households as Unilevers C4G programme, are critical in marrying the benefits of between 2016 and 2030. global scale, in areas such as marketing and R&D, with entrepreneurial country teams empowered to lead launches that meet local trends.
8 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017
