DELIVERING LONG-TERM VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS CONTINUED As previously announced, the Boards are conducting a review of the OUR SHAREHOLDERS dual-headed legal structure.
This review is progressing well and the Boards consider that unification with a single share class would DESPITE CONTINUED VOLATILITY IN OUR MARKETS, OUR be in the best interests of Unilever and its shareholders as a whole, PROVEN MODEL OF LONG-TERM COMPOUNDING GROWTH providing greater ongoing strategic flexibility for value-creating AND SUSTAINABLE VALUE CREATION ENSURED ANOTHER portfolio change.
The review by the Boards is continuing and the GOOD YEAR FOR SHAREHOLDERS.
outcome will be announced in due course.
Whatever the outcome, Underlying sales growth for 2017 was up 3.1% and underlying upon any unification, the Boards intend to: maintain listings in the operating margin was 17.5%, a rise of 110 basis points.
Turnover Netherlands, United Kingdom and United States: continue to apply growth for 2017 was 1.9% and operating margin was 16.5%.
Underlying both the UK and Dutch corporate governance codes and terminate earnings per share was 2.24 a rise of 10.7% and dividends were the NV preference shares.
increased 12%, reflecting Unilevers confidence in future profit EVOLVING OUR PORTFOLIO growth and cash generation.
Diluted earnings per share was 2.15.
Our brand portfolio continues to evolve to match our categories For information on our non-GAAP measure, see pages 22 to 24. strategic priorities, resulting in the sale of assets that no longer fit Over the last three years, our sustainable value creation model has our growth model or the acquisition of assets that take us into new continued to deliver for shareholders.
Between 2015 and 2017, average market segments and build new market positions.
This active portfolio underlying sales growth rose 3.6% a year and underlying operating management means that in the past eight years we have sold 5.8 margin rose 190 basis points to 17.5%.
Turnover grew an average of billion of turnover excluding Spreads, mainly in the lower growth 3.6% a year and underlying earnings per share was up 7.8% a year.
During that same period, we have acquired During this period, we generated 15 billion of free cash flow while approximately 4.7 billion of turnover.
With the exception of brands a high-teens return on capital was maintained.
Dividends rose an launched in countries where they were not previously sold, average of 8% a year and our share price has risen 58% for PLC acquisitions and disposals only contribute to underlying sales growth shareholders and 46% for NV shareholders.
The acquisitions and disposals made or announced since 2015 are expected to add one percentage Over the past three years total shareholder returns have increased point to our ongoing underlying sales growth rate from 2019.
49%, reflecting Unilevers enduring strengths: a portfolio of purposeled global and local brands, a presence in more than 190 countries Our acquisitions approach identifies brands that provide Unilever with 58% of turnover generated from emerging markets, deep with a position in higher growth segments, some of which could penetration and expertise in channels reaching 2.5 billion consumers become the 1 billion brands of the future.
These include Personal every day, and a talent pool of local management over 70% of our Care eg Carver Korea and prestige businesses eg Living Proof as leaders are local.
well as premium price brands in mass markets eg Sir Kensingtons, new channels eg Dollar Shave Club and naturals segments eg Generating growth ahead of our markets remains a principal objective Seventh Generation.
The acquired businesses are often run using for our categories across most of our geographies.
While overall flexible business models, preserving their entrepreneurial culture.
market growth remains subdued, especially in developing markets, conditions are starting to pick up in many emerging markets.
The During 2017, we announced the acquisition of Carver Korea for 2.28 implementation of C4G and the steps we have taken to drive efficiency billion, the fastest growing skincare business in South Korea giving gains and margin expansion, means we have the resources to invest access to the North Asian skincare markets.
Hourglass was acquired behind our brands to continue to deliver top and bottom line growth as a luxury colour cosmetics brand, a high growth category driven by see page 28 for risks and how we are mitigating these.
social media and channel diversity, that joins our growing prestige range built from previous acquisitions in recent years, such as DEVELOPMENTS IN 2017 Dermalogica and Murad.
Meanwhile, we announced an agreement With this track record in mind, the Boards undertook a detailed and to acquire the personal care and home care business of Quala S. A. comprehensive review of options to accelerate sustainable value in 2017 which will bring leading local brands to Unilever in north Latin creation.
The review, announced in February 2017 and completed America in haircare, oral care, male grooming and fabric conditioners.
by early April 2017, highlighted the quickened pace of change in our markets and the opportunity to unlock more shareholder value, In Foods and Refreshment, we announced the acquisition of at a faster pace over the next three years by accelerating our C4G Brazilian natural and organic foods business Me Terra - popular with change programme and driving targeted savings through zero-based increasingly health-conscious consumers.
We also acquired Pukka budgeting and, in the supply chain, our 5S programme see page 10.
Herbs, the worlds fastest growing organic tea brand, to continue the process of premiumising our tea portfolio.
Sir Kensingtons, another Targets for value creation were announced as part of the review.
These acquisition during the year, is a US condiments business in the organic include underlying sales growth USG ahead of our markets, which and naturals segment with a strong millennial consumer base that in current market conditions is expected to translate into USG of complements Unilevers sustainable sourcing policies and further 3-5%.
Overall underlying operating margin is targeted to expand to modernises the Foods portfolio.
We also added to our ice cream 20% in 2020 compared to 17.5% in 2017, supported by an increase in brands with the acquisition in Australia of Weis which uses locally expected cumulative savings during the three-year period 2017-2019 sourced, natural and high quality ingredients.
Balance sheet leverage is targeted at 2.0x Net Debt to EBITDA consistent with a credit rating of at least A A2.
In 2017 we announced the disposal of our Spreads business to KKR A 5 billion share buyback was completed in 2017 and further returns for 6.825 billion on a cash-free, debt-free basis.
The offer is subject to shareholders will be assessed versus the opportunity to undertake to certain regulatory approvals and employee consultation in certain value-enhancing acquisitions.
Meanwhile a high-teens return on jurisdictions.
We intend to return invested capital is targeted as well as sustainable, attractive and the net cash realised to shareholders, unless more value-creating growing dividends.
During 2017 we also announced the sale of the South Africa spreads business to Remgro and completed Having embedded C4G, we also started to combine our Foods and the sale of AdeS in Latin America to Coca Cola FEMSA and The Coca Refreshment categories to create a world-leading business with Cola Company for US$575 million.
turnover of more than 20 billion.
The category will unlock future growth more quickly and result in faster margin progression and took effect from 1 January 2018.
It is headquartered in the Netherlands where we are also establishing a Global Foods Innovation Centre.
18 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2017
