247149 RIT R&A pp018-pp022 26 02 2018 11:09 Page 19 | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Board of Directors Chairman Senior Independent Director Lord Rothschild OM GBE Jacob Rothschild has chaired RIT since its flotation in 1988.
Michael Marks joined the Board of the Company as a nonHe is also Chairman of the Nominations Committee, as well executive Director in September 2004 and became its Senior as Chairman of J. Rothschild Capital Management Limited Independent Director in July 2010.
He is a member of the and of its Investment Committee.
Conflicts, Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
Having left NM Rothschild & Sons in 1980, Jacob developed He is Chairman of MR Capital Consultants Limited and was RITs predecessor companies, co-founding companies in Chairman of NewSmith Capital Partners LLP, which he money management, insurance and investment, including founded in 2003.
He was formerly Co-Head of the Global Global Asset Management and St Jamess Place Capital plc.
Equities business of Merrill Lynch, which he joined in 1995 He served as Deputy Chairman of BSkyB Plc for five years, and where he subsequently held positions as Chief to 2008.
He is Chairman of Windmill Hill Asset Management Operating Officer of Merrill Lynch Europe, Middle East and Limited WHAM, which manages the philanthropic Africa.
He was subsequently named Executive Chairman.
He foundations connected with his family, as well as chairing his was also Executive Vice President of Merrill Lynch & Co. Inc. own familys office and the Rothschild Foundation.
Michael began his career at Smith Bros. in 1958, where he In addition to his career in finance he has been involved in became a director in 1975 and Chief Executive of Smith public service including the arts, heritage and philanthropy New Court in 1987.
He was a non-executive director of having chaired The National Gallery, The National Heritage Old Mutual plc from February 2004 to May 2007 and a Memorial Fund and The Heritage Lottery Fund.
non-executive director of London Stock Exchange plc until 2004.
Non-Executive Directors Independent Philippe Costeletos John Cornish Philippe Costeletos joined the Board as a non-executive John Cornish joined the Board of the Company as a Director in July 2017 and is a member of the Valuation non-executive Director in January 2008.
He is Chairman of the Committee.
Audit and Risk Committee and the Valuation Committee and a member of both the Remuneration and Conflicts Committees.
He has over 25 years of private investing experience John is also Chairman of the Trustees of the RITCP Pension and spanning several investment cycles, investment types Life Assurance Scheme.
including start-ups, growth capital, and buyouts and He is a chartered accountant and was formerly a partner at geographies, including emerging markets.
Deloitte LLP where he led the firms services to the investment Philippe was formerly Chairman of International for Colony trust industry.
Subsequently, John served as Chairman of Northstar, a leading global real estate and investment Framlington Innovative Growth Trust plc and as a director of a management firm.
Previously, he was Head of TPG Capital in number of other investment trust companies.
Europe and served as a member of TPGs Global Management and Investment Committees, being responsible for investment strategy during a period which included investments in TIM Hellas, where he was Chairman, and Debenhams plc, where he was a member of the Board.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2017 19 Michael Marks CBE 247149 RIT R&A pp018-pp022 26 02 2018 11:09 Page 20 Board of Directors Non-Executive Directors Independent Mike Power Amy Stirling Amy Stirling joined the Board of the Company as a nonMike Power joined the Board of the Company as a non-executive executive Director in February 2015 and is a member of the Director in January 2014 and is a member of the Audit and Risk Audit and Risk Committee and Valuation Committee.
Committee and the Valuation Committee.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in She is a chartered accountant and is Chief Financial Officer of England and Wales and Professor of Accounting at the London the Virgin Group.
In December 2017, she was appointed as a School of Economics and Political Science, where he is a non-executive Director of Virgin Money Holdings UK plc.
Governor and has written extensively on risk and corporate Until July 2017, Amy served as a Director and Chair of the governance issues.
He was a non-executive director of St.
Audit Committee of Pets at Home Group plc.
She also Jamess Place plc from 2005 to 2013 where he chaired the Risk served as the Chief Financial Officer of TalkTalk Telecom Committee and was a member of the Audit Committee.
He Group Plc until 2013, having been with the business since its remains on the board of St Jamess Place International plc, which start up as part of the Carphone Warehouse Group, which he joined in September 2012 and was appointed as its Chairman she joined in 2000. in 2014.
Mike has held a number of other advisory positions, including the Financial Reporting Lab Advisory Committee at the Financial Reporting Council, and the Technical Development Committee of the Institute of Risk Management.
In 2016 he was elected as a Fellow of the British Academy.
The Duke of Wellington The Duke of Wellington formerly Lord Douro joined the Board of the Company as a non-executive Director in July 2010.
He is Chairman of the Conflicts and Remuneration Committees and a member of the Nominations Committee.
He has broad experience in banking and finance, having served as Chairman of Sun Life and Provincial Holdings from 1995 to 2000 and of the Framlington Group from 1994 to 2005.
He was a director of Compagnie Financire Richemont from 1999 to 2017 and is now a Senior Adviser.
He served on the Board of Sanofi for 12 years until 2014 and was a director of Pernod Ricard for eight years until 2011.
The Duke of Wellington is Chairman of Richemont Holdings UK Limited.
He is a member of the House of Lords and was a member of the European Parliament from 1979 to 1989.
From 2007 to 2016 he was Chairman of Kings College London and since 2014 he has been a governor of Wellington College.
20 Report and Accounts December 2017 RIT Capital Partners plc 247149 RIT R&A pp018-pp022 26 02 2018 11:09 Page 21 | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Board of Directors Non-Executive Directors Non-Independent Hannah Rothschild Hannah Rothschild joined the Board of the Company as a non-executive Director in August 2013.
In 2015 she became chair of the Trustees of the National Gallery.
In addition, she is a non-executive director of WHAM, a director of Five Arrows Limited and serves as a Trustee of the Rothschild Foundation.
Hannah is also a writer and filmmaker with a long standing career in the media.
Her first novel, The Improbability of Love was published in 2015 in the UK, US and ten other countries.
Honorary Vice Chair Baroness Ariane fide Rothschild Ariane fide Rothschild was appointed as Honorary Vice Chair of RIT in March 2012.
She is the Chairwoman of the Executive Committee of the Edmond fide Rothschild Group.
She holds other various board positions across the group, including Edmond fide Rothschild Suisse, Edmond fide Rothschild France and Barons & Baronnes Associs.
Ariane started her career as a trader in foreign exchange and metals with Socit Gnrale in Australia and in New York.
She then joined US insurance corporation AIG and successfully developed the groups trading operations in Europe.
The Honorary Vice Chair is not a Director of the Company.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2017 21 247149 RIT R&A pp018-pp022 26 02 2018 11:09 Page 22 J. Rothschild Capital Management JRCM is a wholly-owned subsidiary of RIT and acts as RITs Manager.
Directors of JRCM are listed below: Chairman Chief Executive Officer Lord Rothschild Francesco Goedhuis Executive Directors Andrew Jones Chief Financial Officer Jonathan Kestenbaum Chief Operating Officer Ron Tabbouche Chief Investment Officer Day-to-day management of the business is delegated to an Executive Committee led by Francesco Goedhuis.
The biographies of the Executive Committee members can be found below: Francesco Goedhuis Andrew Jones Francesco Goedhuis is the Chief Executive Officer.
He joined Andrew Jones is the Chief Financial Officer and Chief Risk JRCM as the Principal in the Chairmans Office in 2010.
Prior to joining JRCM in 2008, he spent three years in Previously, he was in New York working for the Economics venture capital and four years at Nomura, advising on its Nobel Laureate Robert Merton and the former Vice Chairman private equity investments as well as risk, global corporate of J. P. Morgan, Roberto Mendoza at IFL, commercialising development and strategy.
He qualified as a chartered financial academic theory on both the buy and sell sides.
accountant with Deloitte LLP where he specialised in valuation advice.
Jonathan Kestenbaum Ron Tabbouche Jonathan Kestenbaum is the Chief Operating Officer.
He Ron Tabbouche is the Chief Investment Officer.
He joined joined JRCM in 2011, having previously been Chief Executive JRCM in 2012 having previously been the Head of of Five Arrows Limited.
He is also an adviser to philanthropic Investments for Managed Portfolios at GAM.
At the age of foundations connected to Lord Rothschild and a non- 26, he joined GAMs Investment Committee, working with executive director of WHAM.
He was previously Chief Gilbert fide Botton, its co-founder.
Subsequently, he led the Executive of the National Endowment for Science, overall investment strategy of multi-billion Dollar funds Technology and the Arts.
Prior to that he was Chief of across a broad range of asset classes.
Staff to the Chairman of Apax Partners, Sir Ronald Cohen.
In January 2011 Jonathan was appointed to The House of Lords.
22 Report and Accounts December 2017 RIT Capital Partners plc
