Other information OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REPORT This section includes certain disclosures which are required by law to be Significant shareholdings included in the Directors Report.
The Company has been notified of the following significant shareholdings: Number Percentage In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 Companies Act, the following Company of shares of voting rights items have been reported in other sections of the Annual Report and are Volcan Volcan Holdings PLC and included in this Directors Report by reference: VolcanHoldings II PLC 271,802,858 19.35 details of the directors of the Company can be found on pages 65-67 Public Investment Corporation 186,786,134 13.29 Deutsche Bank AG 111,730,756 7.95 directors interests in shares at 31 December 2017 and any changes BlackRock Inc 81,814,750 5.83 thereafter, can be found on page 110 of the directors Remuneration Report Silchester International Investors LLP 70,110,363 4.99 events occurring after the end of the year are set out in note 29 to the Genesis Asset Managers LLP 55,426,734 3.95 financial statements on page 161 Tarl Investment Holdings RF 1 ProprietaryLimited 47,275,613 3.37 the Strategic Report on pages 2-62 gives a fair review of the business and Epoch Two Investment Holdings RF an indication of likely future developments and fulfils the requirements set 1 Proprietary Limited 42,166,686 3.01 out in section 414C of the Companies Act 1 Epoch Two Investment Holdings Ltd Epoch 2 and Tarl Investment Holdings details of the Groups governance arrangements and its compliance withthe Limited Tarl are two of the independent companies that have purchased shares UK Corporate Governance Code the Code can be found on pages63-115 as part of Anglo Americans share buyback programme.
Epoch 2 and Tarl have waived their right to vote all the shares they hold, or will hold, in Anglo American plc.
comprehensive details of the Groups approach to financial risk management are given in note 23 to the financial statements on page150 Disclosure table pursuant to Listing Rule 9.8.
4C the Groups disclosure of its greenhouse gas emissions can be found on Listing Rule Information to be included Disclosure page 27.
4 1 Interest capitalised by the Group See note 4, page 129 9.8.
4 2 Unaudited financial information None Going concern LR9.2.
18 The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and 9.8.
4 4 Long-term incentive scheme only None borrowing facilities are set out in the Group financial review on pages36-39.
3 Further details of our policy on financial risk management are set out in 9.8.
4 5 Directors waivers of emoluments None note23 to the financial statements on page 150.
4 6 Directors waivers of future None 31December 2017 was $4.5 billion 2016: $8.5 billion, representing a emoluments gearing level of 13% 2016: 26%.
Details of borrowings and facilities are set 9.8.
4 7 Non pro rata allotments for cash Treasury shares have been out in note 21 on page 146 and net debt is set out in note 20 on page 145. issuer issued pursuant to the exercise of options awarded under The directors have considered the Groups cash flow forecasts for the period shareholder approved schemes to the end of March 2019.
The Board is satisfied that the Groups forecasts 9.8.
4 8 Non pro rata allotments for cash None and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading major subsidiaries performance, show that the Group will be able to operate within the level of its 9.8.
4 9 Listed company is a subsidiary of Not applicable current facilities for the period assessed.
For this reason the Group continues another company to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.
4 10 Contracts of significance involving None a director Dividends 9.8.
4 11 Contracts of significance involving Not applicable An interim dividend of 48 US cents per ordinary share was paid on a controlling shareholder 22September 2017.
The directors are recommending that a final dividend 9.8.
4 12 Waivers of dividends See Dividends paragraph on of54US cents per ordinary share be paid on 11 May 2018 to ordinary this page shareholders on the register at the close of business on 16 March 2018, 9.8.
4 13 Waivers of future dividends See Dividends paragraph on this page subject to shareholder approval at the AGM to be held on 8 May 2018.
4 14 Agreement with a controlling Not applicable would bring the total dividend in respect of 2017 to $1.02 per ordinary share.
2AR 2 a In accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, the final dividend will be accounted for in the financial statements for the year Sustainable development ended 31 December 2018.
The Sustainability Report 2017 will be published online on 5 March 2018.
In accordance with Article 4.1 a of the Articles of Association the Articles, Thisreport focuses on the safety, sustainable development, health and adividend of 2,500 was paid in respect of the 5% cumulative preference environmental performance of the Groups managed operations, its shares.
performance with regard to the Companys Code of Conduct, and the The Anglo American Employee Benefit Trust EBT holds shares to facilitate operational dimensions of its social programmes.
the operation of certain of the Groups share option and share incentive Audit information schemes share plans.
The EBT has waived the right to receive dividends on The directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit shares held on behalf of share plans participants employed by the Group in information of which the auditor is unaware, that all directors have taken all countries other than the UK and South Africa.
reasonable steps to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information Share capital and to establish that the auditor is aware of that information.
The Companys issued share capital as at 31 December 2017, together with Employment and other policies details of share allotments and issue of treasury shares during the year, is set The Groups key operating businesses are empowered to manage within the out in note 24 on page 153. context of the different legislative and social demands of the diverse countries in which those businesses operate, subject to the standards embodied in Anglo Americans Code of Conduct.
Within all the Groups businesses, the safe and effective performance of employees and the maintenance of positive employee relations are of fundamental importance.
Managers are charged with ensuring that the following key principles are upheld: adherence to national legal standards on employment and workplace rights at all times Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 203 OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REPORT adherence to the International Labour Organisations core labour rights, Dividends and distributions including: prohibition of child labour: prohibition of inhumane treatment of Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the Company may, by employees and any form of forced labour, physical punishment or other ordinary resolution, from time to time declare final dividends not exceeding abuse: recognition of the right of our employees to freedom of association the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board may pay interim and the promotion of workplace equality: and the elimination of all forms of dividends whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of unfair discrimination the Board, justifies such payment.
continual promotion of safe and healthy working practices The Board may withhold payment of all, or any part of any dividends or other monies payable in respect of the Companys shares, from a person with a provision of opportunities for employees to enhance their work related skills 0.25% interest or more as defined in the Articles if such a person has been and capabilities served with a notice after failing to provide the Company with information adoption of fair and appropriate procedures for determining terms and concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the conditions of employment.
It is our policy that people with disabilities should have full and fair Rights and obligations attaching to shares consideration for all vacancies.
Employment of disabled people is considered The rights and obligations attaching to the shares are set out in the Articles.
on merit and with regard only to the ability of any applicant to carry out the The Articles may only be changed by a special resolution passed by the role.
We endeavour to retain the employment of, and arrange suitable shareholders.
retraining, for any employees in the workforce who become disabled during Voting their employment.
Where possible we will adjust a persons working Subject to the Articles generally and to any special rights or restrictions as to environment to enable them to stay in our employment.
voting attached by or in accordance with the Articles to any class of shares, on Further, the Group is committed to treating employees at all levels with a show of hands every member who is present in person at a general meeting respect and consideration, to investing in their development and to ensuring shall have one vote and, on a poll, every member who is present in person or that their careers are not constrained by discrimination or arbitrary barriers.
by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he she is the holder.
It is, and has been for some years, the Companys practice to hold a poll on every The Code of Conduct is supplemented by four Anglo American Way resolution at shareholder meetings.
documents, covering the safety, environmental, occupational health and social aspects of responsible operation and sustainable development.
These Where shares are held by trustees nominees in respect of the Groups set out specific standards for each of these subject areas, in line with employee share plans and the voting rights attached to such shares are not international best practice.
The Code of Conduct and the Anglo American directly exercisable by the employees, it is the Companys practice that such Way documents may be accessed on the Companys website.
rights are not exercised by the relevant trustee nominee.
In addition, all Anglo American suppliers must commit to adhering to the Under the Companies Act, members are entitled to appoint a proxy, who need requirements set out in the Sustainable Development in the Supply Chain not be a member of the Company, to exercise all or any of their rights to attend Policy, which is available on the Companys website.
and to speak and vote on their behalf at a general meeting or class meeting.
The Business Integrity Policy and its 11 Performance Standards support our A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a general meeting anti-corruption commitment by making it clear that we will neither give, nor or class meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights accept, bribes, nor permit others to do so in our name, either in our dealings attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
A member that with public officials or with our suppliers and customers.
The Policy sets out isa corporation may appoint one or more individuals to act on its behalf at the standards of conduct required at every level of Anglo American, including ageneral meeting or class meeting as a corporate representative.
Where our subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, in combating corrupt ashareholder appoints more than one corporate representative in respect behaviour of all types.
It also sets out the requirements of those with whom ofits shareholding, but in respect of different shares, those corporate wedo business and those who work on our behalf.
representatives can act independently of each other, and validly vote in different ways.
The Business Integrity Policy and Performance Standards have been translated into all the main languages that we use at our operations.
Two Restrictions on voting dedicated business integrity managers, who operate within a broader risk No member shall, unless the directors otherwise determine, be entitled in management and business assurance team, oversee implementation of the respect of any share held by him her to vote either personally or by proxy policy by working with senior managers in our business units and corporate atashareholders meeting, or to exercise any other right conferred by functions and assisting them to put in place adequate procedures for membership in relation to shareholders meetings, if any call or other sum managing corruption risks including extensive face-to-face training of presently payable by him her to the Company in respect of that share remains employees in high-risk roles.
In addition, no member shall be entitled to vote if he she has been served with a notice after failing to provide the Company with information Our internal audit team provide assurance on anti-corruption controls on an concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the annual basis and all stakeholders are able to confidentially report breaches, Companies Act.
orpotential breaches, of the Business Integrity Policy through our independently managed Speak Up facility.
Issue of shares Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act relating to authority and The Group has a social intranet called Eureka!
which helps employees to pre-emption rights and of any resolution of the Company in a UK general connect, communicate and collaborate more effectively.
meeting, all unissued shares of the Company shall be at the disposal of the Political donations directors and they may allot with or without conferring a right of No political donations were made during 2017.
Anglo American has an renunciation, grant options over, or otherwise dispose of them to such established policy of not making donations to, or incurring expenses for the persons at such times, and on such terms, as they think proper.
benefit of any political party in any part of the world, including any political Shares in uncertificated form party or political organisation as defined in the Political Parties, Elections and Directors may determine that any class of shares may be held in uncertificated Referendums Act 2000. form, and title to such shares may be transferred by means of a relevant system, or that shares of any class should cease to be so held and transferred.
Additional information for shareholders Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the CREST regulations and Set out below is a summary of certain provisions of the Companys current every other statute, statutory instrument, regulation or order for the time Articles and applicable English law concerning companies the Companies being in force concerning companies and affecting the Company together, Act required as a result of the implementation of the Takeover Directive in the Statutes, the directors may determine that any class of shares held on the English law.
This is a summary only and the relevant provisions of the Articles branch register of members of the Company resident in South Africa, or any or the Companies Act should be consulted if further information is required.
other overseas branch register of the members of the Company, may be held 204 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 Other information OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REPORT Powers of directors in uncertificated form in accordance with any system outside the UK that Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and any directions given by special enables title to such shares to be evidenced and transferred without a written resolution, the business of the Company will be managed by the Board who instrument and which is a relevant system.
The provisions of the Articles shall may exercise all the powers of the Company.
not apply to shares of any class that are in uncertificated form to the extent that the Articles are inconsistent with the holding of shares of that class in The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money and uncertificated form, the transfer of title to shares of that class by means of to mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, property and uncalled capital arelevant system or any provision of the CREST regulations.
and to issue debentures and other securities, whether outright or as collateral security, for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of any third Deadlines for exercising voting rights party.
Votes are exercisable at a general meeting of the Company in respect of which the business being voted upon is being heard.
Votes may be exercised The Company may by ordinary resolution declare dividends, but no dividend in person, by proxy, or in relation to corporate members, by corporate shall be payable in excess of the amount recommended by the directors.
The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms Subject to the provisions of the Articles and to the rights attaching to any of not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the shares, any dividends or other monies payable on or in respect of a share may meeting or adjourned meeting.
be paid in such currency as the directors may determine.
The directors may Variation of rights deduct from any dividend payable to any member all sums of money if any Subject to statute, the Articles specify that rights attached to any class of presently payable by him her to the Company on account of calls or otherwise shares may be varied with the written consent of the holders of not less than in relation to shares of the Company.
The directors may retain any dividends three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that class, or with the payable on shares on which the Company has a lien, and may apply the same sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate general meeting in or towards satisfaction of the debts, liabilities or engagements in respect of of the holders of those shares.
At every such separate general meeting the which the lien exists.
quorum shall be two persons holding, or representing by proxy, at least Appointment and replacement of directors one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class calculated The directors may from time to time appoint one or more directors.
The Board excluding any shares held as treasury shares.
The rights conferred upon the may appoint any person to be a director so long as the total number of directors holders of any shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly provided in the does not exceed the limit prescribed in the Articles.
Any such director shall rights attaching to those shares, be deemed to be varied by the creation or hold office only until the next AGM and shall then be eligible forelection.
issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
The Articles provide that at each AGM all those directors who have been in Transfer of shares office for three years or more since their election, or last re-election, shall All transfers of shares that are in certificated form may be effected by transfer retire from office.
In addition, a director may at any AGM retire from office and in writing in any usual or common form or in any other form acceptable to the stand for re-election.
However, in accordance with the Code, all directors will directors and may be under hand only.
The instrument of transfer shall be be subject to annual re-election.
signed by, or on behalf of, the transferor and except in the case of fully paid Significant agreements: change of control shares by or on behalf of the transferee.
The transferor shall remain the At 31 December 2017, Anglo American had committed bilateral and holder of the shares concerned until the name of the transferee is entered in syndicated borrowing facilities totalling $9.3 billion with a number of the register of shareholders.
All transfers of shares registered on the main relationship banks which contain change of control clauses.
$6.1 billion of the register of members that are in uncertificated form may be effected by means Groups bond issues also contain change of control provisions.
In aggregate, of the CREST system.
All Transfers of uncertified shares registered on the this financing is considered significant to the Group and in the event of a branch register of members in South Africa may be effected via the Transfer takeover change of control of the Company, these contracts may be Secretary.
cancelled, become immediately payable or be subject to acceleration.
The directors may decline to recognise any instrument of transfer relating to In the ordinary course of its business the Groups subsidiaries enter into shares in certificated form unless it: anumber of other commercial agreements, some of which would alter or a is in respect of only one class of share terminate upon a change of control of the Company.
None of these are b is lodged at the transfer office duly stamped if required accompanied by considered by the Group to be significant to the Group as a whole.
the relevant share certificate s and such other evidence as the directors Purchases of own shares may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the At the AGM held on 24 April 2017, authority was given for the Company to transfer and, if the instrument of transfer is executed by some other 86 purchase, in the market, up to 210.1 million ordinary shares of 54 91 US cents person on his her behalf, the authority of that person so to do.
The Company did not purchase any of its own shares under this The directors may, in the case of shares in certificated form, in their absolute authority during 2017.
This authority will expire at the 2018 AGM and, in discretion and without assigning any reason therefore, refuse to register accordance with usual practice, a resolution to renew it for another year will any transfer of shares not being fully paid shares provided that, where any be proposed.
such shares are admitted to the Official List of the London Stock Exchange, Indemnities such discretion may not be exercised in such a way as to prevent dealings To the extent permitted by law and the Articles, the Company has made in the shares of that class from taking place on an open and proper basis.
qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its directors The directors may also refuse to register an allotment or transfer of shares during the year, which remain in force at the date of this report.
Copies of whether fully paid or not in favour of more than four persons jointly.
these indemnities are open for inspection at the Companys registered office.
If the directors refuse to register an allotment or transfer, they shall send the By order of the Board refusal to the allottee or the transferee within two months after the date on which the letter of allotment or transfer was lodged with the Company.
John Mills A shareholder does not need to obtain the approval of the Company, or of Company Secretary other shareholders of shares in the Company, for a transfer of shares to 21 February 2018 takeplace.
Directors Directors shall not be fewer than 5 nor more than 18 in number.
A director isnot required to hold any shares of the Company by way of qualification.
TheCompany may by ordinary resolution increase or reduce the maximum orminimum number of directors.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2017 205
