Governance Risk Management Report Strategic Report Financial Results Financial Statements Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 69 I Virgin Money Executive Board members 1 Jayne-Anne Gadhia CBE Chief Executive Jayne-Anne joined the Board in March 2007 as Chief Executive.
Jayne-Anne is also an Executive Director of Virgin Money plc.
Further details can be found on page 67.
1 2 2 Peter Bole Chief Financial Officer Peter joined the Board in July 2017 as Chief Financial Officer.
Peter is also an Executive Director of Virgin Money plc.
Further details can be found on page 68.
Non Board members 3 4 3 Marian Martin Chief Risk Officer Marian is a chartered accountant and qualified with Ernst & Young.
She joined the Britannia Building Society where she was an Internal Audit Manager, before spending four years at the Britannic Group where she was Head of Group Audit and Risk.
Marian joined RBS in 2004 and served as Risk Director of RBSs consumer finance businesses, the RBS mortgage 5 6 business and then Tesco Personal Finance.
Marian joined Virgin Money as Chief Risk Officer in 2007.
Marian is an Executive Director of Virgin Money plc.
4 Matt Elliott People Director Matts early career was at RBS, where he worked on HR policy and employment issues, before supporting the HR transformation programme following the acquisition of 7 8 NatWest.
Matt held senior HR roles in several RBS operating businesses including the Consumer Finance division and Tesco Personal Finance.
In 2007 Matt moved to BP as Senior Manager for Corporate and Functions before becoming HR Vice President for BP in North Africa.
Matt joined Virgin Money as People Director in 2011.
5 Michele Greene Managing Director Virgin Money digital bank 9 10 Michele is a chartered accountant and qualified with KPMG.
She spent three years at Credit Lyonnais as a financial accountant before joining Goldman Sachs as group accountant.
Michele then spent over 15 years at MBNA, most recently as Chief Finance Officer, where she was a member of the board and closely involved in setting the strategic direction of the business.
Michele joined Virgin Money in October 2013.
11 70 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Virgin Money Executive 6 Hugh Chater 9 Caroline Marsh Managing Director Core Bank Social Enterprise Director Hugh has over 25 years of experience in financial services.
Caroline has over 30 years of experience in banking.
Her He was an executive founder at MBNA Europe, joining in early career was at Barclays where she spent 12 years in 1993 from KPMG Management Consulting.
At MBNA Hugh management roles.
In 1999, she joined Virgin One as Sales held executive roles in HR, Credit Management, Customer Director.
Following the acquisition of Virgin One by RBS in Satisfaction and Marketing before becoming Chief Operating 2001, Caroline became Sales and Operations Director for Officer and then UK Managing Director.
In 2007 Hugh joined the RBS consumer finance business, before leading RBSs RBS Retail to run the consumer credit card business.
Caroline returned to Virgin subsequently ran the current account, savings, investments Money in 2007 and led the cultural agenda for the Virgin and insurance products.
Hugh joined Virgin Money in Money business from the acquisition of Northern Rock in 2012 June 2016. until the end of 2017.
7 Mark Parker 10 Tim Arthur Chief Operating Officer Creative Director Marks first IT Director role was at British Sugar.
In 2001, Prior to joining Virgin Money, Tim was Global Chief Executive Mark joined the HBOS Group.
After serving as Group of Time Out.
He led its expansion across Asia and the US and Services Director and Chief Information Officer, he then was responsible for transforming the brand from a print media became Managing Director of Intelligent Finance.
Mark business to a global digital platform.
Before that, Tim was CEO joined Northern Rock as Chief Operating Officer in 2009 and of Cardboard Citizens and CEO Artistic Director of two arts subsequently joined Virgin Money in January 2012. venues.
He is also a playwright and author.
Tim joined Virgin Money in 2016.
8 Andrew Emuss General Counsel 11 Ken Donald Corporate Development Director Andrew qualified as a solicitor in 1996.
He started his career at Clifford Chance, qualifying as a corporate lawyer, and has Ken is a chartered accountant and has over 10 years of spent over 20 years acting on corporate and capital markets experience in financial services.
Ken started his career at RBS deals.
He spent over ten years at Nomura and served as where he latterly worked in the Investment Banking Division, its Head of Corporate Development for EMEA, executing advising UK and Irish Banks, Building Societies and Insurance strategic deals.
Andrew joined Virgin Money as General companies.
He also held a number of roles across the retail, Counsel in June 2014. business services, group strategy and corporate finance areas of RBS.
Ken joined Virgin Money in 2014.
Prior to his current role he ran the Chief Executives Office.
