64 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Chair Elect Company to join the Board Secretary 1March 2018 11 12 Governance Risk Management Report Strategic Report Financial Results Financial Statements Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 65 I This information is provided as at 31 December 2017 #PBSE DPNQPTJUJPO CZ UFOVSF #PBSE DPNQPTJUJPO CZ HFOEFS Q Q ZFBST.
FO Q Q ZFBST 8PNFO Q ZFBST Q ZFBST 1SPGPSNB QPTJUJPO Q. FO Q 8PNFO #PBSE DPNQPTJUJPO CZ SPMF #PBSE DPNQPTJUJPO CZ BHF Q Q &YFDVUJWF %JSFDUPS ZFBST Q Q $IBJS JOEFQFOEFOU PO ZFBST BQQPJOUNFOU Q ZFBST Q PO &YFDVUJWF %JSFDUPS OPO JOEFQFOEFOU Q OEFQFOEFOU PO &YFDVUJWF %JSFDUPS Skills and experience Retail banking Finance Investments and pensions Consumer, marketing & distribution Core technology, operations & digital impact 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 Percentage of the Board Underlying total income m 66 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Board of Directors Directors N 1 Glen Moreno 3 Colin Keogh Chair Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed: Appointed: January 2015 Board, May 2015 Chair.
Glen will retire from January 2010 the Board on 31 March 2018.
Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Colin has over 30 years of experience in financial services, Glen has almost 50 years of experience in business and finance.
during which he has held a number of senior management He spent his early career at Citigroup where he held senior and board positions.
Colin was Chief Executive of Close positions in Europe and Asia and was a member of the Policy Brothers plc.
He previously held Non-Executive Director roles Committee.
He was subsequently Chief Executive of Fidelity at Brit SE, New World Resources plc and Emerald Plantation International Limited.
Glen previously held Non-Executive Holdings Limited.
Director roles as Chair of Pearson plc, Senior Independent External appointments: Director at Man Group, Senior Independent Director and Senior Independent Director and Chair of the Remuneration Deputy Chair at Lloyds Banking Group plc and Deputy Chair Committee of Hiscox Limited, Chair of Premium Credit Limited of the Financial Reporting Council.
Glen has also served as a and Non-Executive Director of M&G Group Limited.
Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Audit Committee of Promotora fide Informaciones SA.
Ri Re 4 Geeta Gopalan External appointments: Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Capital Committee of Appointed: Fidelity International Limited.
June 2015 Skills and experience: Re 2 Norman McLuskie Geeta has over 25 years of experience of financial services and Senior Independent Director retail banking, particularly payments and digital innovation.
Appointed: Geeta was Director of Payment Services with HBOS plc and January 2010 previously Managing Director, UK Retail Bank and Business Skills and experience: Development Head EME at Citigroup.
Geeta was formerly the Norman has over 35 years of experience in financial services.
He previously held a number of board positions at the Royal External appointments: Bank of Scotland Group RBS, including Deputy Chief Non-Executive Director of Ultra Electronic Holdings plc and Executive and a Non-Executive Director of RBS Insurance.
Wizink Bank SA, of which she is Chair of the Audit and Risk He was also Chair of Mastercard Europe.
Geeta is also a Non-Executive Member and Vice accountant and a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Bankers Chair of the England Committee of the Big Lottery Fund.
KEY Member of Audit Member of Committee Remuneration Committee Member of Committee Board Risk Chair Committee Member of Nomination Committee Governance Risk Management Report Strategic Report Financial Results Financial Statements Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 67 I 2 Re 5 Eva Eisenschimmel 8 Amy Stirling Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Virgin Nominee Director Appointed: Appointed: January 2017 December 2017 Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Eva has 30 years of experience as a brand and marketing Amy is Chief Financial Officer of the Virgin Group.
She was previously Managing Director of extensive board, financial and management experience Marketing, Brands and Culture at Lloyds Banking Group plc, from senior and board roles in a range of sectors including Chief Customer Officer at Regus plc, and Chief People and telecommunications, financial services and commerce.
She Brand Officer at EDF Energy.
Eva has also held senior positions was previously Non-Executive Director at Pets at Home and the at Allied Domecq and British Airways.
External appointments: External appointments: Chief of Staff at Lowell.
Chief Financial Officer of the Virgin Group and Non-Executive A Re Director and member of the Audit and Risk Committee and the 6 Darren Pope Valuation Committee at RIT Capital Partners plc.
Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed: 9 Jayne-Anne Gadhia CBE March 2017 Executive Director and Chief Executive Skills and experience: Appointed: Darren has over 30 years of experience in retail banking and March 2007 financial services.
Darren held the post of Chief Financial Skills and experience: Officer of TSB Bank plc, having taken a lead role in the design Jayne-Anne has 30 years of experience in finance and banking.
and divestment of the TSB business from Lloyds Bank plc and She was one of the founders of Virgin Direct, launching the its subsequent IPO and takeover.
He previously held a number Virgin One Account in 1998.
Following the acquisition by of executive and senior roles at Lloyds Banking Group plc RBS of the Virgin One Account, Jayne-Anne went on to lead including Retail Bank Commercial Director.
He is a fellow of the a number of RBS business units, ultimately joining the RBS Chartered Institute of Certified Accountants.
Retail Executive Board where she was responsible for RBSs External appointments: mortgage business.
Jayne-Anne re-joined Virgin Money as Independent Non-Executive Director and Chair of Audit Chief Executive in 2007.
Committee of Equiniti Group plc.
External appointments: 1 Trustee of Tate Government appointment and Chair of The 7 Patrick McCall 3 Great Steward of Scotlands Dumfries House Trust.
JayneNon-Executive Director VEL Nominee Director Anne has a number of advisory roles including as a director of Appointed: UK Finance and on Mastercard Europes Advisory Board.
JayneJune 2012 Anne is the Governments Women in Finance Champion.
Skills and experience: Patrick is a senior executive in the Virgin Group.
He has extensive board, financial and management experience across a range of sectors including financial services, retail, travel and healthcare.
Patrick was previously an investment banker at SG Warburg.
External appointments: Senior Managing Director of the Virgin Group and NonExecutive Director of Virgin Active and Virgin Trains East Coast, Co-Chair of Virgin Rail Group and Chair of Virgin Galactic and Virgin Orbit.
2 Appointed pursuant to the terms of the Relationship Agreement with Virgin Group Holdings Limited, as described on page 80.
1 Appointed as the representative director of Virgin Enterprises Limited VEL pursuant to the terms of the Virgin Money Trade Mark Licence Agreement.
3 Bodies not for commercial purpose.
68 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Board of Directors 10 Peter Bole Chair Elect Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer 12 Irene Dorner Chair Elect Appointed: July 2017 Appointed: To join the Board 1 March 2018.
Will take over Chair on Skills and experience: 1April 2018.
Peter has over 25 years of experience in financial services.
Following roles with Deloitte and Standard Life, Peter joined Skills and experience: RBS in 2001 where he held a variety of senior finance roles, Irene has over 30 years of experience in financial services.
Irene latterly in RBS Insurance.
In 2009, he joined Tesco Bank where was Group Managing Director of HSBC Group and CEO and he established the finance function as Chief Financial Officer President of HSBC USA, with responsibility for all of HSBCs and played a key role in the leadership of the business as it was operations in the USA, until December 2014.
During a 29 year migrated from RBS infrastructure.
Peter joined Virgin Money in career at HSBC she held a number of senior roles including 2016.
Peter became Chief Financial Officer in January 2017 and Deputy Chair and CEO, Malaysia and General Manager of joined the Board in July 2017.
Premier and Wealth Management in the UK.
External appointments: External appointments: None.
Non-Executive Director and Chair of Control Risks International Limited and Non-Executive Director and Company Secretary member of the Audit Committee of AXA SA.
Irene is also a 11 Katie Marshall Non-Executive Director and a member of the Nominations and Company Secretary Governance Committee, Safety and Ethics Committee and Audit Committee of Rolls-Royce Holdings plc.
Irene is also a Appointed: Trustee of SEARRP the South-East Asia Rainforest Research September 2013 Partnership Malaysia.
Skills and experience: Katie joined Northern Rock in 2009, following ten years as a corporate lawyer at Eversheds LLP, and subsequently joined Virgin Money in January 2012.
Katie was appointed Company Secretary in September 2013.
