STRATEGIC REPORT Client segment reviews Corporate & Institutional Banking Pro t before taxation Segment overview Progress Corporate & Institutional Banking supports Completed on-boarding of 91 new OECD clients with their transaction banking, clients, and delivered strong growth from $1,261m corporate finance, financial markets and the next generation of priority clients borrowing needs across more than 60 Improved balance sheet quality, with underlying basis markets, providing solutions to over 5,300 investment-grade clients now representing clients in some of the worlds fastest-growing 57 per cent of customer loans and economies and most active trade corridors.
advances 2016: 52 per cent and high Our clients include large corporations, quality operating account balances now $986m governments, banks and investors comprising 48 per cent of Transaction headquartered, operating or investing in Banking customer accounts 2016: statutory basis Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
Our strong 44 per cent and deep local presence across these Launched focused workstreams to drive Risk-weighted assets markets enables us to facilitate trade, ef ciency and innovation, and increase capital and investment ows in and for talent diversity our footprint, including across Chinas $147bn Belt and Road initiative.
Performance highlights We collaborate increasingly with other Return on risk-weighted assets Underlying pro t before taxation of segments: introducing Commercial Banking $1,261 million more than doubled services to our clients ecosystems their year-on-year primarily driven by lower 0.9% networks of buyers, suppliers, customers impairment.
While operating expenses and service providers and offering our underlying basis were higher, business ef ciency clients employee banking services through improvements created capacity Retail Banking.
for increased investments Strategic priorities Underlying income of $6,496 million was LEADING DIGITAL CHANNELS stable year-on-year.
However, excluding Deliver sustainable growth for clients by Principal Finance losses, income declined understanding their agendas, providing 3 per cent, impacted by a decline in market A single gateway for trusted advice, and strengthening volatility and spreads in Financial Markets leadership in ow solutions payments in China and margin compression in nancing Manage our balance sheet to grow income businesses.
This more than offset the In February 2017, we became the and returns by driving balance sheet volume growth and margin improvement first international bank to launch velocity, improving funding quality and in Cash Management a mobile wallet collection service maintaining strengthened risk controls Good balance sheet momentum with in China.
Having worked closely Improve our ef ciency, innovate and loans and advances to customers up with national and international digitise to enhance the client experience 8 per cent year-on-year and customer businesses and banking institutions accounts up 9 per cent in China we recognised the need for a single digital gateway to connect The difference of $275 million between and consolidate multiple payment statutory and underlying pro t represents channels.
Within six months, we restructuring costs implemented solutions for 17 corporates across China and have KPIs assisted them with more than 26,000 payment transactions.
Proportion of low returning Collaboration with other That number is growing daily.
client segments client risk-weighted assets Aim Increase collaboration with other client Aim Reduce the proportion of risk-weighted segments to generate cross-segment assets deployed in Corporate & Institutional business opportunities.
Banking that are delivering low returns.
of RWAs new 16.8% 158,000 sign-ups 2015 13.1% 2015 89k 2016 15.6% 2016 127k 2017 16.8% 2017 158k Analysis Proportion of low returning client Analysis Increasing trend in Employee Banking risk-weighted assets has increased from account sign-ups from Corporate & Institutional 15.6 per cent in 2016 to 16.8 per cent in 2017, Banking clients with an increase of 24per cent driven by conscious client actions, market year-on-year from 127,000 to 158,000. pressures, credit migration and model changes.
Standard Chartered 18 Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Directors report Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Retail Banking Pro t before taxation Segment overview Progress Retail Banking serves over nine million Increased share of income from Priority individuals and small businesses, with a clients to 45 per cent, up from 29 per cent $873m focus on af uent and emerging af uent in in 2014, supported by adding more than many of the worlds fastest-growing cities.
100,000 Priority clients during 2017 underlying basis We provide digital banking services with a Our major strategic alliances, with partners human touch to our clients across deposits, such as Asia Miles, Shinsegae and Disney, payments, nancing products and Wealth and our Employee Banking initiatives, have Management, as well as supporting their together delivered over 50 per cent of new $854m business banking needs.
clients in the year Retail Banking represents approximately statutory basis Investment in technology is showing one-third of the Groups operating income results, with nearly 45 per cent of clients and operating pro t. We are closely now actively using online or mobile banking Risk-weighted assets integrated with the Groups other client segments, for example offering employee Performance highlights banking services to Corporate & Institutional $44bn Banking clients, and we are also an important Underlying pro t before taxation of source of high quality liquidity for the Group.
$873 million was up 14 per cent year-onReturn on risk-weighted assets year as income growth and lower loan Increasing levels of wealth across Asia, Africa impairment offset increased expenses and the Middle East support our opportunity 2.0% to grow the business sustainably.
We aim to Retail Banking income in Greater China improve productivity and client experience & North Asia grew 10 per cent year-onunderlying basis through increasing digitisation, driving cost year: income in ASEAN & South Asia ef ciencies and simplifying our processes.
grew 4 per cent excluding the impact of business exits in Thailand and the Strategic priorities Philippines: and income in Africa & UNDERSTANDING CLIENTS Middle East was at Continue to focus on af uent and BANKING NEEDS emerging af uent clients and their Strong momentum from Wealth Building relationships wealth needs in core cities and capture Management and Deposits drove the the signi cant rise of the middle class in improved income performance, more through technology our markets than offsetting continued margin compression across asset products We are constantly enhancing our Continue to build on our client ecosystem products and services to take and alliances initiatives Good balance sheet momentum, with advantage of digital advances.
This both loans and advances to customers Improve our clients experience through an includes our new voice recognition and customer accounts up 10 per cent enhanced end-to-end digital offering, with platforms and cross-border during the year intuitive platforms, best-in-class products payment options on mobile and and service responding to the change in The difference of $19 million between tablet devices for clients who need digital habits of clients in our markets statutory and underlying pro t represents to bank anytime, anywhere.
Every restructuring costs innovation is based on insights: we spend time getting to know our clients and understanding their banking needs and financial goals.
KPIs Digital adoption Priority client focus Aim Align the Groups service to how clients Aim Increase the proportion of income from want to interact and increase ef ciency Priority clients, re ecting the strategic shift in client by reducing the amount of manual processing.
mix towards af uent and emerging af uent clients.
of income 44.7% of clients 44.8% 2015 35.8% 2015 35.1% 2016 39.6% 2016 39.0% 2017 44.7% 2017 44.8% Analysis Online applications have continued Analysis The share of Retail Banking income to grow year-on-year with the proportion of from Priority clients increased to 44.8 per cent Retail Banking clients that are digital-active in 2017 from 39.0 per cent in 2016, supported up from 39.6 per cent in 2016 to 44.7 per cent by more than 100,000 new-to-bank Priority at the end of 2017. clients in the year.
19 STRATEGIC REPORT Client segment reviews Commercial Banking Pro t before taxation Segment overview Progress Commercial Banking serves over 40,000 local Improved client experience materially, with corporations and medium-sized enterprises client satisfaction as measured by our $282m in 26 markets across Asia, Africa and the annual client intelligence survey having Middle East.
We aim to be our clients main improved meaningfully year-on-year underlying basis international bank, providing a full range of On-boarded over 4,500 new-to-bank clients international financial solutions in areas such in the year, of which 830 came from our as trade finance, cash management, financial clients international and domestic networks markets and corporate finance.
of buyers and suppliers $269m Through our close linkages with Retail Banking Signi cantly strengthened the foundations and Private Banking, our clients can access statutory basis in credit risk management through a series additional services they value including of actions which resulted in lower loan employee banking services and personal impairments in 2017 Risk-weighted assets wealth solutions.
We also collaborate with Corporate & Institutional Banking to service Performance highlights their clients end-to-end supply chains.
$33bn Returned Commercial Banking to Our clients represent a large and important pro tability, with an underlying pro t portion of the economies we serve and are Return on risk-weighted assets before taxation of $282 million re ecting potential future multinational corporates.
signi cantly lower impairment, reduced Commercial Banking is at the heart of our expenses and higher income 0.9% shared purpose to drive commerce and prosperity through our unique diversity.
Underlying income of $1,333 million was up underlying basis 3 per cent year-on-year, driven by positive Strategic priorities momentum across regions, with income up 5 per cent in ASEAN & South Asia, up Drive quality sustainable growth by 2 per cent in Africa & Middle East, and up CROSS-BORDER deepening relationships with our existing 1 per cent in Greater China & North Asia, RELATIONSHIPS clients and attracting new clients that are led by Cash Management and Financial aligned with our strategy, with a focus on Markets products Helping clients rapidly growing and internationalising companies in our footprint Strong balance sheet growth, with loans grow their businesses and advances to customers up 17 per cent Improve client experience, through investing year-on-year and customer accounts up We are constantly increasing our in frontline training, tools and analytics 4 per cent global footprint and supporting Continue to enhance credit risk clients to grow their businesses The difference of $13 million between management and monitoring and locally and internationally.
In 2017, statutory and underlying pro t represents maintain a high bar on operational risk we helped more than 80 per cent restructuring costs of our clients engage in business outside the markets they already operated in, and almost half of them now have of ces overseas.
The markets we operate in and the relationships we have developed KPIs underpin the 20 per cent year-onyear growth of our network business New-to-bank ecosystem clients Straight2Bank utilisation and drives our ambition of helping small and mid-sized companies Aim Bank our clients international and Aim Improve client experience and minimise capture international opportunities.
domestic networks of suppliers and buyers manual transactions and the reliance on branches the ecosystem.
for cash, trade and FX, thereby reducing the cost of servicing.
of clients increase 28.3% 44.7% in clients 2015 1.7 % 2015 38.0% 2016 26.9% 2016 42.4% 2017 28.3% 2017 44.7% Analysis The number of clients on-boarded Analysis Straight2Bank utilisation increased through our banking the ecosystem initiative 13 per cent in 2017.
By the end of 2017, 44.7 increased 28.3 per cent in 2017. per cent of active Commercial Banking clients are using the capability, up from 42.4 per cent in 2016.
Standard Chartered 20 Annual Report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Directors report Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Private Banking Loss before taxation Segment overview Progress Private Banking offers a full suite of Strengthened relationship management investment, credit and wealth planning teams with almost 60 new frontline hires $ 1 m solutions to grow and protect the wealth globally.
Launched Private Banking of high-net worth individuals across Academy in partnership with INSEAD and underlying basis our footprint.
Fitch to deliver an industry leading frontline training programme across key markets Our investment advisory capabilities and product platform are independent from Enhanced our open architecture platform research houses and product providers, through digitisation, enabling real-time $ 16 m allowing us to put client interests at the centre price discovery across equity derivatives of our business.
This is coupled with an and xed income, and halving preparation statutory basis extensive network across Asia, Africa and time for investment proposals the Middle East, which provides clients with Sharpened our client coverage model with Risk-weighted assets relevant market insights and cross-border the completion of the country coverage investment and nancing opportunities.
initiative and continuous shift to focus As part of our universal banking proposition, on the above $5 million assets under $6bn clients can also leverage our global management client segment Commercial Banking and Corporate & Return on risk-weighted assets Institutional Banking capabilities to support Performance highlights their business needs.
Private Banking Private Banking generated an underlying 0.0% services can be accessed from six leading loss before taxation of $1 million compared centres: Hong Kong, Singapore, London, underlying basis to a pro t of $32 million in 2016, due to Jersey, Dubai and India.
higher expenses as we continued to invest signi cantly in the business Strategic priorities Underlying income of $500 million was up Instil a culture of excellence by improving BUILDING SKILLS FOR THE 1 per cent year-on-year, impacted by the the expertise and enhancing the skills of FUTURE non-recurrence of an insurance recovery.
senior relationship management teams Excluding this, income improved 6 per cent Mentoring the next Improve client experience by enhancing driven by Wealth Management, Treasury our advisory proposition and reducing and Funds products, and improved generation of leaders turnaround time of the investment process Deposit margins At Standard Chartered, we believe Balance growth and controls by Assets under management increased the next generation will play a critical simplifying the business model through by $10.2 billion or 18 per cent since role in shaping the worlds future.
implementation of a rigorous controls 31 December 2016 driven by positive Our Future Global Leaders enhancement plan market movements and $2.2 billion of Programme, part of our offering to net new money Private Banking clients, is designed to harness the skills of tomorrows The difference of $15 million between in uencers.
The programme brings statutory and underlying loss represents together future leaders aged restructuring costs between 20-35 to help them KPIs connect as a global community, and develop leadership, philanthropy, Net new money Net client score for ease sustainability and entrepreneurship of doing business skills, so that they can maximise Aim Grow and deepen client relationships, improve investment penetration and attract their potential and enable others to Aim Holistically improve the Private Banking new clients.
In 2017, we held the client experience through all touch points with the Group.
programme in London, Cape Town, Delhi and Singapore.
of net new more clients $2.2bn 27.7% money 2015 $0.3bn 2015 N A 2016 $ 2.0 bn 2016 17.4% $2.2bn 27.7% 2017 2017 Analysis We added $2.2 billion of net new Analysis Launched in 2016, the annual Private money in 2017, after seeing out ows in 2016 Banking client satisfaction survey reviews multiple when investor sentiment was impacted dimensions of client sentiment and measures by volatility in equity and other markets, coupled our progress in putting client needs at the heart with our actions taken to improve our risk pro le.
In 2017, signi cantly more clients rated us very easy to do business with than those that rated us dif cult to do business with.
21 Driving commerce and prosperity through our unique diversity We have extended a unique risk participation deal the first of its type for the micro finance sector in Asia when launched in 2013 with the ADB to increase the ow of credit to Developing micro finance institutions MFIs across Asia.
By increasing the capital available, partner MFIs are able to reach more unbanked individuals partnerships and finance additional microenterprises.
Originally, we aimed to originate and service a $150 million portfolio of MFI loans across to deliver Asia by the end of 2018, with the ADB sharing 50 per cent of the risk on the portfolio.
Due to the programmes success, the ADB increased financial inclusion its risk participation ceiling from $75 million to $120 million, allowing us to increase the total Working together with the Asian Development Bank programme size to $240 million outstanding at any given time.
The programme has now been ADB, we are helping to drive prosperity for people recognised as part of the ADBs mainstream traditionally excluded from the financial system operations with no speci ed end date.
Together, Standard Chartered and ADB have provided approximately 125 loans totalling $325 million to 13 MFIs in Bangladesh, Indonesia and India, with the potential to expand to additional markets in Asia.
STRATEGIC REPORT Directors report Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Greater China & North Asia Highlights of 2017 Strong progress in Retail Banking in Hong Region overview Kong, adding more than 43,300 new-toGreater China & North Asia is the Groups bank Priority clients through alliances such Pro t before taxation largest region, representing approximately as Asia Miles and our enhanced digital 40 per cent of the Groups income, and on-boarding platform includes our clients in Hong Kong, Korea, $1,942m Retail Banking in both China and Korea China, Taiwan, Japan and Macau.
Of these, underlying basis have seen a signi cant improvement in Hong Kong remains the Groups largest performance, driven by cost ef ciencies market, underpinned by a diversi ed and focused client acquisition franchise and deeply rooted presence.
$1,977m The region is highly interconnected, with Performance highlights Chinas economy at its core.
Our regional statutory basis footprint, distinctive proposition and Underlying pro t before taxation of continued investment positions us strongly to $1,942 million was 45 per cent higher Risk-weighted assets capture opportunities as they arise from the year-on-year, re ecting income growth continuing opening up of Chinas economy.
and lower impairment $85bn We are building on the regions ongoing Underlying income of $5,616 million was economic growth, the rising wealth of its 8 per cent higher year-on-year, with all population, the increasing sophistication and markets and client segments contributing.
internationalisation of Chinese businesses Retail Banking and Private Banking income and the resulting increased usage of the both grew 10 per cent year-on-year driven renminbi internationally.
by Wealth Management, improving margins and strong balance sheet growth.
Corporate & Institutional Banking income Strategic priorities rose 9 per cent year-on-year, due to Cash Leverage our network strength to serve Management, Corporate Finance and the inbound and outbound cross-border Capital Markets.
Commercial Banking trade and investment needs of our clients income grew 1 per cent year-on-year, Loans and advances to customers Capture opportunities arising from driven by Cash Management and Chinas opening, including the renminbi, Corporate Finance Belt and Road initiative, onshore capital Strong balance sheet momentum with Greater China & North Asia markets and mainland wealth, as well as loans and advances to customers up 44% of Group from our digital capabilities 15 per cent year-on-year and customer Strengthen market position in Hong Kong, accounts up 10 per cent and improve Retail Banking performance The difference of $35 million between in China and Korea statutory and underlying pro t represents Income split by key markets restructuring costs Progress Added overseas China desks across the Hong Kong Others 60% 40% Groups footprint, helping to grow income and increase the number of Belt and Road initiative projects we were involved in by over 25 per cent 23
