Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Other disclosures Directors report Fair, balanced and Viability understandable The Directors report for the year ended The directors viability statement in respect 31 December 2017 comprises pages 46 to to the Group can be found in the Strategic On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee 114 of this report together with the sections report on page 43. has reviewed the Annual Report and of the Annual Report and Accounts Accounts and the process by which the incorporated by reference.
Both the Strategic Group believes that the Annual Report and Suf ciency of public oat report and the Directors report have been Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced As at the date of this report, the Company drawn up and presented in accordance with and understandable and provides the has maintained the prescribed public oat English company law, and the liabilities of the information necessary for shareholders to under the rules governing the listing of directors in connection with that report shall assess the position and performance, securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong be subject to the limitations and restrictions strategy and business model of the Group.
Kong Limited the HK Listing Rules, based provided by such law.
Other information to be Following its review, the Audit Committee has on the information publicly available to the disclosed in the Directors report is given in advised the Board that such a statement can Company and within the knowledge of the this section.
In addition to the requirements be made in the Annual Report and Accounts.
set out in the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules relating to the Annual Code for Financial Reporting Research and development Report and Accounts, information required Disclosure by Listing Rule 9.8.
4 to be included in the During the year, the Group invested The Groups 2017 financial statements Annual Report and Accounts where $1.47 billion 2016: $1 billion in research and have been prepared in accordance with applicable, is set out in the table below development, primarily relating to the the principles of the UK Finance Code for and cross-referenced.
planning, analysis, design, development, Financial Reporting Disclosure.
testing, integration, deployment and initial Information to be included in the support of technology systems.
Disclosure of information to Annual Report and Accounts auditor Political donations LR 9.8.
4 As far as the directors are aware, there is no Relevant Listing Rule Page The Group has a policy in place which relevant audit information of which the Group prohibits donations being made that would: LR 9.8.
4 1 2 5-14 A B N A statutory auditor, KPMG is unaware.
The i improperly in uence legislation or LR 9.8.
4 4 96 to 97 directors have taken all reasonable steps to regulation, ii promote political views or ascertain any relevant audit information and ideologies, and iii fund political causes.
In ensure that the Group statutory auditors are alignment to this, no political donations were Principal activities aware of such information.
made in the year ended 31 December 2017.
Standard Chartered is a leading international banking group, with over 150-years of history Going concern Directors and their interests in some of the worlds most dynamic markets.
Our purpose is driving commerce Having made appropriate enquiries, the The membership of the Board, together with and prosperity through our unique diversity.
Board is satis ed that the Company and the their biographical details, are given on pages The Groups roots in trade finance and Group as a whole have adequate resources 47 to 49.
Details of the directors bene cial commercial banking have been at the core to continue operational businesses for a and non-bene cial interests in the ordinary of its success throughout its history, but the period of at least 12 months from the date of shares of the Company are shown in the Group is now more broadly based across this report and therefore continue to adopt Directors remuneration report on pages 96 Retail Banking in its footprint markets in Asia, the going concern basis in preparing the and 97.
The Group operates a number of Africa and the Middle East.
share-based arrangements for its directors comprises a network of more than 1,026 and employees.
branches and outlets in 63 markets.
Details of these arrangements are included in the Directors remuneration report and in note 31 to the Further details on our business can be found within financial statements on page 270 the Strategic report on pages 1 to 43 107 DIRECTORS REPORT Other disclosures The Company has received from each of There are no speci c restrictions on the size Signi cant agreements the independent non-executive directors of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, The Company is not party to any signi cant an annual con rmation of independence which are both governed by the general agreements that would take effect, alter or pursuant to Rule 3.13 of the HK Listing Rules provisions of the Articles of Association and terminate following a change of control of and still considers all of the non-executive prevailing legislation.
There are no speci c the Company.
restrictions on voting rights and the directors are not aware of any agreements between The Company does not have agreements At no time during the year did any director holders of the Companys shares that may with any director or employee that would hold a material interest in any contracts of result in restrictions on the transfer of provide compensation for loss of of ce or signi cance with the Company or any of its securities or on voting rights.
No person employment resulting from a takeover, except subsidiary undertakings.
has any special rights of control over the that provisions of the Companys share In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, Companys share capital and all issued schemes and plans may cause options and we have established a robust process shares are fully paid.
awards granted to employees under such requiring directors to disclose proposed schemes and plans to vest on a takeover.
outside business interests before any are Articles of Association entered into.
This enables prior assessment Future developments in the The Articles of Association may be amended of any con ict or potential con ict of interest business of the Group by special resolution of the shareholders: and any impact on time commitment.
On no changes to the Companys Articles of An indication of likely future developments in behalf of the Board, the Governance and Association were made during the year.
the business of the Group is provided in the Nomination Committee reviews actual or Strategic report on pages 1 to 43. potential con icts of interest annually to Authority to purchase own consider if they continue to be appropriate, shares and also to revisit the terms upon which they Results and dividends were provided.
The Board is satis ed that 2017: nil interim dividend paid At the AGM held on 3 May 2017, our our processes in this respect continue to 2016: nil interim dividend paid shareholders renewed the Companys operate effectively.
authority to make market purchases of up to 2017: proposed final dividend of 11 cents 328,742,861 ordinary shares, equivalent to Subject to company law, the Articles of per ordinary share 2016: nil final approximately 10 per cent of issued ordinary Association and the authority granted to dividend paid shares as at 14 March 2017, and up to all of directors in general meeting, the directors 2017: total dividend, 11 cents per ordinary the issued preference share capital.
These may exercise all the powers of the Company share 2016: nil total dividend authorities were not used during the year and and may delegate authorities to committees.
remained in force at 31 December 2017.
The Articles of Association contain provisions Share capital relating to the appointment, re-election and In accordance with the terms of a waiver removal of directors.
Newly appointed The issued ordinary share capital of the granted by The Stock Exchange of Hong directors retire at the AGM following Company was increased by 12,272,991 Kong Limited HKSE on 16 April 2008, appointment and are eligible for election.
The ordinary shares were which was consequentially modi ed by the All directors are nominated for annual issued under the Companys employee share Company and con rmed by the HKSE on re-election by shareholders subject to plans at prices between nil and 557.76 pence.
30 April 2009, 25 July 2011, 9 October 2013, continued satisfactory performance The Company has one class of ordinary 23 September 2015 and 5 February 2018 based upon their annual assessment.
shares, which carries no rights to xed respectively, the Company will comply with income.
On a show of hands, each member the applicable law and regulation in the UK Non-executive directors are appointed for present has the right to one vote at our in relation to holding of any shares in treasury an initial period of one year and, subject to general meetings.
On a poll, each member is and with the conditions of granting the waiver re-election by shareholders at AGMs.
In line entitled to one vote for every $2 nominal value by the HKSE.
with the UK Corporate Governance Code of share capital held.
The issued nominal 2016, all directors will stand for annual re No treasury shares were held during the year.
value of the ordinary shares represents election at the 2018 AGM.
Further details can be found in note 28 to the 86 per cent of the total issued nominal value The Company has granted indemnities to all financial statements on page 262 of all share capital.
The remaining 14 per cent of its directors on terms consistent with the comprises preference shares, which have applicable statutory provisions.
Qualifying preferential rights to income and capital but Authority to issue shares third-party indemnity provisions for the which, in general, do not confer a right to purposes of section 234 of the Companies The Company is granted authority to issue attend and vote at our general meetings.
Act 2006 were accordingly in force during shares by the shareholders at its AGM.
Further details of the Groups share capital can the course of the financial year ended The size of the authorities granted depends be found in note 28 to the financial statements 31 December 2017, and remain in force on the purposes for which shares are to be on page 262 at the date of this report.
issued and is within applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
Standard Chartered 108 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Company, or 100 shareholders entitled to Shareholder rights Major interests in shares and vote at the AGM with an average of at least voting rights Under the Companies Act 2006, 100 paid-up share capital per shareholder, shareholders holding 5 per cent or more of As at 31 December 2017, Temasek Holdings are entitled to require the Company to the paid-up share capital of the Company Private Limited Temasek is the only circulate a resolution intended to be moved at carrying the right of voting at general shareholder that has an interest of more than the Companys next AGM.
Such a request meetings of the Company are able to require 10 per cent in the Companys issued ordinary must be made not later than six weeks before the directors to hold a general meeting.
share capital carrying a right to vote at any the AGM to which the request relates or, if A request may be in hard copy or electronic general meeting.
later, the time notice is given of the AGM.
form and must be authenticated by the The request may be in hard copy or As at 22 February 2018, the Company has shareholders making it.
Where such a electronic form, must identify the resolution been noti ed, pursuant to the requirement request has been duly lodged with the of which notice is to be given and must be of Rule 5 of the Financial Conduct Authority Company, the directors are obliged to call a authenticated by the shareholders making it.
Disclosure Guidance and Transparency general meeting within 21 days of becoming Rules, by the following companies of subject to the request and must set a date for Shareholders are able to put forward proposals to their interest in the total voting rights of shareholder meetings and enquiries to the Board the meeting not more than 28 days from the the Company: and or the Senior Independent Director by using the date of the issue of the notice convening the contact us information on the Companys website meeting.
Under the Companies Act 2006, sc.
com or by emailing the Group Corporate shareholders holding 5 per cent or more Secretariat at group-corporate.
com of the total voting rights at an AGM of the Percentage of Percentage of Number of voting rights voting rights Shareholder ordinary shares direct indirect Temasek Holdings Private Limited 517,051,383 15.68 BlackRock, Inc 168,538,528 5.11 Standard Life Aberdeen plc 166,674,424 5.05 requirement, the requirement to enter into a The revenues generated from revenue Related-party transactions written agreement and set an annual cap banking transactions were insigni cant.
Details of transactions with directors and and the reporting including annual review Without a waiver from the HKSE or an of cers and other related parties are set requirements under Chapter 14A for the applicable exemption, these transactions out in note 36 to the financial statements three-year period ending 31 December 2018 would be subject to various percentage on page 282. on the conditions that: ratio tests which cater for different types of connected transactions and as such a The Company will disclose details of the Connected continuing may produce anomalous results Waiver including nature of the revenue connected transactions banking transactions with Temasek and For the year ended 31 December 2017, By virtue of its shareholding of over reasons for the Waiver in subsequent the Group provided Temasek with cash 10 per cent in the Company, Temasek and its annual reports management, securities services, foreign associates are related parties and connected exchange and money market placement b T he Company will continue to monitor persons of the Company for the purposes of products and services that were revenue the revenue banking transactions with the UK Listing Rules and the Listing Rules of transactions in nature.
Temasek during the three years ending The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited 31 December 2018 to ensure that the As a result of the Passive Investor Exemption the HK Listing Rules respectively together 5 per cent threshold for the revenue ratio and the Waiver, the vast majority of the the Rules.
will not be exceeded Companys transactions with Temasek and The Rules are intended to ensure that there its associates fall outside of the connected The main reasons for seeking the Waiver is no favourable treatment to Temasek or transactions regime.
However, non-revenue were: its associates to the detriment of other transactions with Temasek or any of its shareholders in the Company.
Unless The nature and terms of revenue banking associates continue to be subject to transactions between the Group and transactions may vary and evolve over monitoring for connected transaction issues.
Temasek or its associates are speci cally time: having xed-term written agreements The Company con rms that: exempt under the Rules or are subject would not be suitable to accommodate the to a speci c waiver, they may require a various banking needs of the Companys The revenue banking transactions entered combination of announcements, reporting customers including Temasek and would into with Temasek in 2017 were below the and independent shareholders approval.
be impractical and unduly burdensome 5 per cent threshold for the revenue ratio test under the HK Listing Rules On 19 October 2015, the HKSE extended It would be impracticable to estimate and a waiver the Waiver it previously granted determine an annual cap on the revenue It will continue to monitor revenue banking to the Company for the revenue banking banking transactions with Temasek as transactions with Temasek during the transactions with Temasek which do not fall the volume and aggregate value of each three years ending 31 December 2018 under the passive investor exemption the transaction are uncertain and unknown to ensure that the 5 per cent threshold for Passive Investor Exemption under Rules to the Company as a banking group the revenue ratio will not be exceeded 14A.
Under the Waiver, the due to multiple factors including market The Company therefore satis ed the HKSE agreed to waive the announcement driven factors conditions of the Waiver.
109 DIRECTORS REPORT Other disclosures with policies and standards and the inside information, we have applied relevant Fixed assets effectiveness of internal control structures controls on employees who are subject to Details of additions to xed assets are across the Group through its programme of handling inside information, including controls presented in note 19 to the financial audits.
The work of Group Internal Audit is over the dissemination of such information statements on page 254. focused on the areas of greatest risk as and their dealings in the Companys shares.
determined by a risk-based assessment Such systems are designed to manage rather Loan capital methodology.
The Board considers the than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve internal control systems of the Company business objectives, and can only provide Details of the loan capital of the Company to be effective and adequate.
reasonable and not absolute assurance and its subsidiaries are set out in note 27 against material misstatement or loss.
to the financial statements on page 261.
Group Internal Audit reports regularly to the Audit Committee, the Chairman and the Employee policies and Debenture issues and equityGroup Chief Executive.
The findings of all engagement linked agreements adverse audits are reported to the Audit Committee, the Chairman and the Group We take communications very seriously During the financial year ending on Chief Executive where immediate corrective and work hard to ensure that our colleagues 31 December 2017, the Company made two action is required.
The Board Risk Committee are kept informed about matters affecting issues of debentures and entered into one has responsibility for overseeing the or of interest to them, but more importantly equity-linked agreement, further details of management of the Companys fundamental to provide opportunities for feedback which are set out in note 22 on page 257. risks as well as reviewing the effectiveness of and dialogue.
We have a clear set of the Companys Enterprise Risk Management communications mechanisms that are used Risk management Framework.
The Audit Committee monitors to inform colleagues of key business activity An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating the integrity of the Companys financial at a global, regional, business and function and managing the signi cant risks that we reporting, compliance and internal control level.
We have continued to evolve and face is in place.
The Board is satis ed that environment.
develop our internal communications this process constitutes a robust assessment following last years review responding to The risk management approach on page 160 of all of the principal risks and uncertainties describes the Groups risk management oversight feedback from colleagues.
We continue to facing the Group, including those that committee structure listen to ensure internal communications would threaten its business model, future remain impactful, meaningful and support Our business is conducted within a performance, solvency or liquidity.
the Groups strategy and transformation.
developed control framework, underpinned The Risk review and Capital review on pages 118 by policy statements, written procedures and The primary channel for communicating with to 189 sets out the principal risks and uncertainties, control manuals.
There are written policies our colleagues continues to be the Bridge our approach to risk management, including our risk management principles, an overview of our and procedures designed to ensure the our social business collaboration platform.
Enterprise Risk Management Framework and the identi cation and management of risk, The Bridge not only provides global, local, policies and practices for each principal risk type.
including credit risk, country risk, market risk, business and function communications but it The Board-approved Risk Appetite Statement capital and liquidity risk, operational risk, allows our people to collaborate, exchange can be found on page 161 reputational risk, compliance risk, conduct ideas, feedback, comment, innovate, In accordance with Article 435 e of the risk, information and cyber security risk and communicate, and nd experts all through Capital Requirements Regulation, the Board financial crime risk.
The Board has one space, wherever they are located.
Risk Committee, on behalf of the Board, established a management structure that In response to feedback, we have also has considered the adequacy of the risk clearly fide fines roles, responsibilities and introduced a new monthly Group-wide digital management arrangements of the Group reporting lines.
The magazine is an informal, and has sought and received assurance that documented and communicated.
Executive story feature focused channel that shows the the risk management systems in place are risk committees regularly review the Groups human side of the Group.
It focuses on our adequate with regard to the Groups pro le risk pro le.
The performance of the Groups people and our clients to help our colleagues and strategy.
businesses is reported regularly to senior understand the Groups strategy, share management and the Board.
Performance success, best practice, break down silos, trends and forecasts, as well as actual Internal control learn from others and recognise the work performance against budgets and prior The effectiveness of our internal control and contribution our people make.
Financial system is reviewed regularly by the Board, information is prepared using appropriate The Bridge and this new digital magazine its committees, the Management Team accounting policies, which are applied are supported by Group, local and business and Group Internal Audit.
Operational procedures and newsletters, targeted audio calls for Committee has reviewed the effectiveness controls have been established to facilitate business area or management level videos, of the Groups system of internal control complete, accurate and timely processing success story bulletins, town halls and during the year ended 31 December 2017. of transactions and the safeguarding of engagement events including brown bag The Committees review was supported by assets.
These controls include appropriate lunches, leadership events, regional an annual business self-certi cation process, segregation of duties, the regular meetings, and focus groups.
Business or which was managed by Group Internal Audit.
reconciliation of accounts and the valuation of time-critical information is sent directly to Group Internal Audit monitors compliance assets and positions.
In respect of handling our peoples inboxes through a measurable email platform.
Standard Chartered 11 0 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Our senior leaders and People Managers Equally, in our recognition and interactions required by law to follow a disciplinary also have a critical role to play in engaging with various employee representative bodies process are governed by the Group our people, ensuring that they are kept up unions, works councils globally, we are Disciplinary Policy and Procedure with clear to date on key business information, our heavily in uenced by the 1948 United Nations minimum standards.
Where local law or performance and strategy, their role in Universal Declaration of Human Rights regulation requires a different process with executing the strategy and ensuring that UDHR, several ILO conventions including the regards to dismissals and other disciplinary they consult and listen to their teams views, Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining actions, country procedures vary accordingly feedback and concerns.
98 and the Freedom to account for local law and regulation.
organisation team meetings with People of Association and Protection of the Right to During 2017, the Group rolled out a refreshed Managers, one-to-one discussions, and Organise Convention, 1948 No.
87 as well Flexible Working Practices Policy globally, management meetings enable our people to as local country labour laws and acts that allowing colleagues a range of exible discuss and clarify anything they have heard protect employees rights to organise.
working options this includes exible time, or read and address any questions they may In June this year, we integrated the working from home or part-time working.
The individual performance reviews components of our Group Equal global minimum Parental Leave Bene ts were also provide the opportunity to discuss how Opportunities, Diversity, Inclusion and Dignity also revised in April 2017, to support working individuals, the team and the business area at Work Policy into our Group Code of parents no matter where they are across the contributed to our overall performance and Conduct.
Everyone who works at Standard Group.
We now provide a minimum of 20 how any compensation awards relate to this.
Chartered is bound by the Code, whether calendar weeks fully paid maternity leave, This mix of channels ensures that all our they are full-time, xed term, a director, a a minimum of leave of two calendar weeks colleagues receive relevant information contractor, a subcontractor, a secondee, a for spouses or partners, and two calendar promptly regardless of how they prefer to temporary employee or a voluntary worker, weeks for adoption leave.
Combined, this be communicated with and regardless of working in any company and in any capacity.
places the Group above the International where they sit in the organisation.
The Group Code of Conduct is wellLabour Organisation minimum standards.
understood throughout the Group, supported We continue to communicate with employees by signi cant Group communication, and this Health and safety who have left the Group via our Alumni is evident through our last My Voice Survey network and all employees, past, present The Group complies with both external results where 97 per cent of colleagues and future are able to follow our progress regulatory requirements and internal policy responded saying that they understood what through social networks including the and standards for health and safety H&S in the Group Code of Conduct meant for them Groups LinkedIn network, Facebook page all markets.
It is Group policy to ensure that in their role.
the more stringent of the two requirements is Holistically, the Group Code of Conduct always met, ensuring our H&S practices meet As well as capturing our peoples feedback reinforces our commitment to providing or exceed regulatory minimum.
Compliance and views through team meetings, two-way equality of opportunity and fair treatment in rates are reported quarterly to each countrys communications and day-to-day dialogue, employment.
We do not accept unlawful management team.
Based on our risk pro le, our employee engagement survey has been discrimination in our recruitment and our H&S standards fide ne our requirements an important way for us to gather feedback employment policies, terms, procedures, for H&S governance and assurance, on how our colleagues feel about the processes and decisions on the grounds of: workstation ergonomics, re safety, first aid, organisation, the challenges we are facing race: colour: nationality: national or ethnic indoor air quality and the work environment, and how we can make the Group a better origins: gender: parental status: marital or civil vehicle and driving safety, incident reporting place to work.
The My Voice survey was partner status: sexual orientation: gender and investigation, and accessible design.
launched in 2014 and last year we introduced identity, expression or reassignment: HIV or the Employee Net Promoter Score eNPS AIDS status: employment status: exibility Major customers to understand if our colleagues would of working arrangements: disability: age: recommend us as a place to work an Our five-largest customers together religion: or belief.
We appoint, train, develop, important indicator of how satis ed we are accounted for 2.1 per cent of our total interest reward and promote colleagues on the basis at the Group.
In September, we ran a short income and other operating income in the of merit and ability.
If colleagues become edition of My Voice that focused on the eNPS year ended 31 December 2017. disabled, every effort is made to ensure their and manager and team effectiveness.
Nearly employment continues, with appropriate 90 per cent of our colleagues responded, Supply chain management training and workplace adjustments where which was the highest response rate we necessary.
This is supported by the Global For information about how the Group have had.
The insight gained has been used Guideline and Process for Workplace engages with suppliers on environmental and to inform action plans intended to resolve Adjustment that was re-launched in 2016 to social matters, please see our Supplier highlighted issues.
In 2018, we plan to run support colleagues with disabilities.
As required under the UK Modern a further My Voice survey.
may be taken to address disadvantage or Slavery Act 2015, the Group is required to In addition, targeted local surveys and focus under representation among speci c groups, publish a Modern Slavery Statement annually.
groups seek views on particular topics or with the aim of ensuring that employment The Groups 2017 Modern Slavery Statement from particular groups of colleagues.
decisions are free from bias.
This document Less formal measures of sentiment and will give further detail on how the Group has The Groups approach to misconduct issues engagement include quick polls and managed social risks in its supply chain including dismissals is guided by the Fair conversations on the Bridge.
Accountability principles which endorse with over 50 employee networks across thoughtful judgement, proportionality, Our Supplier Charter can be viewed at 18 countries and numerous champion procedural appropriateness and fairness sc.
com suppliercharter groups, these insights are invaluable in of outcomes.
Dismissals on account of shaping our thinking and future planning.
misconduct issues and performance where 111 DIRECTORS REPORT Other disclosures Product responsibility Group Code of Conduct Environmental impact of our operations We aim to treat our clients fairly at all times.
The Board has adopted a refreshed Group We design and offer products based on an Code of Conduct the Code relating to the We aim to minimise the environmental impact understanding of our client needs: we protect lawful and ethical conduct of business and of our operations as part of our commitment client privacy: we manage potential con icts this is supported by the Groups core values.
We report of interest: and we seek and use client on energy, water, paper and non-hazardous It has been communicated to all directors feedback to improve our products and waste data that are the basis of our and employees, all of whom are expected to services.
The Group has in place policies and Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions observe high standards of integrity and fair procedures to ensure products are sold to management as well as the targets we have dealing in relation to customers, employees suitable target markets, comply with relevant set to reduce energy, water and paper use.
and regulators in the communities in which laws and regulations and complaints are the Group operates.
Directors and employees are asked to recommit to the Code annually, and this was done during September 2017 and will be repeated again in 2018.
Total scope 1, 2 and 3 Greenhouse Gas emissions for 2016 and 2017 Indicator 2017 2016 Units Full-time employees FTE covered by reporting 86,021 86,693 FTE 2 Net internal area of occupied property covered by reporting 1,194,363 1,237,043 m Annual operating income 1 October to 30 September 14,614 12,515 $million Greenhouse Gas emissions Scope 1 emissions combustion of fuels 7,922 13,562 tonnes CO eq year 2 Scope 2 emissions purchased electricity location-based method 180,014 186,553 tonnes CO eq year 2 Scope 2 emissions purchased electricity market-based method 180,014 186,553 tonnes CO eq year 2 Total Scope 1 & 2 emissions 187,936 200,115 tonnes CO eq year 2 Scope 3 emissions without distance uplift air travel 59,179 52,056 tonnes CO eq year 2 Scope 3 emissions with distance uplift air travel 64,505 56,741 tonnes CO eq year 2 Scope 3 emissions outsourced data centre 23,904 22,653 tonnes CO eq year 2 Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions 247,115 252,171 tonnes CO eq year 2 Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions FTE 2.87 2.91 tonnes CO eq FTE year 2 2 2 Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions m 207 204 kg CO eq m year 2 Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions operating income 16.91 20.15 tonnes CO eq $m year 2 Our reporting criteria document sets out the Our fide nition of different emission sources is and the potential for double-counting in principles and methodology used to calculate provided below.
We will continue to monitor the GHG emissions of the Group.
the development of Scope 2 Quality Criteria, Scope 1 as well as the development of residual mixes For more information, review the reporting criteria at sc.
Scope 1 emissions are fide ned as arising from the consumption of energy from direct The Group does not use any form of offset Our reporting methodology is based sources, such as by burning diesel within such as carbon credits to offset Scope 1 upon the World Resources Institute generators, during the use of property or Scope 2 emissions.
World Business Council for Sustainable occupied by the Group.
Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol Scope 3 Corporate Accounting and Reporting Scope 2 Scope 3 emissions are fide ned as occurring Standard Revised Edition.
Scope 2 emissions are fide ned as arising as a consequence of the Groups activities, from the consumption of indirect sources of We report on all emission sources required but arising from sources not controlled by us.
energy, such as consumption of purchased under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic The Group reports on Scope 3 emissions electricity and heat, during the use of Report and Directors Reports Regulations.
arising from air travel and our outsourced property occupied by the Group.
Using conversion factors from the UK data centres in Hong Kong and the UK.
Governments 2017 GHG Conversion Factors Despite the amendment issued to the for Company Reporting and the International GHG Protocol in 2015, we report Scope 2 Energy Agencys CO Emissions from Fuel 2 emissions under location-based methods Combustion 2017 edition, emissions are and have decided not to use market-based reported in metric tonnes of carbon dioxide emission factors where they are available to equivalent CO e, encompassing the six 2 us based on our reservations concerning the Kyoto gases.
attribution of reduced electricity emissions Standard Chartered 11 2 Annual Report 2017 Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information EU legislation and guidance from the Reporting period Electronic communication Financial Reporting Council FRC sets out The reporting period of our environmental The Board recognises the importance of threats to audit independence including data is from 1 October 2016 to 30 September good communications with all shareholders.
self-interest, self-review, familiarity, taking of a 2017.
This allows suf cient time for Directors are in regular contact with our management role or conducting advocacy.
independent assurance to be gained prior institutional shareholders and general In particular, maintaining KPMGs to the publication of results.
Accordingly, presentations are made when we announce independence from the Group requires the operating income used in this inventory our financial results.
The AGM presents KPMG to avoid taking decisions on the corresponds to the same time period an opportunity to communicate with all Groups behalf.
It is also recognised as rather than the calendar year used in shareholders.
Our shareholders are essential that management retains the financial reporting.
encouraged to receive our corporate decision-making capability as to whether to documents electronically.
The annual and act on advice given by KPMG as part of a interim financial statements, Notice of AGM Assurance non-audit service.
This means not just the and dividend circulars are all available ability to action the advice given, but to have Our Scope 1 and 2 emissions are assured electronically.
If you do not already receive suf cient knowledge of the subject matter to by an independent body, The Carbon Trust, your corporate documents electronically and be able to make a reasoned and independent against the requirements of ISO14064.
would like to do so in future, please contact judgement as to its validity.
All of this is our registrars at the address on page 332. contained within the policy.
Managing environmental and Shareholders are also able to vote electronically social risk on the resolutions being put to the AGM through By way of non-exhaustive illustration of the our registrars website at investorcentre.
co. uk application of the principles set out in the The Board is responsible for ensuring that policy, the following types of non-audit high standards of responsible business are services are: Annual General Meeting maintained and that an effective control framework is in place.
This encompasses risk Likely to be permissible under the Our AGM will be held at 11:00am UK time associated with clients operations and their policy: 6:00pm Hong Kong time on 9 May 2018 potential impact on the environment and local at etc.
venues, 200 Aldersgate, St Pauls, Audit-related services the Group would communities.
The Board recognises its London EC1A 4HD.
Details of the business to also extend this to work on investor responsibility to manage these risks and that be conducted at the meeting are contained in circulars in most foreseeable failure to manage them adequately would the 2018 Notice of AGM.
Our 2017 AGM was held on 3 May 2017 at An objective view as to whether the Group The Board receives information to identify 11:00am London time 6:00pm Hong Kong has applied external laws and regulations and assess signi cant risks and opportunities time at etc.
venues, 200 Aldersgate, St Pauls, appropriately, such as checks over arising from environmental and social London EC1A 4HD.
Special business at the regulatory compliance matters, including climate change.
These meeting included the approval of the power issues are overseen by the Brand, Values and Internal control review services to allot ECAT1 Securities for cash without Conduct Committee.
The Committee reviews certain formalities.
All resolutions were Due diligence over potential purchases sustainability priorities, and oversees the passed at the meeting.
or sales development of, and delivering against, public commitments regarding the activities and or Not permissible under the policy: Non-audit services businesses that the Group will or will not Any services that are prohibited or to the The Groups non-audit services policy the accept in alignment with our Here for good extent they are restricted by the published policy was reviewed and approved by the brand promise.
At a management level, guidance from time to time Audit Committee on 26 January 2017.
The the Group Head, Corporate Public and policy is based on an overriding principle that, Regulatory Affairs leads the delivery of the Tax or regulatory structuring proposals to avoid any actual or perceived con icts of Groups approach to sustainability.
Services where fees are paid on a interest, the Groups auditor should only be contingent basis in whole or in part used when either there is evidence that there Community engagement is no alternative in terms of quality and there is Consulting services that actively assist We collaborate with local partners to no con ict with their duties as auditor.
KPMG in running the business in place of support social and economic development can be used where the statutory auditor is management as opposed to providing in communities across our markets.
required to be used due to regulatory or legal or validating information, which For more information on how we engage requirements.
management then utilises in the with communities go to the Stakeholders operation of the business The policy clearly sets out the criteria for and responsibilities section on page 36. when the Audit Committees prior written The policy is not a prescribed list of non-audit approval is required.
The policy requires a services that KPMG is permitted to provide.
ESG Reporting Guide conservative approach to be taken to the Rather, each request for KPMG to provide We comply with the requirements for assessment of requests for KPMG to provide non-audit services will be assessed on its environmental, social and governance non-audit services.
Subject to the overriding own merits.
The Audit Committee believes reporting under Appendix 27 of the Hong principle, the Audit Committees view is that that such a case-by-case approach best Kong Listing Rules with the exception of A1.3 KPMG can be of value in a range of non-audit accommodates i the need for the on hazardous waste and A2.5 on packaging.
service activities and should be allowed to appropriate rigour and challenge to be As an of ce-based financial services provider, tender subject to the terms of the policy.
applied to each request for KPMG to provide we generate minimal hazardous waste or The Group is required to take a conservative non-audit services while ii preserving packaging material.
As such, these issues approach to interpreting the potential threats suf cient exibility for the Group to engage are not material and we do not report them.
to auditor independence and requires KPMG to provide non-audit services where commensurately robust safeguards they are able to deliver particular value to the against them.
Group and where the proposed services can be provided without compromising KPMGs objectivity and independence.
11 3 DIRECTORS REPORT Other disclosures There is a cap on non-audit services provided by KPMG and such fees cannot exceed 70 per cent of the average Group audit fee from the previous three consecutive financial years.
For 2017 the ratio was 9 per cent.
Details relating to KPMGs remuneration as the Group statutory auditor and a description of the broad categories of the types of non-audit services provided by KPMG are given in note 38 to the financial statements on page 283.
Auditor The Audit Committee reviews the appointment of the Group statutory auditor, its effectiveness and its relationship with the Group, which includes monitoring our use of the auditors for non-audit services and the balance of audit and non-audit fees paid.
Following a review of the independence and effectiveness of our Group statutory auditor details of which can be found on page 66, resolutions to appoint KPMG and to determine its remuneration will be proposed at the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
Each director believes that there is no relevant information of which our Group statutory auditor is unaware.
Each has taken all steps necessary as a director to be aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that KPMG is made aware of any pertinent information.
By order of the Board Liz Lloyd Group Company Secretary 27 February 2018 Standard Chartered PLC Registered No.
