Financial Results Strategic Report Governance Risk Management Report Financial Statements Other information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 41 I Summary of Group results Our 2017 financial performance demonstrated continued Our operating platforms continued to support increasing progression across the three pillars of our strategy Growth, scale of customer activity which, in turn, enhanced Group Quality and Returns: operational leverage.
Underlying income growth of 13.5 per cent significantly exceeded the 3.7 per cent growth in Growth our market share of new lending continued to underlying costs, resulting in favourable JAWS of 9.8 per cent.
outstrip our share of stock resulting in continued growth in balances, with loans and advances to customers increasing This continued improvement in operational leverage also by 13.5 per cent.
This growth was funded predominantly by reflected our disciplined cost management and helped to the continued strength of the retail deposit franchise with create the capacity for increased investment in the business.
customer deposits growing 9.6 per cent: Total investment in the core business was 52.8 million, of which 41.8 million was capital expenditure.
A further Quality we maintained a disciplined approach to managing 38.3 million of capital expenditure was invested in the balance sheet growth with consistently high underwriting development of our new digital banking platform.
standards leading to our low and stable cost of risk.
Growth in retail deposits was supported by further diversification of The quality of our lending continued to be underpinned by the our long-term wholesale funding, including additional RMBS consistent application of our risk appetite.
This was reflected and drawings from the Term Funding Scheme TFS.
Capital in a cost of risk of 13 basis points which was in line with the resources grew through retained earnings and enabled us to prior year, despite a slightly greater proportion of credit card absorb additional investment in the build of our new digital balances.
Whilst our low cost of risk benefits in part from bank: and the benign economic environment in the UK, it undoubtedly reflects the consistent application of our risk appetite and Returns higher balances drove income growth which, our disciplined approach to credit risk management across combined with disciplined cost control, resulted in strong both our mortgage and credit card portfolios.
As a consequence our cost:income of strict affordability requirements, robust credit decisioning ratio improved by 4.9 percentage points to 52.3 per cent and prudent underwriting standards across our portfolios for the year.
Combined with our growth and low cost of risk, ensured that asset quality performance was ahead of our this resulted in a 28.1 per cent increase in underlying profit expectations.
Balance growth has therefore been achieved before tax with return on tangible equity RoTE increasing without any deterioration in the quality of new lending or to 14.0 per cent, compared to 12.4 per cent in the prior year.
the credit characteristics of the portfolios as a whole.
Across Statutory profit after tax was 192.1 million, a 37.1 per cent both portfolios all key credit metrics remain strong and this is increase on 2016. reflected in low arrears experience.
Gross mortgage lending of 8.4 billion was combined with Leverage and total capital ratios remained above regulatory strong retention performance to deliver mortgage balances requirements with higher retained earnings supporting of 33.7 billion at year end.
Lending was carefully managed lending growth and investment.
The Common Equity Tier to optimise returns in an increasingly competitive mortgage 1 CET1 ratio remained well above our internal minimum market.
New business mortgage spreads were 19 basis points required CET1 ratio of 12.0 per cent at 13.8 per cent, lower than 2016 at 168 basis points.
with average mortgage risk weight density at 17.2 per Credit card balances increased by 23.6 per cent to cent.
The liquidity and funding profile benefitted from 3.0 billion.
This was in line with our expected growth and another successful issuance from our established Gosforth continued to demonstrate the strength of the franchise.
We Residential Mortgage Backed Security RMBS programme continued to closely monitor the performance of our credit and we continued to access the TFS.
Additionally, we have card book, with the latest observed customer behaviour received approval for a regulated covered bonds programme, reflected in the assumptions underlying the effective interest and expect our inaugural issuance to follow in 2018. rate EIR accounting.
Our commercial agility during a year which saw strong The growth in mortgage and credit card balances was funded competition on both sides of the balance sheet allowed us to predominantly through growth in deposits as our retail manage asset pricing and the cost of funds, which reduced savings franchise performed well, with balances reaching to 59 basis points 2016: 80 basis points.
This resulted in 30.8 billion at year end.
a Banking NIM of 172 basis points compared to 175 basis points for the prior year, in line with our expectations.
