Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report The UK non-standard credit market The UK non-standard credit market is more diverse in the types of credit offered than the prime market, reflecting thewider variety of customer needs and situations.
Malcolm Le May Chief Executive Officer The UK non-standard Standard credit c. 41m43m people credit market The UK non-standard credit market includes the provision of secured and unsecured credit to non-standard customers by specialist lenders other than the UKs mainstream financial institutions.
72.0bn UK non-standard credit market The size of the UK non-standard credit market is approximately 72 billion and is growing at an average rateof5% per annum.
75% of lending is through specialist nonstandard products provided by specialist lenders.
2m Nonstandard credit customers typically have a poor credit history or no credit history at all, or may have had past problems with credit, often due to periods of unemployment, family breakup, illhealth or the use of inappropriate mainstream credit offers.
Customers are typically defined as nearprime, nonprime or subprime depending Non standard credit ontheircredit worthiness.
c. 10m12m people In the UK there are currently approximately 1012 million people who do not meet the credit criteria of mainstream financial institutions.
Approximately 20 per cent of these nonstandard customers in the UK approximately two million people move annually between standard and nonstandard markets through improving or declining credit scores as situations continually change due to unexpected life events.
9 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report The UK non-standard credit market continued The number of nonstandard customers is growing on average by approximately The UK non-standard credit market includes, but is not limited 12%per annum.
In addition, approximately 1 to, thefollowing products : five million people in the UK have a few minor historic issues with their credit Non-standard credit cards Arranged overdrafts unsecured payment histories, and as a result they fall near-prime and sub-prime the overdrafts of up to around 500 are into a somewhat separate category between provision of credit cards to lower income arranged with customers with bank standard or prime and non-standard, salaried groups or those who are credit accounts to be repaid on a onemonth referred to as nearprime.
Credit limits typically start low rolling basis: may struggle, or believe that they may and grow as customers demonstrate struggle, to meet the credit criteria of Unarranged overdrafts unsecured their ability to manage their account well: mainstream financial institutions and are overdrafts of up to a few hundred often included in the definition of non Non-standard mortgages the pounds which are available to customers standard, particularly in the credit card provision of first charge mortgages to with bank accounts, but are not sector.
In practice, there is no clear and those who do not meet the increasingly prearranged with the customers, to be universally accepted dividing line between stringent criteria of mainstream repaid on a onemonth rolling basis: nearprime and subprime or nonstandard, providers, where loan to value ratios Guarantor loans loans of 2,000 to as this will depend on the credit criteria of aregenerally between 60% and 75%: 7,500 are provided to an individual individual providers which will change from Home collected credit the provision with the loan guaranteed by a family time to time.
All of these customers can be of loans typically for 100 to 1,000, member or friend who is generally also considered non-prime or non-standard to and sometimes higher, which are repaid ahome owner: some degree.
to collectors who call on customers in Rent to own a facility allowing those Growth in the non-standard UK credit market person on a weekly basis: who are credit impaired and or on lower has predominantly been driven by greater Payday loans short-term loans typically incomes to buy household electronics or levels of immigration and a large number for 100 to 2,000 made for periods of durables from specialist shops offering of people who have experienced negative less than 30 days to salaried employees weekly payment terms: credit events in the past, resulting in an with bank accounts and debit cards to increasing percentage of people with no or Retail credit the provision of credit at be repaid in a lump sum out of their adverse credit history.
Increasing regulatory the point of sale in store, via catalogues next salary: action to protect customers in the highcost and increasingly online for the purchase shortterm credit market with a particular Short-term unsecured instalment of clothes and smaller household goods, focus on curtailing payday lending has loans unsecured personal loans usually repayable within a year or as part of reduced the growth in this market.
for 2501,000 lent over a period of arevolving credit line: three12 months: The UK non-standard credit market is more Car loans the provision of hire diverse in the types of credit offered than purchase or other loan products to Medium-term unsecured instalment theprime market, reflecting the wider variety individuals for purchasing cars: and loans unsecured personal loans usually of customer needs and situations, as well for 1,000 5,000 lent over a period of as business models aimed at responsibly Pawnbroking loans averaging under onefive years: serving the higher credit risk customer.
100, although sometimes larger, are Second charge mortgages secured secured against pawned goods, most loans loans of up to 50,000 secured often jewellery.
by means of a second charge mortgage which are generally used for home improvement and repayable over five years: 1 Source: Highcost credit review technical annex 1: Credit reference agency CRA data analysis of UK personal debt.
10 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report The group operates in the non-standard credit card, home collected credit, short-term unsecured instalment loan andcar loan markets.
Companies that currently operate in the nonstandard credit As a result, in the UK, business models in this sector usually incur market are predominantly nonbank finance companies, and higher costs than more standardised and less flexible prime the large majority of these are involved in the provision of only credit offers, resulting in the need to charge higher prices in order to generate acceptable returns for the risk that lenders take.
one or two types of financial products.
Post 2007 and the global financial crisis, mainstream lenders in the UK began to curtail APRs for loans in the UK nonstandard credit market tend to secured and unsecured lending i. e. personal loans, credit cards be higher than in traditional bank lending, given the typically and overdrafts due to large losses and capital shortfalls.
A large increased risk profile compared to prime lending.
Within the number of specialist lenders in the UK were established in order UKnonstandard credit market, APRs tend to be lowest in to meet customers demands for unsecured credit.
second charge mortgages and non-standard mortgages, Firms wanting to sustainably service this market in the UK require higher in guarantor loans, rent to own and nonstandard credit a tailored approach to credit, usually focusing on lower amounts cards, higher again in unsecured loans, pawnbroking and home 2 of credit for shorter terms initially, higher levels of customer collected credit, and highest in payday loans.
contact, and the use of a security or asset in some form linked to the provision of credit.
Firms also need to be more flexible indealing with nonstandard customers who are more likely torun into repayment issues and require forbearance.
2 Source: Highcost credit Including review of the highcost shortterm credit price cap Feedback Statement FS17 2, July 2017.
