Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Governance Effectiveness This is in addition to any guidance that members of the Board have completed What does effectiveness may be given from time to time by the conflict of interest forms which are reviewed Company Secretary.
All directors have an ongoing duty meantothecompany?
to notify the company of any changes and All directors have access to the advice to ensure that appropriate authorisation is and services of the Company Secretary.
Board members are qualified, sought where required.
The Company Secretary is also the secretary individually and collectively, for their to all the Board committees, with the The Board excluding the director concerned positions.
They develop and promote exception of the executive committee and considers and, if appropriate, authorises the collective vision of the companys the disclosure committee.
The Board also each directors reported actual and potential purpose, its culture, its values and obtains advice from professional advisors conflict of interest, taking into consideration the behaviour in conducting the asand when required.
what is in the best interests of the company business of the company.
The interim and whether the directors ability to act in Ongoing training is arranged to suit the non-executive Chairman creates accordance with his or her duties is affected.
specific needs of directors and the Interim the conditions for overall Board and Non-Executive Chairman periodically reviews Records and Board minutes of all individual effectiveness and oversees and agrees with each non-executive director authorisations granted by the Board and the operation of its committees, with their training and development needs.
thescope of any approvals given are held the aim of encouraging all Board and maintained by the Company Secretary.
members to engage in Board and Independence of The Board considers these procedures to be committee meetings by drawing on non-executive directors working effectively.
their skills, experience, knowledge and, where appropriate, independence.
As a result of all of the changes as described Accountability Part of the annual assessment of the in this report, the Board currently consists Board and its committees is designed of six members, including the interim As part of the overall corporate governance to ensure that they remain effective, non-executive Chairman, one senior framework, the Board has ultimate fit for purpose and appropriately independent director, two independent responsibility for overseeing the risk constituted with the right skills and non-executive directors and two executive management framework and determining directors.
Biographical details of all directors experience to address the strategic the nature and extent of the principal risks are given on pages 68 and 69. it is willing to accept to achieve its strategic direction of and regulatory challenges objectives.
The Board is also responsible facing the group.
The composition, skills and effectiveness for maintaining a sound system of risk of the Board are reviewed annually.
management and internal controls, in The non-executive directors have relevant accordance with the Code.
Induction of new directors experience across the group and relevant skills in relation to digital, corporate matters, The risk advisory committee assists the andongoing training banking, retail services and risk.
The Board Board by taking an active role in defining ensures a diverse pool of candidates is risk appetite and monitoring the risk On appointment all new directors receive considered for any vacancy which arises and management and internal control systems a comprehensive and tailored induction, any appointments are made based on merit, across the group.
Further details of how having regard to any previous experience having regard to the skills, competencies and the groups processes and internal controls they may have as a director of a public experience of the candidate.
workare at pages 81 and 83 to 84. company or otherwise.
The company also provides additional induction materials and All directors are required to disclose to the training for those directors who are also Board any outside interests which may pose committee chairmen.
a conflict with their duty to act in the best interests of the company.
Regular updates are also provided on relevant legal, corporate governance and The Board was satisfied that each of financial reporting developments and StuartSinclair, Andrea Blance, Rob Anderson directors are also encouraged to attend and John Straw continued to remain external seminars on areas of relevance independent, having regard to the Codes totheir role.
Appropriate training is made available to Conflicts of interest any newly appointed director.
An ongoing programme of training is available to all members of the Board and includes The Companies Act 2006 and the companys professional external training, internal articles of association the Articles require online training and bespoke Board training the Board to consider any potential conflicts on relevant topics such as regulatory of interest of its members.
developments, changes in the Companies The Board operates formal procedures Act 2006 or accounting requirements.
regarding conflicts of interest and all Directors are also encouraged to devote an element of their time to self-development.
