14 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Women in Finance Charter senior roles and under-representation of men in customer service positions.
We are passionate about fairness, I am pleased to report that we achieved gender balance in equality and inclusion.
We are committed hiring and promotions into senior management in 2017.
Whilst this represents good progress, the team that reports to achieving a 50:50 gender balance to the Executive Committee continues to be dominated by throughout the business by 2020. men.
Men account for 68 per cent of the Executive Committee and their direct reports, and 71 per cent of the wider senior management team.
To address this, all members of the Executive Committee have an annual objective to improve Aim gender balance through recruitment, promotion and As part of the UK governments drive to improve economic development.
There is no intention to promote or hire women productivity, I was asked by HM Treasury to review why over men.
Our aim is to create a genuinely level playing field women make less progress in financial services than in other where both men and women succeed on merit.
The Empowering Productivity: Harnessing the Talents of Women in Financial Services report was published Our second area of focus remains gender balance into entry in 2016.
We found that there are significant barriers to the level roles.
Whilst we increased male representation in 2017, progress of women and breaking down these barriers will only 27 per cent of colleagues in customer service positions improve results both for the financial services sector and are men.
We are committed to ensuring our Stores and individual businesses, including Virgin Money.
contact centres are equally attractive to men and women as As the Chief Executive, I have taken personal responsibility places to work and develop careers.
for addressing these issues at Virgin Money.
During 2017 we Action in 2017 continued to make good progress towards achieving our 2020 When researching and writing Empowering Productivity: target of a 50:50 gender-balanced workforce.
Harnessing the Talents of Women in Financial Services, it Meeting the Charter Commitments became clear to me there are a number of key issues across I am responsible and accountable for gender diversity and the industry which must be addressed in order to develop a inclusion at Virgin Money.
A gender-balanced workforce is fully inclusive workforce at all levels.
They include the need good for business, customers, profitability and workplace to create the right culture, develop supportive line managers culture.
To meet our Charter commitments: and have the technology to support a flexible working environment.
In 2017, Virgin Money made progress on we have committed to achieve 50:50 gender balance within a these key areas: 10% tolerance throughout the business by the end of 2020: Encouraging the right culture we publish progress against our 50:50 target annually: and support to colleagues on maternity leave was enhanced, we have linked annual performance related pay to including the provision of maternity mentoring to encourage commitments to promote gender diversity for all members of and enable continued career development: the Executive Committee.
during 2017, 56per cent of new fathers took extended The last commitment reflects the fact that gender balance parental leave at an average of 11 weeks each.
Our Shared should be addressed as a business issue and rewarded as such.
Parental Leave policy provides colleagues with the equivalent As the CEO, one of my five personal objectives in 2017 was to of maternity pay when their partner returns to work: and lead the business towards fairness, equality and balance in we launched a Returners Programme enabling experienced relation to gender.
women and men who may have taken a career break, or are Progress in 2017 looking to update their skills and knowledge, to transition into I am pleased to report that gender balance improved at all new roles.
The programme runs over a paid three month term levels of the company in 2017: with the possibility of a permanent role on completion.
female representation within senior management grades Investing in supporting people managers increased to 29 per cent, an improvement of 32 per cent: and we delivered unconscious bias training to all our current and aspiring people managers to drive awareness of the issue and male representation in our entry level roles increased to 27 per to support them in developing strategies to manage it: cent, an improvement of 8 per cent.
Whilst progress has been made, these two areas will remain a focus given the under-representation of women in Strategic Report Governance Financial Results Risk Management Report Financial Statements Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 15 I we required all recruitment agencies to provide us with diverse Priorities for 2018 lists of candidates and anonymous profiles, ensuring managers Looking ahead to 2018, we intend to make further progress decide who to interview on merit alone.
Additionally, we use by continuing to focus on management capability, a flexible mixed gender interview panels which reduce the potential for working culture and identifying and removing barriers to gender bias: and fairness, equality and inclusion.
In particular, we will: we continued to use a gender analysis tool in our annual pay Management capability process to help managers understand the impact salary and continue to set bonus targets for all Executive Committee bonus outcomes have on the gender pay gap as part of their members to improve gender balance: decision making process.
continue with the formal requirement for gender balance in Using technology to promote diversity interview panels and candidate shortlists: and we continued to upgrade our technology to make flexible take specific action to attract and retain men in entry level and home working easier.
We have migrated all Stores and and customer-facing roles.
offices to our new IT platform, with over half of our colleagues Flexible working culture receiving laptops: reduce the formalities associated with requesting flexible we improved colleague access to learning materials via mobile working arrangements: technology, and enabled colleagues on parental leave to stay continue to support parents by promoting shared parental in touch through a new app: and leave and family friendly working practices: and we launched the Women in Finance Charter app, in pilot a programme to assess a technology solution for contact conjunction with HM Treasury, to showcase best practice centre home working.
actions companies are taking to improve gender balance.
Removing barriers 2017 gender balance profile senior leaders who have adopted flexible working In 2017 we made progress against our target to have a 50:50 arrangements as role models to encourage wider take-up: gender balanced workforce within a 10 per cent tolerance across all levels of the business by the end of 2020: enhance the skills of our future business leaders through gender balanced development programmes: and Headcount % Reward develop insight and build confidence through our Gender Level Female Female Male Male Group Agenda Network, including events to profile and discuss the 2017 2016 2017 2016 key issues relating to fairness and inclusion.
Exec 1 31% 27% 69% 73% I believe it is important to be held to account to deliver the Executive Charter commitments, both at Virgin Money and across the Exec 2 26% 21% 74% 79% financial services industry.
We will continue to report on our progress in the years ahead, both within our annual report and Band A 29% 22% 71% 78% Management on our website, and we will supplement this with disclosures Band B 44% 43% 56% 57% on our gender pay gap.
Band C 36% 34% 64% 66% I will continue to champion HM Treasurys Women in Finance Charter and I encourage all financial services companies to Non Band D 53% 52% 47% 48% Management sign up to its recommendations, set challenging targets and report transparently on progress.
Band E 73% 75% 27% 25% Female representation in senior management Executive and Band A improved to 29 per cent at 31 December 2017, up from 22 per cent as at 31 December 2016.
As defined by the Hampton Alexander review, 31.8 per cent of our Executive Committee and their direct reports were female as of 31 December 2017.
Jayne-Anne Gadhia CBE Chief Executive 26 February 2018
