Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report The UK non-standard credit market continued Overview of the groups markets and products Non-standard credit cards Home collected credit Vanquis Bank Provident The nonstandard credit card market in the UK is served The UK home collected credit market is served by Provident, byfour major card issuers: Vanquis Bank, Barclaycard, the UKs only national lender, and a large number of regional NewDay and Capital One.
lenders including Morses Club and Loansat Home.
The target nearprime and subprime credit card Approximately 700,000 customers took out a home marketsareestimated at between 10.2 and 13.6 million collectedcredit product in 2016.
APRs for nonstandard credit cards are issuedwith a total value of 1.3bn.
The average loan 3 approximately 29.9%to 39.9%.
Approximately 1.1bn of loans were 4 outstandingatthe end of 2016.
Short-term unsecured Car loans instalment loans Satsuma Moneybarn The UK shortterm unsecured instalment loan market The non-standard car loan market is competitive with was significantly impacted by implementation of the new a range of lenders operating across risk segments FCA regulatory regime in 2014.
Following its subsequent i. e. nearprime, nonprime, subprime.
The main lenders review of the highcost shortterm credit market, the FCA operating in the non-standard car loan market are implemented new rules and guidance which, amongst Moneybarn, Advantage Finance Ltd, First Response, Billing other things, increased the level of protection available to Finance Ltd, Moneyway and The Funding Corporation Ltd. customers via the introduction of price caps and effectively Approximately 750,000 cars were purchased by curtailed payday lending.
Some lenders adapted their nonstandard customers in the UK in 2016, of which about business models away from payday lending towards 110,000 were funded through nonstandard car loans shortterm unsecured instalment loans, while others worth approximately 730m.
The average loan value was withdrew from the market.
In 2015, the Consumer Finance 7 approximately 6,600.
Association CFA estimated that six out of 10 high street lenders had exited the market since 2014.
The market Loans are typically provided via hire purchase contracts continues to be served by a number of active competitors, atAPRs of approximately 30%.
5 including Satsuma, Sunny, Quickquid and Wonga.
Having grown from approximately 0.3bn of outstanding loans in 2006 to approximately 2.5bn in 2013 the market for shortterm unsecured credit contracted to 1.1bn by theend of 2016.
Approximately 800,000 customers took outa shortterm unsecured instalment loan in 2016.
3.6m new loans were issued with a total value of 1.1bn.
The average 6 loan value was 290.
3 Source: Sizing the UK near prime credit card market, January 2016.
6 Source: Highcost credit review technical annex 1: Credit reference agency CRA data  LLP.
analysis of UK personal debt, July 2017.
4 Source: Highcost credit review technical annex 1: Credit reference agency CRA data 7 Based on non-standard car loans of approximately 730 million divided by analysis of UK personal debt, July 2017.
5 Source: A modern credit revolution: An Analysis of the shortterm credit market, July2015.
12 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Recent reviews into the UK consumer credit Recent developments Change in regulator market by the PRA and Bank of England have identified that lenders resilience to In the UK, the financial crisis brought Regulation of consumer credit transferred consumer credit portfolios is reducing due recession, unemployment and from the OFT to the FCA on 1 April 2014, to a combination of continued growth, lower underemployment, an increase in the asthe regulatory regime under the OFT was pricing and some increased lending into cost of living, austerity, wage stagnation considered to be relatively light touch with higherrisk segments.
and reduced mainstream lender appetite.
the OFT having fewer powers to set rules As the UK economy recovered, headline orenforce them.
In particular, the reviews by the PRA and unemployment fell to some of the lowest the Bank of England have highlighted the Around 50,000 firms transferred with levels seen since the 1970s, inflation risk associated with 0% promotional offers interim permission from the OFT to the also fell away creating real wage growth, on credit cards, falling interest rates on FCA on 1 April 2014.
As of 31 March 2016, customer sentiment and confidence unsecured personal loans and the growing approximately 31,000 firms had been improved and credit supply increased popularity of Personal Contract Purchase authorised including firms new to the rapidly.
However, not everyone benefited PCP plans in motor finance.
market and approximately 24,000 interim equally.
Underemployment and uncertain permission had lapsed or been cancelled.
As a consequence of: i the disruption employment have persisted in certain As of 31 March 2016, over 1,700 firms in tothe home credit business following demographics, wage growth has been total have either been refused authorisation the implementation of the new operating lacklustre and patchy, and austerity remains or decided to withdraw their applications model in July 2017 and the subsequent in government plans.
As a result, despite because they did not meet the standards implementation of the recovery plan in general improvements in all credit bureau required by the FCA.
response to the disruption: ii the FCAs scores, the non-standard credit market has investigation into Vanquis Banks ROP: continued to grow.
Brexit has contributed Transition to FCA regulation has been and iii the FCAs investigation into the toeconomic uncertainty and expectations difficult for certain product sectors, holding processes applied by Moneybarn in relation of an economic slowdown, albeit its ultimate back overall average loan growth.
Key areas to customer affordability assessments form and the extent of any impact on the of change driven by the FCA have been for vehicle finance and the treatment of economy and non-standard credit market upfront affordability assessments, limits customers in financial difficulties, the remains unclear.
on refinancing during an existing loan, and group issubject to enhanced supervision forbearance.
Single product firms have been Customers continue to move online go digital by the FCA.
Firms placed under enhanced particularly susceptible to new requirements and prefer mobile devices.
They expect supervision may be required to provide in their area of focus.
For example, the lenders to do the same.
Digital interaction formal commitments, where appropriate, payday lending business model has been is increasingly important for effective lead tothe FCA to tackle the underlying concerns transformed with the implementation generation, new customer acquisition and raised by the FCA and the FCA may also ofarate cap, resulting in a material drop ongoing customer relationship management.
Of the approximately 330 For example, previously bigbook paper has required the group to undertake certain high-cost short-term credit providers that and phone-based retail lenders have formal commitments which include the initially applied for authorisation from the gone completely online and mostly delivery to the FCA of the timetable for FCA, 144 had the relevant permissions but mobile tabletbased in the last five years, execution of the home credit recovery plan only around 30 remained actively lending e. g. Shop Direct Group.
which was delivered by the group in early as of December 2016.
Rules and guidance January 2018 and to embed, by 30 June 2018, In the short term, improving customer from the FCA continue to evolve and remain appropriate and sufficient first and second circumstances are expected to continue to under review.
line oversight and monitoring of the home drive credit demand and affordability despite credit business.
CCD, which includes Provident and Satsuma, looming future economic uncertainty.
In the continues to operate whilst the home credit medium term, a slowdown may undermine business implements its recovery plan individual customer circumstances, but grow underan interim permission from the the nonstandard market as more customers FCA.
Moneybarn is fully authorised by move into the market as they run into theFCA.
Vanquis Bank is authorised by the financial difficulties.
PRA and regulated by both the PRA and FCA.
The group is also subject to consolidated supervision by the PRA.
13 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report The UK non-standard credit market continued Overview of the groups markets and products continued In January 2018, the FCA published an FCA credit card market study FCA review of credit update to FS17 2 entitled Highcost Credit worthiness in consumercredit Review update the FS17 2 update.
In the The FCA completed its credit card market FS17 2 update, the FCA stated that while study in July 2016 after which the FCA it noted there is value for consumers in In July 2017 the FCA published a consultation and the UK credit card industry agreed in having continuing access to homecollected paper CP17 27 entitled Assessing credit principle to three informational remedies credit and maintaining additional weekly worthiness in consumer credit inwhich the which have not had, and the group does not repayments on separate loans may not FCA set out the changes that it has proposed expect to have in the future, a significant be affordable, it has concerns that when to its existing rules and guidance in this area.
In April 2017 the consumers take out additional borrowing, In CP 17 27 the FCA proposed to amend its FCA published a consultation paper entitled where the outstanding amount from the rules and guidance with regards to credit Credit card market study: consultation previous loan is incorporated into the new worthiness which the FCA stated comprises onpersistent debt and earlier intervention loan, it may result in consumers paying both credit risk and affordability and in remedies CP 17 10.
The overall objective significantly more interest on the amounts particular, the proposed rules introduced of the package of proposed remedies is to originally borrowed than they would have a new explicit definition ofaffordability reduce the number of customers in problem had they maintained separate loans.
The FCA risk, in which the FCA sets out the factors credit card debt and put borrowers in greater also stated that it is examining if repeat to be considered by firms when assessing control of their borrowing.
The consultation borrowing could work better for consumers if credit is likely to be affordable for the closed on 3 July 2017 and the FCA published and has requested data from firms on their borrower.
The proposals require a more a further consultation paper which contained lending patterns and nature and extent detailed credit worthiness assessment feedback on CP 17 10 and requested of refinancing and has commissioned including affordability at the outset for all further consultation on 14 December consumer research to explore consumers new non-prime non-mainstream credit card 2017 CP 17 43.
CP 17 43 set out a revised experience of home-collected credit and customers, along with further assessments analysis of the costs to businesses of the their understanding of the cost implications for significant individual or cumulative credit proposed remedies set out in CP 17 10 of refinancing and repeat borrowing.
Any changes arising and the consultation closed on 25 January To remedy its concerns the FCA, in FS17 2, as a result of these proposals could reduce 2018 and the FCA stated that it expects has stated it may introduce restrictions on the initial booking rate of Vanquis Bank to publish new rules in a policy statement refinancing and rollovers, impose time gaps customers as a result of greater numbers of as early as possible in 2018.
The Directors between borrowing or time limits on the total potential customers failing credit worthiness anticipate that the results of CP17 10 and duration of borrowing.
In addition, the FCA checks, aswell as fewer credit line increases CP 17 43 are likely to impact Vanquis Banks stated, in the FS17 2 update, that it aims to being made as a result of greater numbers of future credit card application acceptance report in May 2018 on its analysis concerning customers failing the affordability checks.
rates and its ability to offer credit card credit forms of highcost credit outlined above and line increases.
others outlined in FS17 2 and the FS17 2 FCA review of the vehicle update : and if the further research and FCA review of high-cost credit finance market analysis conducted by and on behalf of the FCA confirms the FCAs concerns regarding The FCA has also indicated that it is In the FCAs Business Plan for 2017 18 the highcost credit products, it expects to concerned about highcost credit products, FCA stated that it is looking at the vehicle consult on proposals to address its concerns such as home credit, pawnbroking, finance market to ensure that it works well at that point.
The FCA may introduce further logbook loans and openended running and to assess whether consumers are at changes to its existing consumer credit account credit, due to the potential risk of harm, with a particular focus on rules as a result of such work and promote overindebtedness they may cause, and PCPagreements.
The FCA has indicated that competition for highcost credit products.
the FCA published the results of its review it will publish an update on this work in the In these circumstances, there is a risk that of highcost credit in July 2017 FS17 2. first quarter of 2018.
Although the group the FCA may introduce new, stricter, rules In FS17 2 the FCA indicated that it has some does not offer PCPagreements, it does offer designed to address particular concerns concerns regarding home-collected credit vehicle finance through Moneybarn, and inrelation to lending practices in this sector and also regarding the wider considerations the views published by the FCA in its review as outlined above.
relating to highcost credit products may be predictive of future reviews that whichcould relate to other products would relate to the nonstandard vehicle offeredby the group.
