16 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Market overview Housing and mortgages The housing market was resilient in 2017 and is expected As a UK retail bank we are focused on to see modest growth in 2018.
Increasing employment and serving domestic customers and continue a gradual pickup in real wages should support the demand for mortgages.
The mortgage market is expected to remain to benefit from the resilience of the UK highly competitive in 2018.
As a result of ring-fencing, high economy and housing market, although street banks may deploy excess ring-fenced deposits into UK mortgage lending.
We also expect that smaller lenders will there is a degree of uncertainty in the seek to protect their market share.
Important regulatory reforms Overall, the mortgage market is expected to see modest which will have an impact on our markets growth, with UK Finance forecasting that gross lending will take effect in 2018, and we look forward be 260 billion in 2018.
Within specific segments, lending to first time buyers looks to the longer term opportunities these will set to increase further, supported by the tax changes to stamp create, notably for our digital bank.
duty and the 10 billion extension of the Help to Buy scheme.
Re-mortgaging will continue to represent a significant volume of overall transactions, as customers look to take advantage UK economy of competitive pricing in anticipation of higher interest rates.
Gross domestic product GDP growth has picked up in recent In contrast, the buy-to-let market is expected to be flat on quarters, having slowed at the beginning of 2017.
As a result, 2017 as the recent regulatory and taxation changes weigh on UK GDP is estimated to have increased by 1.7 per cent in 2017, customer demand.
slightly below the 1.9 per cent growth experienced in 2016.
Savings Consumption growth has been subdued reflecting the squeeze The total retail savings market grew by 3.5 per cent in 2017. in real incomes following the depreciation of sterling in the This was despite a reduction in the savings ratio in the last aftermath of the EU referendum.
Partially offsetting that, net three years from 9.3 per cent in 2015 to 4.8 per cent during Q3 trade has picked up supported by sterlings depreciation and 2017.
In part, this behaviour can be explained by the prevailing the strength of global growth.
low interest rate environment, low wage growth and inflation.
The level of unemployment in the UK fell to a 42-year low Looking forward, the savings ratio is expected to increase of 4.3 per cent and was one of the major economic success modestly in the coming years to exceed 5 per cent by 2022. stories of 2017.
Despite this, real wage growth has remained Recent personal tax changes have influenced customer subdued, as inflation has increased to its highest level in five behaviour with the introduction of the Personal Savings years.
CPI inflation remained around 3 per cent for much of Allowance reducing the attractiveness of ISA products 2017, as imports became more expensive as a result of the for certain customers.
However, for those customers who lower value of sterling.
continue to favour the ISA savings vehicle, typically higher In light of the recovery in GDP growth and the reduction in rate tax payers and customers with historic portfolios, the spare capacity in the economy, the Bank of England increased higher ISA allowance has encouraged larger average balances.
interest rates for the first time in a decade in November The savings market is also expected to adjust to a rising 2017 in order to bring inflation back towards the 2 per cent interest rate environment following a decade of historically target.
Although interest rates are expected to rise gradually low rates.
The market for retail savings balances is expected over the coming years, they are expected to remain low by to grow in 2018 at a similar rate to that recorded in 2017.
against that, there may be increased competition from smaller The HM Treasury consensus for 2018 predicts that the UK lenders who have used Bank of England funding schemes, as economy will continue to grow, albeit at a somewhat subdued those schemes come to an end.
The strength of the global economy is expected to be Credit cards beneficial for the UK and unemployment is expected to remain Credit card balances in the UK grew by 5.1 per cent in 2017. at historically low levels.
Inflation is likely to fall back gradually Although the Bank of England has highlighted risks from the and wage growth is expected to pick up.
Nonetheless, the rapid growth in consumer credit, a recent FCA study notes macro and political environment, including the impact of the that this growth has been driven by borrowers with higher UK leaving the European Union, remains uncertain which adds credit scores who may be less likely to suffer financial distress.
a degree of caution to our outlook.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Results Risk Management Report Financial Statements Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 17 I A combination of regulatory concern over the pace of regulations address concerns around security and put a growth in unsecured lending and concerns around consumer strong authentication and permission framework around indebtedness in the UK is expected to see this rate of customer data.
When taken together, these changes could lead to The recent Bank of England credit conditions survey has a fundamental shift in how customers manage both their also highlighted the potential for an increase in impairments money and data over the longer term.
As a consequence, across the sector.
these changes have the potential to change the nature of competition in UK retail banking.
Reflecting a more cautious outlook, we expect the market to continue to reduce the length of interest-free promotional Ring-fencing periods on new credit cards being issued.
Ring-fencing will require large UK banks to separate their core retail banking services from their investment and Total outstanding balances on credit cards are expected to international banking activities.
A side effect of ring-fencing continue growing at a rate below recent trends.
may be an excess of liquidity for certain large UK Open Banking, PSD2 and GDPR ring-fenced banks, which could in turn, lead to heightened There are three major components of current regulatory competition.
reform coming into force in 2018: Open Banking, PSD2 and GDPR.
The common themes through each of these initiatives are innovation, competition and consumer protection.
Customers will be able to bring together all of their financial relationships and data in one place, seamlessly instruct payments and move funds from a single device.
The Key opportunities Key challenges Optimising returns in mortgage lending: The breadth Competition: The mortgage market remains highly of our customer proposition and our commercial agility competitive.
We will continue to deliver outstanding positions us well to serve sections of the mortgage market service to our intermediary partners and target growth which offer stronger than average risk adjusted returns, in value-accretive market segments.
Competition in the such as lending to first time buyers, without compromising savings market may increase with the closure of the TFS.
We are diversifying our sources of funding through the development of SME and digital banking, and further Changes in technology and regulation: Our refreshed developing our wholesale funding programmes.
strategy will allow us to take advantage of the significant technological and regulatory changes which will shape UK Economic environment: Uncertainty remains over the retail banking in the coming years.
PSD2 and Open Banking future performance of the UK economy with the potential allow customers to choose to share data from their banking for risks to crystallise if inflation remains higher than products with third parties.
PSD2 and Open Banking wage growth, causing a reduction in households' real represent an opportunity to attract new customers and take earnings.
Our lending discipline will continue to support market share from the high street banks.
Our entry into SME asset quality and the delivery of sustainable returns banking and the development of our digital bank will enable through the cycle.
us to capitalise on these opportunities, and will diversify our Regulatory environment: The volume and pace of sources of funding to support sustainable value creation regulatory change, including Open Banking, PSD2, for shareholders.
GDPR and ring-fencing, remains high.
We will continue Developing our credit card offering: We will offer an to invest in our business and ensure compliance with increasingly differentiated range of credit card products the changing regulatory landscape.
for prime credit quality customers.
Continued development of our cash back loyalty programme and the introduction of our Virgin Atlantic Airways affinity range of credit cards will continue to diversify our portfolio and support profitable growth.
