62 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Letter from the Chair Effective and transparent We remain committed to increasing the diversity of the corporate governance is a priority Board in the broadest sense while maintaining the necessary of the Board, facilitating the levels of skills and experience required to oversee a business delivery of our strategy and operating in a heavily regulated industry.
We are pleased creating sustainable value.
to report we will achieve our stated goal of a balanced Board during 2018.
Strategic planning A key focus for the Board this year has been the development of our refreshed strategic plan.
The Board has a significant role to play in determining the purpose of the Group and ensuring that the Groups values, strategy and business Dear Shareholders model are all aligned so as to create sustainable value for I am pleased to present our Corporate Governance Report our shareholders, customers, colleagues, corporate partners for 2017.
This report sets out our approach to governance in and the communities in which we operate.
A summary of our practice, the work of the Board in 2017 and includes reports strategy is outlined on page 18. from the Nomination Committee, the Audit Committee and the Board Risk Committee.
The report from the Remuneration Against an increasingly competitive landscape, the Board Committee is included in the Directors Remuneration Report.
has spent time discussing the risks arising from the current macro-economic environment and forthcoming structural The Boards approach is to ensure that the Group applies the and regulatory changes.
highest principles of corporate governance and that such principles are embedded into the culture and operations of Culture the business.
Our commitment to good governance underpins Virgin Moneys culture is defined through our mission to make our strategy and ensures we continually challenge our everyone better off EBO.
Strong governance underpins assumptions and risks.
a strong culture and it is important that the Board leads Board composition and succession by example and ensures that good standards of behaviour After three years as Chair, I confirmed my intention to permeate throughout all levels of the organisation.
Virgin retire from the Board in 2018 and return home to the USA.
Moneys culture provides the foundation for our strategy and I am grateful to Norman McLuskie, our Senior Independent the most recent results of the colleague engagement survey Director, for leading a rigorous process for the Nomination show that 90 per cent of our colleagues understand how the Committee to appoint my successor.
The Board have EBO culture applies to their role.
unanimously chosen Irene Dorner as Virgin Moneys next Board effectiveness Chair.
We were impressed with her character and integrity, As Chair, my responsibility is to provide leadership and to her extensive business experience in the UK and abroad, and ensure that the Board environment allows for effective her detailed knowledge of retail banking.
As announced on challenge resulting in high quality decision-making.
The 15 February 2018, Irene will join the Board as Chair Elect annual Board effectiveness review continues to provide on 1 March 2018 and will take over as Chair on 1 April 2018 a valuable opportunity for the Board to reflect on how it following my retirement.
I look forward to working with Irene operates and to propose any improvements.
In line with the to ensure a smooth handover.
An overview of the recruitment UK Corporate Governance Code Code requirements, we will process undertaken by the Nomination Committee is undertake an external Board effectiveness review in 2018. included on page 83.
This year I led an internal review with the assistance of the Succession planning and the composition of the Board Company Secretary.
Information on the process and outcomes remained a key focus.
During 2017, Darren Pope, Eva can be found on pages 78 and 79.
Eisenschimmel, Peter Bole and Amy Stirling joined the Board Regulatory framework and Marilyn Spearing and Gordon McCallum retired from the Regulatory change remains a key focus of the Board.
Further detail on Board and Committee changes in the of our plans for the implementation of projects such as year can be found at page 82.
PSD2, GDPR, ring-fencing and MiFID II are set out on pages 32 and 130.
In addition, we have participated in the FRCs Governance Risk Management Report Strategic Report Financial Results Financial Statements Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 63 I consultation on changes to the Code and look forward to reviewing the outcome during 2018.
Looking ahead Looking forward to 2018, our corporate governance priorities will be to ensure we are ready to comply with the provisions of the new Code and implement the actions from the 2017 internal Board effectiveness review.
It has been an honour to chair the Virgin Money Board over the past three years.
I would like to thank each of the Directors for their continuous support and commitment throughout my time as Chair.
I believe Virgin Money is very well placed to make the most of the many opportunities that exist, and offer all colleagues my best wishes for success in the years ahead.
Glen Moreno Chair 26 February 2018 Relaxing in the Virgin Money Lounge, Manchester
