s d n u f g n i n i a t b O k s i r t i d e r c g n i g a n a M s e c i v r e s d n a s c u k s d i r t o i d r e p r c r g n i u k a o T Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report Our business model Why PFG works The group is successful in lending to customers whom others find it difficult to serve because of the way we manage the customer relationship and the solid foundations that we have built for our business.
4 5 Assess a ordability and credit Lend responsibly worthiness 3 6 Attract target We lend to noncustomers Collect standard customers repayments whom others find it hard due to serve, because We manage the inherent risk 2 ofnon-standard lending better Develop tailored products to meet thanothers because 7 customers needs Manage arrears Our approach is highly adapted and customer to our market: high contact, close diculties attention to lending and collections activities and simple, flexible products with responsible lending 1 as our starting point, and Secure longer-term, 8 lower rate funding Pay for funds and generate surplus capital We underpin our business to deploy with solid foundations.
The people critical to our success Our customers Our people and suppliers The communities in which See page 54 See page 56 we operate See page 58 28 s s o r c a e t a r e p o e w w o H k s i r t i d e r c g n i g a n a M s d n u f g n i n i a t b O Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Strategic report How we create value 1 5 Secure longer-term, lower ratefunding Lend responsibly We borrow longer, at lower rates than we lend, from diverse wholesale and We tend to lend smaller amounts over shorter periods and take a low retail sources, always with at least a years headroom.
We do this through and grow approach as customers demonstrate sustainability.
Where a strong relationships with our banks, deposit taking, a BBBcredit rating vehicle is held as security, we can lend more credit for a longer duration.
We create value by allowing investors to participate We create value by helping customers enter or re-enter the credit market, in our markets indirectly and our businesses to meet customer demand stay in controland build credit scores for greater future access and choice.
Our funders enjoy a reliable source of good solid Our customers are no longer financially excluded from modern life, now diversified income.
Our customers enjoy affordable, sustainable, and or in the future.
Our focus and specialised experience makes us better at responsible access to credit.
helping customers on this journey than our direct competitors, and able to lend where mainstream lenders cannot.
2 6 Develop tailored products to meet customers needs Collect repaymentsdue We focus on the UK non-standard credit market, developing simple, We offer many ways to pay in cash and remotely, maintaining high levels transparent products with flexibility to help customers cope with life.
We stay close to customers through call Adapting to the needs of a specific target market, we generate high centre, digital communications and face-to-face meetings weekly in the customer satisfaction and loyalty.
We create value by covering the higher home.
We help our customers to stay on track and build better credit cost included in serving non-standard consumers with loans at affordable scores by adapting our methods to suit the realities of customers lives in rates, enabling us to lend to those otherwise financially excluded.
Self-employed agents earn income from successful We have longer experience, and a wider range of specialised products payments encouraging them to build skills and experience in dealing with than our competitors, better suiting the market diversity and dynamism.
The scale of our high-tech contact centres and our experienced We continue to innovate to match consumer trends.
well-trained employees set us apart from our competitors, and our volumes help us to maintain our superior performance.
We share these best inclasscollections capabilities across the group to help established and new businesses improve quicker and earlier.
3 7 Attract target customers Manage arrears and customer difficulties We use many ways to reach non-standard consumers.
We target our offers We establish early contact and an ongoing dialogue with customers who using mailing and increasingly digital methods, as well as face-to-face have difficulties, with a sympathetic approach, trying to understand and and partners such as brokers, agents and retailers.
We create value for offer forbearance.
Our focus is on making a difficult situation easier to deal customers and third parties by responsibly offering credit to the otherwise with by taking a personal approach to resolving problems.
Our customers excluded and enabling them to make purchases or deal with life on tight value this understanding highly, as it minimises their arrears, and damage incomes.
Consumers are able to shop in the modern world, get to work to their credit score.
It also maximises recoveries, and enables customers and deal with larger expenses.
Partners earn commission, and retailers to qualify for further credit.
Our far more rapid, intensive and personal make more sales.
Our longer experience makes us more effective than our approach sets us apart from mainstream lenders and our scale, experience competitors.
Our ability to lend and commitment throughout the cycle has and greater investment differentiates us from other specialists.
We are earned us trust and loyalty of both intermediaries and customers.
able to share our arrears management capabilities across the group to help established and new businesses improve performance and customer satisfaction.
4 8 Assess affordability and credit worthiness Pay for funds and generate surplus capital to deploy We carefully assess applicant credit worthiness, along with affordability, We grow our attractive ROA, cash and capital generative businesses, suitability and sustainability.
We use internal and external data, including under a funding model that now pays 75% of earnings in dividends and face-to-face interactions, taking into account the current situation and the retains 25% equity to combine with external funds at a low gearing to likely future.
Our specialisation, experience and bespoke approach allows fund growth.
We create shareholder value by delivering superior returns us to create value by maximising approvals while maintaining sufficient throughout the cycle and our strong capital base sustains our ability to returns.
Customers get the credit they need more often, where responsible, grow and attract external funding.
Investors and funders rely on good and each assessment and outcome adds experience and knowledge, returns.
Business units rely on funding being available, and customers improving future decisions.
We have been active in the non-standard rely on credit availability regardless of constraints elsewhere.
We enjoy market for longer than most, with a wider range of products at a larger scale better capital generation and less reliance on external funding through the helping us to maintain our advantage in assessing applications.
cycle, allowing us to plan longer-term with confidence to take advantage of market opportunities.
