Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Governance Board Evaluation Performance evaluation of the Board is crucial for effective governance and the long-term success of the company.
Following the external Board evaluation carried out by Lintstock in 2016, a summary of the Boards progress against the actions that arose is set out below.
The results of the external evaluation carried out by Lintstock in 2017 can be found on page 76.
Lintstock had no other connection withthe company.
External Board evaluation 2016 Areas Evaluation 2016 Action points 2016 Progress 2017 1.
Board composition The composition of the Board was Addressing the Board composition, Two new non-executive directors with positively rated although there was an particularly in the areas of digital extensive digital experience were acknowledgement that the addition of andregulation.
appointed using a clear and rigorous digital experience would be beneficial.
R isk management The effectiveness with which the Board Improving the oversight of each of the An interim group CRO was recruited in andcontrol takes risk into account when making divisions regulatory relationships and November2017, and an enhanced group major decisions was positively rated.
risks as it was recognised that this was risk function is being developed.
one of the key risks facing the group.
S uccession planning The structure of the group at a senior Strengthening some of the group roles, An interim group CRO was recruited and Human Resource level was positively rated.
The Boards in the areas of Human Resources, in November 2017.
The nomination management oversight of a succession plan for top Regulatory Compliance and Risk committee in December 2017 identified management was considered adequate, Management: and improving succession that the leadership at group level required as was the level of interaction between planning across thegroup.
further enhancement and a search has the Board and top management in Board been initiated for a chairman, two new meetings, in the business and in informal non-executive directors and for certain and social settings.
75 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Governance Effectiveness continued Board evaluation 2017 In line with the requirements of the Code, the Board appointed reported on the conclusions to the Board which were discussed in Lintstock, an external third party to undertake an evaluation over a early2018.
The Board also intends to implement an externally facilitated threeyear period.
interview based evaluation in 2018 as part of the three year programme of evaluation agreed with Lintstock.
In 2017, questionnaires were issued to each member of the Board for completion and the results were submitted to the Interim Executive The senior independent director, Stuart Sinclair, in discussions with Chairman, Malcolm Le May.
In addition, the Interim Executive Chairman other members of the Board, agreed not to evaluate the performance of also held one to one meetings with each of the directors to ascertain the Interim Executive Chairman given the interim nature of his role and their views on the Board.
The Interim Executive Chairman has reviewed changes to the Board membership during 2017. the responses received from the completed questionnaires and A summary of Lintstocks analysis of the 2017 evaluation is as follows The composition of the Board received a mixed rating, recognising that it was currently somewhat depleted.
Board composition It was acknowledged that the composition of the Board needed to be strengthened with the recruitment of a new group Chief Executive Officer and it was acknowledged that another key priority was the recruitment of additional non-executive directors who had a customer focus and with experience in credit, particularly sub-prime lending and or with experience in dealing with regulatory issues.
The Boards understanding of the views and requirements of major investors was rated positively, Board expertise buttheBoards understanding of employees, customers and regulators received a mixed rating.
The Board dynamics, particularly the relationship between Board members and management, also Board dynamics received mixed ratings.
The updating of directors on major developments between Board meetings was positively rated but the Board support level of detail within the meeting packs and the presentations included therein, received a mixed rating.
The Boards oversight of operations within Vanquis Bank, the CCD and Moneybarn allreceived mediocre Oversight of operating divisions ratings and the Boards oversight of the regulatory interaction of the groups operating divisions was scored relatively low.
The management of Board meetings in terms of determining the annual cycle of work, setting the agenda Management and focus ofmeetings for meetings and managing the time and input during meetings received mixed and mediocre ratings.
TheBoards review of the effectiveness of past decisions received a comparatively low rating.
The effectiveness with which the Board tests and develops the groups strategy received a negative rating, Strategic oversight as did the Boards oversight of the implementation of its strategy.
The Boards understanding of the groups performance relative to its main competitors was low.
The effectiveness with which the Board takes risk into account when making major decisions received Risk management and internal control alowrating.
Strengthening the Board and adding a centralised group Human Resources function, as well as certain Succession planning and human other group functions to support the divisions, was identified as a key focus for 2018. resource management The evaluation also confirmed that the Board considered the top The following areas were identified as priorities strategic issues facing the group over for the Board over the coming year: the next three to five years to be: 1.
S tabilising the company and its relationshipwithkey stakeholders: Addressing the Board composition, particularly 2.
Customer Focus: the appointment of a Chief Executive Officer, 3.
I mproving group governance oversight of 3.
Board structure and governance: which has been completed with the appointment subsidiaries, including reviewing items that are of Malcom Le May and appointing a new reserved for the Board: 4.
Growth: Chairman and two further independent non- 4.
Ensuring better management transparency: executive directors, and the appointment of a 5.
Introducing regular strategic review sessions permanent Chief Risk Officer and the search toagree and monitor strategy and rebalance for a Chairman and two further independent 6.
thefocus from current performance: non-executive directors: 6.
S cheduling more time for Board and The addition of a centralised group Human committeemeetings: Resources function: 7.
C learer agenda setting by non-executive directors: Attracting and retaining talent: 8.
F ocusing on greater regulatory oversight: and Remuneration practices: and 9.
Supporting the newly constituted group executive Culture and values across the group: committee.
76 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Governance Shareholder engagement Investor Relations Key themes discussed with shareholders and analysts in 2017 Group Why was the FCA investigation into ROP only announced The events of 2017 indicate that the groups relationship to the market in August 2017 when ROP sales had been withthe regulator appears to have been relatively poor.
suspended since April 2016 Whatis being done to improve the situation What is the expected level of redress in respect of The groups corporate governance and risk management ROPandthe ongoing FCA investigation intoMoneybarn procedures appear to have failed.
What is the Board doing toaddress this Would the group need to raise additional capital to meet the cost of any redress programme in Vanquis Bank and What is the progress in respect of the search for a new CEO Moneybarn When will the group return to paying dividends Does the group have access to sufficient funding and liquidity given the problems in Provident home credit andthe FCA investigations Vanquis Bank Moneybarn Provident home credit Satsuma What is the FCA investigating in Why is the business incurring higher What was the rationale for the new Why is Satsuma taking so long to respect of ROP levels of impairment?
Is this macro operating model when none of the reach profitability related competition are making the change What period does the FCA What is the competitive landscape investigation cover What is the expected impact of the Why did the results of the home in HCSTC?
Has there been any FCAs review into the car finance credit business go backwards so consolidation What were the results of the back market in 2018 quickly book communication exercise to ROP customers What is the impact of falling used Why was the new operating model car prices on impairment levels so badly deployed Why was underwriting tightened in the third quarter of the year What actions are being taken to recover the business What will be the impact of the FCAs remedies in respect of the credit When will the business be card market study, particularly the authorised by the FCA measures on persistent debt What is the expected impact of the FCAs review into the home credit market during 2018 We seek to engage regularly with shareholders to ensure ameaningful and collaborative relationship is maintained.
Stuart Sinclair Interim non-executive director The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that appropriate News Service RNS.
Any announcement published via RNS channels of communication are established between directors is also available on the group Investor Relations website at and shareholders and that all directors are aware of any issues https: www.
and concerns that major shareholders may have.
Regular engagement provides investors with an opportunity The group engages effectively with shareholders through its to discuss particular areas of interest and raise any concerns.
regular communications, the annual general meeting AGM The group is committed to effectively communicating its and other investor relations IR activity.
Results and other news strategy and understanding shareholders views on its releases such as changes to our strategy and Board composition strategyand performance.
are published via the London Stock Exchanges Regulatory 77 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Governance Shareholder engagement continued IR programme The group has a comprehensive IR programme through which Specific information on the 2017 IR programme can be found the Interim Non-Executive Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, in the calendar to the right on page 79.
Further communication group Finance Director and Head of IR engage regularly isachieved through: with the companys largest shareholders on a one-to-one basis to discuss strategic and other issues as well as to give presentations on the groups results.
2 9 The corporate website An annual perception audit 3 8 Investor days Shareholder 2017 correspondence ANNUAL REPORT 4 1 7 The annual report Investor analyst 6 meetings An annual CR report 5 Attending broker US and European conferences roadshow programmes 1 The annual report 4 Investor analyst meetings 7 An annual CR report This is the most significant communication tool, The group takes a proactive approach by A standalone report clearly demonstrating the ensuring that investors are kept fully informed inviting investors and sell-side analysts to meet significant importance placed on corporate regarding developments in the group.
The with divisional senior management and to visit responsibilities within the group: group continually strives to produce a clear operational facilities: and transparent annual report which provides shareholders with a complete and balanced picture of the group: 2 The corporate website 5 US and European roadshow programmes 8 Shareholder correspondence Provides investors with timely information on Allows overseas investors better access to The group is committed to responding to the groups performance as well as details of the management, enabling them to receive the same shareholders, regardless of the size of their groups corporate responsibility CR activities.
access to information as investors in the UK.
holding, within two working days of receipt of The website is fully accessible from either a PC, Usually attended by the Chief Executive Officer, correspondence: and tablet or smartphone without the need for a thegroup Finance Director and the Head of IR: separate mobile app: 3 Investor days 6 Attending broker conferences 9 An annual perception audit Inviting institutional shareholders and sell-side Management regularly attend and present at Designed to obtain formal independent feedback analysts to an onsite facility or an external various conferences hosted by brokers to ensure from investors and sell-side analysts.
This enables location to provide them with a more detailed that a wide variety of shareholders, including management to consider and respond to any insight into the group.
The last Capital Markets those from different geographies, have access concerns in the investment community.
Day was held on 4 April 2017 and provided to management.
Following the Capital Markets Following the Capital Markets Day in April 2017 further insight into the groups growth initiatives Day in April and the two profit warnings issued in andthe two profit warnings issued in June including the expansion of Vanquis Banks June and August, the group has not attended any and August 2017, the group has had extensive credit card distribution and the new wider broker conferences in 2017: one-to-one dialogue with shareholders loans proposition, the ongoing development during 2017 as well as obtaining unattributed of Satsumas digital capability, the proposed shareholders feedback from the groups two migration of the home credit operating model corporate brokers, JP Morgan Cazenove and and the ongoing product developments Barclays.
As a result, a separate independent inMoneybarn: annual perception audit was not conducted during 2017.
An independent perception audit will be conducted by h2glefern inthe first half of 2018.
78 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Governance Board oversight Investor relations programme Communications with shareholders are in2017 given a high priority by the Board.
In order to ensure that Board members develop January an understanding of the views of major shareholders, there is regular dialogue Trading statement.
with institutional shareholders, including meetings after the announcement of February the preliminary and interim results.
Peter Crook as Chief Executive Officer, Preliminary results announcement.
Manjit Wolstenholme as executive and non executive Chairman, and Malcolm Le May March in his roles as SID, remuneration committee chairman and Interim Executive Chairman, London investor sales team roadshows.
have all met with shareholders during 2017.
April The Board also considers an IR report at each main Board meeting which outlines the general nature of matters communicated Capital Markets Day.
and discussed with institutional investors, May including feedback.
Independent reviews of shareholder views are also typically commissioned through an annual perception AGM and trading statement.
audit carried out by h2glenfern and reviewed June by the Board.
The group collates broker feedback from roadshows to present in the IR Board report and all analyst and broker Profit warning announcement.
reports on the company are also distributed July to all Board members.
London investor sales team roadshows.
Shareholders are invited each year to attend the AGM, where the Board members August are available to answer any questions shareholders may have.
Facilities are Profit warning announcement.
also available to shareholders to submit questions in advance of the meeting and October to cast their votes electronically or by post.
Details of proxy votes cast are published Q3 interim management statement.
via RNS and on the groups website.
It is the companys policy to give shareholders in excess of 20 working days notice of the AGM and the Notice of the 2018 AGM, setting out the resolutions for the meeting, together with an explanation of them, accompanies this report and is available on the groups website.
Details of the 2018 AGM are set outon page 101 of the Directors Report.
