124 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Directors Report Change of control Statement of Directors responsibilities The Company is not a party to any significant contracts The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report that are subject to change of control provisions in the event and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law of a takeover bid, other than the Virgin Money Trademark and regulation.
This is the agreement under which Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial Virgin Enterprises Limited VEL grants a perpetual licence statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors to Virgin Money providing the right to use the Virgin and have prepared the Group financial statements and the Company Virgin Money trademarks.
VEL has the right to terminate the financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the agreement in the event of a change of control, other than a European Union EU.
Under company law the Directors must change of control pre-approved by VEL.
VEL shall be entitled not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied to withhold consent only in the event of a takeover by a third that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the party who, in VELs reasonable opinion, is a direct competitor Group and Company and of the profit or loss of the Group and of VEL or any Virgin entity in the UK, or whose reputation or Company for that period.
In preparing the financial statements, financial standing is reasonably likely to damage materially the Directors are required to: the value or reputation of the Virgin brand.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them There are no agreements between Virgin Money and its consistently: Directors or employees which provide compensation for state whether applicable IFRS as adopted by the EU have been loss of office or loss of employment that occurs because of followed for the Group and Company financial statements, a takeover bid.
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the In the event of a takeover or other change of control financial statements: excluding an internal reorganisation, outstanding awards make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable under the Groups share plans vest to the extent any and prudent: and applicable performance conditions have been met and, subject to applicable time pro-rating, in accordance with the prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis rules of the plans.
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Company will continue in business.
Research and development activities During the ordinary course of business the Group invests in the development of platforms, products and services.
During 2017 the Group has invested in the build of the Virgin Money digital bank.
Governance Risk Management Report Strategic Report Financial Results Financial Statements Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 125 I The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Independent auditors and audit information records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group and Each of the Directors who is in office at the date of this report and Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy whose name is listed on pages 66 to 68 confirms that: at any time the financial position of the Group and Company so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Act and, they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the a Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant IAS Regulation.
audit information and to establish that the Companys The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of auditors are aware of that information.
the Group and Company and hence for taking reasonable steps Resolutions concerning the re-appointment of for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
 LLP as auditors and authorising the The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity Audit Committee to set the auditors remuneration will be of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom proposed at the 2018 AGM.
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial On behalf of the Board statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the Annual Financial Report Each of the Directors who is in office at the date of this report and whose names and functions are listed on pages 66 to 68, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: Katie Marshall the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the Company Secretary applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view 26 February 2018 of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Virgin Money Holdings UK plc Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation Registered No.
03087587 taken as a whole: and the management report contained in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group and Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
