08 Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 I Chairs statement Overview and Strategy 2017 was a year of continued strong progress for Virgin Money.
The overall performance of the business demonstrated delivery against all three elements of our strategy of growth, quality and returns.
We generated marketbeating growth across our core products, maintained a highquality balance sheet and continued to improve operating leverage, resulting in increased profitability.
As a result of this strong financial performance, the Board has recommended a final dividend of 4.1 pence per ordinary share.
This will result in a total dividend for the year of 6.0 pence per share, an increase of 17.6 per cent compared to 2016.
The UK banking sector continues to face a number of near-term challenges.
The future performance of the UK Glen Moreno Chair economy is uncertain.
The volume and pace of regulatory change remains high and competitive pressures in our product markets increased during the year.
I am pleased to report that Virgin Against the backdrop of regulatory change and heightened Money once again delivered profitable competition, the Board took time to review and refresh our growth despite a year of economic strategy to underpin profitable growth in the long term.
As a result of the significant technological and regulatory uncertainty and increased competition change impacting UK retail banking, the focus of our in the UK banking sector.
refreshed strategy is on broadening our retail customer proposition and launching a range of products and services for the Small and Medium Enterprises SME banking market in the UK.
A particular benefit of this strategy is that it will allow us to diversify our funding sources so that we remain competitively funded in an environment of lower asset pricing.
We plan to target new sources of funding in the SME deposit market and through our new digital bank, which aims to increase our reach into current accounts and additional savings markets.
Broadening our customer proposition in this way represents a significant strategic step in support of the long-term success of the business and our ability to deliver sustainable value to shareholders.
Our purpose and corporate culture Our corporate ambition is to make everyone better off EBO.
This means delivering good value to our customers, treating colleagues well, making a positive contribution to society, building positive relationships with our corporate partners and delivering sustainable profits to our shareholders.
Our culture is based on this ambition and sustains a virtuous circle which raises awareness of the Virgin Money brand and business as a force for good in the communities in which we work.
We believe that our culture is unique in the UK banking sector.
It provides the foundation for our strategy and differentiated approach to banking.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Results Risk Management Report Financial Statements Other Information Virgin Money Group Annual Report 2017 09 I We are dedicated to supporting the communities in which we Chair succession work to help them flourish, both socially and economically.
After three years as Chair, I confirmed my intention to retire in 2018 and to return home to the USA.
Irene Dorner will join Over 13,900 charities have now registered with Virgin Money the Board as Chair Elect on 1 March 2018, becoming Chair on Giving, our not-for-profit online donation platform, and more 1 April 2018, following my retirement.
Irene brings a wealth of than 600 million has been donated to charities through the retail banking experience at an important time for the Group.
service since its launch in 2009, including 95 million in 2017.
Outlook The Virgin Money Foundation, which tackles social and We enter 2018 with customer advocacy at its highest ever economic disadvantage, awarded grants of nearly 3 million level and a strongly performing business.
You can read more about how we benefit our and competitive pressures will bring both challenges and stakeholders on page 20. opportunities.
We have refreshed our strategy to address Remuneration these issues and to enable the business to continue to grow The remuneration structure at Virgin Money is designed profitably in the long term.
I am pleased that the strength of to link reward with the delivery of our strategy of growth, our core business allows us to fund capital investment and quality and returns.
We believe in fair rewards for colleagues innovation from internal capital resources.
whose performance is aligned to delivering long-term and We have made significant progress in my three years as sustainable returns for shareholders.
Chair and I would like to reiterate my thanks to the During the year the business continued to grow strongly Board, the management team and all colleagues across producing increased statutory profits, strong capital the business for everything they have done to make Virgin generation and an increased dividend.
As a result, the annual Money succeed.
bonus outcome for Executive Directors was set at the upper end of the range of potential outcomes.
More information on how we ensure our approach to remuneration supports the business strategy can be found in our remuneration report on page 95.
Directors We are committed to ensuring that the Board has the right Glen Moreno balance of skills and experience to meet the challenges Chair and opportunities ahead.
As a result we review the Boards 26 February 2018 composition regularly.
A number of changes were announced during the year as part of the Boards succession planning to ensure that the Board is well placed for the next phase of the Groups development.
Darren Pope succeeded Norman McLuskie as Chair of the Audit Committee, with Norman assuming the Chair of the Remuneration Committee, succeeding Marilyn Spearing.
Additionally, Geeta Gopalan has become Chair of the Risk Committee, succeeding Colin Keogh, who now chairs Virgin Money Unit Trust Managers Limited.
I would like to thank Non-Executive Director Gordon McCallum, who retired from the Board in October 2017, for his significant contribution to the development of Virgin Money over the past 20 years.
Amy Stirling was nominated by the Virgin Group to replace Gordon and joined the Board in December 2017.
