Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Governance Our directors and officers 1 Stuart Sinclair 64 3 Andrew Fisher 60 Interim non-executive Chairman Finance Director Appointed to the Board: 1 October 2012 Appointed to the Board: 17 May 2006 Appointed as SID: 27 November 2017 Committee membership: Appointed as interim non-executive Chairman: Executive committee and disclosure committee.
Audit committee, remuneration committee and Key achievements: disclosure committee.
Worked with the Chief Executive Officer to reposition Chairman: the group and deliver its successful recapitalisation to Nomination committee and risk advisory committee.
both shareholders and its regulators Key strengths: 1 Managed the groups capital and equity positions through the period of uncertainty faced by the group.
Extensive experience in the financial services market in the UK and overseas.
Assisted with the development and implementation of the new group governance structure.
10 years experience in US-based management consulting, 14 years experience as CEO or equivalent Previous board and management experience: in retail banking organisations and seven years Finance Director of Premier Farnell plc and partner experience on the Boards of financial services atPrice Waterhouse LLP.
Current external appointments: Previous board and management experience: Non-executive director of Arrow Global Group plc.
Chairman of GE Capital China and GE Capital Bank UK, chief executive officer of Tesco Personal Finance, director of Virgin Direct, director of Retail 4 Andrea Blance 53 Banking at The Royal Bank of Scotland, non-executive Senior Independent Director SID director atLiverpool Victoria and TSB plc, council Appointed to the Board: 1 March 2017 member oftheRoyal Institute for International Affairs ChathamHouse and senior independent director of 2 Appointed as Senior Independent Director: Swinton GroupLimited.
2February2018 Current external appointments: Committee membership: Senior independent director of QBE Insurance Europe Nomination committee and risk advisory committee.
Limited and QBE Underwriting Limited, non-executive Chairman: director of Lloyds Bank plc, Lloyds Banking Group Audit committee and remuneration committee.
Limited, Bank of Scotland plc and HBOS plc.
Key strengths: 2 Malcolm Le May 60 Over 30 years experience in pension and financial services businesses.
Chief Executive Officer Extensive experience of risk management, regulation Appointed to the Board: 1 January 2014 and of developing customer centric strategies to Appointed as Interim Executive Chairman: deliver quality customer outcomes.
24November 2017 Previous board and management experience: Appointed as Chief Executive Officer: 2 February 2018 3 Executive committee member of Legal & General Committee membership: Group plc, holding various senior leadership roles over None.
a 29 year career including Divisional Chief Financial officer, Group Financial Controller, Group Chief Risk Chairman: Officer and Strategy & Marketing Director.
Executive committee and disclosure committee.
Current external appointments: Key achievements: Non-executive director at Scottish Widows Group, Assumed the position of Interim Executive Chairman Lloyds Banking Group Insurance Division and the and provided effective leadership to the Board Mentoring Foundation.
following the untimely and tragic death of Manjit Wolstenholme Worked with the Board to redefine roles and responsibilities and initiated a process to ensure the Board has the right skill set to make it fit for purpose.
Re-established and developed an ongoing and transparent relationship with the groups regulators.
4 Appointed an interim group CRO and initiated a process to develop key group roles capable of supporting the groups divisions.
Previous board and management experience: Co-head of banking for Barclays in New York: head of investment banking, Europe at UBS, global head of corporate and investment banking at ING Barings, deputy CEO at Morley Fund Management now Aviva Investors, president of JER Europe, senior independent director of Pendragon plc and non-executive director ofRSA Insurance Group plc.
Current external appointments: Senior independent director of IG Group Holdings plc, non-executive director of Hastings Group Holdings plc, senior advisor to Heidrick & Struggles, trustee of the Grange Festival and partner at Opus Corporate Finance and Juno Capital LLP.
68 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Governance 5 Rob Anderson 59 7 Kenneth Mullen 59 Independent non-executive director General Counsel and Company Secretary Appointed to the Board: 2 March 2009 Appointed to the Board: 16 July 2007 Committee membership: Committee membership: Remuneration committee and nomination committee.
Chairman: Secretary: None Remuneration committee, audit committee, risk advisory committee and nomination committee.
Key strengths: Key achievements: Extensive retail experience and knowledge of the type of consumer served by the group.
Reorganising the property and employment legal teams.
Operational business experience which is relevant to 5 the groups businesses.
Developing a legal risk register and creation of a legal audit function.
Previous board and management experience: Negotiating Heads of Terms to secure the Director of the childrenswear business unit of redevelopment of the premises adjacent to the Marks&Spencer plc and chief executive officer groups head office in Bradford.
ofSignet Jewelers Limiteds UK Division.
Overseeing the groups participation in the Legal Current external appointments: Social Mobility Partnership Work Experience None.
Programme for 26 students from local schools inLeeds.
6 John Straw 58 Joining the GC100 and taking part in a number ofevents.
Independent non-executive director Previous board and management experience: Appointed to the Board: 1 January 2017 Company secretary and general counsel of Premier Committee membership: Farnell plc, Silentnight plc and Whessoeplc.
Nomination committee and risk advisory committee.
Current external appointments: 6 Chairman: Chairman of Rexel UK Limited Pension Scheme.
None Key strengths: Changes to the Board Experienced digital entrepreneur who has led and advised on critical digital transformations across a In addition to the resignation of Peter number of sectors.
Crook as Chief Executive Officer on Previous board and management experience: 21 August2017 and the untimely death of Founder and chief executive officer of NetRank Ltd. Manjit Wolstenholme on 23 November 2017, Head of the digital advisory board of Premier Farnell DavidSear stepped down from the Board plc, various digital transformation positions at Internet Marketing Ltd, chairman of the digital advisory board on26 January 2018. of Thomas Cook Group plc and author of a book on disruptive technology iDisrupted.
David joined the Board a year ago to assist with the development of the groups IT Current external appointments: 7 strategy and to broaden its IT direction, Senior advisor at McKinsey & Co, IBM, and Bought By however the group now finds itself in very Many Ltd, and non-executive director of CTRLio Ltd. different circumstances and with different strategic priorities.
Malcolm Le May and the Board thanked David for his contribution to the group in a difficult year and in particular for his contribution to its IT strategy where he has helped the group to significantly modernise its approach.
Rob Andersons term of office was due to expire on 30 March 2018.
However, given the significant number of changes to the Board composition in 2017, the Board determined that the company would benefit from stability by retaining his knowledge and experience gained over the previous nine years.
Accordingly he has agreed to continue as a non-executive director and his term of office has been extended to 31 December 2018 pending the appointment of further nonexecutive directors to strengthen the Board.
Rob Anderson will therefore offer himself for re-election at the 2018 AGM.
The Board is satisfied that Rob Anderson remains independent in character and judgement, notwithstanding that he has served on the Board for more than nine years.
