Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Governance Directors report Directors The membership of the Board and biographical details of the directors at the year-end are given on pages 68 to 69 and are incorporated into this report by reference.
All directors, except as set out below, served throughout 2017 and up to the date of signing of the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017.
Peter Crook resigned on 21 August 2017 with immediate effect, and Manjit Wolstenholme sadly and suddenly passed away on 23 November 2017.
Alison Halsey stepped down following the 2017 AGM and David Sear stepped down on the 26 January2018.
Andrea Blance joined the Board on 1 March 2017.
With effect from the beginning of the 2018 financial year there have been a number of changes to the Board composition as detailed on page 72.
During the year, no director had a material interest in any contract of significance to which the company or a subsidiary undertaking was a party.
The group has faced major challenges during Appointment and replacement 2017and is working on plans to enhance its of directors governance structure, to improve effective decision Rules about the appointment and making and to address its control environment replacement of directors are set out in the during2018.
companys articles of association Articles.
In accordance with the recommendations of the Code, all directors, will offer themselves Kenneth J Mullen for appointment or reappointment, as General Counsel and Company Secretary appropriate, at the 2018 AGM.
Articles The directors powers are conferred on Introduction them by UK legislation and by the Articles.
Changes to the Articles must be approved by shareholders passing a special resolution In accordance with section 414C 11 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, the directors and must comply with the provisions of the present their report for the year ended 31 December 2017.
The following provisions, Act and the FCAs Disclosure Guidance and which the directors are required to report on in the Directors Report, have been Transparency Rules.
included in the strategic report: Directors indemnities Future business developments throughout the strategic report, in particular on pages 19 to 37 : The Articles permit the company to Important events since the balance sheet date throughout the strategic report: indemnify directors of the company or of any associated company in accordance with Viability Statement page 46 : section 234 of the Act.
Greenhouse gas emissions page 65 : and The company may fund expenditure incurred by directors in defending proceedings Risk management pages 47 to 50. against them.
If such funding is by means of a Both the strategic report and the Directors Report have been prepared and loan, the director must repay the loan to the presented in accordance with, and in reliance upon, applicable company law.
company, if they are convicted in any criminal proceedings or judgment is given against The liabilities of the directors in connection with both the Directors Report and them in any civil proceedings.
The company the strategic report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided may indemnify any director of the company bycompany law.
Other information to be disclosed in the Directors Report is or of any associated company against giveninthis section.
96 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Governance However, the company may not provide an Rights of ordinary shares Directors interests in shares indemnity against: i any liability incurred All of the companys issued ordinary shares The beneficial interests of the directors in by the director to the company or to any are fully paid up and rank equally in all the issued share capital of the company were associated company: ii any liability incurred respects and there are no special rights as follows: by the director to pay a criminal or regulatory withregard to control of the company.
penalty: iii any liability incurred by the Number of shares The rights attached to them, in addition director in defending criminal proceedings 31 31 to those conferred on their holders by in which they are convicted: iv any liability December December law, are set out in the Articles.
There are incurred by the director in defending any civil 2017 2016 no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary proceedings brought by the company or an 1 Andrew Fisher 339,827 339,827 shares or on the exercise of voting rights associated company in which judgment is Malcolm Le May attached to them, except: given against them: or v in connection with Rob Anderson 4,178 4,178 certain court applications under the Act.
1. where the company has exercised its Stuart Sinclair No indemnity was provided and no payments right to suspend their voting rights or Andrea Blance pursuant to these provisions were made in to prohibit their transfer following the 2017 or at any time up to 27 February 2018. omission by their holder or any person David Sear interested in them to provide the John Straw 1,311 There were no other qualifying indemnities company with information requested by it inplace during this period.
1 These interests include conditional share awards in accordance with Part 22 of the Act: or granted under the LTIS, awards under the PSP and The company maintains directors and 2. where their holder is precluded from shares purchased under the SIP as detailed on pages officers liability insurance which gives 108 to 111 of the annual report on remuneration.
exercising voting rights by the FCAs Listing appropriate cover for any legal action Rules or the City Code on Takeovers No director had any non-beneficial interests brought against its directors.
at 31 December 2017 or at any time up to 23February 2018.
Information required by Substantial shareholdings There were no changes in the beneficial Listing Rule 9.8.
4R In accordance with the Disclosure Guidance ornon-beneficial interests of the directors and Transparency Rules DTR 5 the company, between 1 January and 23 February2018 Information required under LR 9.8.
4R 4, as at 23 February 2018 being the latest except for the automatic monthly 5, 6, 12 and 13 is set out in the directors practicable date prior to publication of this purchases under the SIP, details of which remuneration report on pages 102 to 126. report, the Company had been notified can be found on the groups website: that the following persons hold directly or www.
Share capital indirectly 3 per cent.
or more of the voting rights of the Company.
The companys issued ordinary share capital Dividend waiver comprises a single class of ordinary share.
Information on dividend waivers currently in Invesco Ltd 24.92% The rights attached to the ordinary shares place can be found on pages 108 and 111. are set out in the Articles.
Each share carries Woodford Investment Management Ltd 23.04% the right to one vote at general meetings of Deutsche Bank AG 6.87% Powers of the directors the company.
Schroders plc 5.56% Subject to the Articles, UK legislation and BlackRock Inc. 5.02% During the year, 463,504 ordinary shares any directions given by special resolution, in the company with an aggregate nominal Marathon Asset Management LLP 4.51% the business of the company is managed value of 96,071, were issued as follows: The WindAcre Partnership LLC 3.93% by the Board.
The directors currently have 299,270 shares in relation to the Provident powers both in relation to the issuing and Interests as at 31 December 2017 were Financial Long Term Incentive Scheme buying back of the companys shares, which as follows: 2015 at a price of 2,928p: were granted by shareholders at the 2017 Woodford Investment Management Ltd 22.61% AGM.
The Board is seeking renewal of these 135,389 shares in relation to the Provident Invesco Ltd 22.12% powers at the 2018 AGM.
Financial Performance Share Plan 2013 at a Schroders plc 7.43% price of 2,928p: and Jupiter Asset Management Limited UK 5.07% 28,845 shares in relation to the Provident WindAcre Partnership US 4.98% Financial Savings-Related Share Option Marathon Asset Management LLP 4.59% Scheme 2013 and the Provident Financial BlackRock Inc. 3.90% Employee Savings-Related Share Option Standard Life Aberdeen 3.64% Scheme 2003 at prices ranging between Elliott Advisors Ltd UK 3.00% 662 p and 2,406p.
All interests disclosed to the company in accordance with DTR5 that have occurred since 23 February 2018 can be found on the groups website: www.
com 97 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Governance Directors report continued All employee share schemes Provident Financial plc 2007 Provident Financial Employee Employee Benefit Trust Benefit Trust the PF Trust The current schemes for employees resident theEBT in the UK are the Provident Financial plc The PF Trust, a discretionary trust for Employee Savings-Related Share Option the benefit of executive directors and Scheme 2003, the Provident Financial The EBT, a discretionary trust for the benefit employees, was established in 2003 and Savings-Related Share Option Scheme 2013 of executive directors and employees, operated in conjunction with the PSP.
and the Provident Financial Share Incentive was established in 2007.
The trustee, SG The trustee, Provident Financial Trustees Plan SIP.
Kleinwort Hambros Trust CI Limited, is Performance Share Plan Limited, is a not a subsidiary of the company.
The EBT subsidiary of the company.
The number of The current scheme for employees resident operates in conjunction with the LTIS and shares held by the PF Trust at any time, when in the Republic of Ireland is the Provident the PSP and either purchases shares in added to the number of shares held by any Financial Irish Savings-Related Share Option the market or subscribes for the issue of other trust established by the company for Scheme 2014. new shares.
The number of shares held the benefit of employees, will not exceed 5% by the EBT at any time, when added to the Share schemes are a long-established and of the issued share capital of the company.
number of shares held by any other trust successful part of the total reward package established by the company for the benefit of offered by the company, encouraging and The PF Trust has not been operated with employees, will not exceed 5% of the issued supporting employee share ownership.
the PSP since 2012, when the previous PSP share capital of the company.
The EBT is The companys four schemes aim to expired.
As at 31 December 2017, the PF funded by loans from the company which encourage employees involvement and Trust had no interest in any shares in the are then used to acquire, either via market interest in the financial performance company 2016: nil.
purchase or subscription, ordinary shares and success of the group through to satisfy awards granted under the LTIS share ownership.
Provident BAYE Trust and awards granted under the PSP.
For the Around 1,466 employees were participating purpose of the financial statements, the EBT The Provident BAYE Trust the BAYE Trust is a in the companys save as you earn schemes is consolidated into the company and group.
discretionary trust which was established in as at 31 December 2017 2016: 1,419.
As a consequence, the loans are eliminated 2013 to operate in conjunction with the SIP.
and the cost of the shares acquired is The companys SIP offers employees the The trustee, YBS Trustees, is not a subsidiary deducted from equity as set out in note 27 opportunity to further invest in the company of the company.
The BAYE Trust is funded on page 180 of the financial statements.
and to benefit from the companys offer to by loans from the company which are then match that investment on the basis of one used to acquire ordinary shares via market In relation to its operation in conjunction matching share for every four partnership purchase to satisfy the Matching Awards for with the LTIS, the EBT transfers the beneficial shares purchased.
Around 318 employees participants of the SIP.
interest in the shares to the executive were investing in company shares under the directors and employees when conditional For the purposes of the financial statements, SIP as at 31 December 2017 2016: 330. share awards are made, and the legal interest the BAYE Trust is consolidated into the is only transferred on vesting.
In relation company and group.
Participants in the SIP Executive share to the PSP, the legal and beneficial interest can direct the trustee on how to exercise in the Basic Award is transferred to the incentiveschemes its voting rights in respect of the shares it executive directors and other participants holds on behalf of the participant.
As at when the awards are made, but is subject 31 December 2017, the BAYE Trust held the Awards are also outstanding under the to certain forfeiture conditions.
However, non-beneficial interest in 54,089 shares Provident Financial Long Term Incentive only the beneficial interest in the Matching 2016: 43,332 shares.
Scheme 2006 and the Provident Financial Award is transferred when the award is made Long Term Incentive Scheme 2015 the LTIS and the legal interest is transferred to the Profit and dividends and the Provident Financial Performance participant on vesting.
Full vesting of awards Share Plan the PSP.
granted under the LTIS and the Matching The profit, before taxation, amortisation As set out on page 108 of the directors Award granted under the PSP is subject to of acquisition intangibles and exceptional remuneration report, the remuneration the achievement of the relevant performance items, amounts to 109m 2016: 334.1. committee did not grant any options during targets set out on pages 108 to 111 of the The directors have declared dividends the year under the LTIS or PSP.
as follows: In 2017, the EBT subscribed for the issue of Ordinary shares p per share 135,389 new shares in order to satisfy the 2017 Nil dividend cancelled awards made under the LTIS and 299,270 Interim dividend 2016: 43.2p per share shares in order to satisfy the awards made 2017 Nil no dividend declared under the PSP.
Proposed final dividend 2016: 91.4p per share As at 31 December 2017, the EBT held the 2017 Nil dividend cancelled non-beneficial interest in 2,174,534 shares not declared in the company 2016: 2,339,602.
The EBT Total ordinary may exercise or refrain from exercising dividend 2016: 134.6p per share any voting rights in its absolute discretion The Directors are not recommending a and is not obliged to exercise such voting final dividend.
rights in a manner requested by the employee beneficiaries.
98 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Governance Pensions Employee involvement The group operates four pension schemes in The group is committed to employee Training the UK.
Employee involvement in the group involvement in each of its Divisions.
defined benefit pension scheme is achieved The group is fully committed to continued Employees are kept well informed of the by the appointment of member-nominated personal and professional development, financial and operational performance trustees and by regular newsletters and encouraging employees at all levels to study and strategy of the Divisions through communications from the trustees to for relevant educational qualifications.
fortnightly huddles in Bradford, Regional members.
In addition, there is a website In particular, the group has initiated a series team meetings in the field, the internal dedicated to pension matters.
The trustees of talent and development initiatives as part intranet portal and personal briefings.
manage the assets of the defined benefit of its investment in the career progression The Divisions continue to use social network pension scheme which are held under trust of its employees.
sites, intranet discussion boards and blogs separately from the assets of the group.
by employees and Managing Directors.
The group is also fully committed to making Each trustee is encouraged to undertake The managing director of CCD, Chris full use of the Apprenticeship Levy in training and regular training sessions on Gillespie, also holds open invitation huddles, 2018 and has plans in place to grow both current issues are carried out at meetings where colleagues based in Bradford are its Graduate entry and Apprenticeship of the trustees by the trustees advisors.
able to ask questions concerning any aspect training programmes.
The training schedule is based on The of the CCD business.
Chris has also spent Pension Regulators Trustee Knowledge Provident Financial plc is authorised by time in the field, speaking to colleagues and and Understanding requirements and the the Solicitors Regulation Authority and answering questions.
CCD consults with sessions are tailored to current issues, the Institute of Chartered Accountants colleagues through a Colleague Forum, emerging issues or to address any skills gaps.
of England and Wales to issue training so that representatives acting on behalf The trustees have a business plan and, at contracts to employees wishing to qualify of colleagues can share their views and the start of each year, review performance as solicitors or chartered accountants, ideas and these can be taken into account against the plan and objectives from the respectively.
when making decisions that are likely to previous year.
In addition, they agree affect their interests.
Moving forward, the objectives and a budget for the current Equal opportunities Colleague Forum intends to work with year.
The trustees have a risk register and Senior Leadership Teams in the business an associated action plan and a conflicts of The group is committed to employment to improve the communication of decisions interest policy, both of which are reviewed at policies, which follow best practice, based that create long-term growth for CCD least annually.
on equal opportunities for all employees, and support the delivery of the Divisions irrespective of gender, pregnancy, race, There are currently three trustees nominated strategic priorities.
colour, nationality, ethnic or national origin, by members and three trustees appointed disability, sexual orientation, age, marital or Additionally, Moneybarn and Vanquis by the company.
civil partner status, gender reassignment continue to hold an annual survey to obtain or religion or belief.
The group gives full The trustees have implemented a fidefeedback from employees anonymously and fair consideration to applications risking investment strategy which has been with the aim of continually developing for employment from disabled persons, agreed with the company.
having regard to their particular aptitudes of the strategy is to reduce the risk that Moneybarn continues to run the STAR and abilities.
Appropriate arrangements the assets would be insufficient in the awards, a monthly employee recognition are made for the continued employment future to meet the liabilities of the scheme.
Programme whereby all employees are able and training, career development and The fide-risking investment strategy is kept to recognise and nominate fellow colleagues promotion of disabled persons employed under close review by both the trustees and for going above and beyond to support by the group including making reasonable the company.
The winner is announced by the adjustments where required.
If members The company has put Pension Trustee Managing Director at the monthly company of staff become disabled, every effort Indemnity Insurance in place to cover all briefing.
Moneybarn continue to operate a is made by the group to ensure their of the groups pension schemes where significant on-boarding induction process continued employment, either in the same individuals act as trustees.
The trustees for all new colleagues, embedding its culture or an alternative position, with appropriate are protected by an indemnity within each and values.
retraining being given if necessary.
schemes rules and this insurance effectively The group also continues to encourage Last year, the group signed up to the protects the group against the cost of employee engagement in community National Equality Standard, and the initial potential claims impacting on the solvency of activities through their Social Impact report identified some key opportunities the pension schemes.
This includes employee across the group.
The business is therefore The group also operates a group personal volunteering, volunteering grants and undertaking a full review of its approach pension plan for employees who joined the matched fundraising.
More details can be to equality, diversity and inclusion EDI group from 1 January 2003.
Employees in found on pages 51 to 65. over the coming year as part of the group this plan have access to dedicated websites diversity agenda.
Employees are also able to share in the which provide information on their funds and groups results through various share general information about the plan.
schemes as set out throughout this report.
99 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Governance Directors report continued In 2011, the company established an Principle C2 Risk Management Important events since the Unfunded Unapproved Retirement Benefits &InternalControl endof the financial year Scheme UURBS, for the benefit of those Given that the current group risk employees who are affected by the HMRC management framework has proven to be 31December 2017 annual allowance and lifetime allowance less than effective, the Board understands which applies to members of registered and recognises that changes need to be As set out in the strategic report, the group pension schemes.
The UURBS offers an made during 2018.
The groups interim CRO is seeking to raise additional capital of alternative to a cash payment in lieu of a has begun the process, of working on a new approximately 300m net of fees through a pension benefit.
more centralised operating model which will fully underwritten rights issue as a result of: require a small more specialised risk team to In October 2013, the group auto-enrolled all be recruited who can provide more informed The FCA investigation into Vanquis eligible staff into a new scheme designed for and independent challenge over key group Banks ROP.
and divisional risks and enhance the group group reached a resolution with the risk capability with the group interim CRO, The group also operates two defined FCAand the estimated cost of resolution leading the design and implementation of contribution pension schemes for employees amountsto172.1m: and governance and risk management changes, in the Republic of Ireland.
The FCA investigation into affordability, designed to improve group cohesion in the forebearance and termination options way key risks are managed.
Health and safety at Moneybarn.
The FCAs investigation The groups risk management and internal isongoing and managements best Health and safety standards and control frameworks require a comprehensive estimate of the cost of resolution benchmarks have been established in the review to ensure that the risks the group amountsto 20.0m.
Divisions and compliance by the Divisions is faces are effectively managed, achieve overall This is also covered in more detail in the monitored by the Board.
group objectives and adequately protect balance sheets set out within the 2017 the assets, reputation and sustainability of Financial Statements from page 185.
Anti-bribery and corruption the business.
A summary of key actions is provided below: Corporate governance The corporate policies reflect the Vanquis Bank Further developing and requirements of the Bribery Act 2010 and a statement embedding risk management and internal corporate hospitality register is maintained control frameworks to reflect the growth in using a risk-based approach.
Although the The groups corporate governance report scale and complexity of the business: risks for the group arising from the Bribery isset out on pages 66 to 101.
The group Act 2010 continue to be assessed as low, CCD Re-building and improving its key hascomplied with the provisions of the the Divisions are, nevertheless, required operational processes following the Code throughout 2017 with the exception to undergo appropriate training and implementation of the new operating model ofthe following: instruction to ensure that they have effective during the summer: anti-bribery and corruption policies and Principle A.
2 Clear Division of Moneybarn Developing its credit risk procedures in place.
Compliance is regularly Responsibilities management framework and embedding monitored by the risk advisory committee The role of the Chief Executive Officer CEO new approaches to customer affordability and is subject to periodic review by the group and the Board Chairman should not be and collections activity following discussions Internal Audit function.
exercised by the same individual.
In addition, with the Financial Conduct Authority the CEO should not go on to be the Board FCA :and Chairman.
Due to exceptional circumstances Environmental management Group Group-wide governance, risk during 2017, this is the case with Provident management and regulatory engagement Financial, as from the 23 August 2017 to the The group is committed to conducting its need to be improved to provide more 2 February 2018, an executive Chairman business in a manner that protects the robust oversight and direction for the group.
was in post, and as such the group was not environment.
This means ensuring that compliant.
However, as Malcolm Le May all relevant environmental legislation, Financial instruments was appointed as Chief Executive Officer regulations and approved codes of practice on 2 February 2018, and Stuart Sinclair was are met or exceeded, reducing consumption appointed interim non-executive Chairman Details of the financial risk management of resources and increasing the efficiency on the same day, the group is now compliant objectives and policies of the group and of the use of these resources, and avoiding with this principle.
the exposure of the group to credit risk, or minimising the use of hazardous or liquidity risk, cash flow risk, price risk, toxic material or products and preventing Principle B6 Evaluation interest rate risk and foreign exchange rate pollution from our operations and facilities.
Although Annual Effectiveness Evaluations risk are included on pages 140 to 145 of the Disclosures relating to the groups direct have been undertaken by an external financial statements.
and indirect greenhouse gas emissions are provider for all Board committees included in the strategic report on page 65. including the risk advisory, remuneration Significant agreements and nomination committees, given the Overseas branches disruption of the Board during 2017, it was There are no agreements between any group not considered appropriate to undertake company and any of its employees or any The group has an overseas branch in the individual director assessments.
However, director of any group company which provide Republic of Ireland.
individual assessments will be undertaken in for compensation to be paid to an employee 2018, and facilitated by an external provider or a director for termination of employment once the new Board members are in place or for loss of office as a consequence of a and embedded.
100 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Governance and Financial Statements 2017, taken as a company and group, and the undertakings Political donations whole, is fair, balanced and understandable included in the consolidation taken as a and provides the necessary information whole, and a description of the principal risks The group did not make any political for shareholders to assess the companys and uncertainties they face.
donations nor incur any political expenditure position and performance, business model during the year.
Malcolm Le May Chief Executive Officer and strategy.
Interim non-executive The directors are also required by the FCAs Directors responsibilities Stuart Sinclair Chairman Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rob Anderson Non-executive director inrelation to the financial Rules DTR to include a management report Andrea Blance Senior independent director containing a fair review of the business of the statements John Straw Non-executive director group and the company and a description of Andrew Fisher Finance Director the principal risks and uncertainties facing The following statement, which should be the group and company.
read in conjunction with the independent auditors report on pages 187 to 195 is Disclosure of information The Directors Report and the strategic made to distinguish for shareholders the report constitute the management report for toauditor respective responsibilities of the directors the purposes of DTR 4.1.
and of the external auditor in relation to the In accordance with section 418 of the Act, financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping each person who is a director as at the date proper accounting records that are The directors are responsible for of this report confirms that: sufficient to: preparing the annual report, the directors so far as they are aware, there is no show and explain the companys remuneration report and the financial relevant audit information of which the transactions: statements in accordance with applicable companys auditor is unaware: and laws and regulations.
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any they have taken all steps that ought to The Act requires the directors to prepare time the financial position of the company have been taken as a director in order to financial statements for each financial year.
and group: and make themselves aware of any relevant Under this Act, the directors: enable them to ensure that the audit information and to establish have prepared the group and company financial statements and the directors that the companys auditor is aware of financial statements in accordance remuneration report comply with the that information.
with International Financial Reporting Act and as regards the group financial Standards IFRS as adopted by the statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Auditor European Union: and They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the group Deloitte, the auditor for the company, was must not approve the financial statements and hence taking reasonable steps for the first appointed in 2012 and a resolution unless they are satisfied that they give a prevention and detection of fraud and proposing their reappointment will be true and fair view of the state of affairs of other irregularities.
the group and company and of the profit The Annual Report and Financial Statements or loss of the group and company for AGM 2017 will be published on the groups that period.
website in addition to the normal paper In preparing these financial statements, the version.
The directors are responsible for the The AGM will be held at 10.00 am on 9 May directors have: maintenance and integrity of the companys 2018 at the offices of Provident Financial website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom plc, No.
1 Godwin Street, Bradford, West selected suitable accounting policies and governing the preparation and dissemination Yorkshire, BD1 2SU.
The Notice of AGM, applied them consistently: of financial statements may differ from together with an explanation of the items made judgements and accounting legislation in other jurisdictions.
of business, is contained in the circular to estimates that are reasonable shareholders dated 27 February 2018. and prudent: Responsibility statement Approved by the Board on 26 February 2018 complied with IFRS as adopted by the and signed by order of the Board.
European Union, subject to any material Each of the directors listed below, confirms departures disclosed and explained in the that, to the best of their knowledge, the financial statements: and group financial statements which have Kenneth J Mullen been prepared in accordance with IFRS as prepared the financial statements on a General Counsel and Company Secretary adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view going concern basis of accounting, subject 27 February 2018 of the assets, liabilities, financial position and to the explanations set out on page 187. profit of the group, the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation The directors have also considered and taken as a whole, and that the strategic accepted the review undertaken and the report contained in this Annual Report and report provided by the audit committee, Financial Statements 2017 includes a fair as set out on pages 85 to 90 of the report, review of the development and performance and are satisfied that the Annual Report of the business and the position of the 101 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017 Directors Remuneration report Improving standards and behaviour Remuneration has an important partto play inrealigning our culture andensuring best practice.
Annual statement by the chairman of the remuneration committee 103 Annual report on remuneration 105 Directors remuneration policy 120 102
