Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Key performance indicators All injury frequency rate $ AIFR Per 200,000 hours worked Our key performance indicators KPIs enable us to measure our financial and sustainable development performance.
Their relevance to our strategy and our performance against these measures in 2017 are explained on these pages.
Some KPIs are used as a measure in the long-term incentive arrangements for the remuneration of executives.
These are identi ed with this symbol: $ Relevance to strategy Safety is our number one priority, one of our core values and an essential See the Remuneration Report component to everything we do.
Our goal is zero harm, including, above all, the elimination of fatalities.
70 We are committed to reinforcing our strong safety culture and key to this is improving safety leadership and simplifying the tools and systems KPI trend data used in operational tasks.
The Group's performance against each KPI, and explanations of the actions taken by management to maintain and improve performance against them, are covered in more detail in later sections of this Annual Performance report.
Explanations of the actions taken by management to maintain and 2013 0.65 improve performance against each KPI support the data.
At 0.42, our AIFR decreased in 2017 versus 2016.
However, we did not meet our goal of zero fatalities.
In 2017, one colleague died as a result of a safety incident while working at our Rio Tinto Kennecott smelter and there was a health-related death of a colleague undertaking exploration activities.
Both fatalities were at Rio Tinto managed operations.
Denition AIFR is calculated based on the number of injuries per 200,000 hours worked.
This includes medical treatment cases, restricted work-day and lost-day injuries for employees and contractors at Rio Tinto-managed operations.
Notes: Associated risks a The data presented in this table accounts for the dual corporate structure of Rio Tinto.
HSE risks, as our operations are inherently hazardous.
The approach used to weight the two Rio Tinto listings, and produce a Group TSR gure Operations, projects and people risks, including management of is consistent with the methodology used for the Performance Share Plan PSP.
major hazard and safety control frameworks.
b The accounting information in these charts is extracted from the financial statements.
c Underlying earnings is a key financial performance indicator which management uses internally to assess performance.
It is presented here as a measure of earnings to provide greater understanding of the underlying business performance of the Groups Link to executive remuneration operations and to enhance comparability of reporting periods.
Items excluded from net AIFR and other safety metrics are included in the short-term incentive plan earnings to arrive at underlying earnings are explained in note 2 to the 2017 financial statements.
Both net earnings and underlying earnings deal with amounts net of tax for executives.
Refer to the Remuneration Report on page 81. attributable to the owners of Rio Tinto.
However, IFRS requires that the pro t for the year reported in the income statement should also include earnings attributable to non-controlling interests in subsidiaries.
Forward plan The Group will: Maintain critical risk management implementation.
Strengthen collaboration with contractors and joint venture partners to improve safety performance.
Continue to implement our major hazard standards with strong assurance processes.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Total shareholder return five years Net cash generated from $ $ a b TSR operating activities % US$ millions Relevance to strategy Relevance to strategy Net cash generated from operating activities is a measure The aim of our strategy is to maximise shareholder returns through the demonstrating conversion of underlying earnings to cash.
This KPI measures performance in terms of shareholder value our ability to generate cash from our businesses to fund investment, over a period of time.
We also measure relative TSR performance against reduce our debt and return cash to shareholders.
the Euromoney Global Mining Index of peers and the MSCI World Index of large global companies.
Performance Performance 2013 15,078 2013 0.8 2014 15.6 2014 14,286 2015 32.6 2015 9,383 2016 41.3 2016 8,465 2017 43.8 2017 13,884 Rio Tintos TSR performance from 2013 to 2017 was principally Net cash from operating activities of US$13.9 billion was 64 per cent impacted by movements in commodity prices and changes in the global higher year-on-year, primarily due to higher prices partly offset by an macro environment.
There was a significant recovery in the share prices increase in taxes paid driven by higher profits.
of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited in 2017, driven by stronger pricing across most commodities and a steady improvement in the global economic outlook.
The Group outperformed the Euromoney Global Mining index of peers over the five-year period by 34 percentage points fide nition but signicantly underperformed the MSCI World Index over the same Net cash generated from operating activities represents the cash time frame.
generated by the Groups consolidated operations, after receipt of dividends from equity-accounted units and payment of interest, taxes, and dividends to non-controlling interests in subsidiaries.
fide nition TSR combines share price appreciation, dividends paid and reinvested, to show the total return to the shareholder.
Associated risks Market risks, such as variability in commodity prices and exchange rates.
Associated risks Operations, projects and people risks, including delivery of Market risks, such as variability in commodity prices and exchange productivity improvements.
Stakeholder risks, including the actions of joint venture partners, Stakeholder risks, including the actions of joint venture partners, third parties and governments.
Link to executive remuneration Link to executive remuneration Net cash generated from operating activities is a component of the free Relative TSR over a five-year period, measured equally against the cash ow financial performance measure included in the short-term Euromoney Global Mining Index and the MSCI World Index, are the incentive plan for executives.
In the longer term, the measure inuences performance measures included in long-term incentive plans for TSR which is included in long-term incentive plans for executives.
to the Remuneration Report on page 80.
Forward plan Forward plan Management will continue to focus on generating free cash ow from The Group is targeting US$5 billion in additional free cash ow from its operations with the intention of maximising shareholder value, through five-year productivity programme from 2017 to 2021. an appropriate balance of cash returns to shareholders and investment in the business.
More information 114 More information 94 15 Annual report 2017 riotinto.
com 15 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information b c b Underlying earnings Net debt $ US$ millions US$ millions Relevance to strategy Relevance to strategy Net debt is a measure of how we are managing our balance sheet and Underlying earnings gives insight to cost management, production capital structure.
A strong balance sheet is essential to remaining robust growth and performance ef ciency on a like-for-like basis.
We are through the cycle and creating the ability to deliver appropriate focused on reducing operating costs, increasing productivity and shareholder returns.
generating maximum revenue from each of our assets.
Performance Performance 2013 18,055 2013 10,217 2014 12,495 2014 9,305 2015 13,783 2015 4,540 2016 9,587 2016 5,100 2017 3,845 2017 8,627 Net debt decreased from US$9.6 billion to US$3.8 billion, principally as Underlying earnings of US$8.6 billion were US$3.5 billion higher than net cash generated from operating activities and disposal of businesses 2016, driven by the US$4.1 billion post-tax impact of higher prices.
exceeded capital expenditure and cash returns to shareholders.
Denition Denition Underlying earnings represents net earnings attributable to the owners Net debt is calculated as: the net borrowings after adjusting for cash and of Rio Tinto, adjusted to provide greater understanding of the underlying cash equivalents, other liquid investments and derivatives related to net performance of the Groups operations.
Items excluded from net debt.
This is further explained in note 24 Consolidated net debt to the earnings to arrive at underlying earnings are explained in note 2 2017 financial statements.
Operating segments to the 2017 financial statements.
Associated risks Associated risks Market risks, such as variability in commodity prices and exchange Market risks, such as variability in commodity prices and exchange rates.
Operations, projects and people risks, including delivery of Operations, projects and people risks, including delivery of productivity improvements.
Financial risks, including the impact of external events and internal discipline on group liquidity.
Strategic risks, such as the Groups ability to successfully execute Link to executive remuneration divestments and acquisitions and its ability to develop new projects Underlying earnings is a key measure of financial performance included successfully.
in the short-term incentive plan for executives.
In the longer term, the measure inuences TSR and improvements in EBIT margin, which are both included in long-term incentive plans for executives.
Refer to the Link to executive remuneration Remuneration Report on page 80.
Net debt is, in part, an outcome of the Groups free cash ow performance.
The free cash ow financial performance measure is included in the short-term incentive plan for executives.
In the longer Forward plan term, the measure inuences TSR which is included in long-term The Group will continue to focus on delivery of returns through the cycle, incentive plans for executives.
Refer to the Remuneration Report on driven by productivity improvements and value-accretive growth.
More information Forward plan 132 The Group believes that having a strong balance sheet is a major competitive advantage and is essential in a cyclical business, and will therefore continue to manage net debt carefully.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information b Capital expenditure Greenhouse gas GHG emissions intensity US$ millions Indexed relative to 2008 2008 being equivalent to 100 Relevance to strategy Relevance to strategy We are committed to reducing the energy intensity of our operations and Capital expenditure is necessary to sustain the productive capacity of our the carbon intensity of our energy, including through the development installed asset base and for growth.
We are committed to a disciplined and implementation of innovative technologies.
Our GHG performance is and rigorous investment process investing capital only in projects that, an important indicator of this commitment and our ability to manage after prudent assessment, offer attractive returns that are well above exposure to future climate policy and legislative costs.
Total capital expenditure of US$4.5 billion in 2017 included US$2.0 billion of sustaining capital expenditure.
Major capital projects in There was a 2 per cent reduction in GHG emissions intensity in 2017 2017 included the development of the Oyu Tolgoi underground copper versus 2016.
This is largely a result of improvements in emissions mine, construction of key infrastructure at the Amrun bauxite project intensities at several of our aluminium and alumina operations.
and completion of the Silvergrass iron ore mine.
We are on track to meet our target of 24 per cent reduction in total GHG emissions intensity between 2008 and 2020.
Denition Capital expenditure comprises the cash outow on purchases of Denition property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets.
Our GHG emissions intensity measure is the change in total GHG emissions per unit of commodity production relative to a base year.
Total GHG emissions are direct emissions, plus emissions from imports of Associated risks electricity and steam, minus electricity and steam exports and net Financial risks, including the impact of external events and internal carbon credits purchased from or sold to recognised sources.
The discipline on Group liquidity, which is required to fund capital measure is indexed relative to 2008 2008 being equivalent to 100. expenditure.
Strategic risks, including the Groups ability to develop new projects successfully.
Associated risks Operational risks, particularly in respect of sustaining capital Strategic risks, including those related to acquistions, divestments expenditure.
Operational risks, including failure to manage portfolio energy requirements.
Link to executive remuneration Sustaining capital expenditure is a component of the free cash ow financial performance measure included in the short-term incentive plan Link to executive remuneration for executives.
In the longer-term, the measure inuences TSR which is There is no direct connection between executive remuneration and GHG included in long-term incentive plans for executives.
Refer to the emissions intensity performance.
Forward plan Forward plan The Group will: The Group will continue to adopt a consistent and disciplined approach Continue to report on progress against our GHG emissions intensity to capital allocation.
Refer to the Group strategy report on pages 8 to 11 target.
Continue to improve our understanding, management and disclosure of the resilience of our portfolio and of our physical assets to climate risks in a two degree Celsius temperature increase scenario.
More information 131 More information 32 17 Annual report 2017 riotinto.
