ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC Borehamwood Watford Edgware Wood Green Tottenham Harrow Court Rd.
Romford Ilford Kensington High Street Uxbridge Liverpool St. Kings Earls Road Court Ealing Southall Cheapside Moorgate Chiswick Holborn Piccadilly Hounslow Putney Clapham High St. Clapham Junction Bexleyheath Staines Fulham Broadway Wolverhampton Wimbledon Sutton Leicester Kingston Coldeld Merry Hill Bromley Peterborough Solihull Birmingham Croydon Orpington Sutton Cambridge Epsom Northampton Milton Keynes Milton Keynes Centre: MK Oakgrove Luton Colchester Aylesbury Hemel Oxford St Albans Hempstead Chelmsford Basildon High Wycombe Cardi Southend Swindon Maidstone Reading Bristol Newbury Canterbury Basingstoke Guildford Ashford Tunbridge Wells Slough Southampton Windsor OPEN 7 DAYS COMING SOON Brighton Eastbourne BREAKING THE MOULD Creating FANS through our award-winning stores Making our bank work for you.
From Brighton to Peterborough, Canterbury to Swindon, were part of the communities we serve.
Were still expanding the network north and west as well as infilling.
How many banks can say that?
20 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC Hello Luton Fanatical execution is DJ, stilt walkers and free goodies were at the heart of our just some of the things on offer at the Grand Opening when the revolution in experience British banking reached Luton on 27 October 2017.
Customers want choice when it comes Great retailers create fun experiences for their to how, when and where they do their customers, turning them into FANS.
Were proud banking, whether thats in store, online, by phone, through an app or from the to be a part of the communities we serve, whether seat of their car!
Thats why Luton is our thats hosting networking and community events, third store to offer a drive-thru, following educating local schoolchildren, supporting charities success in Southall and Slough.
As well as or offering family craft activities in the holidays.
Just seven days a week banking, with 6,000 because we are in the banking business, doesnt boxes, Luton offers more safe deposit mean the experience cant be fun.
boxes than any of our existing stores.
over Store 2.7m transactions Coins counted by over our Magic Money 46m Machines Hayley Harrison and the team have opened over 3,200 customer accounts across business and personal in just over over Accounts two months.
Luton had 62 million of 300k opened deposits and 4 million of lending at 31 December 2017.
Community over events hosted 2,500 in stores Pens over lollipops 3.5m given away Visitors: dogs, rabbits, sheep, horses, parrots weve seen it all.
If it matters to you, it matters to us.
21 Financial statements Governance Strategic report ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC INVESTING IN OUR TECHNOLOGY Creating FANS with our award-winning technology A bank built around you.
Today, we live in a now culture.
Our real time technology gives our AMAZEING colleagues a service edge in store and over the phone, and puts customers in direct control of their banking online and on the move.
22 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC Open Banking?
Were ready Behind the scenes, How customers choose to bank, and technology powers our what we mean by banking, is evolving.
Were ready for that changing landscape.
Weve invested in a market leading Application Programming Interface Our ability to track and adapt to customer behaviours API layer, designed to create helps us match our services to evolving customer needs.
an environment that supports We develop innovative services that make our colleagues innovation and added-value and customers lives easier and their data more secure.
Our We partner with other companies who we think can bring API layer gives us permission to something extra to the process, whether thats some play in a new era of banking where brilliant accounting software that our SME customers sharing of data and third-party use or a new fraud analytics tool in the contact centre.
relationships will become the norm.
Sometimes its the little things, such as Magic Money Machine deposits credited directly to accounts or adding Metro Bank is ready to harness this new beneficiaries on the app.
Sometimes its a game interconnected world and is actively changer, like blocking or unblocking cards instantly from seeking innovative partnerships the app, or our new Commercial Online Banking platform.
We see potential to surprise and delight Flexible, scalable IT systems: Simple technology even more FANS across a number architecture together with fully integrated operational of themes: from enhancing our data store all backed by real-time processing.
customer services and benefits to streamlining internal processes Delivery: Colleagues are supported by best-in-class through partnerships with third technology, so they can focus on best-in-class service.
Our modern technology platform, agile ways of working, and over one million customer accounts gives us over AMAZE a great platform to develop next 1.5m direct calls generation banking products and services.
We will continue to invest in the platform in 2018 and beyond.
over mobile 4.3m transactions over online 7.0m transactions calls answered over on bank 20,000 holidays fintechs partnered 14 with 23 Financial statements Governance Strategic report ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC GROWING OUR TALENT Creating FANS with our AMAZEING colleagues Our people are what makes us different We believe successful businesses attract and grow talented people.
During 2017 we devoted over 181,000 hours to nurturing and developing our biggest asset, our colleagues.
Through our in-house training, mentoring, professional qualifications and investing in our new leaders, meaning our colleagues know we are committed to supporting them in their career.
Which is why 96% of our colleagues know Metro Bank is a good place to work.
24 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC Our colleagues Building careers Azim Mahmuds Metro Bank story create FANS epitomises what is possible with the right attitude and a passion for the customer.
In 2014, he applied for an apprentice cashier role at Metro Banks secret ingredient Metro Bank and has never looked back.
In his words, My first year is its unique culture, which is at Metro Bank was the most vital why we hire for attitude and learning curve as this really gave me an idea of what I could achieve train for skill.
Our colleagues all if I was willing to put the work in.
take customer service to the next level and are focused on creating FANS: you can see the star quality in every one of them.
Individual behaviours are measured against AMAZEING Fast forward 18 months and Azim was our culture, not given the opportunity to move into sales targets, its behaviours a Customer Service Representative how things get done role.
And in June this year he thats important started the next chapter in his Metro Bank journey, and was promoted to Assistant Store Manager at our Romford store.
And if that wasnt Were the only bank in enough for 2017, as a graduate of the Glassdoor Employees Great Banks Learning to Lead programme, Choice Awards Top 50, place to he collected the Progression 96% and 96% of colleagues Programme of the Year award at work think that Metro Bank is the Social Mobility Awards 2017. a good place to work 2017 We have created 2016 nearly New roles nearly 600 new roles, promoted more than created 600 2015 640 colleagues 2014 2013 Through our Metro Bank University we have run 876 in-house New professional training courses, and 350 bankers enabled 350 colleagues 1,109 1,567 2,005 2,494 3,090 to achieve professional banking qualifications Number of colleagues 25 Financial statements Governance Strategic report
