Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information based approach, including the roll-out of the critical risk management Aluminium fatality prevention programme during 2017.
In September, a contractor employee died from burns while working on a washer tank at the non-managed joint venture renery, Alumar in Brazil.
Financial performance Rio Tinto has a 10 per cent interest in Alumar, which is managed by Alcoa.
2017 2016 Greenhouse gas emissions US$ million US$ million Gross revenue 11,005 9,458 The Aluminium product groups success in dramatically reducing its carbon footprint has been instrumental in positioning Rio Tinto to Net cash generated from operating activities 2,648 2,278 capitalise on the increasing market demand for responsible metal.
Underlying earnings 1,583 947 Its pioneering RenewAl brand of aluminium boasts one of the lowest Capital expenditure 1,436 916 greenhouse gas GHG footprints in the industry, based on a life-cycle Net operating assets 16,346 15,782 analysis approach.
The product groups footprint is 50 per cent lower Underlying EBITDA 3,423 2,472 than the global industry average thanks to a combination of low-carbon sources of electricity and Rio Tintos world-leading Strategy and priorities smelting technology.
Rio Tintos Aluminium product group remains focused on delivering Since 2008, the Aluminium product group has reduced its GHG industry-leading performance and value creation throughout the cycle.
emissions by 50 per cent in absolute terms and by 39.5 per cent in intensity.
GHG emissions intensity of primary aluminium production Safety and health continue to be the product groups number one priority.
had reduced by 42 per cent by 2017, compared with 2008, due to Central to its strategy is a continuing emphasis on mine-to-market portfolio management.
Almost 81 per cent of the Aluminium product productivity improvements.
These are designed to optimise performance groups total power needs are supplied through carbon-free sources, and returns from its high-quality asset base, while also enhancing the with 57 per cent coming from self-generated hydropower, compared bauxite and smelting growth options embedded within the portfolio, with around 30 per cent for the industry in both cases.
where the priority is always on value over volume.
Review of operations The Aluminium product group benets from a sector-leading bauxite position, cost-competitive alumina reneries and a smelter portfolio with In 2017, the Aluminium product group achieved EBITDA of US$3.42 billion an increase of 38 per cent versus 2016 average costs in the first quartile of the global industry cost curve.
Its US$2.47 billion, and underlying earnings of US$1.58 billion Canadian smelters are positioned in the first decile.
67 per cent higher than in 2016 US$947 million.
This represents sector-leading performance with an integrated operations EBITDA Each of the three areas of the business bauxite, alumina and primary margin of 35 per cent 2016: 28 per cent.
Cash generated from metal has its own targets and strategies, summarised below: operating activities was US$2.65 billion a 16 per cent increase on 2016 US$2.28 billion which reected the strong EBITDA, partly In bauxite, the emphasis is on capturing value from expanding offset by higher trade working capital related to higher pricing.
This involves continuing to enhance performance and output at current operations, while developing Tier 1 growth Market sentiment improved considerably as Chinas supply-side opportunities, such as the Amrun project currently under way in reforms and environmental measures in the winter months were Queensland, Australia.
implemented and global inventory levels dropped to around ten In alumina, providing security of supply to the product groups smelter weeks.
Global primary aluminium demand remained strong in 2017, portfolio is essential.
The focus is on aggressively driving down costs increasing by six per cent, driven by rm Chinese growth and higher to improve the reneries position on the industry cost curve, intensity of use in global automotive production.
As a consequence, while providing reliable supply.
the average realised price for alumina improved by 28 per cent In primary metal, the Aluminium product group focuses on leveraging year-on-year, while the average realised price for primary metal, its low-cost, low-carbon power position a significant and sustainable including regional and product premia, improved by 21 per cent to competitive advantage.
Commercial excellence is crucial to Aluminiums overall mine-to-market The improved pricing environment was partially offset by a productivity agenda.
The three product areas are supported by a single strengthening of the Australian and Canadian dollars, as well as by global commercial organisation managed from Singapore, tasked with increases in the prices of raw materials most notably caustic soda, maximising value across the product group.
One of the teams main areas petroleum coke and tar pitch relating mainly to the same underlying of focus is partnering with customers to develop new applications that will drivers supporting the aluminium and alumina prices.
Cost headwinds drive increased sales of higher-margin, value-added products.
related to these raw materials are expected to be ongoing in 2018.
Volume creep or gradual increase, cost improvements and In 2017, Rio Tinto announced that a suite of three operational assets value-added product initiatives executed by the product group over the ISAL smelter and the non-managed Aluchemie and Aluuor joint the course of 2017 totalled US$198 million, and more than offset the ventures were being placed under strategic review.
On 10 January 2018, negative impact of the higher raw material input costs Rio Tinto received a binding offer from Liberty House to acquire the US$149 million higher than in 2016.
The Aluminium product group Aluminium Dunkerque smelter in northern France for US$500 million, has now delivered US$1.6 billion of cash cost improvements, subject to final adjustments.
These actions reect the continuing compared with the 2012 base, consolidating its position as the strategic focus for the portfolio on high-quality assets in the first quartile leading business in the aluminium sector.
On 26 February 2018, Rio Tinto received a binding offer from Hydro of US$345 million, subject to final adjustments, to acquire Rio Alumina production for 2017 was in line with 2016 levels, with a Tintos ISAL smelter in Iceland, its 53.3 per cent share in the Aluchemie strong performance at Yarwun partially offset by marginally lower anode plant in the Netherlands and its 50 per cent share in the production at the Queensland Alumina renery.
Aluminium uoride plant in Sweden.
Production of primary metal was one per cent lower than in 2016.
The board of Rio Tinto made the decision to permanently shut the Gove Production creep of one per cent achieved at the product groups renery in October 2017. wholly owned Canadian smelters was more than offset by a partial production curtailment at the Boyne smelter in Australia, prompted Safety by higher power prices, and a production incident at the Rio Tintos Aluminium product group achieved a third consecutive non-managed Sohar smelter in Oman.
fatality-free year in our managed operations in 2017.
The all injury Central to Aluminiums performance has been the continuous drive to frequency rate continued its downward trend, ending the year at 0.44, creep the capacity of its assets at minimal cost to enhance margin, compared with 0.46 at the end of 2016 and representing another record.
while always maintaining a focus on value over volume.
Lost-time injuries reduced by more than 24 per cent to 28, which was also a record.
The product group has deployed a comprehensive systemsBauxite production increased six per cent, with Gove up 23 per cent and Weipa up five per cent, reecting the successful execution of this 40 40 riotinto.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information strategy.
This enabled the product group to ship 32 million tonnes of bauxite to third parties in 2017, a ten per cent increase compared with 2016, further reinforcing Rio Tintos position as the global leader in the seaborne bauxite trade.
The Aluminium product group has initiated an ambitious productivity and commercial capability improvement programme that aims to deliver an additional after-tax free cash flow of US$0.5 billion per annum by 2021, compared with the 2016 baseline.
At the end of 2017, more than 2,400 improvement initiatives were under way across its various operations and functions.
Development projects The high quality and expandable nature of its asset portfolio means the Aluminium product group is very well positioned to pursue value-driven growth as warranted by the market, and to generate attractive returns.
The development pipeline focuses primarily on its bauxite and Canadian smelting businesses, and it is in these areas that the product group continues to progress from option-rich to option-ready.
Construction continued during 2017 on the Amrun bauxite project in Queensland, Australia.
Amrun is a long-life, low-cost and strategically located project, that represents a step-change in Rio Tintos bauxite business and is expandable to satisfy increasing demand for seaborne bauxite.
At the end of 2017, the project was 62 per cent complete, and proceeding on time and on budget total approved US$1.9 billion towards its scheduled first shipment during the first half of 2019.
Planned initial output for Amrun is 22.8 million tonnes per annum.
The expansion of the partially owned Compagnie des Bauxites fide Guine CBG from 14.5 to 18.5 million tonnes is also progressing on budget total approved US$0.7 billion and on schedule with first bauxite planned for delivery in the fourth quarter of 2018.
Outlook Aluminium demand is expected to remain strong and the product group forecasts growth of three to four per cent per year over the next five years.
Robust demand growth is expected to continue over the next 15 years, underpinned especially by the growth in the transport sector, with the uptake in electric vehicles offering further potential upside.
The fundamentals of the supply side of the smelting industry are now looking increasingly favourable, with Chinese pollution controls and cuts of illegal capacity driving market tightness.
The curtailed capacity is expected to be restarted, but timing remains uncertain.
More significantly, over the medium to longer term, Rio Tinto expects that China is likely to be broadly balanced in aluminium, which will have implications for rest-of-world supply.
When combined with strength in demand, this is expected to result in a return to balanced inventory levels of seven to eight weeks before the end of this decade, much earlier than previously expected.
In bauxite, demand is expected to remain robust given the continued strong growth in aluminium production.
Chinese growth in alumina production will remain a major driver of seaborne demand.
