's share of the sales revenue of equity accounted units after adjusting for s-oles to subsidiaries.
b Finance costs indude nel interest and amortisation of discount.
1 c Under JFRS, as d fined in note 1, certain qains and losses on c-urrency exchange and on revaluation of derivatives are included in the Group s nllt earnings loss.
These items are excluded from underlying earnings.
d Underlying earnings is ati additional measure of earnings, which is reported by Rio Tinto with its IFRS c, s defined in note 1 results to pl'avide greater unders1anding or t he underlying business performance of its operations.
It is d fincd in note 2 ta the financial statrm 11ts.
Underlying profit before interest and tax FBIT is similar to underlying earnings except that it is staled before interest and tax.
e 2009 earnings pet share from continuing operations aild underlyitig earn:ngs per share have been caku t d using a number of shares which reflect the discounted price of tne July 2009 rights issues {the bonus laclor.
2008 comparatives have been reslaled accordingly.
f Dividends per share are the amounts declared in respect of each financt, 1 ye-cir.
These usualty include an interim dividend paid in the year, ana a final dividend paid after the end of the year.
2008 ordinary dividends per share have been restated using a number at shares which reflects the discounted price of the Ju y 2009 rights issues the bonus factor}.
"g FixC""d aissets include property, plant 131nd c:quipment intangib e assets, goodwill, and investments in, and long-term loans to equity accounted units."
1 1 h Capital expenditure is presented gross, before taking into account any disposals al property, plant and equipment or intangible assets.
i Ne cash generated from operating activities represents the cash generated by he Group's consolidated operations, af er payment of interest, tases, and dividends to noncontroltin!J interests in subsidiaries.
U Cash flow before financing activities is staled before deducting dividends payable to owners of Rio Tinto.
k Operating margin is the percenlage of underlying PBIT, after excluding tax on equity accounted units, to gross sales revenue.
I Total capital comprises equity attributable to owners of Rio Tinto plus net debt and non-controlling interests.
m} Underlying eornings: owners' equity represents underlying earnings expressed as a percentage of the mean of opening and closing equity attributable to owners of Rio Tint o. n Interest cover represents the number of times interest payable less receivallle excluding the amortisalion of discount but including capitalised interest is covered by underlying operating profit, less amortisation of discount, plus dividends from equity accounted units.
Underlying operating profit is simi ar to underlying earnings but is slated before ta, interest and share of prom after tax of equity accounted units.
