Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Performance Growth & Innovation Exploration Exploration creates value for Rio Tinto by safely delivering quality growth options to the Group through greenfield and brownfield opportunities and disciplined divestment of non-core discoveries.
It also provides orebody Growth & Innovation is responsible for finding, studying, developing and knowledge and resource evaluation support to existing operations, new optimising assets so they are safe, productive and profitable.
It supports projects and opportunities identified through Rio Tinto Ventures.
Rio Tintos assets and helps them to achieve superior performance throughout their lifecycle by optimising value from the initial concept At the end of 2017, Exploration was active in 15 countries and continued through to when a mine or processing facility is eventually closed.
It to assess opportunities across a range of commodities, including copper, works with, and through, Rio Tintos product groups to effectively deliver nickel, iron ore, bauxite, diamonds and mineral sands.
In 2017, portfolio growth, drive innovative solutions, replicate and share best Explorations commercial activities continued, providing access to new practice, and provide support for quality decision-making.
Exploration partnerships were established in Chile, Canada, Zambia, Tanzania, Australia and China.
Strategy and strategic priorities Along with bringing projects into the pipeline, Exploration actively reviews Safety is the number one priority.
It is a shared core value and Growth & its portfolio, and seeks to exit and monetise projects that no longer meet Innovation is aligned to this integral part of Rio Tintos strategy when target criteria.
This active recycling of the portfolio provides additional delivering in these key areas, in partnership with the product groups: cash flow to Rio Tinto and has, in certain periods, led to Exploration being Exploration: discovering or acquiring new high-quality deposits that a cash flow positive business.
In the past decade, Rio Tinto has spent create business opportunities for Rio Tinto.
approximately US$1.8 billion on centrally controlled exploration, and has Strategic planning: executing strategic shaping and long-term in turn generated US$1.9 billion from divestments.
production planning to ensure the right projects proceed with the optimal business case.
A post-tax impairment of US$257 million was recognised relating to the Projects: providing centralised leadership to ensure Rio Tinto delivers Roughrider uranium deposit in Canada.
Roughriders recoverable amount successful major studies, and delivering major capital projects safely was determined to be nil following a decision in the first half of 2017 to and efficiently, on time and on budget or better, and ready for a cease further expenditure on the project.
This charge was excluded from seamless handover to operations.
Oyu Tolgoi: managing the existing Oyu Tolgoi operations and the In 2017, Exploration increased investment and effort in the Pilbara region underground project in Mongolia to ensure Growth & Innovation safely of Western Australia, to reinvigorate the search for high-grade iron ore maximises value delivery and ultimately transfers a successful mineralisation closer to existing infrastructure, while seeking business to the Copper & Diamonds product group.
opportunities in a range of other commodities.
Rio Tinto also signed a Productivity and support: Productivity & Technical Support is leading a partnership with Shore Gold on their Star-Orion South diamond project step change in the Groups mine to market productivity, as well as while also securing multiple other early-stage diamond opportunities in providing technical support to manage major hazard risks and support Canada.
The signing of a technical collaboration agreement in 2017 operational performance, and overseeing Rio Tintos innovation and between Rio Tinto and Chinas Minmetals allows for the combination of automation platforms.
knowledge, data and expertise in specific areas both inside and outside of Technology: Information Systems & Technology is delivering support China subject to future agreement.
in industrial and operational technology and delivery of enterprise services to Rio Tintos businesses.
The targeted capture of publicly available data and a focus on data accuracy and availability delivered efficiency improvements.
In 2017, Safety modern analytical techniques for mineral geochemistry, enabling better exploration targeting, were applied across several regions.
In 2017, there was a health-related death of a senior exploration field technician undertaking field reconnaissance work in the Pilbara.
This was Expenditure on exploration and evaluation in 2017 was US$445 million.
a solemn reminder of the critical health risks the team faces each day.
This represented a 10 per cent decrease compared with 2016 expenditure The loss of a colleague has a profound effect on the entire team and of US$497 million.
Of the 2017 spend, US$204 million relates to centrally galvanises the commitment to keeping health and safety priority number controlled exploration and evaluation activity.
exploration and evaluation activity covered eight commodities across a range of greenfield and brownfield environments.
Growth & Innovation achieved an all injury frequency rate of 0.26, representing a19 per cent improvement compared with 2016.
Rio Tinto Evaluation Projects reported an all injury frequency rate of 0.35, compared with 0.66 Rio Tinto evaluates discoveries and projects, which are aligned to in 2016, during a year of increased high-risk activity.
However, company strategy, ensuring the right projects proceed with the optimal Explorations all injury frequency rate was 0.43 compared with 0.31 in business case.
During evaluation, Growth & Innovation engages a broad 2016.
Oyu Tolgoi underground project recorded the best safety range of stakeholders to protect and enhance our partner-to-operate performance of all Rio Tintos underground mines in 2017 with an all position.
The enduring relationships built during the exploration and injury frequency rate of 0.39.
The Bundoora Technical Development evaluation stages are essential to future operational success.
Centre, which celebrated 25 years of operation this year, achieved five Throughout 2017, Growth & Innovation applied a range of strategic years free of lost time injuries in May.
planning processes and expertise to identify, analyse and select the Putting safety first, driving down the number of injuries, and embedding optimal configuration and timing of greenfield and brownfield projects.
the critical risk management CRM fatality prevention programme, have This support was provided to projects in all of the product groups.
been priorities for Growth & Innovation in 2017.
Exploration has piloted, Extensive work continued on developing a pilot process for the Jadar adapted and implemented CRM.
Rio Tinto Projects is completing more project to enable production of both borates and lithium from the newly than 15,000 CRM verifications each month, with leaders focusing on discovered mineral jadarite.
identifying critical risks and verifying controls are in place.
The Groups major evaluation projects in 2017 were: Growth & Innovation is leading the implementation of Rio Tintos major hazard risk programme.
These major hazard risks are underground safety, Project Commodity Country geotechnical and slope failures, tailings and water storage, and process safety risks.
With the product groups, Growth & Innovation is La Granja Copper Peru implementing a programme of integrated risk assessments, leadership Resolution Copper US training, critical control verifications, improved assurance and transparent reporting and monitoring.
Pilbara Iron ore Australia The East Waste Rock Extension project was awarded the Utah Safety Zulti South Mineral sands South Africa Councils prestigious Award of Merit for outstanding achievements in Jadar Lithium borates Serbia corporate safety programmes.
This project completed significant works at Bingham Canyon Mine to prepare mined land for reclamation.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information seven per cent increase in average processing rates at Weipa operations Projects and Oyu Tolgoi.
Rio Tinto Projects strives to deliver the Groups major capital projects safely, efficiently, on time and on budget or better, with a seamless Rio Tinto continues to progress its automation and innovation handover to operations upon completion.
In December, Rio Tinto and the University of Sydney celebrated ten years of research partnership, aimed at increasing In 2017, Rio Tinto Projects remit was expanded to include leadership of innovation in mining.
Key outputs of this partnership have included major studies, including greenfield, some brownfield and closures.
This autonomous drills, the Mine Automation System MAS and the RTVis transition commenced when leadership for the Jadar study moved from 3D visualisation software.
MAS and RTVis are now implemented at 95 Energy & Minerals to Growth & Innovation in April.
Rio Tinto Projects also per cent of surface mining sites, helping operators in the field make better remains firmly focused on improving project outcomes, and has several real-time decisions and supporting other work, including mine planning, continuous improvement initiatives under way to enhance performance.
incident investigation and orebody modelling.
In May, Australias mining Overall, the current portfolio contains nine projects in execution and five equipment, technology and services association, Austmine, awarded MAS studies.
and RTVis the 2017 Austmine Miners for Innovation Award.
In 2017, Rio Tinto Projects successfully completed the MAP Demolition Project, Yandi Oxbow, West Angelas Deposit F, Holden and the safety The Technical Excellence programme is an enabler of the productivity award-winning East Waste Rock Extension projects.
strategy, and also helps to safely manage technical risks.
In 2017, six leadership forums were established, including orebody knowledge, During 2017, the US$1.9 billion Amrun bauxite project in the Weipa underground mining, asset management, open pit mining, processing and region, Australia advanced to schedule.
The project is using pioneering integrated operations.
construction methods with significant modularisation of the marine facilities and process plant.
The wharf has 13 modules, which were made At the beginning of 2017, Information Systems & Technology transitioned in China and shipped to Weipa for assembly.
This approach is at least two into Growth & Innovation.
The team is responsible for the Groups times faster than conventional wharf construction methods in Australia approach to cyber security and uses different technology and practices to and has improved health and safety risks, cost and schedule.
help protect Rio Tinto against this sort of attack.
A priority in 2017 has been stabilising services impacted by the scale and complexity of The full commissioning of the Silvergrass iron ore mine was completed on migrating disparate legacy centres to a cloud-based solution.
The schedule, following the official opening in August.
This brownfield majority of these stabilisation activities are now complete.
Information expansion project has used further innovative construction methods, with the footings of a nine-kilometre conveyor system being poured as a Systems & Technology has a five-year forward plan and investment st continuous slipform rather than discrete footings, reducing work hours, programme for delivering 21 century digital to Rio Tinto.
It is an safety risk exposure and the construction timeframe.
ambitious programme of work, reflecting the critical role information technology will play in supporting Rio Tinto in becoming a safer, smarter The Oyu Tolgoi underground project has the lowest injury rate of any of and more productive workplace.
In May, the project celebrated one year since notice to proceed.
Lateral development is on plan and shaft Outlook sinking productivity continues to improve.
The project has 85 per cent Exploration Mongolian workforce participation.
It is scheduled for first drawbell in In 2018, Exploration will continue to prioritise the portfolio of greenfield 2020 and ramp up to full production in 2027. and brownfield projects.
It will advance copper projects in Chile, Peru, the TM The AutoHaul project achieved Australias first fully autonomous heavy US, Serbia, Kazakhstan, southern Africa and Australia.
The majority of haul train journey in September.
A close to 100 kilometre pilot run was these projects are in the early drilling stage of exploration.
It will continue completed without a driver on board at the Pilbara iron ore operations.
project generation in several geographies and testing existing targets More than 60 per cent of all train kilometres are currently being run in within the portfolio.
For 2018, exploration projects that have reached a autonomous mode, with a driver on board for supervision, which puts more advanced stage are listed in the table below.
TM Rio Tinto on schedule to complete AutoHaul in 2018.
Projects At the end of 2017, other projects in execution included Resolution Shaft Rio Tinto Projects will continue to deliver priority projects, including 9 extension, Yandi Billiard South, Cape Lambert Power Station and Amrun, Oyu Tolgoi underground and AutoHaul projects.
It will also Kemano Tunnel.
At the end of 2018, all major studies will be fully transitioned into Projects.
progress studies for the Jadar project in Serbia, Resolution Copper, several sites approaching closure and the feasibility study for Zulti South.
Productivity, innovation and technology It will continue to improve health, safety and risk outcomes through the Productivity & Technical Support is leading a step change in productivity use of industry-leading construction techniques and continuous and technical excellence across Rio Tinto.
continued building their capability and establishing smarter ways to use people, equipment and infrastructure more effectively to generate US$1.5 billion in extra cash flow each year from 2021.
The integrated Productivity, innovation and technology productivity programme has a comprehensive plan to focus on and In 2018, Productivity & Technical Support will continue to replicate best improve the basics, while redesigning the value chain for the future.
It is practice, partner with suppliers and apply technology and automation.
It fully underpinned by a technical excellence backbone to secure real and will work with the product groups and suppliers to drive further tangible productivity improvements.
productivity gains, including improving equipment and fleet utilisation and further improving the control and performance of Rio Tintos processing Progress has been made against key metrics, including the utilisation of plants.
Information Systems & Technology will focus on simplifying Rio plant and equipment, payload, maintenance intervals and processing Tintos operating environment, and building a foundational, integrated rates.
Examples in 2017 include: a six per cent increase in mean time data platform designed for agility and freedom to operate.
In a rapidly between truck failure: a three per cent increase in effective truck evolving and increasingly digital world, it will establish a stable, yet utilisation: a four percent increase in truck payload of waste and ore: a flexible and scalable information technology backbone for the Group.
2018 exploration projects Project Commodity Country Type Stage Sanxai Bauxite Laos Greenfield Project of Merit Stargrove Diamond Canada Greenfield Project of Merit Pilbara Iron ore Australia Brownfield Project of Merit Weipa Bauxite Australia Brownfield Project of Merit Stella Diamonds Canada Greenfield Order of Magnitude Oyu Tolgoi Copper Mongolia Brownfield Project of Merit 47 Annual report 2017 riotinto.
