ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC COMPANY OVERVIEW A HIGH-GROWTH RETAILER Weve built a different kind of bank one with stores that are data, to the personal possessions in their safe deposit box, open seven days a week, and where customers can walk in customers can count on us to keep their property safe.
without an appointment and walk out with everything working straight away: so no waiting around for the postman.
Every day, we support people and power businesses acrossthe country.
We do this by offering unparalleled We believe in offering simple, trusted products which are levelsof customer service both through market-leading easily understood by our customers.
They know that if it digital channels and our colleagues in our expanding matters to them, it matters to us.
From their money and their highstreetpresence.
WHERE WE CREATE FANS FANS Services we offer Simple savings and current accounts Retail Easily accessible safe deposit boxes We were founded on the principle that customers should Debit and credit cards printed in store be able to bank when and where it suits them.
Thats why our stores are open seven days a week, from early until Mortgages late.
Customers can manage their money online or on the Free coin counting for customers and non-customers alike move with our award-winning mobile app.
Current accounts, deposit and lending products with Business no jargon Were the entrepreneurs bank and we deliver quickly Invoice and asset financing to help customers grow their without unnecessary bureaucracy.
Weve designed our businesses and manage cash flows Business Banking products and services to take the hassle Based within the communities we serve, with dedicated out of everyday tasks, providing straightforward and local business managers flexible finance to support businesses growing.
Specialist teams including sports & entertainment, Private professionals, senior executives and commercial private Simple is often best.
The same can be said of our private clients who understand our customers banking needs products and services.
Weve designed them to get the Personal service job done quickly, easily and without fuss.
No wealth management, no insurance just banking.
Our Relationship Managers are on hand to set up our customers banking just the way they like it.
Commercial loans and cash management Commercial Instant, fixed term and tracker deposit accounts We believe in a different type of commercial banking Specialist sector teams including healthcare, hospitality the type that provides customers with their own andleisure, property and charity and not-for-profit Relationship Manager.
This is somebody who knows andunderstands the business an individual who will specialise in your sector and your needs.
10 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC ITS THE EXPERIENCE ONLINE ON THE APP Our simple and secure online banking allows customers to Our award-winning mobile banking app launched in manage cards and savings, browse transactions, open new December 2016.
This year has seen a raft of new features accounts all from the comfort of the sofa.
Customers can added, including a spending summary tool, fingerprint login even open current accounts online, irrespective of where in capabilities and standing order set-up.
The app has already theUK they live.
If they live near a store, they can also opt to won several awards, including Best Mobile Banking app pop in and have their card printed on the spot.
Just one of Moneywise Customer Service Awards 2017. many examples of how we are seamlessly integrating bricks and clicks.
78% of customers registered for online banking 22 log-ins to our app per user per month FAN TOUCH POINTS We believe in offering customers a choice of how they bank with us.
However they engage with us, we promise to always make it straightforward and simple.
IN STORE OVER THE PHONE Our stores are open early until late, seven days a week, Our call centres are London-based and our colleagues are 362days a year with friendly colleagues ready to help.
We dont believe in annoying automated Everystore has a Magic Money Machine to count coins.
telephone menus to navigate, so we put customers through to a human.
55 stores and counting Over 1.5m calls to AMAZE direct in 2017 11 Financial statements Governance Strategic report
