Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information We take salary increases in the broader employee population into Remuneration Report: account in determining any change to the base pay of executives and regularly consult with shareholders on the design of our shortand long-term incentive plans to ensure that they are aligned with Remuneration Policy shareholder interests and priorities.
We do not formally consult with our employees on the Remuneration Policy, but approximately 40 per cent of the workforce are shareholders, through participation in our Remuneration Policy introduction employee share plans and therefore have the right to vote on the This Remuneration Policy applies to our executive and non-executive Remuneration Report.
Employees are also free to ask questions or directors and to the chairman.
In accordance with Australian law, it express opinions through our normal employee communications also sets out the broad policy principles that apply to members of the channels.
Executive Committee who are not directors.
Performance under the Short-Term Incentive Plan STIP is measured Shareholders should note that this Remuneration Policy is binding over one year based on a balanced scorecard including safety, only in so far as it relates to directors.
Fifty per cent of the STIP for executives is delivered in deferred shares that vest after three years.
Our remuneration policies, principles and practices Performance for performance share awards PSA under the Our first priority is to spend remuneration resource wisely.
We want our Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP is measured over five years and pay policies to be regarded as fair by shareholders and employees alike.
awards are typically delivered in shares.
From 2018, performance will Although we believe that our Remuneration Policy is fit for purpose, the be measured by reference to the total shareholder return TSR of Committee retains the discretion to override unforeseen and Rio Tinto relative to the Euromoney Global Mining Index 50 per cent inappropriate mechanistic outcomes.
and the MSCI World Index 50 per cent, reflecting the fact that the company competes for capital with both mining companies and other High-quality people, who are capable of managing and growing the global companies.
The relative EBIT margin improvement measure business, are essential to generate superior returns for our has been removed following consultation with major shareholders shareholders.
Rio Tinto operates in global and local markets where it and feedback from employees, in order to achieve greater simplicity, competes for a limited pool of talented executives and our transparency and alignment.
compensation strategy is therefore designed to attract and retain the people that we need.
We recognise that remuneration represents just A new Equity Incentive Plan EIP will be put to shareholders for one of the factors that encourage the attraction and retention of approval at the AGMs in 2018.
This will allow both PSA and the talent.
We also seek to engage our employees over the long term, to deferred element of the STIP as described herein to be granted under foster diversity, and to provide challenging work and development a single plan with sufficient flexibility to reflect any future changes in opportunities.
Our people strategy is underpinned by our the Groups Remuneration Policy.
Participants below the Executive commitment to safety and our other core values of respect, integrity, Committee level will also participate in LTIP awards under the EIP.
Options are no longer granted, but existing vested options may be Competitive remuneration linked to performance and shareholder exercised up to ten years after their grant.
Our share ownership policy value creation requires executives to build up and maintain a material shareholding Remuneration is linked to performance targets over both the short in the company as described in the Implementation Report.
and long term, to ensure that executive rewards are aligned to the delivery both of short-term priorities and long-term sustainable growth in shareholder value.
In order to assess the competitiveness of the packages we offer, we benchmark ourselves against other companies in the FTSE30 excluding financial services companies, which typically have similar global reach and complexity, and other international mining and natural resources companies.
The outcomes of these benchmarking exercises form just part of our consideration of the appropriate level of remuneration packages, but we would not expect either base salaries or the expected outcome of our shortand long-term incentive plans to deviate markedly from the median of these comparator groups.
The actual outcome will, of course, depend on business and individual performance.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Executive remuneration structure policy table The total remuneration package is designed to provide an appropriate balance between fixed and variable components, with an emphasis on long-term variable pay.
The remuneration structure for executives, including the relationship between each element of remuneration and Group performance, is summarised below.
Complementary remuneration structures are designed for other employees, drawing on these strategies and policies.
Further details on the key performance indicators KPIs used to assess Group performance are provided in the Strategic report.
Any commitment made before this Remuneration Policy takes effect or before an executive became or becomes a director will be honoured even if it is not consistent with this or any subsequent Remuneration Policy.
Remuneration arrangements Fixed Link to Group performance and strategy Base salary provides the main fixed element of the remuneration package.
We pay competitive salaries to hire, Base salary motivate and retain highly competent Base salaries are reviewed annually, with a maximum individual increase of nine people.
per cent, or inflation if higher, per annum.
An individual increase may be higher than this for executives who are not directors in the circumstances described below.
Any increase is generally aligned with the average base salary increases applying to the broader employee population unless there were significant changes to an individuals role and or responsibilities during the year.
Any increases are determined with reference to underlying Group and individual performance, global economic conditions, role responsibilities, an assessment against relevant comparator groups and internal relativities.
An increase above the maximum noted above for executives who are not directors may be made in the event of internal promotion or increase in responsibility or where the executives base salary is significantly below market positioning.
Benchmarking is undertaken periodically but not annually, and our intention is to apply judgment in evaluating market data.
Pension or Employment benefits typically include participation in a pension plan, We provide locally competitive postsuperannuation superannuation fund, or a cash allowance to contribute to a personal pension or employment benefits in a costsuperannuation fund, which are aligned with the arrangements for the broader efficient manner in order to hire and workforce of the country of residence.
For appointments made from 1 June 2018, the maximum level of company contribution to an individual executive directors scheme annually is 25 per cent of base salary.
For appointments prior to 1 June 2018 the maximum was 35 per cent.
Other benefits may include, but are not limited to, private healthcare cover for We provide competitive other benefits Other benefits the executive and their dependents, company car or allowance, car parking, life in a cost-efficient manner in order to insurance, accident insurance, provision of company-provided hire and retain.
transport chauffeur, professional advice, participation in local flexible benefit programmes and certain other minor benefits including modest retirement gifts in applicable circumstances, occasional spouse travel in support of the business and any Rio Tinto business expenses which are deemed to be taxable and where the company has paid the tax on their behalf.
Secondment, relocation and localisation benefits for example, housing, tax equalisation, cost of living allowance, the payment of school fees, periodic visits home for the executive and their family and where relevant, localisation payments may also be made to and on behalf of executives living outside their home country.
Examples of these types of payments are set out in the Implementation Report.
Other benefits are paid at cost and, given the nature and variety of the items, there is no formal maximum level of company contribution.
com 73 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Remuneration Report: Remuneration Policy continued Remuneration arrangements Performance-related At risk Link to Group performance and strategy 25 per cent of maximum is awarded for threshold performance: 50 per cent for STIP focuses participants on achieving Short-Term Incentive Plan target: and 100 per cent for outstanding.
Between threshold and target, and demanding annual performance STIP between target and outstanding, the award is pro-rated on a straight-line basis.
goals, which are based on the Groups In the case of executive directors, the percentage award is multiplied by 1.2. five priorities, in pursuit of the The maximum award is capped at 200 per cent of base salary for all executives.
creation of sustainable shareholder Any outcome from the formulaic STIP calculation is subject to the exercise of value.
We demand that sustainable business A scorecard based on the Groups five priorities is established for each executive practices are adhered to, particularly at the commencement of the financial year.
The measures and the relative in the context of safety.
weightings are selected by the Committee in order to drive business When reviewing the outcome of the performance for the current year, including the achievement of financial, safety awards under the STIP the Committee and other individual business outcomes that are priorities for the financial year will, when evaluating overall safety, in question.
At least 50 per cent of the measures will relate to financial financial, Group and individual performance and a significant component will relate to safety performance.
performance, consider the overall The measures, weightings and targets are reviewed annually and are included fairness against original expectations either prospectively or retrospectively each year in the Implementation Report.
The Committee retains flexibility to determine the measures, weightings and Any discretionary adjustments for targets as appropriate, based on the outcomes of its annual review.
directors will be disclosed in the Implementation Report for the We expect to disclose the measures, weightings and targets for safety goals at the beginning of each year.
In the area of financial and individual goals, we will, financial period.
at the beginning of each year, disclose the measures and weightings only, because we regard the targets as commercially sensitive.
However, we intend to disclose these targets and outcomes retrospectively.
In the rare instances where this may not be prudent on grounds of commercial sensitivity, we will seek to explain why, and give an indication of when they will be disclosed.
Threshold, target and outstanding performance levels are established for all STIP measures to help drive high levels of business and individual performance.
The central or base plan delivers what the board considers to be target performance.
Target performance is intended to be stretching.
Probability factors are then applied, based upon a range of potential operating and cost scenarios, to establish the threshold and outstanding performance levels.
These threshold below target, target, and outstanding above target levels are determined by the Committee at the beginning of each performance year.
In making its year-end determination of STIP awards, the Committee seeks to ensure that actual performance is directly comparable to the targets set at the beginning of the year.
This may result in adjustments to the targets or to the assessed results being made by the Committee in particular to take account of events outside managements control, to ensure a like-for-like comparison.
Both upward and downward adjustments can be made, with reference to principles agreed by the Committee, to ensure the outcomes are fair.
Safety KPIs comprise a significant portion of the STIP for executives, and any fatality will have a material impact on the STIP result for all executives.
Bonus Fifty per cent of the STIP is delivered in bonus deferred shares under the EIP Bonus Deferral ensures ongoing Deferral with the remainder of the STIP delivered in cash with no deferral.
Prior to 2018, alignment between executives and bonus deferred share awards were made under the Bonus Deferral Plan BDP.
shareholders through deferral of 50 per cent of STIP awards into The bonus deferred shares vest in the December of the third year after the end Rio Tinto shares.
of the STIP performance year to which it relates.
The number of shares that vest is increased by reference to the dividends paid in the deferral period.
Bonus deferred shares vest on a change of control.
Given the mandatory nature of the deferral and the absence of performance conditions, bonus deferred shares are treated as owned from the award date for the purposes of calculating an executives shareholding level.
Malus, claw-back and suspension provisions that apply are set out later in the Remuneration Policy.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Remuneration arrangements Performance-related At risk Link to Group performance and strategy Performance PSA granted under the EIP will be conditional share awards that vest subject to PSA are designed to provide a simple Share Awards the achievement of stretching performance conditions, comparing Rio Tintos and transparent mechanism for PSA under TSR relative to the Euromoney Global Mining Index 50 per cent and to the aligning executive reward with the MSCI World Index 50 per cent.
execution of an effective business the Long-Term Incentive Plan strategy that delivers superior longFull vesting is only achieved if Rio Tintos relative TSR significantly outperforms term shareholder returns.
LTIP the TSR of both indices.
The outperformance required for full vesting is considered by the Committee to be very stretching.
Award levels are set to incentivise long-term performance and to The current level of outperformance required for full vesting is 6 per cent per contribute towards the annum over five years.
However, for each award the Committee will determine competitiveness of the overall the level of outperformance required against the indices on a per annum basis remuneration package.
or on a compounded basis over the five-year period, in order for the whole of the award to vest.
Relative TSR has been chosen as the most appropriate measure as it allows Each component of the award will be assessed independently.
Details of the for an objective external assessment TSR targets and vesting schedules for the year under review and for the over a sustained period on a basis following year will be set out in the Implementation Report each year.
that is familiar to shareholders.
Awards have a maximum face value of 438 per cent of base salary ignoring How performance is generated is as dividend equivalents as described below.
important as what level of The awards have been calculated independently by our consultants Willis performance is delivered.
Before Towers Watson to have an expected value of approximately 50 per cent of face vesting, the Committee will satisfy value.
Expected value is face value adjusted for the probability of the itself that relative TSR is an performance target being met.
appropriate measure of the Threshold performance, as explained in the Implementation Report, would underlying performance of the result in the vesting of 22.5 per cent of the face value of an award.
business, and may adjust vesting accordingly.
The maximum expected value of PSA is 219 per cent of base salary ie 438 per cent x 50 per cent.
The maximum threshold value is 98.6 per cent of base salary ie 438 per cent x 22.5 per cent.
Actual award levels may vary for each executive and are included in the Implementation Report.
If vesting is achieved, participants are entitled to receive a number of additional shares whose market value reflects the aggregate cash amount of dividends that would have been received had the shares which have vested at the end of the performance period been held throughout the performance period.
Where permitted by the plan rules, and where the Remuneration Committee so decides, awards may be made or satisfied in cash in lieu of shares.
Awards and performance conditions may be adjusted to take account of variations of capital and other transactions.
Subject to this Policy, performance conditions may also be amended in other circumstances if the Committee considers that a changed performance condition would be a fairer measure of performance.
If there is a change of control, awards will vest to the extent performance conditions are then satisfied.
Unless the Committee determines otherwise, if the change of control happens during the first 36 months from the date of grant of the award, the number of shares that can vest will be reduced pro rata to that 36-months period.
The Committee may, alternatively, with agreement of an acquiring company, replace awards with equivalent new awards over shares in the acquiring company.
The Committee retains the discretion, where circumstances warrant, to amend performance conditions under the relevant plan rules.
The Committee will seek to ensure that outcomes are fair and that they take account of the overall performance of the company during the performance period.
Notes to the policy table The major change to the Remuneration Policy in 2018 is the removal of the relative EBIT margin improvement measure from the PSA.
For PSA granted from 2013 until 2017 under the 2013 Performance Share Plan, conditional share awards vest subject to the achievement of stretching performance conditions, comparing Rio Tintos performance against: One-third: TSR relative to the Euromoney Global Mining Index: One-third: TSR relative to the MSCI World Index: and One-third: improvement in EBIT margin relative to the global mining comparators which will be listed in the Implementation Report each year.
Each component of the award will be assessed independently.
With respect to the EBIT margin measure, in order to ensure that outcomes are fair and that business performance has been appropriately taken into account, the Committee will consider, on a discretionary basis, any specific, significant, unusual, below the line items eg impairments reported by Rio Tinto or its peers during the performance period to ensure genuine comparability when determining any level of vesting indicated by third-party data currently S&P Capital IQ.
The application of any such discretion will be disclosed.
Long-term incentive awards made prior to 2018, which may vest should the relevant performance conditions be satisfied, are permitted under this Policy.
Details of awards granted prior to 2018, which have yet to vest, including their respective performance conditions, are provided in the Implementation Report.
com 75 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Remuneration Report: Performancerelated At risk Remuneration Policy continued Target STIP and A STIP award of 60% of the maximum award Total remuneration opportunity LTIP performance ie 120% of base salary Expected value of 2018 PSA of 50% of face The following charts provide an indication of the minimum, target and value, calculated as 215% of base salary maximum total remuneration opportunity, subject to shareholder approval of the Remuneration Policy for the executive directors, together Maximum STIP and A maximum STIP award of 200% of base with the proportion of the package delivered through xed and variable LTIP performance salary remuneration.
The STIP and PSA granted under the LTIP are both Full vesting of 2018 PSA, calculated as 430% performance-related remuneration.
UK legislation requires that these of base salary charts are given in relation to the first year in which the Remuneration Policy applies ie 2018. a PSA granted under the LTIP consist of share awards only, measured at 2018 face value.
This does not constitute an estimate of the value of awards that may potentially vest with respect to year end 31 December 2022.
No assumption has been made for changes The following table provides the basis for the values included in the in share price or payment of dividends.
charts below: b No PSA will be granted to the chief financial of cer in 2018.
However a face value of 430% of base salary, consistent with the award to be made to the chief executive, has Base Total been included in the above charts for illustrative purposes.
b Fixed stated in 000 Pension Benets a c Further details of the 2018 PSA are disclosed in the 2017 Implementation Report.
salary xed Jean-Sbastien Jacques 1,110 276 58 1,444 Chris Lynch 856 214 97 1,167 a Base salary is the latest known salary.
b The value of bene ts is as per the 2017 bene ts gure in the single total gure of remuneration tables, as set out in the Implementation Report.
Jean-Sbastien Jacques chief executive Potential value of 2018 remuneration package 000 Minimum 100% 1,444 Target 28% 26% 46% 5,163 Maximum 17% 26% 57% 8,437 Fixed remuneration STIP PSA Chris Lynch chief financial of cer Potential value of 2018 remuneration package 000 Minimum 100% 1,167 Target 29% 25% 46% 4,035 Maximum 18% 26% 56% 6,560 Fixed remuneration STIP PSA 76 76 riotinto.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Context for outstanding performance Under the suspension provisions, the Committee may suspend the Outstanding business and individual performance is required to vesting of an award for up to five years until the outcome of any achieve the maximum level of remuneration.
This comprises: internal or external investigation is concluded and may then reduce or lapse the participants award based on the outcome of that outstanding performance against all financial, health and safety, investigation.
Note that where suspension applies, the 24-month and individual STIP measures: and claw-back period will not extend beyond the period commencing from TSR outperformance against both the Euromoney Global Mining the original vesting date.
and MSCI World indices, currently 6 per cent per annum over five Recruitment remuneration years.
For both internal and external recruitment, we aim to position base The Committee believes that if these levels of reward are achieved by salary at an appropriate level, taking into consideration a range of our executives, shareholders will benefit over time from superior factors including the executives current remuneration and share price performance.
experience, internal relativities, an assessment against the relevant Discretions comparator groups and cost.
Other elements of remuneration will be established in line with this The Committee recognises the importance of ensuring that the Remuneration Policy.
outcomes of the Groups executive pay arrangements described in this Remuneration Policy properly reflect the Groups overall In the case of internal appointments, existing commitments will be performance.
The Committee therefore reserves the right to review all If the Committee concludes that it is necessary and appropriate to remuneration outcomes arising from mechanistic application of secure an appointment, relocation-related support and international performance conditions and to exercise discretion where such mobility benefits may be provided depending on the circumstances.
outcomes do not properly reflect the experience of shareholders or Any relocation arrangements will be set out in the Implementation other stakeholders.
The Committee may at its discretion adjust and or set different Any compensation provided to an executive recruited from outside performance measures if events occur such as a change in strategy, the Group for the forfeiture of awards under variable remuneration a material acquisition or divestment, a catastrophic safety or arrangements entered into with a previous employer is considered environmental incident, a change in control or other unexpected separately to the establishment of forward-looking annual event which cause the Committee to determine that the measures remuneration arrangements.
Our policy with respect to such buyare no longer appropriate or in the best interests of shareholders or outs is to determine a reasonable level of award, on a like-for-like other stakeholders, and that amendment is required so that the basis, consisting primarily of equity-based awards, but also measures achieve their original purpose.
Such discretion will be potentially cash or restricted stock, taking into consideration the exercised judiciously and clearly disclosed and explained in the quantum of forfeited awards, their performance conditions and Implementation Report.
The Committee will obtain an independent external assessment of the value of awards proposed to be bought Malus, claw-back and suspension out and retains discretion, subject to the considerations noted above, Subject to approval by shareholders at the 2018 AGMs, malus, to make such compensation as it deems necessary and appropriate to claw-back and suspension provisions will apply to LTIP awards, secure the relevant executives employment.
The Committees including awards granted in connection with deferred bonuses under intention is that buy-out compensation should include, where the EIP.
Under both the malus and claw-back provisions, where the No form of golden hello will be provided upon recruitment.
Committee determines that an exceptional circumstance has occurred, the Committee may, at its discretion, reduce the number of shares to be received on vesting of an award, or, for a period of two years after the vesting of an award, the Committee can claw-back value from a participant.
The circumstances under which the Committee exercises such discretion may include, inter alia: any fraud or misconduct by a participant or an exceptional event which has had, or may have, a material effect on the value or reputation of any member of the Group excluding an exceptional event or events which have a material adverse effect on global macroeconomic conditions : an error in the Groups financial statements which requires a material downward restatement or is otherwise material or where information has emerged since the award date which would have affected the size of award granted or vested: where the Committee determines that the personal performance of a participant, of their product group or of the Group does not justify vesting or where the participants conduct or performance has been in breach of their employment contract, any laws, rules or codes of conduct applicable to them or the standards reasonably expected of a person in their position: the performance of the company, business or undertaking in which a participant worked or works or for which he or she was or is directly or indirectly responsible is found to have been misstated or based upon any material misrepresentation and which resulted in the award being granted and or vesting over a greater number of shares than would otherwise have been the case: where any team, business area, member of the Group or profit centre in which the participant works or worked has been found guilty in connection with any regulatory investigation or has been in breach of any laws, rules or codes of conduct applicable to it or the standards reasonably expected of it: or a catastrophic safety or environmental event or events occurring in any part of the Rio Tinto Group.
com 77 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information respect of a director in connection with the termination of his or her Remuneration Report: employment.
These may include legal fees incurred in negotiating a Remuneration Policy continued settlement agreement with Rio Tinto.
In assessing what is reasonable, the company will take account of prevailing rates for such Executives service contracts and termination advice and support and determine an appropriate level of contribution Under normal circumstances, executive directors will be offered service based on the complexity of the issues.
contracts which can be terminated by either party with up to 12 Treatment of STIP and LTIP on termination months notice in writing, or immediately by paying the base salary only in lieu of any unexpired notice.
In exceptional circumstances, an initial The STIP and LTIP rules govern the entitlements that executive notice period of up to 24 months during the first two years of participants may have under those plans upon termination of employment, reducing to up to 12 months thereafter, may be employment.
necessary to secure an external appointment.
In some circumstances, it may also be appropriate to use fixed-term contracts for executive The concept of an eligible leaver is defined in the relevant plan rules.
For new appointments, if the company terminates by making In general terms, an eligible leaver is an executive who leaves the a payment in lieu of notice, the Committee will for executive directors Group by reason of ill-health, injury, disability as determined by the to the extent permitted by relevant law have regard to the executive executives employer : retirement: redundancy: transfer of the directors ability to mitigate his or her loss in assessing the payment to undertaking in which the executive works: change of control of the be made.
executives employing company: or death.
Usually there is discretion for The letters of appointment are available for inspection at Rio Tinto the Committee to treat an executive as an eligible leaver.
plcs registered office, and at its AGM.
STIP Other executives are offered service contracts which can be terminated If an eligible leaver leaves the Group during a performance year, the by the company with up to 12-months notice in writing, and by the Committee may determine in its absolute discretion to award a pro employee with six-months notice in writing, or immediately by the rata portion of the STIP based on the amount of the year served and company by paying the base salary only in lieu of any unexpired notice.
based on actual assessment of performance against targets.
Any For the chief executive and for executives appointed from 1 January cash payment will be made at the normal STIP payment date and no 2018, notice may be paid progressively in instalments over the portion of the award will be deferred into shares.
If an executive provides the company notice of their resignation The current contract terms of both directors and the other executives during the performance year, but does not leave the Group until after are included in the Implementation Report.
the end of the performance year, the Committee may determine in its absolute discretion to make an award under the STIP.
In these Executives may be required to undertake garden leave during all or circumstances, the executive will only be eligible to receive the cash part of their notice period and may receive their base salary, STIP and portion of the award and will forfeit the deferred shares portion.
Any other benefits during the notice period or the cash equivalent.
cash payment will be made at the normal STIP payment date.
Where applicable, tax equalisation and other expatriate benefits will continue in accordance with the executives prevailing terms and No STIP award will be made where an executive who is not an eligible conditions.
leaver leaves the Group, resigns or is terminated for cause prior to the end of the performance year.
In the case of dismissal for cause, the company can terminate employment without notice and without payment of any salary or Bonus deferred shares under the EIP and grants under the BDP compensation in lieu of notice.
Outstanding awards under any of the 2013-2017 Groups long-term incentive plans may be forfeited in these For grants made to executives, awards will normally vest on the circumstances.
There will be no pro rata reduction of awards and any dividend equivalent shares will be calculated on the vested shares.
Accrued but untaken annual leave and any long service leave will be paid out on termination, in accordance with the relevant country If the executive resigns or is dismissed for misconduct, or for any legislation and applicable practice applying to all employees.
For other reason that the Committee decides, the awards will lapse.
eligible leavers as defined below in Australia, the value of the leave Performance Share Awards under the EIP and Performance Share is calculated on the basis of base salary, target STIP and car Plan 2013-2017 allowance.
No STIP is included where the executive is not an eligible For grants made to executives from and including 2013, awards will leaver.
normally be retained, and vest at the scheduled vesting date.
If termination is a result of redundancy, the terms of the relevant Unvested awards remain subject to the satisfaction of the local policy will apply in the same way as for other local employees.
Any dividend equivalent shares will be calculated on the vested shares at vesting.
On termination, the company will pay relocation or expatriation benefits as agreed at the time of the original expatriation and or in If the executive leaves the Group during the first 36 months from the accordance with applicable policies on travel and relocation.
date of grant of the award, the number of shares that can vest will be reduced pro rata over that 36-month period.
On termination other than for cause, the company may make a payment in consideration for entry by the departing executive Awards will vest immediately on death, but if an executive dies during the director into appropriate restrictive covenants to protect Rio Tinto first 36 months from the date of grant of the award, the number of shares and its shareholders.
The amount of such payment will be determined that vest will be reduced pro rata over that 36-month period.
by the Committee based on the content and duration of the covenant.
If the executive resigns or is dismissed for misconduct, or for any Following termination, executive directors may be eligible to receive other reason that the Committee decides, the awards will lapse.
long-term incentive awards under the conditions described in the Where permitted by the plan rules, and where the Remuneration sections following.
They and their dependents may also be eligible for Committee so decides, awards may be made or satisfied in cash in post-retirement benefits such as medical and life insurance.
company may also agree to continue certain other benefits for a period following termination where the arrangements are provided Management Share Awards under the EIP and grants under the under term contracts or in accordance with the terms of the service Management Share Plan MSP prior to 2018 contract, for example, payment for financial advice, tax advice and Awards are only made to executives prior to their appointment as an preparation of tax returns for a tax year.
In some cases, they may Executive Committee member, except under the circumstances receive a modest retirement gift.
described in the Recruitment remuneration section above.
All retained awards will be reduced pro rata to reflect the proportion of Subject to the approval of the Committee the company may pay such the period between the date of grant of the award and the normal amount as it determines is reasonable to settle any claims that an vesting date which has not elapsed at the time employment ceased.
executive director may have in connection with the termination of his Any dividend equivalent shares will be calculated on the vested or her employment.
The company may also pay reasonable legal and shares.
Awards vest on death, subject to the pro rata reduction other professional fees including outplacement support to or in described above, unless the Committee decides otherwise.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information For grants made to executives, awards will normally be retained, and Non-executive directors receive a fixed annual fee comprising a base vest, at the Committees discretion, at the scheduled vesting date fee, committee membership or committee chairmanship fee or senior although awards for US taxpayers may vest on leaving.
independent director fee, as applicable, and allowances for attending meetings which involve medium or long-distance air travel.
They do If the executive resigns or is dismissed for misconduct, or for any not participate in any of the Groups incentive plans.
other reason that the Committee decides, the awards will lapse.
Where the payment of statutory minimum superannuation All employee share plans contributions for Australian non-executive directors is required by For grants made to executives, awards will normally vest on or Australian superannuation law, these contributions are deducted shortly after leaving.
There will be no pro rata reduction of awards from the directors overall fee entitlements.
and any dividend equivalent shares will be calculated on the vested shares.
Non-executive directors may on occasion receive reimbursement for costs incurred in relation to the provision of professional advice.
If the executive resigns or is dismissed for misconduct, or for any These payments, if made, are taxable benefits to the non-executive other reason that the Committee decides, the awards will lapse.
directors and the tax arising is paid by the company on the directors behalf.
Chairman and non-executive directors remuneration Other benefits provided include accident insurance note this is Chairman neither contractual nor a taxable benefit, other minor benefits It is Rio Tintos policy that the chairman should be remunerated on a including modest retirement gifts in applicable circumstances, competitive basis and at a level which reflects his or her contribution occasional spouse travel in support of the business and any Rio Tinto to the Group, as assessed by the board.
business expenses which are deemed to be taxable where the The Committee excluding the chairman, if he or she is a member company has paid the tax on their behalf.
Rio Tinto does not pay determines the terms of service and remuneration of the chairman.
retirement or post-employment benefits to non-executive directors.
The chairmans fees are set by the Committee.
Appointment The chairman receives a fixed annual fee and does not receive any The appointment of non-executive directors including the chairman additional fee or allowance either for committee membership or is handled through the Nominations Committee and board processes.
The chairman does not participate in the The current fee levels are set out in the Implementation Report.
The chairmans letter of appointment from the company stipulates The chairman may be provided with a car and driver.
Any use for his or her duties as chairman of the Group and appointment may be transport between home and the office and other personal travel is a terminated without liability on the part of Rio Tinto in accordance with taxable benefit to the chairman, and the Company pays any tax the Groups constitutional documents dealing with retirement, arising on the chairmans behalf.
The chairman pays a fixed annual disqualification from office or other vacation from office.
Otherwise, fee to the Company for the personal travel element.
his or her appointment may be terminated by giving 12 months notice.
Accrued fees will be paid up to the termination date with the Relocation and localisation benefits in accordance with the policy for exception of dismissal for cause.
The Committee has the discretion to executive directors for example, housing, tax equalisation, cost of make a payment in lieu of notice if the chairman is not required to living allowance, the payment of school fees, periodic visits home for serve his or her full 12-months notice.
If the appointment as the executive and their family and where relevant, localisation chairman is terminated by reason of their removal as a director payments may be made to and on behalf of a chairman working pursuant to a resolution of shareholders in general meeting, the outside their home country.
Any instances of these types of company shall be liable to pay any fees accrued to the date of any payments will be set out in the Implementation Report.
Other benefits include private healthcare cover, accident insurance The non-executive directors letters of appointment from the note this is neither contractual nor a taxable benefit, other minor company stipulate their duties and responsibilities as directors.
Each benefits including modest retirement gifts in applicable non-executive director is appointed subject to their election and circumstances, occasional spouse travel in support of the business annual re-election by shareholders.
Non-executive directors and any Rio Tinto business-related expenses which are deemed to be appointments may be terminated by giving three-months notice.
taxable where the company has paid the tax on his or her behalf.
There are no provisions for compensation payable on termination of Rio Tinto does not pay retirement or post-employment benefits their appointment.
The letters of appointment are available for to the chairman.
inspection at Rio Tinto plcs registered office, and at its AGM.
Non-executive directors In accordance with the provisions of the Groups constitutional Fees paid to non-executive directors reflect their respective duties documents, the maximum aggregate fees payable to the and responsibilities and the time required to be spent by them so non-executive directors including the chairman in respect of any as to make a meaningful and effective contribution to the affairs of year, including fees received by the non-executive directors for Rio Tinto.
serving on any committee of the boards, and any travel allowances The non-executive directors fees and other terms are set by the received by the non-executive directors for attending meetings, will board upon the recommendation of the Chairmans Committee which not exceed 3,000,000.
Non-monetary benefits are not included in comprises the chairman, chief executive and chief financial officer.
com 79 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Independent advisers Remuneration Report: The independent advisers engaged by the Committee during 2017 were Willis Towers Watson.
Willis Towers Watson reports to the Implementation Report Committee and not to management.
To ensure that remuneration recommendations being advice relating to the elements of remuneration for key management Implementation Report introduction personnel, as defined under the Australian Corporations Act were This Implementation Report is presented to shareholders for approval made free from undue influence by key management personnel to at the AGMs.
It outlines how our Remuneration Policy was whom they may relate, the Committee established a protocol for the implemented in 2017 and how we intend to operate it in 2018. engagement of, and interaction with, remuneration consultants and has monitored compliance with its requirements throughout 2017.
Remuneration for executives, set out in the single total figure of Declarations were given by Willis Towers Watson to the effect that its remuneration tables, is shown gross of tax and in the relevant remuneration recommendations were made free from undue currency of award or payment.
The information reported for influence by key management personnel to whom they related.
The executives in table 1a on page 97 is reported in accordance with board has received assurance from the Committee and is satisfied Australian statutory disclosure requirements and is shown gross of that the remuneration recommendations received from Willis Towers tax and in US dollars.
The remuneration details set out in table 1a Watson were made free from undue influence.
include theoretical accounting values relating to various parts of the Willis Towers Watson is a member of the Remuneration Consultants remuneration package, most notably Performance Share Awards PSA granted under the Groups Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under its Code of Conduct arrangements, and require a different methodology for calculating the Code in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Accordingly, the figures in the single total figure of The Code is based upon principles of transparency, integrity, remuneration tables are not directly comparable with those in table objectivity, competence, due care and confidentiality.
Where applicable, amounts have been converted using the Watson has confirmed that it adhered to the Code throughout 2017 a relevant average exchange rates included in the notes to table 1a.
for all remuneration services provided to Rio Tinto.
The Code is available online at .
In addition to executive remuneration, this report covers, in table 1b on page 99, the remuneration of the chairman and the non-executive Willis Towers Watson is the only remuneration consultant which directors.
All figures are shown gross of tax and in US dollars.
Certain provided remuneration recommendations to the Committee during information contained within the Remuneration Report is audited.
The Committee is content that Willis Towers Watson, in providing remuneration advice to the Committee, did not have any Specific information regarding the audited information is outlined on page 110. connections with Rio Tinto that impaired its independence.
During 2017, as part of its engagement, Willis Towers Watson Remuneration Committee responsibilities provided remuneration recommendations to the Committee.
Its The Committees responsibilities are set out in its terms of reference services included Committee meeting attendance and advice in which are available in the corporate governance section of the Rio relation to management proposals.
Willis Towers Watson was paid Tinto website.
The Committee reviews its responsibilities and terms US$374,434 2016: US$234,967 for these services.
These currently include: Willis Towers Watson provided general and technical executive determining the Groups remuneration structure and policies, and remuneration services.
These services included the giving of advice assessing their cost, including pension and superannuation about remuneration of employees other than key management arrangements for executives: personnel across the Group, and advice in relation to preparation of determining the mix and use of shortand long-term incentive the 2017 Remuneration Report.
Other services and publications plans for executives: relating to remuneration data were received from a range of sources.
overseeing the operation of the Groups shortand long-term How the Committee spent its time in 2017 incentive plans as they relate to executives, including the approval of awards, the setting of performance criteria, where applicable, During 2017, the Committee met nine times.
It fulfilled its and the determination of any vesting: responsibilities as set out in its terms of reference.
determining contractual notice periods and termination In particular, its work in 2017 and in the early part of 2018 has commitments and setting any retention and termination included: arrangements for executives: reviewing and determining any base salary adjustments for determining awards under the Groups all-employee share plan: executives: monitoring gender pay: and reviewing and determining threshold, target and determining the terms of service upon appointment and any outstanding targets for the safety and financial components of subsequent changes for the chairman and executives.
the 2017 Short-Term Incentive Plan STIP : The Committee takes account of the level of pay and conditions reviewing actual performance against the targets for the 2017 throughout the Group when determining executive remuneration.
STIP and assessing applicable adjustments: reviewing and determining the total shareholder return TSR The membership of the Committee and meeting attendances are outcome and the estimated EBIT margin outcome for PSA with a detailed in the Corporate Governance section on page 57. performance period ending 31 December 2017: The Committee is supported by executives and members of senior reviewing and determining LTIP grants for the executives in 2018: management who attend meetings to provide information as reviewing the terms of retirement for the chief financial officer requested by the Committee.
These included Jean-Sbastien Jacques Chris Lynch : chief executive, Vera Kirikova Group executive, Human Resources, John Beadle head of Performance & Reward, Victoria Hames acting determining the terms of appointment for the new Group Group company secretary from 20 August 2016 until 9 January 2017 executive, Legal Philip Richards and the new chief commercial officer Simon Trott : and Steve Allen Group company secretary from 9 January 2017.
None of the attendees mentioned above was present when matters considering the terms of the deferral agreement for Sam Walsh: associated with their own remuneration were considered by the reviewing the proposed Remuneration Policy: Committee.
The Committee will normally hold private sessions at committee meetings where no executives or managers are present.
reviewing the rules of the proposed 2018 Equity Incentive Plan: a UK and Australian remuneration figures are generally not comparable due to the different methodologies required to calculate various parts of the remuneration packages, most notably LTIP arrangements and the value of pension or superannuation.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information reviewing the strategy and annual reports on the Groups global Details of all executives external appointments can be found on page benefit plans: 55.
Note that neither of the executive directors currently has an reviewing progress towards compliance with the Groups share external directorship.
ownership requirements: Performance and impact on 2017 STIP determining the 2018 STIP targets: and Group financial and safety measures are included in the STIP for preparing the Remuneration Report including this executive directors and Group executives.
The STIP measures for the Implementation Report.
product group chief executive officers PGCEOs include product The performance targets for PSA granted under the LTIP and the group financial and safety measures in addition to the Group financial companys approach to establishing the performance targets under measures.
the STIP are detailed in the executive remuneration structure table Safety measures for all executives in 2017 were split between all on pages 73 to 75.
The Committees approach to the commercial injury frequency rate AIFR 30 per cent, lost time injuries LTIs sensitivity of certain targets is discussed below.
30 per cent and measures relating to the implementation of critical Performance review process for executives risk management CRM 40 per cent.
Our goal is zero harm, including, above all, the elimination of workplace fatalities.
Rio Tinto conducts an annual performance review process for all of its executives.
In the case of members of the Executive Committee, the The Committee selected the current financial measures of underlying chief executive conducts the review.
In the case of the chief executive, earnings and STIP free cash flow because they are based on KPIs his performance is assessed by the chairman of the board.
used in managing the business.
Underlying earnings gives insight to cost management, production The key objectives of the performance review process are to: growth and performance efficiency on a like-for-like basis.
We are improve organisational effectiveness by creating alignment focused on reducing operating costs, increasing productivity and between the executives objectives and Rio Tintos strategy: and generating maximum revenue from each of our assets.
A provide a consistent, transparent and balanced approach to reconciliation of net earnings losses to underlying earnings is measure, recognise and reward executive performance.
provided in note 2 Operating segments on page 133.
All such reviews took place in 2017 or early 2018.
STIP free cash flow is also an important measure to the business, demonstrating how we convert underlying earnings to cash.
It Share ownership policy for executives provides additional insight into how we are managing costs, increasing efficiency and productivity across the business.
STIP free The Group recognises the importance of aligning executives interests cash flow comprises net cash generated from operating activities less with those of shareholders and they are therefore expected to build purchases of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, up and maintain a material shareholding.
The Committee intends that plus sales of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, executives should aim to reach a share ownership defined below in adjusted to exclude dividends paid to holders of non-controlling Rio Tinto shares equivalent in value to: interests in subsidiaries and development capital expenditure.
Share ownership In measuring financial performance against the annual plan, half is requirement measured against the original plan, and half is flexed to exclude the Chief executive 4 x base salary impact of fluctuations in exchange rates, quoted metal and other Other executives 3 x base salary prices during the year, which are outside managements control.
Flexed financial targets are typically higher than the unflexed The Committee expects that this shareholding will be built up over a targets set by the board when commodity prices rise, as was the case five-year period by holding shares that vest under the LTIPs.
For new of 2017, and lower when commodity prices fall.
Actual underlying hires, longer periods may be accepted, given the five-year vesting earnings and STIP free cash flow results are compared against periods for the PSP.
equally weighted flexed and unflexed targets.
Shares will be treated as owned if they are not subject to Safety performance restriction, and as such include shares directly held by the executive Two people lost their lives while working at Rio Tinto managed and any shares where there is a beneficial interest.
A beneficial operations in 2017, which meant we did not achieve our goal interest includes any shares where the executive receives the benefit of zero fatalities.
of ownership such as a right to receive dividends without directly The Remuneration Committee sought guidance from the owning the shares.
Given its mandatory nature and the absence of Sustainability Committee on safety performance for 2017, as per our performance conditions, a value for unvested bonus deferred shares normal procedures.
Injury performance improved by 5 per cent with is included with a 50 per cent discount for the likely effects of an AIFR of 0.42 for 2017, against a rate of 0.44 in 2016.
A value for vested, but unexercised, share options is also against a target AIFR of 0.40 placing the result between threshold included, with a 50 per cent discount for the likely effects of taxation, and target.
on the basis that executives with unexercised vested options have a strong financial alignment with the share price and therefore with There were 199 lost time injuries in 2017 compared with 206 in 2016. shareholder interests.
This was against a target of 187, placing the result between threshold and target.
Shareholding requirements also exist for senior management below the Executive Committee.
It was the second year for inclusion of the CRM fatality prevention programme in the safety STIP metrics.
Good progress was made Details of executives beneficial interests in Rio Tinto shares are set during 2017.
All businesses were on track with implementation and out in table 2 on page 100 and the details of awards of shares and leadership participation was well above target.
Performance against options under long-term incentive plans are set out in table 3 on the CRM measures was assessed by the Sustainability Committee to pages 101 to 105. be between target and outstanding.
See page 68 of the Report from the Sustainability Committee.
Executives external and other appointments Executives may be invited to become non-executive directors of other companies.
It is Rio Tintos policy that such appointments can broaden the experience and knowledge of executives, to the benefit of the Group.
This policy limits each executives external appointment to one FTSE100 company directorship or equivalent.
Consequently, where there is no likelihood that such an appointment will give rise to a conflict of interest, the board will normally provide consent to the appointment.
The executive is typically permitted to retain any fees earned.
com 81 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Aggregate results Remuneration Report: The aggregate results for Group safety and financial measures are set Implementation Report continued out in the table below.
The outcomes for the executive directors, with commentary on key highlights on performance against individual The combined performance against our AIFR, LTI and CRM targets objectives, are provided on pages 84 and 86.
Additional details for meant that the Group achieved a STIP safety result equal to target.
other executives are provided on page 89.
One of the four product groups also achieved above target STIP safety results and three product groups achieved below target Result Weighted STIP safety results.
The total STIP safety result for the Group was Group measures Weight % % of result maximum 49.5 per cent of maximum.
a Group safety 20.0 49.5 9.9 However, reductions were applied as required for executives where a Underlying earnings 12.5 87.0 10.9 fatality has occurred.
Thus the safety results for the chief executive Underlying earnings flexed 12.5 48.0 6.0 and the chief financial officer were reduced from 49.5 per cent of STIP free cash flow 12.5 78.5 9.8 maximum to 37.0 per cent and 42.0 per cent of maximum STIP free cash flow flexed 12.5 54.5 6.8 respectively for the impact of the fatalities in 2017.
These Group financial 50.0 67.0 33.5 adjustments reflect the level of oversight they had for safety b leadership during the year.
Similarly there were downward Safety and financial measures 70.0 62.0 43.4 c adjustments made for certain other executives.
Individual measures 30.0 c Total 100.0 Group financial performance Highlights of our 2017 performance can be found on page 1 of this a This excludes the impact of adjustments for the fatalities in 2017 which vary by executive.
The table below provides details of performance b The weighted result represents the total Group safety and financial measures result as against our unflexed and flexed underlying earnings and STIP a percentage of maximum weighted based on the total STIP opportunity of 70 per cent free cash flow financial targets for 2017. allocated to the safety and financial measures.
This excludes the impact of adjustments for the fatalities in 2017 which vary by executive.
Unflexed Flexed Actual c The outcomes against individual measures and the total result for executives are Group measures target target result included in the following pages.
US$ US$ US$ STIP individual measures for 2017 Underlying earnings The individual measures which were set by the chairman for the chief Threshold 6.9b 8.2b executive and by the chief executive for other executives were based Target 7.7b 9.2b 8.6b on our five priorities: safety, people, cash, partnership and growth.
Outstanding 9.7b 11.8b Details of the outcomes against the individual measures are provided STIP free cash flow in the detailed sections relating to each executive director, and the Threshold 9.9b 10.9b Executive Committee.
Target 11.2b 12.6b 12.4b Outstanding 14.4b 16.7b Performance and impact on LTIP vesting outcome for the period ended 31 December 2017 The underlying unflexed earnings and STIP free cash flow results for the Group exceeded the targets set by the board and were As part of the transition from a four-year to a five-year performance between target and outstanding.
The underlying flexed period under the 2013 Performance Share Plan approved by earnings and the STIP free cash flow results were slightly below shareholders in 2013, half of the award granted on 27 May 2013 had target.
These outcomes are reflected in the financial component of a performance period ending after five years on 31 December 2017. the STIP awards, both at the Group and product group level.
The other half of the award had a performance period of four years which ended on 31 December 2016.
The conditional share awards These outcomes translate into a Group performance against the vest subject to the achievement of performance conditions, financial targets of 56 per cent of maximum.
comparing Rio Tintos performance against: One-third TSR relative to the Euromoney Global Mining Index: In making its year-end determination of STIP awards, the Committee seeks to ensure that actual performance is directly comparable to the One-third TSR relative to the MSCI World Index: and targets set at the beginning of the year.
This results in the Committee One-third improvement in EBIT margin relative to global mining making adjustments to the targets to take account of events outside comparators.
managements control and to ensure a like-for-like comparison.
Both Performance against the TSR measures has been calculated by upward and downward adjustments were made to the targets by Willis Towers Watson.
Rio Tinto outperformed the Euromoney reference to principles agreed by the Committee, which have Global Mining Index by 34.0 per cent for the five-year performance been consistently applied over several years, to ensure the period starting 1 January 2013 and ending on 31 December 2017. outcomes are fair.
This equated to an outperformance of 6.0 per cent per annum which The most significant adjustment in 2017 related to the impact on iron is the level of outperformance required for full vesting against this ore shipments of unfavourable weather conditions across northern index.
The vesting outcome against this index was therefore Western Australia in 2017 that significantly exceeded 2017 plan 100.0 per cent 33.33 per cent of the total award.
Other significant adjustments related to the disposal of of vesting against the MSCI World Index is nil as Rio Tinto Coal & Allied in September 2017, the strike in the non-managed underperformed this index.
operations in Escondida and a write-down of deferred tax assets in relation to the Grasberg operation.
This process increased the Groups result against the financial targets from 56 per cent to 67 per cent of maximum 2016: from 83.5 per cent to 83 per cent of maximum.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information The Committee considered the Groups overall performance in the Jean-Sbastien Jacques chief executive context of the PSA with a performance period ending on 31 December Single total figure of remuneration 2017 and concluded that the vesting of awards, based upon The table below provides a summary of actual remuneration in performance against the achievement of the TSR measures was respect of 2017 and prior years in accordance with UK legislation, justified and, as a consequence, this portion of the award vested on stated in pounds sterling, the currency of Jean-Sbastiens 19 February 2018. arrangements.
Performance against the improvement in EBIT margin measure stated in 000 2017 2016 2015 cannot be finalised until May 2018 due to the reporting timeframes for companies in the EBIT margin comparator group and the time Base salary paid 1,080 887 546 taken for the external source currently S&P Capital IQ to report the STIP payment cash 792 732 465 relevant data.
The estimated performance against the EBIT margin b STIP payment deferred shares 793 732 465 measure is that Rio Tinto ranked no.
3 against the comparator group Total short-term pay 2,665 2,351 1,476 of 11, which would result in a vesting of 90.98 per cent for this c Value of LTIP awards vesting 694 497 58 measure or 30.33 per cent of the total award.
The figures used are d Pension 269 225 130 adjusted compared to the headline figures disclosed by Rio Tinto and e Other benefits 58 43 31 the comparators to remove the impact of impairments.
S&P Capital Single total figure of remuneration 3,686 3,116 1,695 IQ provides figures with these adjustments already made and the Percentage change in total Committee has not made any additional adjustments.
Accordingly, remuneration 2017 versus 2016: there is no benefit afforded to Rio Tintos margin performance from 2016 versus 2015 18.3% 83.8% the impairments reported for the 2012 baseline year.
Percentage of total remuneration The estimated overall vesting of the PSA granted in 2013 with a provided as performance-related pay performance period ending 31 December 2017 is therefore 63.66 per STIP and LTIP 61.8% 62.9% 58.3% cent of face value.
The vesting of the EBIT margin portion of the Percentage of total remuneration award will be determined after the EBIT margin assessment has been provided as  completed and any EBIT margin portion of the award will therefore pay base salary, pension and other vest on 31 May 2018. benefits 38.2% 37.1% 41.7% f The value of PSA vesting included in the 2017 single total figure of Percentage of maximum STIP awarded 73.4% 82.4% 84.0% remuneration tables is therefore an estimate based on: Percentage of maximum STIP forfeited 26.6% 17.6% 16.0% the TSR portion of the award with estimated associated dividend Percentage of target STIP awarded 122.3% 139.9% 168.1% g equivalent shares which vested on 19 February 2018 based on Percentage of PSA vesting 63.7% 50.5% 65.4% g the fiveyear performance period to 31 December 2017: Percentage SOP award vesting an estimate of the vesting of the EBIT margin portion of the award The increase in the single total figure of remuneration is due mainly with estimated associated dividend equivalent shares based on to the higher base salary paid and the higher STIP award in 2017 the latest available EBIT margin ranking as at the date of this compared with 2016 due to 2017 being Jean-Sbastiens first full report: and year as chief executive.
The value of LTIP awards vesting was also the average share prices for Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited higher in 2017. over the last quarter of 2017 of 36.27 and A$71.11 respectively, a Salary paid in the financial year to 31 December.
Salaries are generally reviewed with as the market price of shares at the date on which all shares vest effect from 1 March.
However, in 2016 Jean-Sbastiens base salary was increased from is not ascertainable by the date on which the Remuneration 553,300 to 800,000 on appointment as deputy chief executive with effect from Report was approved by the directors.
17 March 2016 and increased to 1,080,000 on appointment as chief executive with effect from 2 July 2016.
The salary and single figure of remuneration for 2015 relates to his positions as chief executive, Copper & Coal for the period 1 March 2015 to The actual values associated with the vesting of PSA will be 31 December 2015 and as chief executive, Copper for the period 1 January 2015 to recalculated following the vesting of the EBIT margin portion of the 28 February 2015. award at the end of May 2018 based on the actual share prices on the b Value of STIP deferred, the vesting of which is subject to the Plan rules.
The estimated LTIP values will be restated, if c Based on the estimated value of the PSA, including dividend shares where applicable, applicable, in the 2018 Annual report.
which vested on 19 February 2018 TSR portion and which are anticipated to vest at the end of May 2018 EBIT margin portion for the performance period that ended Further details of the performance outcome for PSA for the period 31 December 2017 and the PSA which vested for the performance periods that ended 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015.
A total of 25,683 shares were granted under ended 31 December 2017 and in prior years, including a chart on TSR the 2013 PSP which had a performance period which ended on 31 December 2017.
It is performance against both the Euromoney Global Mining Index and estimated that a total of 19,126 shares, inclusive of an estimated 2,777 dividend shares the MSCI World Index, are provided on page 94. will vest.
The Rio Tinto plc share price used to calculate the estimated value of the award vesting with respect to 2017 is the average share price over the last quarter of 2017 of 36.27.
The performance conditions for awards vesting for the period ending 31 December 2017 are detailed in the notes to table 3 on page 104.
The estimated value of LTIP awards for 2016 included in the 2016 Annual report was 501,000 compared with the restated actual value of 497,000.
This was calculated based on an estimate of the vesting of the EBIT margin portion of the award of 100 per cent resulting in a total estimated vesting of 58.0 per cent.
The lower actual vesting of the EBIT margin portion of the award of 77.5 per cent, based on a rank of no.
3 against the comparator group of 11, resulted in a total actual vesting of 50.5 per cent.
The impact of the lower vesting level was offset by higher share prices at the time of vesting 36.18 for the TSR portion which vested on 20 February 2017 and 31.08 for the EBIT margin portion which vested on 31 May 2017 compared with the average share price over the last quarter of 2016 of 29.30 which was used to calculate the estimated value.
d Pension reflects the value of the pension contribution and payment in lieu of pension paid during the year.
e Includes healthcare, allowance for professional tax services and car allowance.
f The maximum potential STIP award is 200 per cent of base salary.
g Jean-Sbastien has received no awards under the Share Option Plan SOP.
com 83 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information STIP outcomes for 2017 Remuneration Report: The following table summarises the STIP outcomes for 2017.
Implementation Report continued Result Weighted Measures Weight % out of Base salary result maximum The Committee increased Jean-Sbastiens base salary by 2.8 per a Group safety 20.0 37.0 7.4 cent with effect from 1 March 2018, consistent with the salary budget a for other UK contracted employees in the Group.
Group financial 50.0 67.0 33.5 Safety and financial 70.0 58.4 40.9 a 2018 2017 % change Individual 30.0 67.5 20.3 Base salary stated in 000 1,110 1,080 2.8 Total 100.0 61.2 b STIP award % of maximum award a Base salary on appointment as chief executive, effective 2 July 2016.
No increase was 73.4 awarded effective 1 March 2017.
Total STIP award % of base salary 146.8 STIP individual objectives for 2017 a Refer to pages 81 and 82 for further details of Group safety and financial performance.
Jean-Sbastiens performance against his individual objectives is The Group safety result of 49.5 per cent of maximum has been reduced by 25 per cent to summarised below: 37.0 per cent of maximum for the impact of the fatalities in 2017. b Weighted result multiplied by 1.2x for executive directors.
Award levels are subject to an overriding maximum of 200 per cent of base salary.
Category Performance As a result, Jean-Sbastien received a STIP award of 1,585,008 Safety Demonstrated strong leadership and 2016: 1,464,146, which is 73.4 per cent of maximum 2016: commitment to the safety agenda.
82.4 per cent, and equivalent to 146.8 per cent of his base salary Fully embedded the CRM process across all 2016: 164.7 per cent, half to be delivered in cash in March 2018, operations, with a clear focus on verification and the remainder to be delivered in deferred shares, vesting in quality.
People Upgraded the Groups people capability, with a STIP measures for 2018 specific focus on commercial and technical The 2018 STIP measures and weightings are described on page 91 of talent.
Improved employee gender diversity and LTIP outcome for the period ended 31 December 2017 employee engagement, supported by Jean-Sbastien will receive an estimated 19,126 shares 2016: initiatives such as the global minimum 14,829 shares in Rio Tinto plc in 2018 from the vesting of the PSA parental leave policy.
The shares vesting is inclusive of an estimated 2,777 Improved the senior executive succession pool shares which is equal to the aggregate net dividends that would have and leadership development.
been paid on the shares that vest had he owned them during that Rolled out a refreshed purpose and values five-year period.
No dividends shares will be granted in respect of the statement to all employees and relaunched share awards that lapse.
The total estimated value of the PSA vesting The way we work.
for the performance period ending 31 December 2017, inclusive of the estimated dividend shares on the PSA granted in 2013, was Cash Embedded the mine to market productivity therefore 694,000 2016: 497,000. agenda.
Delivered US$2 billion cash cost savings over LTIP award granted in 2017 2016-17, as per previous commitments.
The details of Jean-Sbastiens 2017 LTIP award, which were previewed in the 2016 Remuneration Report, are summarised in the Net debt reduced by almost US$6 billion from following table.
Continued to optimise the Groups portfolio, End of the with a primary focus on Tier 1 assets.
Face value Face performance % vesting at Released cash from non-core assets where Type of of award value period over which Grant date threshold award % of base of award the performance appropriate eg thermal coal.
performance a salary 000 conditions have Partnership Protected and improved the licence to operate, b c to be fulfilled despite challenges in all key markets.
PSA 9 March 31 Dec Developed clear country strategies for all key 2017 400% 4,320 22.5% 2021 Tier 1 countries.
Improved the Groups reputation in key a The face value represents the maximum value of the award of 400 per cent of Jean-Sbastiens base salary of 1,080,000 and resulted in a total award of 184,994 geographies.
conditional shares based on the average share price over 2016 of 23.352.
The Continued to develop strong relationships with expected value of the award is 50 per cent of the face value or 2,160,000. b The 2017 PSA may vest after five years in 2022. governments and other stakeholders, c The full performance conditions for the award are set out in detail in notes to table 3 on including the relationship with China.
On track to meet 24 per cent reduction in total LTIP award for 2018 GHG emissions intensity between 2008 and Jean-Sbastiens LTIP award in 2018 to be granted as a PSA will 2020. have a face value of 430 per cent of base salary and an expected Growth Safely delivered key projects eg Silvergrass value of 215 per cent of base salary.
The award may vest after five and AutoHaul.
years in 2023, subject to the Groups relative TSR performance.
The Continued to refine the pathway for the full performance conditions are set out in detail on page 90. long-term development of the Pilbara.
The number of conditional shares awarded as a PSA is calculated Further work continued on the growth pipeline, using the average share price over the previous calendar year and, as with a clear focus on Tier 1 potential projects.
such, 139,995 shares will be awarded in 2018 calculated using the 2017 average share price of 34.10.
The Committee, with input from the chairman of the board, assessed Jean-Sbastiens performance against his individual objectives as 67.5 per cent of maximum for his individual contribution to the business during the year.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Shareholding Australian workforce.
We have chosen a comparison to the Australian Jean-Sbastiens shareholding for the purposes of the share workforce because we employ more people in Australia than in any ownership policy, calculated using the market price of Rio Tinto other country approximately 40 per cent of the total workforce.
The shares on the latest practicable date each year before the date of rationale for the changes to the chief executives base salary, benefits publication of this report was: and annual incentive are reported in the single total figure of remuneration table.
31 December 31 December Increase in 2017 2016 shareholding Percentage Percentage Holding of ordinary shares 38,541 21,087 82.8% Percentage change in change in change in other annual Multiple of base salary 2.3 0.7 1.6 salary paid benefits incentive d paid paid The holding as at 31 December 2017 includes the value of unvested c Bonus Deferral Plan BDP awards.
Jean-Sbastien holds no options Chief executive 21.8% 34.9% 57.4% over Rio Tinto shares.
He has until 2021 to build up his ownership in Australian workforce 2.6% 3.5% 8.7% shares to four times his salary as chief executive.
a The percentage change in each element of remuneration for the workforce is calculated on a per capita basis using average employee numbers.
Pension b The percentage change in annual incentive compares amounts paid in 2017 with respect Jean-Sbastien is employed in the UK and is provided with pension to the 2016 performance year, to amounts paid in 2016 with respect to the 2015 benefits on a defined contribution basis on terms equivalent to other performance year.
Annual incentives for the workforce comprise a number of different short-term incentive arrangements.
UK employees as follows: c The increase in salary paid, other benefits paid and the annual incentive paid to the chief A pension contribution to a funded UK company pension executive was primarily due to Jean-Sbastiens higher base salary on appointment as arrangement of 25 per cent of 135,000, being the current chief executive in 2016.
The higher annual incentive paid was also due to the higher target STIP opportunity in 2016 compared with 2015 as a result of his appointment as maximum salary on which pension contributions are based under chief executive which was partly offset by a lower STIP result in 2016 of 164.7% of his that arrangement.
pro-rated base salary 2015: 168.1% due mainly to a lower safety outcome in 2016 compared with 2015.
A cash supplement equal to 25 per cent of the amount by which d The lower average annual incentive paid to the Australian workforce was due mainly to his base salary exceeded 135,000, less any applicable lower average business performance outcomes in 2016 compared with 2015. withholdings.
Chris Lynch chief financial officer Two changes were made to Jean-Sbastiens pension provision during the year: Single total figure of remuneration The table below provides a summary of actual remuneration in 1.
In line with other UK employees, Jean-Sbastien was permitted to respect of 2017 and prior years in accordance with UK legislation, reduce the companys pension contribution to a minimum of stated in pounds sterling, the currency of Chriss arrangements.
10,000 a year and to take the balance as a taxable cash allowance.
The gross cash allowance was reduced by the companys National stated in 000 2017 2016 2015 Insurance contribution payable on that cash allowance.
Under Australian Superannuation Guarantee legislation the STIP payment cash 615 717 690 company is required to pay superannuation contributions to an b STIP payment deferred shares 616 718 690 Australian superannuation fund in respect of Jean-Sbastiens Total short-term pay 2,084 2,271 2,214 working days in Australia.
The sterling equivalent of these c Value of LTIP awards vesting 1,407 1,008 0 superannuation contributions is offset against the UK cash d Pension 221 209 208 supplement paid to Jean-Sbastien.
e Other benefits 97 144 151 Jean-Sbastiens pension provision in 2017 was: Single total figure of remuneration 3,809 3,632 2,573 A UK pension contribution of 24,063 2016: 30,375.
Percentage change in total A gross cash allowance of 8,514 2016: Nil.
remuneration 2017 versus 2016: 2016 versus 2015 4.9% 41.2% A superannuation contribution to an Australian superannuation fund of A$9,916 2016: Nil in the period 1 July to 31 December Percentage of total remuneration 2017.
The sterling equivalent of 5,831 2016: Nil was offset provided as performance-related pay against the cash supplement.
STIP and LTIP 69.3% 67.3% 53.6% Percentage of total remuneration A cash supplement of 236,250 2016: 194,144, reduced to provided as  230,419 after the offset of the Australian superannuation pay base salary, pension and other contributions.
30.7% benefits 32.7% 46.4% Jean-Sbastiens total pension provision for 2017 was 268,827 f Percentage of maximum STIP awarded 71.9% 85.8% 82.5% 2016: 224,519.
Percentage of maximum STIP forfeited 28.1% 14.2% 17.5% Fees from external appointments Percentage of target STIP awarded 119.8% 143.0% 137.5% Jean-Sbastien received no fees from external appointments in 2017 g Percentage of PSA vesting 63.7% 50.5% or 2016. g Percentage SOP award vesting Service contract Positions held and date of appointment to position Positions held during 2017 Date of appointment to position Chief executive 2 July 2016 Jean-Sbastiens contract can be terminated by either party with 12 months notice in writing, or immediately by paying the base salary only in lieu of any unexpired notice.
Other Jean-Sbastien is not currently eligible for tax equalisation on his remuneration, cost of living or any other ongoing assignment benefits such as a housing allowance.
Chief executives pay and employee pay The table below compares the changes from 2016 to 2017, in salary, benefits and annual incentives paid for the chief executive and the 85 Annual report 2017 riotinto.
com 85 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information STIP outcomes for 2017 Remuneration Report: The following table summarises the STIP outcomes for 2017.
Implementation Report continued Result Weighted The increase in the single total figure of remuneration is due mainly to Measures Weight % out of result the higher value of LTIP awards vesting in 2017 compared with 2016, maximum a partly offset by the lower STIP award in 2017 compared with 2016.
Safety 20 42.0 8.4 a a Salary paid in the financial year to 31 December.
Salaries are generally reviewed with Group financial 50 67.0 33.5 effect from 1 March.
Chris received a 2.4 per cent salary increase effective 1 March 2017.
Safety and financial 70 59.9 41.9 b Value of STIP deferred, the vesting of which is subject to the Plan rules.
Individual 30 60.0 18.0 c Based on the estimated value of the PSA, including dividend shares, which vested on 19 February 2018 TSR portion and which are anticipated to vest at 31 May 2018 EBIT Total 100 59.9 margin portion for the performance period that ended 31 December 2017 and PSA b STIP award % of maximum award 71.9 which vested for the performance periods that ended 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015.
A total of 52,085 shares were granted under the 2013 PSP which Total STIP award % of base salary 143.8 had a performance period which ended on 31 December 2017.
It is estimated that a total of 38,790 shares, inclusive of an estimated 5,633 dividend shares will vest.
The Rio Tinto a Refer to pages 81 and 82 for further details of Group safety and financial performance.
plc share price used to calculate the estimated value of the award vesting with respect The Group safety result of 49.5 per cent of maximum has been reduced by 15 per cent to to 2017 is the average share price over the last quarter of 2017 of 36.27.
The 42.0 per cent of maximum for the impact of the fatalities in 2017. performance conditions for awards vesting for the period ending b Weighted result multiplied by 1.2x for executive directors.
Award levels are subject to an 31 December 2017 are detailed in the notes to table 3 on page 104. overriding maximum of 200 per cent of base salary.
The estimated value of the LTIP awards for 2016 included in the 2016 Annual report was 1,016,000 compared with the restated actual value of 1,008,000.
This was calculated As a result, Chris received a STIP award of 1,231,304 2016: based on an estimate of the vesting of the EBIT margin portion of the award of 100 per 1,435,262, which is 71.9 per cent of maximum 2016: 85.8 per cent, cent resulting in a total estimated vesting of 58.0 per cent.
The lower actual vesting of and equivalent to 143.8 per cent of base salary 2016: 171.6 per cent, the EBIT margin portion of the award of 77.5 per cent, based on a ranking of no.
The half to be delivered in cash in March 2018, and the remainder to be impact of the lower vesting level was offset by higher share prices at the time of vesting delivered in deferred shares, vesting in December 2020.
36.18 for the TSR portion which vested on 20 February 2017 and 31.08 for the EBIT margin portion which vested on 31 May 2017 compared with the average share price STIP measures for 2018 over the last quarter of 2016 of 29.30 which was used to calculate the estimated value.
The 2018 STIP measures and weightings are described on page 91 of d Pension reflects the value of the pension contribution and payment in lieu of pension paid during the year.
LTIP outcome for the period ended 31 December 2017 f The maximum potential STIP award is 200 per cent of base salary.
Chris will receive an estimated 38,790 shares 2016: 30,074 shares g Chris had no LTIP awards vest in respect of the performance periods that ended prior to in Rio Tinto plc in 2018 from the vesting of the PSA granted in 2013.
31 December 2016 as he received no LTIP awards prior to the award made in 2013.
He has received no awards under the SOP.
The shares vesting is inclusive of an estimated 5,633 shares which is equal to the aggregate net dividends that would have been paid on Base salary the shares that vest had he owned them during that five-year period.
Chriss base salary will remain unchanged in 2018.
No dividend shares will be granted in respect of the share awards that lapse.
The total estimated value of the PSA vesting for the 2018 2017 % change performance period ending 31 December 2017, inclusive of the Base salary stated in 000 856 856 estimated dividend shares on the PSA granted in 2013, was therefore STIP individual objectives for 2017 1,407,000 2016: 1,008,000.
Chriss performance against his individual objectives is summarised LTIP award granted in 2017 below: The details of Chriss 2017 LTIP award, which were previewed in the 2016 Remuneration Report, are summarised in the following table.
Category Performance Safety Supported progress in our safety agenda.
End of the Face value Face performance People Contributed to improved employee % vesting at Type of of award value period over which diversity both gender and nationality.
Grant date threshold award % of base of award the performance Actively sponsored our high potential performance a salary 000 conditions have talent conference.
b c to be fulfilled Engagement in roll out of purpose and PSA 9 March 31 Dec values statements and support to Audit 2017 400% 3,426 22.5% 2021 and Compliance committees.
a The face value represents the maximum value of the award and resulted in an award of Cash Liability management and rating agency 146,711 conditional shares based on the average share price over 2016 of 23.352.
expected value of the award is 50 per cent of the face value or 1,713,000.
Released cash from non-core assets b The 2017 PSA may vest after five years in 2022. where appropriate eg thermal coal.
c The full performance conditions for the award are set out in detail in notes to table 3 on Helped embed the mine to market page 104. productivity agenda.
LTIP award for 2018 Delivered US$2 billion cash cost savings On the basis that Chris will retire by the end of September 2018, he over 2016-17, as per previous will not receive an LTIP award in 2018. commitments.
Net debt reduced by almost US$6 billion from 2016.
Partnership Completed the implementation of the new shareholder return policy.
Continued to strengthen relationships with investors.
Growth Support provided to stock re-rating.
Further work on the growth pipeline, with a clear focus on Tier 1 potential projects.
The Committee, with input from the chief executive, assessed Chriss performance against his individual objectives as 60 per cent of maximum for his individual contribution to the business during the year.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Shareholding Fees from external appointments Chris received no fees from external appointments in 2017 or 2016.
Chriss shareholding for the purposes of the share ownership policy, calculated using the market price of Rio Tinto shares on the latest Service contract practicable date each year before the date of publication of this Positions held and date of appointment to position report was: Position held during 2017 Date of appointment to position 31 December 31 December Increase in Chief financial officer 18 April 2013 2017 2016 shareholding Chriss contract can be terminated by either party with 12 months Holding of ordinary shares 49,643 17,620 181.7% notice in writing, or immediately by paying the base salary only in lieu Multiple of base salary 3.7 0.8 2.9 of any unexpired notice.
The holding as at 31 December 2017 includes the value of unvested Other BDP awards.
Chris holds no options over Rio Tinto shares.
Chris is not eligible for tax equalisation on his remuneration, cost of living or any other ongoing assignment benefits such as a housing Pension allowance.
He is eligible for repatriation support to Australia at the Chris is employed in the UK and is provided with pension benefits end of his employment as per his service contract.
on a defined contribution basis on terms equivalent to other UK employees as follows: Retirement As previously announced, Chris will retire and leave the Group by the A pension contribution to a funded UK company pension arrangement end of September 2018.
Details of his retirement arrangements will of 25 per cent of 135,000, being the current maximum salary on be provided in the 2018 Report.
which pension contributions are based under that arrangement.
A cash supplement equal to 25 per cent of the amount by which his Past-director payments base salary exceeded 135,000, less any applicable withholdings.
As explained in the 2016 Annual report, a deed of deferral has been Two changes were made to Chriss pension provision during the year: entered into between the former chief executive, Sam Walsh and the 1.
In line with other UK employees, Chris was permitted to reduce company.
The parties have agreed to the deferral of Sams the companys pension contribution to a minimum of 10,000 a entitlements in good faith as the investigations concerning the year and to take the balance as a taxable cash allowance.
The Simandou project are at an early stage.
The principal provision of this gross cash allowance was reduced by the companys National deed is that the payment of the 2016 STIP award and of any Insurance contribution payable on that cash allowance.
outstanding LTIP awards including BDP and PSP awards which would have vested up to 2021 will be subject to a staged deferral.
Under Australian Superannuation Guarantee legislation the company is required to pay superannuation contributions to an Under this agreement, on 31 December 2018, Sam will receive 50 per Australian superannuation fund in respect of Chriss working days cent of the 2016 STIP award and 50 per cent of the LTIP awards in Australia, backdated to 2013.
The sterling equivalent of these which would otherwise have vested on or before 31 December superannuation contributions is offset against the UK cash 2018.
On 31 December 2020, Sam will receive the remaining 50 per supplement paid to Chris.
cent of the 2016 STIP award and the remaining 50 per cent of the LTIP awards which would have otherwise vested by 31 December Chriss pension provision in 2017 was: 2018, and any other LTIP awards which would have vested by A UK pension contribution of 26,015 2016: 33,750.
The payment of any of these awards is A cash allowance of 6,795 2016: Nil.
contingent on there being no information in connection with the Simandou matter which would justify the Remuneration Committee A superannuation contribution to an Australian superannuation making a determination to cancel, defer or reduce these awards.
fund of A$5,012 in the period 1 July to 31 December 2017.
The sterling equivalent of 2,933 was offset against the cash Sam was reimbursed for legal advisory services related to the supplement.
In addition, he received personal tax A superannuation contribution to an Australian superannuation compliance and other services in accordance with his contract of fund of A$60,656 for the period 1 March 2013 to 30 June 2017. employment.
The total gross cost of these services in 2017 was The sterling equivalent of 37,281 was offset against the cash 119,225. supplement.
Interest penalties and fees totalling A$14,274 As explained in the 2015 Annual report, during 2015, the UK tax 8,492 were also paid: these amounts were not offset against authorities completed a review of their interpretation of the UK USA the cash supplement.
In this context, they reviewed the UK tax returns A cash supplement of 179,538 2016: 175,350, reduced to of a number of Rio Tinto employees, including the former chief 139,324 after the offset of the Australian superannuation executive, Tom Albanese, in connection with foreign tax credits.
periods under review related to Toms service when he was on a tax equalised assignment to the UK, which was prior to his appointment Chriss total pension provision for 2017 was 220,840 2016: as chief executive.
The outcome of this review resulted in an assessment of additional UK tax for the 2004 05, 2005 06 and 2006 07 tax years.
It is noted that all tax returns were prepared and submitted in good faith, in line with best practice at the time and that neither the company nor Tom has failed in meeting their compliance obligations.
The final settlement for the additional UK tax and related professional fees to date for this matter, the payment of which on behalf of Tom is in accordance with our policies, was 221,377.
The company received a foreign tax refund from Tom in relation to this matter in October 2017 in the amount of US$265,000 200,000.
com 87 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Details of each element of remuneration and the single total figure of Remuneration Report: remuneration paid to the chairman and non-executive directors Implementation Report continued during 2017 and 2016 are set out in US dollars in table 1b on page 99.
No post-employment, termination payments or share-based What we paid our chairman and non-executive payments were made.
Where the payment of statutory minimum directors superannuation contributions for non-executive directors is required by Australian superannuation law, these contributions are deducted Positions held from the directors overall fee entitlements.
Details of the non-executive directors who held office during 2017 are set out below.
Each non-executive director held office for the whole of The total fee and allowances payments made to the chairman and 2017 unless otherwise indicated.
Years of appointment for each non-executive directors in 2017 are within the maximum aggregate non-executive director are included in the section headed board of annual amount of 3 million set out in the Groups constitutional directors on pages 52 to 54. documents approved by shareholders at the 2009 AGMs.
Name Title Terms of appointment of the incoming chairman Jan du Plessis Chairman Simon Thompson, on his appointment to chairman on 5 March 2018, Robert Brown Non-executive director to 4 May 2017 Megan Clark Non-executive director will receive the same base fee as his predecessor, Jan du Plessis.
David Constable Non-executive director from 10 February 2017 Share ownership policy for non-executive directors Ann Godbehere Non-executive director The board adopted a policy in 2006 whereby non-executive directors Simon Henry Non-executive director from 1 April 2017 are encouraged to build up a shareholding within three years of their Sam Laidlaw Non-executive director from 10 February 2017 appointment equal in value to one years base fee.
Details of Anne Lauvergeon Non-executive director to 4 May 2017 non-executive directors share interests in the Group, including total Michael LEstrange Non-executive director holdings, are set out in table 2 on page 100.
Paul Tellier Non-executive director Simon Thompson Non-executive director Non-executive directors share ownership John Varley Non-executive director to 20 June 2017 The non-executive directors shareholdings, calculated using the market price of Rio Tinto shares on the latest practicable date before On 15 February 2018, the board announced the appointment of Moya the date of publication of this report were: Greene as an independent non-executive director.
Moya will join Rio Tinto during the second half of 2018 and her start date will be Share ownership level Share ownership level announced in due course.
Director at 31 December 2017 at 31 December 2016 as a multiple of base fee as a multiple of base fee Annual fees payable Jan du Plessis 1.7 1.5 The table below sets out the annual fees paid in 2017 and 2016 and Megan Clark 1.9 1.4 the annual fees payable in 2018 to the chairman and the nonDavid Constable 0.5 executive directors.
Ann Godbehere 1.3 1.3 Simon Henry 0.0 2018 2017 2016 Sam Laidlaw 3.2 Director fees Michael LEstrange 1.2 0.9 Chairmans fee 730,000 730,000 730,000 Paul Tellier 11.0 10.3 Non-executive director base fee 95,000 95,000 90,000 Simon Thompson 3.2 3.0 Non-executive director base fee for Australian residents 105,000 105,000 90,000 In some cases, the value of the shares and the multiple of base fee as Senior independent director 45,000 40,000 40,000 at 31 December 2017 is higher than the multiple reported as at Committee fees 31 December 2016 due to the higher share prices.
Audit Committee chairman 40,000 40,000 35,000 What we paid our other Executive Committee Audit Committee member 25,000 20,000 20,000 members and why Remuneration Committee chairman 35,000 35,000 30,000 Remuneration Committee member 20,000 15,000 15,000 Base salary Sustainability Committee chairman 35,000 35,000 30,000 The Committee has reviewed the base salary levels for the Executive Sustainability Committee member 20,000 15,000 15,000 Committee and has made adjustments in line with the base salary Nominations Committee member 7,500 7,500 7,500 budgets applying to the broader employee population.
Meeting allowances Stated in 000 2018 2017 % change Long distance flights over 10 hours Bold Baatar 524 510 2.8 per journey 10,000 10,000 10,000 Alfredo Barrios C$1,004 C$986 1.8 Medium distance flights of 5-10 hours Joanne Farrell A$846 A$825 2.5 per journey 5,000 5,000 5,000 Vera Kirikova 411 400 2.8 The chairmans fee is determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Stephen McIntosh A$1,010 A$985 2.5 This fee remains unchanged, having last been increased on 1 July Simone Niven 411 400 2.8 2013.
All other fees are subject to review by the board on the a Philip Richards 463 450 2.8 recommendation of the Chairmans Committee.
Chris Salisbury A$1,010 A$985 2.5 A review of non-executive fees was conducted in November 2017.
Arnaud Soirat 524 510 2.8 Following this review, it was determined that the senior independent b Simon Trott S$925 director fee and the fees for the members of each of the Audit, Remuneration and Sustainability Committees should be increased a Base salary on appointment to the Executive Committee, effective 2 April 2017. with effect from 1 January 2018, as set out in the table above.
The b Base salary on appointment to the Executive Committee, effective 1 January 2018. fees that have been increased have been unchanged since 1 January 2012.
The other fees and travel allowances remain unchanged.
The additional 10,000 allowance for Australian directors is to compensate them for the additional payments they are required to make regarding UK National Insurance contributions which, unlike directors based in other jurisdictions, they are not able to offset against their local tax payments.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information STIP objectives and outcomes for 2017 LTIP outcomes for the period ended 31 December 2017 Executives will receive shares in Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited as Overview of STIP weightings and measures for 2017 applicable in 2018 from the vesting of PSA granted in 2013.
All The following table provides an overview of the measures and executives who were granted these awards will also receive additional weightings used to determine STIP awards for members of the shares equal to the aggregate net dividends that would have been Executive Committee in 2017: paid on the PSA shares that vested had they owned them during the five-year performance period.
No dividends will be paid in respect of Weighting for executive Weighting for the share awards that lapse.
directors and PGCEOs Group executives An estimate of the total value of PSA that will vest is included in the single total figure of remuneration.
The actual PSA values will be Safety split between AIFR, LTIs recalculated following the vesting of the EBIT margin portion of the and CRM implementation award at the end of May 2018 based on the actual share prices on the adjusted for fatalities 20 % 20% date of vesting 31 May 2018.
The estimated PSA values will be Financial measures split equally restated, if applicable, in the 2018 Annual report.
between underlying earnings and Further details of the performance outcome for PSA with a STIP free cash flow for the Group 50 % 20% performance period that ended on 31 December 2017 are provided Financial measures split equally on page 94 and pages 101 to 105. between underlying earnings and STIP free cash flow for the LTIP awards granted in 2017 The maximum potential value of PSA granted in 2017 was 438 per relevant product group 0 % 30% cent of base salary.
The Committee decided that the PSA granted in Individual measures based on key 2017 would have a face value of awards as shown in the table below.
strategic initiatives of each role The eventual value of the award will depend on the Groups relative and contribution to overall TSR and relative EBIT margin performance during the years 2017- company performance 30 % 30% 2021.
The 2017 PSA may vest after five years in 2022, subject to the Groups performance against the relative TSR and relative EBIT The Group safety result was 49.5 per cent of maximum and the margin measures.
The performance conditions for the awards granted average performance against safety goals for individual Executive in 2017 are set out below.
Committee members, excluding the impact of adjustments for the The performance conditions for PSA granted between 2013 and 2017 fatalities in 2017, was below target.
The expected value of the awards made from 2013 is Average performance against the individual product group financial equal to 50 per cent of the face value.
The percentage vesting at goals was above target.
threshold performance is 22.5 per cent.
The 2017 award will vest after five years in 2022, subject to the Groups performance against The individual performance of Executive Committee members who the relative TSR and relative EBIT margin measures.
are not executive directors was reviewed by the Committee against For the TSR component constituting two-thirds of the award, where these measures and, on average, was considered above target.
This TSR performance is measured against both the Euromoney Global reflected, among other things, achievement of the cost reduction and Mining Index and the broader market of large global companies as working capital targets set for 2017 and the progress against our measured through the MSCI World Index, the award will vest as follows: asset portfolio, growth, people and partnership agendas.
Outperformance of the index by The 2017 STIP awards are detailed in the table below.
6 per cent per annum 1.0 x award vests Performance between equal to the Proportionate vesting between 2017 STIP award 2017 STIP award a % of salary 000s index and 6 per cent outperformance 0.225 x and 1.0 x vesting Bold Baatar 107.3% 547 Performance equal to the index 0.225 x award vests Alfredo Barrios 135.4% C$1,335 Performance less than the index Nil vesting Joanne Farrell 119.3% A$984 For the EBIT margin measure, change in the EBIT margin of Rio Tinto Vera Kirikova 116.8% 467 and each of the comparator companies measured on a point-toStephen McIntosh 116.8% A$1,150 point basis using the last financial year in the performance period Simone Niven 124.3% 497 and the financial year prior to the start of the performance period a will be calculated using independent third-party data.
Vesting will be Philip Richards 116.8% 395 subject to Rio Tintos interpolated ranking position using the Chris Salisbury 131.5% A$1,295 following schedule: Arnaud Soirat 91.9% 469 nd Equal to or greater than 2 ranked a STIP award for the period 2 April 2017 to 31 December 2017.
1.0 x award vests company b Results out of 200% have been rounded to one decimal place in the above table and th nd Between the 5 and 2 ranked Proportionate vesting STIP awards have been rounded to the nearest thousand units.
As the actual STIP awards do not use rounding conventions, small rounding variances may occur.
companies between 0.225 x and 1.0 x vesting Detailed commentary on the performance of each product group is th Above the 6 ranked company 0.225 x award vests provided in the Annual report on pages 38 to 47.
The average overall th Equal to the 6 ranked company or Nil vesting performance of Executive Committee members who are not executive below directors was adjudged by the Committee to be above target.
The 2017 comparator group unchanged from 2016 for the EBIT margin measure is: Alcoa, Antofagasta, Anglo American, Barrick Gold, BHP Billiton, Freeport McMoRan, Fortescue, Glencore, Teck Resources and Vale.
Alcoa Corporation remains a logical comparator for Rio Tinto following the demerger of Alcoa Inc. into Alcoa Corporation and Arconic.
The data sourced from S&P Capital IQ for the 2012 baseline year is based on the historical Alcoa Inc. results as the 2012 baseline data for Alcoa Corporation and Arconic are not available in the S&P Capital IQ database.
Accordingly, Alcoa Inc. could not be substituted with Alcoa Corporation.
The Alcoa Inc. 2012 baseline and an aggregate of the Alcoa Corporation and Arconic results have been used for the EBIT margin comparator group for the 2013 PSP.
For the 2014 to 2017 PSP awards, the Alcoa EBIT margin will be based on Alcoa Corporation.
This affords no benefit to participants as a result of the Alcoa Inc. demerger.
com 89 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Share ownership Remuneration Report: The following table illustrates the executive share ownership level for current members of the Executive Committee in office at Implementation Report continued 31 December 2017 as a multiple of salary as at the same date.
LTIP awards for 2018 The Committee has determined that LTIP awards for 2018 to be Share ownership granted as PSA will have a face value as shown in the table below.
level at 31 December 2017 The award levels have been set to incentivise executives to meet the as a multiple of base pay long-term strategic goals of the Group, to provide retention and to Bold Baatar 1.1 contribute towards the competitiveness of the overall remuneration Alfredo Barrios 1.7 package.
Joanne Farrell 4.2 Consistent with our practice since 1998, the awards made are Vera Kirikova 0.4 calculated using the average share price over the previous calendar Stephen McIntosh 2.0 year, in order to mitigate the impact of short-term volatility in the Simone Niven 0.5 share price.
As such, the awards granted in 2018 will be calculated using the 2017 average share prices for Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Philip Richards 0.0 Limited of 34.10 and A$65.23 respectively.
Chris Salisbury 2.3 Arnaud Soirat 1.7 The average face value of awards to be made to Executive Committee members in 2018, excluding the executive directors, is 386 per cent The share ownership level is calculated using the market price of of base salary 2017: 391 per cent of salary.
Rio Tinto shares on the latest practicable date each year before the Maximum value date of publication of this report.
The definition of share ownership is Percentage of 1 March base salary 2018 2017 set out on page 81.
The recent vesting of the 2013 PSP has increased the multiples noted above for several executives.
Bold Baatar 410 390 Alfredo Barrios 375 390 All current executives who were employed as at 31 December 2016 Joanne Farrell 375 390 have increased their holding of ordinary shares during 2017, and are Vera Kirikova 375 390 making progress towards their ownership requirements.
The value of the shares, and options if applicable, has also increased due to the Stephen McIntosh 375 390 higher share prices.
Simone Niven 410 390 a Philip Richards 375 400 Post-employment benefits Chris Salisbury 410 Executives may participate in pension, superannuation and post- 390 employment medical and life insurance benefits, which are typically Arnaud Soirat 375 390 offered to the broader employee population in similar locations.
Simon Trott 375 Average 386 391 Service contracts All other executives have service contracts which can be terminated a The actual award for 2017 was calculated on a pro rata basis to reflect Philips Group by the company with 12-months notice in writing, and by the start date of 2 April 2017 resulting in a pro-rated award of 300% face value.
employee with six-months notice in writing, or immediately by The performance conditions for the PSA to be granted under the EIP the company by paying the base salary only in lieu of any from 2018, which will be considered by shareholders at the 2018 unexpired notice.
The expected value of the awards made Positions held and date of appointment to position from 2018 is equal to 50 per cent of the face value.
The percentage vesting at threshold performance is 22.5 per cent.
The 2018 award Date of appointment will vest after five years in 2023, subject to the Groups performance Name Position s held during 2017 to position against the relative TSR measures.
Other executives TSR performance is measured equally against the Euromoney Global Bold Baatar Chief executive, 1 December 2016 Mining Index and the MSCI World Index and the award will vest as Energy & Minerals follows: Alfredo Barrios Chief executive, 1 June 2014 Outperformance of the index by Aluminium 6 per cent per annum 1.0 x award vests Joanne Farrell Group executive, 2 July 2016 Performance between equal to the Proportionate vesting between Health, Safety & index and 6 per cent outperformance 0.225 x and 1.0 x vesting Environment Performance equal to the index 0.225 x award vests Performance less than the index Nil vesting Vera Kirikova Group executive, 1 January 2017 Human Resources Stephen McIntosh Group executive, 2 July 2016 Growth & Innovation Simone Niven Group executive, 1 January 2017 Corporate Relations Philip Richards Group executive, 2 April 2017 Legal Chris Salisbury Chief executive, 2 July 2016 Iron Ore Arnaud Soirat Chief executive, 2 July 2016 Copper & Diamonds 90 90 riotinto.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information The standalone measure for fatality will be assessed as follows: STIP measures, weightings and targets for 2018 If a fatality occurs, there is no payment made in relation to this As in 2017, the STIP measures and weightings for executive directors measure: and executives will be 50 per cent for financial, 30 per cent for An outcome of outstanding is paid if no fatality occurs: and individual and 20 per cent for safety measures.
The individual The metric will apply equally across all executives, regardless of targets include objectives relating to safety, people, cash, partnership and growth.
the location of any fatality.
The financial and individual targets which have been set for 2018 are For the AIFR measure, target performance for the Group has been regarded by the board to be commercially sensitive.
As such, the set at a 10.5 per cent improvement compared with the actual specific targets for these measures, and the performance against outcome for 2017 which is the threshold number for calculation purposes.
Outstanding performance has been set at twice the them, are expected to be described retrospectively in the 2018 Implementation Report.
The Group financial targets relate to target improvement.
underlying earnings and STIP free cash flow.
The Group-wide deployment of CRM was completed in 2017 and the The safety measures, weightings and targets for 2018 are metrics for CRM will focus on implementation maturity and outlined below.
leadership participation, with equal weighting to each.
Implementation maturity will be assessed using the same approach 2018 safety measures, weightings and targets as in 2017.
Each site will be assessed using an evaluation tool which Following consultation with shareholders, the safety measures for all contains 15 individual elements, over three categories: systems, executives for 2018 will be amended to include a standalone binary people, and processes.
The criteria for the elements use a fatality measure 40 per cent, with the remainder split between AIFR combination of quantitative and qualitative dimensions.
A core 30 per cent and measures relating to CRM 30 per cent.
The 2018 element of the success of CRM is for all leaders on an ongoing basis safety element of the STIP therefore has a much greater overall focus to verify that controls are correct, in place and effective.
The 2017 CRM metrics have driven a strong focus on this through setting targets for the number of critical control verifications being conducted.
For 2018, we will continue with the leadership participation metric as a base, and change the focus from quantity of verification to quality, using identification of non-compliances as the metric.
com 91 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information TSR US$ - Rio Tinto Group vs Euromoney Global Mining Remuneration Report: and MSCI World Indices Total return basis Index 2012 100 Implementation Report continued 200 180 Long-term incentives vesting outcomes for the period ended 31 December 2017 160 140 The table below summarises the outcomes for PSA granted on 27 May 2013 which had a five year performance period which commenced on 120 1 January 2013 and ended on 31 December 2017.
100 2013 PSA 80 60 1 January 2013 Performance period 5 years 31 December 2017 40 Rio Tinto TSR 5.8% 20 0 Euromoney MSCI 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Global World Rio Tinto Group Euromoney Global Mining Index MSCI World Index Index Comparator index Mining Index TSR 28.1% 72.7% The methodology used to calculate the starting share prices for TSR Outperformance per annum 6.0% 19.8% comparison purposes, for Rio Tinto and the index, was the 12-month Vesting against index 100.0% 0% average prior to the commencement of the performance period.
Contribution to overall vesting 33.33% 0% The period used in the methodology to calculate the ending share Vesting date for TSR portion of prices for TSR comparison purposes, for Rio Tinto and the index, was award: 19 February 2018 the last 12 months of the performance period.
The usual conventions EBIT margin were also applied to set the number of shares awarded, based upon Rank against the comparator group the prior-year average share price.
rd estimate 3 The table below summarises the average vesting of performance Vesting against EBIT Margin shares for executive directors since 2014.
The estimated outcome for measure estimate 90.98% the 2013-2016 performance period reported in the 2016 Annual Contribution to overall vesting report of 58.0 per cent has been restated with the actual outcome of estimate 30.33% 50.5 per cent.
The overall vesting level for the 2013-2017 Anticipated vesting date for EBIT performance period is an estimate based on the estimated EBIT margin portion of award: 31 May margin outcome.
2018 Overall vesting % of % of shares maximum % of shares vesting estimate 63.66% Performance period Vesting year vested shares vested % of shares forfeited estimate 36.34% 2010-2013 2014 75.0 50.0 The EBIT margin data provided by S&P Capital IQ is based on forecast 2011-2014 2015 73.5 49.0 full year 2017 comparator company performance as at January 2018.
2012-2015 2016 65.4 43.6 S&P Capital IQ applies a consistent approach across all companies, 2013-2016 2017 50.5 50.5 including the treatment of determining unusual transactions, which can 2013-2017 2018 63.7 63.7 lead to a variation between the S&P Capital IQ data when compared Average vesting 65.6 51.4 with published results for Rio Tinto and comparator companies.
The Share Option Plan SOP ceased operation for new awards from 2013.
The performance conditions for PSA are included in the notes to No awards of share options have been made since 2012. table 3 on page 104.
The graph to the right shows Rio Tintos TSR performance for awards Management Share Plan awards granted under the under the 2013 Performance Share Plan.
The Although executives are not eligible to receive Management Share methodology used for this graph is consistent with the methodology Awards MSA under the Management Share Plan MSP after their used to calculate the vesting for the PSA granted in 2013 with a appointment as executives, Bold Baatar, Joanne Farrell, Vera Kirikova, performance period that ended on 31 December 2017.
Stephen McIntosh, Simone Niven, Chris Salisbury and Arnaud Soirat received grants prior to their appointments as executives.
Plan period that ended 20 Plan period February 2017 17 March 2014 20 Vesting period February 2017 % of shares vested 100% % of shares forfeited 94 94 riotinto.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information The graph has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of TSR Schedule 8 of the UK Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Relative TSR against the Euromoney Global Mining Index and the MSCI Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended and is not an World Index represents two-thirds of the performance measures used to indication of the likely vesting of awards granted under the 2013 determine the vesting of awards made under the 2013 Performance Performance Share Plan.
The remaining third is based on the improvement in EBIT Five years of TSR performance were presented when this report was margin relative to the comparator group.
Rio Tintos TSR relative to the first prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 and this will relevant index over the performance period has a direct impact on the progressively increase to ten years of TSR performance in the fifth levels of shares that vest.
year of this report being prepared in accordance with Schedule 8.
The effect of this performance on the value of shareholdings, as The executive remuneration structure policy table on pages 73 to 75 measured by TSR delivered over the past five years, based on the provides further details of the performance conditions for PSA to be sum of dividend paid and share price movements during each granted from 2018.
The performance conditions for PSA granted calendar year, is detailed in the table.
between 2013 and 2017 are provided in the notes to table 3 on page 104.
The approach used to weight the two Rio Tinto listings, and produce a Group TSR gure is consistent with the 100 methodology used for the 2013 Performance Share Plan.
50 The graph to the right illustrates the TSR performance of the Group 0 against the Euromoney Global Mining Index and the MSCI World Index 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 over the past nine years to the end of 2017.
These two indices are used Rio Tinto Group Euromoney Global Mining Index MSCI World Index to assess Rio Tintos relative TSR performance for PSA granted in 2013.
Chief executives remuneration summary Long-term incentive Long-term incentive Annual STIP award vesting against vesting against Single total gure of against maximum maximum opportunity maximum opportunity a b c c Year Chief executive remuneration 000 opportunity SOP PSA 2009 Tom Albanese 3,516 54.1% 0.0% 26.4% 2010 Tom Albanese 4,512 87.8% 0.0% 24.3% 2011 Tom Albanese 4,256 0.0% 100.0% 0.0% 2012 Tom Albanese 4,040 0.0% 100.0% 61.7% 2013 Tom Albanese 53 0.0% d Sam Walsh A$9,993 72.1% 50.0% d 2014 Sam Walsh A$10,476 88.4% 49.0% d 2015 Sam Walsh A$9,141 81.9% 43.6% 2016 Sam Walsh A$1,657 e Jean-Sbastien Jacques 3,116 82.4% 50.5% 2017 Jean-Sbastien Jacques 3,686 73.4% 63.7% a Tom Albanese held the role of chief executive until 17 January 2013, and left the Group on 16 July 2013.
The single total figure of remuneration for Tom Albanese for 2013 is for the period up until 17 January 2013.
Sam Walsh took over as chief executive from 17 January 2013, having previously been the chief executive, Iron Ore and Australia.
The single total gure of remuneration for Sam Walsh for 2016 is for the period up until 1 July 2016.
Jean-Sbastien Jacques took over as chief executive on 2 July 2016, having previously been the chief executive, Copper & Coal.
b In 2011 and 2012, Sam Walsh elected to receive his full LTIP awards under the PSP and as a result he has no options under the SOP that were granted in 2011 or 2012 and which had performance periods that ended on 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2014 respectively.
The SOP ceased operation from 2013 and LTIP awards from 2013 have been made under the PSP.
c All outstanding but unvested LTIP awards earned in previous years lapsed and were forfeited when Tom Albanese left the Group.
d As explained in the superannuation section for Sam Walsh in the 2016 Annual report, a correction was made to the superannuation values included in the single total gure of remuneration from 2012 and the single total gure of remuneration values have been restated accordingly in this summary.
The previous single total gure of remuneration values were: 2013: A$10,070: 2014: A$10,414 and 2015: A$9,125.
e The 2016 single total gure of remuneration for Jean-Sbastien Jacques reported in the 2016 Annual report was 3,120 based on the estimated vesting of the 2013 PSA of 58.0 per cent.
The restated 2016 single total gure of remuneration is 3,116 based on the actual vesting of the 2013 PSA of 50.5 per cent.
com 95 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information awards by market purchase, this cap does not currently apply.
Remuneration Report: However, Rio Tinto would be in compliance with this guideline.
Implementation Report continued All other share awards are satisfied by the use of shares which are purchased in the market.
Further information in respect of the share Employee share plans plan arrangements and outstanding balances under each plan can be Management Share Plan MSP found in note 43 to the financial statements.
The primary focus of the MSP is to support the Groups ability to Shareholder voting attract and retain key staff below executive level in an increasingly tight and competitive labour market.
Executives are not eligible to The table below sets out the results of the remuneration-related participate in the MSP.
resolutions approved at the Groups 2017 AGMs.
Our meetings with shareholders in 2017 were well attended and provided an opportunity Retention of key individuals is also important given the long-term for the Remuneration Committee chairman to discuss remuneration nature of the delivery of the business strategy.
MSP awards are related topics with shareholders, particularly matters relating to the conditional awards not subject to a performance condition as they refreshed Remuneration Policy.
It also includes the results from the vest subject to continued employment, at the end of three years, and last vote on the Approval of the Remuneration Policy Report in 2015. thus act as an effective retention tool.
Shares to satisfy the awards are purchased in the market and no new shares are issued.
Total votes Votes Votes a All employee share plans Resolution cast Votes for against withheld Executives may participate in broad-based share and share option Approval of the plans which are available to Group employees generally and for which Directors Report performance conditions do not apply.
These plans form part of on Remuneration standard remuneration practice whereby employees are offered and Remuneration Committee participation in plans to encourage alignment with the long-term chairmans letter 1,222,899,687 1,129,958,024 92,941,663 35,076,929 performance of the Group.
92.4% 7.6% Global Employee Share Plan Approval of the The Committee believes that all employees should be given the Remuneration Report 1,233,532,899 1,132,204,096 101,328,803 24,441,482 opportunity to become shareholders in our business.
A global 91.8% 8.2% employee share purchase plan is normally offered to all eligible Approval of employees across the world save for any local jurisdictional potential restrictions and excluding contractors.
Under the plan, employees termination may acquire shares up to the value of US$5,000 or equivalent in benefits 1,255,730,952 1,226,592,667 29,138,285 2,245,979 other currencies per year, capped at ten per cent of base salary.
97.7% 2.3% Each share purchased will be matched by the company providing the Approval of participant holds the shares, and remains employed, at the end of the Remuneration three-year vesting period.
The Committee believes this plan will serve Policy Report to engage, retain and motivate employees over the long term.
a A vote withheld is not a vote in law, and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes for and against the resolution.
Dilution Relative spend on remuneration Awards under the SOP, the 2013 Performance Share Plan, the 2018 EIP and all employee plans other than the MSP may be satisfied The table below sets out the details of total remuneration paid: by, in the case of Rio Tinto plc, treasury shares or the issue of new distributions to shareholders: purchase of property, plant and shares or the purchase of shares in the market and in the case equipment and intangible assets, and tax paid during the financial of Rio Tinto Limited by the issue of new shares or the purchase year.
The items in addition to remuneration paid were chosen by the of shares in the market.
directors as they represent other significant disbursements of the In the UK, the Investment Association has issued corporate companys funds.
governance guidelines in relation to the amount of new shares which Difference in may be issued having regard to the total issued share capital.
These Stated in US$m 2017 2016 spend guidelines provide that the rules of a scheme must provide that a Remuneration paid 4,765 4,881 116 commitments to issue new shares or reissue treasury shares, when b Distributions to shareholders 6,333 2,725 3,608 aggregated with awards under all of a companys other schemes, Purchase of property, plant and must not exceed ten per cent of the issued ordinary share capital c equipment and intangible assets 4,482 3,012 1,470 adjusted for share issuance and cancellation in any rolling ten-year c period.
Furthermore, commitments to issue new shares or reissue Corporate income tax paid 2,307 1,521 786 treasury shares under executive discretionary schemes should not a Total employment costs for the financial year as per note 5 to the financial statements.
exceed five per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of a company b Distributions to shareholders include equity dividends paid to owners of Rio Tinto and adjusted for share issuance and cancellation in any rolling ten-year own shares purchased from owners of Rio Tinto as per the Group cash flow statement.
This may be exceeded where vesting is dependent on the c Purchase of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, and corporate income tax paid during the financial year are as per the Group cash flow statement and are achievement of significantly more stretching performance criteria.
calculated as per note 1 to the financial statements.
Rio Tinto plc is in compliance with these guidelines.
As at 31 December 2017 these limits had not been exceeded.
Gender pay In Australia, as a condition of relief from prospectus requirements, The companys statement on pay equity, in the context of our overall the Australian Securities and Investments Commission has imposed a approach to diversity and inclusion, is set out on page 37 of the cap on the issue of shares to employees of five per cent of issued Annual report and on the companys website.
An additional voluntary capital during a three-year period.
As Rio Tinto Limited satisfies disclosure on UK gender pay reporting is set out on the companys website.
com Annual report 2017 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Remuneration Report: Implementation Report continued Table 1a Executives remuneration continued Long-term benefits f i Value of share-based awards Post-employment benefits Other postCurrency Pension and employment Termination Total of actual h j Stated in US$000 a BDP PSP MSP SOP Others superannuation benefits benefits remuneration payment Executive directors Jean-Sbastien Jacques 2017 750 815 9 39 4,452 2016 612 1,316 9 41 4,398 Chris Lynch 2017 881 555 5 96 3,777 2016 874 2,013 5 46 5,384 Other key management personnel Bold Baatar 2017 183 284 99 1 20 2,055 2016 13 14 12 3 661 Alfredo Barrios 2017 466 326 3 20 2,521 C$ 2016 340 736 2 20 2,731 C$ Joanne Farrell 2017 210 241 123 4 127 2,139 A$ 2016 84 70 79 2 73 860 A$ Vera Kirikova 2017 95 223 34 6 11 1,331 Stephen McIntosh 2017 240 307 125 4 15 2,170 A$ 2016 107 131 99 3 88 1,424 A$ Simone Niven 2017 118 218 40 5 35 1,367 Philip Richards 2017 59 66 934 Chris Salisbury 2017 258 301 132 23 2,191 A$ 2016 132 176 134 19 1,704 A$ Arnaud Soirat 2017 220 278 143 2 14 1,888 2016 90 146 91 9 1,366 g BDP represents the portion of the 2014 2017 STIP awards deferred into Rio Tinto shares under the Bonus Deferral Plan.
h Others includes the Global Employee Share Plan myShare, Share Savings Plan, Share Ownership Plan and Global Employee Share Plan as described in the Implementation Report.
i The costs shown for defined benefit pension plans and post-retirement medical benefits are the service costs attributable to the individual, calculated in accordance with IAS19.
The cost for defined contribution plans is the amount contributed in the year by the company.
j Total remuneration represents the disclosure of total emoluments and compensation required under the Australian Corporations Act 2001 and applicable accounting standards.
k Further details in relation to aggregate compensation for executives, including directors, are included in note 38 Directors and key management remuneration.
b Or date of appointment, if later.
c Or date of retirement date stepped down from the Executive Committee, if earlier.
d Shares obtained through the exercise of options under the Rio Tinto Share Savings Plan or the Share Option Plan.
The number of shares retained may differ from the number of options exercised.
e Shares obtained through the Rio Tinto Share Ownership Plan and or vesting of awards under PSP, MSP and BDP.
f Share movements due to the sale or purchase of shares, shares received under dividend reinvestment plans, shares purchased sold through the non-executive directors Share Purchase Plan.
g David Constable, Sam Laidlaw and Simon Henry were appointed as directors with effect from 10 February 2017, 10 February 2017 and 1 April 2017 respectively.
Robert Brown, Anne Lauvergeon and John Varley retired as directors on 4 May 2017, 4 May 2017 and 20 June 2017 respectively.
Vera Kirikova, Simone Niven, Philip Richards and Simon Trott joined the Executive Committee on 1 January 2017, 1 January 2017, 2 April 2017 and 1 January 2018 respectively.
h Simon Trott acquired 17 and 28 Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares on 17 and 24 January 2018 respectively.
Interests in outstanding awards under LTIPs and option plans are set out in table 3.
com Annual report 2017 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Remuneration Report: Implementation Report continued Table 3 Plan interests awards of shares and options under long-term incentive plans continued Vested and exercisable on 1 January Vested Lapsed 31 December a Name Date of grant 2017 during 2017 Exercised cancelled 2017 f Stock Option Plan not subject to performance conditions Stephen McIntosh 17 Mar 2009 2,951 2,951 3,335 3,335 Chris Salisbury 17 Mar 2009 a Awards and options denominated in pounds sterling were for Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares of 10 pence each and awards denominated in Australian dollars were for Rio Tinto Limited shares.
All options are granted over ordinary shares.
Each option is granted over one share at no cost to participants.
Where an exercise price is stated, it represents the amount payable per share on the exercise of each option by participants.
b The weighted fair value per share of conditional awards granted in 2017 under the BDP was 32.61 for Rio Tinto plc and A$61.39 for Rio Tinto Limited and for PSP was 19.31 for Rio Tinto plc and A$35.81 for Rio Tinto Limited.
Conditional awards are awarded at no cost to the recipient and no amount remains unpaid on any shares awarded.
The market price at award is the closing price on the award date.
c Details of the performance conditions for the 2013 Performance Share Plan are provided below.
For awards granted from 2013, for the TSR component constituting two-thirds of the award, where TSR performance is measured against both the Euromoney Global Mining Index and the MSCI World Index, the award will vest as follows: Outperformance of the index by 6 per cent per annum 1.0x award vests Proportionate vesting between 0.225x and 1.0x vesting Performance between equal to the index and 6 per cent outperformance Performance equal to index 0.225x award vests Performance less than index Nil vesting For the EBIT margin measure constituting one-third of the award, change in the EBIT margin of Rio Tinto and each of the comparator companies measured on a point-to-point basis using the last financial year in the performance period and the financial year prior to the start of the performance period will be calculated using independent third-party data.
Vesting will be subject to Rio Tintos interpolated ranking position using the following schedule.
Equal to or greater than 2nd ranked company 1.0x award vests Between the 5th and 2nd ranked companies Proportionate vesting between 0.225x and 1.0x vesting Above the 6th ranked company 0.225x award vests Equal to the 6th ranked company or below Nil vesting For awards granted from 2013, if vesting is achieved, participants will be entitled to receive a number of additional shares whose market value reflects the aggregate cash amount of dividends that would have been received had the number of shares which have vested at the end of the performance period been held throughout the period.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Table 3 Plan interests awards of shares and options under long-term incentive plans continued Vested and exercisable on Value of options Market price Date from 15 February on date of 31 December 15 February Exercise exercised which first Name 2017 2018 2018 price during 2017 exercise exercisable Expiry date f Stock Option Plan Stephen McIntosh 16.53 109,718 37.18 17 Mar 2012 17 Mar 2019 Chris Salisbury 3,335 A$33.45 17 Mar 2012 17 Mar 2019 d The amount in US dollars has been converted at the rate of US$1.28829 1 and US$0.76639 A$1, being the average exchange rates for 2017. e For the 2013 PSP awards granted on 27 May 2013 with a performance period that concluded on 31 December 2017, 33.33 per cent of the award vested in relation to the TSR portion of the award.
The remaining performance condition of relative EBIT margin will be assessed later in 2018. f No options have been granted to executives since 19 March 2012.
The closing price at 31 December 2017 was 39.42 for Rio Tinto plc ordinary shares and was A$75.81 for Rio Tinto Limited ordinary shares.
The high and low prices during 2017 of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares were 39.495 and 28.825 and A$76.03 and A$56.72 respectively.
As of 15 February 2018, members of the Executive Committee held 2,432,672 shares awarded and not vested under long-term incentive plans and 3,335 options to acquire Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited shares.
This includes the balances for executives appointed from 1 January 2018.
Directors approval statement This Directors Remuneration Report is delivered in accordance with a resolution of the board, and has been signed on behalf of the board by: Simon Thompson Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 28 February 2018 105 Annual report 2017 riotinto.
