Production, reserves and operations Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Additional information Portfolio management Capital projects Rio Tinto has a programme of high-quality projects delivering industry-leading returns across a broad range of commodities.
In 2017, Rio Tinto funded its capital expenditure with net cash generated from operating activities and expects to continue funding its capital programme from internal sources, except for the Oyu Tolgoi underground development for which there is a separate project financing arrangement.
Material capital projects Approved capital Total approved remaining to be Projects capital cost spent from Rio Tinto 100% owned unless otherwise stated 100% unless otherwise stated 1 January 2018 Status milestones Completed in 2017 Investment in the Silvergrass iron ore mine in the US$0.3bn US$0.05bn The US$338 million expansion is Pilbara, Australia, to maintain the Pilbara Blend.
expected to add 10 million tonnes of annual capacity.
Commissioning was completed in the fourth quarter of 2017.
Construction of a desalination facility to ensure US$1.0bn Approved in July 2013, the project continued water supply and sustain operations at provides a long-term sustainable Rio Tinto Escondida Rio Tinto 30%, Chile.
supply of water for the operations.
share The project reached completion on budget in December 2017.
Remediation of the east wall at Rio Tinto US$0.3bn Following the pit wall slide in 2013, Kennecott, US.
mine operations focused on remediation from the slide and the east wall of Bingham Canyon, including significant fide-weighting and fide-watering activities.
Ongoing and approved Copper & Diamonds Project funding for Grasberg, Indonesia, from US$0.1bn Approval in 2017 to continue March 2017 to December 2017. investment in the Rio Tinto pre-production construction of the share Grasberg Block Cave, the Deep Mill Level Zone underground mines, and the associated common infrastructure.
Rio Tintos final share of capital expenditure will be influenced in part by its share of production over the period of investment.
Investment to extend mine life at Rio Tinto US$0.7bn US$0.4bn Funding for the continuation of open Kennecott, US, beyond 2019. pit mining via the push back of the south wall: the project largely consists of simple mine stripping activities.
Development of A21 pipe at the Diavik Diamond US$0.2bn US$0.02bn Approved in November 2014, the Mine in Canada Rio Tinto 60%.
development of the A21 pipe is Rio Tinto Rio Tinto expected to sustain production share share levels.
Dike construction and fide-watering are complete.
First carats are planned for mid-2018.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves and operations Strategic report Governance report Financial statements Additional information Material capital projects continued Approved capital Total approved remaining to be Projects capital cost spent from Rio Tinto 100% owned unless otherwise stated 100% unless otherwise stated 1 January 2018 Status milestones Ongoing and approved Copper & Diamonds continued Development of the Oyu Tolgoi underground US$5.3bn US$4.3bn The project was approved in May mine in Mongolia Rio Tinto 34%, where average 2016.
An annual project review was copper grades of 1.66 per cent are more than completed in the fourth quarter of three times higher than the open pit.
2017 and construction of the first drawbell is expected in mid-2020.
Lateral development is on plan, Shaft 2 sinking is complete and Shaft 5 sinking is expected to be complete by the end of the first quarter of 2018.
Aluminium Investment in the Amrun bauxite mine on the US$1.9bn US$1.1bn Approved in December 2015, the Cape York Peninsula in north Queensland, project is advancing to plan.
Output Australia, with a planned initial output of includes an expected 10 million 22.8 million tonnes a year.
tonne increase in annual exports with production commencing in the first half of 2019.
Investment in the Compagnie des Bauxites fide US$0.7bn US$0.3bn Approved in 2016. Financing Guine CBG bauxite mine to expand capacity completed in November 2016.
First from 14.5 to 18.5 million tonnes a year.
incremental shipment expected in Rio Tintos share of capex is US$0.3bn.
Material acquisitions and divestments Consideration Asset US$m Status Divested in 2017 a Coal & Allied Industries Limited 2,690 Sold to Yancoal Australia Limited Divested in 2016 a Bengalla Joint Venture 617 Sold to New Hope Corporation Limited a Lochaber 410 Sold to SIMEC Divested in 2015 There were no material divestments completed in 2015. a Before working capital and completion adjustments.
There were no material acquisitions in 2017, 2016 or 2015.
Further information on acquisitions and divestments is included in note 37 to the financial statements 27 Annual report 2017 riotinto.
com 27 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Our performance is assessed globally by external agencies.
In 2017, Rio Sustainable development Tinto was again recognised by the Dow Jones Sustainability Index Metals & Mining Sustainability Leaders group and the FTSE4Good indices, and ranked in the top three in the 2017 Corporate Human Rights Benchmark.
For 145 years, Rio Tinto has been pioneering the production of materials essential to human progress.
The minerals and metals we produce play a We were also honoured in 2017 through the Canadian-American Business vital role in a host of everyday items and innovative technologies that help Councils Corporate Leadership Award for our C$6.4 billion modernisation make modern life work.
We recognise that the work we do has the of the Kitimat aluminium smelter.
The award recognises our innovation in potential to affect people, communities and the environment, both producing some of the worlds lowest carbon aluminium, environmental positively and negatively.
We work in partnership with those affected to benefits and our long-term partnership with the Kitimat community.
minimise our negative impacts and to share the wealth and benefits our business creates over the short and long term.
Other examples of our progress in 2017 of finding smarter ways to deliver our programmes and improve our performance include: Rio Tintos contribution to sustainable development underpins our Launching the new Rio Tinto purpose and enhancing our company commercial results, is consistent with our partner-to-operate approach values and global code of business conduct, The way we work, to set a and is integrated into our strategic positioning.
It benefits our strong sense of direction, increase employee engagement and attract shareholders, joint venture partners, neighbouring communities, future talent.
suppliers, customers, employees, governments and society.
Fully embedding critical risk management CRM, our fatality prevention programme across more than 60 operational sites, and We recognise that we can always improve and work in partnership to find incorporating critical health fatality risks into CRM.
We participate in industry organisations, such Achieving our lowest all injury and lost time injury rates in our as the International Council on Mining & Metals ICMM, and global company history, although we did not meet the improvement in all initiatives such as the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative and the injuries we were targeting.
We promote change locally and set sustainability Introducing new fatigue risk management guidance.
standards that reflect societal expectations and challenges.
We also work Improving our major hazard standards that cover underground, slopes with non-governmental organisations to better understand and meet our and geotechnical, tailings and water storage risks.
Developing a new biodiversity protection and natural resource Rio Tintos Sustainability Committee reviews the companys approach for management standard for introduction in 2018. consistency with our purpose and values, for the effective management of Reviewing and strengthening our approach to mine and facility material sustainability risks, and for our overall contribution to closure.
Further information on this committee can be Achieving good progress against our climate target 27 per cent found on page 68, in the Governance report.
reduction in our greenhouse gas emissions intensity from 2008 a 2 per cent improvement from 2016.
Materiality Achieving a turnaround in our employee engagement score in the second half of 2017.
Every year we review the sustainability topics that matter most to our Enabling 1,500 leaders to develop their leadership skills through a business and stakeholders.
This helps focus our response and aligns our six-month development programme called Leading for Success.
sustainability reporting with the Global Reporting Initiative GRI Exceeding our 20 per cent target for women in senior management.
Achieving strong gender 41 per cent female and nationality In 2017, to prioritise our material topics, we combined feedback from our representation 29 per cent nationals from regions where we are internal leaders and subject matter experts, and considered stakeholder developing new businesses across our 2017 graduate intake.
expectations and an analysis of the external environment.
The Introducing a new global minimum standard for paid parental leave.
Sustainability Committee reviewed and approved this assessment.
Championing Australias White Ribbon domestic violence campaign, publishing a guidance note for our Australian employees, providing Topics prioritised as being highly material are core to our sustainability awareness training and offering support to those affected by domestic performance and are described below.
Topics prioritised as material that violence.
could have localised or moderate impacts on our sustainability Celebrating 20 years of the Yandicoogina Agreement between performance are described in our Sustainable development report.
Rio Tinto and the Gumala Aboriginal Corporation in the Pilbara.
Launching our Talk to Peggy campaign to strengthen our A summary of our 2017 sustainability performance follows.
Greater detail, Speak-OUT whistleblowing programme.
including disclosure of performance metrics and the materiality assessment, is contained in our 2017 Sustainable development report, We reported no significant environmental incidents with a major or available at riotinto.
We paid US$89,502 in fines related to environmental compliance.
Further information on the Groups environmental regulation, Performance overview including incidents and fines, is in the Directors report on page 109.
In 2017, two employees lost their lives whilst working at Rio Tinto.
One More information on our performance across each of the Rio Tinto product employee lost his life while working at our Rio Tinto Kennecott smelter in groups and Growth & Innovation can be found in further sections of this Utah, and there was a health-related death of a colleague undertaking Annual report.
exploration activities in the Pilbara, Australia.
These tragedies are felt deeply across our company, by workmates, the local community, family and friends.
They are further described on page 31.
These incidents affect the way we view our sustainability performance and reinforces the importance of remaining focused on strong safety and health leadership, and the standards and procedures we live by every single shift and day.
We believe that preventing all work-related fatalities is both achievable and essential for our business.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Goals and targets We set targets to communicate across the company the areas where we want to improve in sustainability performance and to stretch our thinking as to what is possible and acceptable.
Our performance against these targets is summarised below.
Actions to maintain or improve performance in these areas are described in the following pages.
Further information on the risk framework we apply to identify these metrics can be found on pages 18 to 25.
Targets Outcomes in 2017 Our goal is zero harm, including, above all, the elimination of One safety fatality and one health fatality at managed workplace fatalities.
Performance against this goal is measured by the number of fatalities AIFR of 0.42, representing a five per cent improvement from and a year-on-year improvement in our all injury frequency rate AIFR 2016. per 200,000 hours worked.
A year-on-year improvement in the rate of new cases of occupational 43 per cent decrease in the rate of new cases of occupational illness per 10,000 employees annually.
By the end of 2018, all managed operations will be effectively 95 per cent of managed operations on track to achieve our target of controlling exposure to all identified critical fatality health risks by verifying controls for critical fatality health risks.
The remaining five per verifying that critical controls are controlling harmful exposure.
cent of operations are being provided additional assistance to implement the critical control verification process.
Our diversity goal is to employ people based on job requirements who Women represented 22.4 per cent of our senior management in 2017, up represent the diversity of our surrounding communities.
We are targeting: Women represented 27.3 per cent of our Executive Committee in 2017.
The increased representation of women in senior management Women represented 41 per cent of our 2017 graduate intake.
positions by two per cent year-on-year.
Women to represent 50 per cent of our 2017 graduate intake.
29 per cent of our 2017 graduate intake were nationals from regions 30 per cent of our 2017 graduate intake to be nationals from regions where we are developing new businesses.
where we are developing new businesses.
a Women represented 18 per cent of our total workforce.
From 2016, all operations will locally report on an annual basis, and by 42 per cent of managed operations are on track to meet their 2020 2020 will demonstrably achieve: targets.
The remaining operations are being provided additional assistance to resolve any barriers to achieving their targets.
Progress against a locally defined target that demonstrates the local economic benefits of employment and procurement of goods and services.
Effective capture and management of community complaints with year-on-year reduction in repeat and significant complaints.
24 per cent reduction in total greenhouse gas emissions intensity We are on track to meet our 2020 target.
Two per cent reduction in between 2008 and 2020. greenhouse gas emissions intensity in 2017 versus 2016.
All managed operations with material water risk will have achieved their 77 per cent of managed operations are on track to meet their approved local water performance targets by 2018. approved local water performance targets.
Operations will continue to focus on material water risk and improving performance against their water targets during 2018. a Gender distribution for our total workforce is based on managed operations excludes non-managed operations and joint ventures as of 31 December 2017.
Less than one per cent of the workforce gender is undeclared.
com 29 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information reduce human error.
In 2017, over 1.4 million critical control verifications During 2017, we completed the first phase of the epidemiological study of the workforce at the Rssing uranium mine in Namibia.
The objective of were completed.
We added three critical health fatality risks to our existing 22 safety fatality risks to prevent harmful health exposures to the the study is to improve understanding of possible health effects from workforce.
The three risks are thermal extremes, hazardous substances mine-related radiation exposure.
Employee relations Major hazard risks are characterised as low probability, high consequence Our approach to working with our people is centred on building and events.
These risks are managed through standards, detailed analysis and enabling a highly capable, high-performing, engaged and inclusive external reviews, which are overseen by our Major Hazard Risk business.
We understand the relationship between employee Management Steering Committee.
During 2017, we updated our engagement, the health and safety of our employees, and productivity.
standards and processes for underground safety, slopes and We also want to be an attractive and competitive employer of choice.
geotechnical, tailings and water storage facilities.
A governance We value the strength that a diverse workforce and an inclusive culture framework was also established.
We employ people on the basis of job requirements Identification and verification of critical controls is a key aspect of and we do not discriminate on grounds of age, ethnic or social origin, managing process safety risk.
In 2017, the Rio Tinto Investment gender, sexual orientation, politics, religion, disability or any other status.
Committee approved capital projects to mitigate process safety risks to We do not employ forced, bonded or child labour.
We employ people with people in occupied buildings, such as installing detection and protection disabilities and make considerable efforts to offer suitable alternative technology, and replacing chlorine metal treatment units with new units employment and retraining to employees who become disabled and can that remove the use of chlorine.
no longer perform their regular duties.
In October, we experienced one fatality when an employee was exposed In 2017, we reset our employee relations focus.
Our people survey to sulphur dioxide while working near the flash smelting furnace at our indicates that while we have made progress we still have work to do to Rio Tinto Kennecott copper smelter in Utah.
At our Bell Bay smelter in improve employee satisfaction and continue to make Rio Tinto a better Tasmania, an employee suffered severe burns from contact with molten place to work.
The results in the second half of the year show material, causing a disabling injury.
There was an explosion at our improvement as a result of our work to simplify core processes, Sorel-Tracey metallurgical complex in Canada, in which no one was strengthen engagement and develop our people.
injured, but which resulted in a serious interruption to production.
During the year, we introduced a new global minimum standard for paid In October, there was a health-related death of an employee conducting parental leave, which is available to every employee regardless of their exploration activities.
Our focus on fitness for work and wellness will personal circumstances or location.
We also produced a package to continue and ongoing investigations will consider all lessons learned from protect and support families affected by family and domestic violence, this tragedy.
and are in the process of obtaining Australias White Ribbon accreditation.
These tragedies continue to impact family, friends, workmates and their We continue to focus on meeting our objectives for workforce diversity.
The business provided immediate support and continue to increase the gender balance in senior management positions by counselling services and continues to do so.
We complete full creating opportunities at this level and partnering with recruitment agencies investigations as part of the process and share the learnings across to increase the female employee pipeline and talent pool.
During the year Rio Tinto to seek to prevent incidents like these being repeated.
These we worked on diversity targets to be introduced in 2018.
We target incidents reinforce our commitment to learn from our fatal and nearly 50 per cent representation of women in our graduate intake.
The ongoing focus on our learning critical lessons information on inclusion and diversity can be found on page 36. programme is designed to eliminate repeat incidents.
During 2017, we launched several leadership signature programmes to During 2017, we started to simplify the tools and systems used in develop and recognise leaders.
Over 100 participants from frontline to operational tasks to ensure safe outcomes.
We are doing this to enable senior leader levels were selected to develop their global leadership and our workforce to complete their work more efficiently and safely.
We are networking skills over a 12-month period.
Supported by an executive strengthening controls by continual evaluation of information provided to sponsor, participants are also taught by other leaders and exposed to an leaders, which is an improvement on our site assurance process.
Mental health is a societal issue that impacts some of our employees and More broadly, over 1,500 leaders across Australia, Canada, China, Mongolia, their families.
In 2017, we established a Group-wide cross-functional South Africa, the UK and the US completed a six-month Leading for Success wellbeing steering committee to update our wellbeing strategy and programme and developed core leadership capabilities.
We produced a series of videos and We recognise the right of all employees to choose to belong to a union online learning modules to support awareness training for supervisors and seek to bargain collectively.
During the year, we successfully and employees, and continued to provide employee assistance negotiated enterprise agreements at Rio Tinto Kennecott, Kitimat, programmes across our operations.
Havre-Saint-Pierre and Gove Aluminium, and with the European Works Fatigue is a critical risk in operations, projects and business travellers and Council.
In France, agreements with unions were reached regarding salary during 2017 we introduced fatigue risk management guidance, produced policy, profit sharing and healthcare benefits.
We also continued dialogue a series of fatigue awareness videos and established a fatigue technology with union representatives at Richards Bay Minerals, QIT Madagascar group.
In conjunction with the Central Queensland University in Australia Minerals and Rssing Uranium operations.
and the University of Witwatersrand in South Africa, we studied beliefs We remain one of the largest private sector employers of Indigenous and attitudes about fatigue across sites in Africa and Australia.
The study Australians, with over 1,431 full time Indigenous employees who to date has confirmed effective practices and identified improvement represented approximately eight per cent of our Australian employees opportunities such as risk identification and mitigation, and training.
The rate of new cases of occupational illness decreased by 43 per cent In 2017, we employed 47,000 people, including the Groups share of joint from 2016.
This is due to an increased focus on health and partially ventures and associates in around 35 countries.
Of these, approximately attributed to a reduction of previously unreported historic 25,000 were located in Australasia, 14,000 in North America, 5,000 in noise-induced hearing loss NIHL cases.
The main types of occupational Africa, 2,000 in Europe, and 1,000 in Central and South America.
See illnesses in 2017 were musculoskeletal disorders 28 per cent, NIHL page 207 for a breakdown of employees by business units.
36 per cent, and stress 19 per cent.
Communities and regional development We continued to work with local governments and health organisations to ensure effective education in, control of and where necessary, treatment Our approach to Communities and Social Performance CSP is to establish of our employees, contractors and communities surrounding our relationships with host communities founded on trust and mutual respect.
operations for vector-borne and infectious diseases such as tuberculosis, Using our local knowledge, we engage with communities and develop Ebola, malaria, plague, HIV AIDS and Zika virus.
programmes that reflect mutually agreed priorities.
Our CSP standard and 31 Annual report 2017 riotinto.
com 31 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information framework enable us to identify and manage social risks, and thus build most significant changes to the energy intensity of our operations and therefore changes to our greenhouse gas GHG emissions to be relationships that secure community support for our operations.
attributed in the next few years to changes in the portfolio and asset Agreements are the basis of many of our relationships and currently we sales.
have 40 comprehensive participation agreements and over 120 global exploration access agreements in place.
In 2017, we celebrated 20 years In 2017, our total GHG emissions were 30.6 million tonnes of carbon of the Yandicoogina Agreement between Rio Tinto and the Gumala dioxide equivalent COe, 1.4 million tonnes lower than in 2016.
The 2 Aboriginal Corporation, which represents the interests of the Nyiyaparli, Group's performance against the Group target of GHG emissions intensity Banjima and Yinhawangka people in the Pilbara, Australia.
Our agreement has bettered the forecast for 2017.
The majority of our GHG emissions are with the Cheslatta Carrier Nation people in British Columbia, Canada generated through energy use electricity, fuel and chemical processes progressed, with a final conclusion anticipated during 2018. anodes and reductants at our operations.
Most 69 per cent of the electricity we use is from hydro, wind and solar power, a similar level to The Apache Leap Special Management Area SMA was added to the previous years.
bipartisan legislation that passed US Congress in 2013 to facilitate a land exchange between the Tonto National Forest and Resolution Copper.
A Transportation, processing and use of our products also contribute to milestone critical to the process was achieved in December with the GHG emissions.
In 2017, the three most significant sources of indirect approved SMA plan for Apache Leap, a culturally significant site above the emissions associated with our products were: town of Superior in Arizona.
The US Forest Service conducted 529 million tonnes of COe associated with customers using our iron 2 comprehensive consultation with 12 Arizona tribes and specific measures ore to produce steel.
These emissions are not all in addition to the were adopted to accommodate concerns about public access, grazing and coal-use emissions presented below, as some customers use both our other protections for culturally important locations within the SMA.
iron ore and our coal to produce steel.
This was a one per cent increase This allows us to make adjustments to our plans to ensure that from 2016.
70 million tonnes of COe associated with customers using our coal in 2 We work with local communities during the planning for closure of our electricity generation and steel production, a 31 per cent decrease mines and facilities, and during divestments of our assets.
In 2017, our from 2016. engagement with the Jabiru community and governments continued 6.2 million tonnes of COe associated with third-party transport of our 2 ahead of the closure of the Ranger uranium mine in the Northern products and raw materials, a 2 per cent increase from 2016.
Territory, Australia, and on the impacts and opportunities identified from We consider climate change and future energy scenarios in our strategic the recent social impact assessment.
During the divestment process, we positioning of the business.
We are using scenarios based on the continued to place a high priority on the interests of local communities International Energy Agency's IEA 450 scenario to assess the resilience with whom we worked over many years.
In 2017, we worked to ensure of the commodities we produce to market-related potential impacts, and that the divestment of our thermal coal assets in Australia did not have also undertaken an exposure assessment of our operations to the negatively impact the local communities in the Hunter Valley.
physical risks of climate change.
This is in response to the 2016 Sharing the value our operations create is also fundamental to our shareholder resolution on climate change.
In addition to the taxes and royalties paid to both regional and We support the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures federal governments in 2017 see our Taxes paid in 2017 report, which TCFD recommendations for voluntary financial reporting on climate will be published later this year on the Groups website, we also change risks and will evolve our reporting to align within them.
contributed to 1,336 programmes covering health, education, environmental protection, housing, agricultural and business Operational environment development sectors.
Our business spent US$176 million on community We manage ongoing environmental aspects at our operations to prevent, contribution programmes.
This was an increase in overall community or otherwise minimise and remediate, our effects on environments and contributions of five per cent compared with 2016 due to higher communities.
We have internal environmental standards and are subject agreement-related payments flowing from higher commodity prices.
to environmental regulations and voluntary codes of practice.
Our CSP targets for 2016-2020 are focused on increasing local economic During 2017, we reviewed all our environmental standards as part of the participation at our assets and reducing significant CSP incidents.
All sites process of continuous improvement.
A new standard for biodiversity established their targets in 2016, and in 2017 commenced the first year protection and natural resource management has been developed with of reporting their performance towards meeting the target.
At the end of input and expertise from non-governmental organisations and the year, 42 per cent of sites were already on track to meet their targets conservation groups.
Participatory environmental monitoring from local by 2020.
For those sites who reported risk of not achieving their 2020 community members is a key inclusion in all these standards.
targets, management activities are in place for early intervention of We work with neighbouring communities to understand our impact and performance and outcomes.
We have mechanisms to record and enable us to During the year, five significant community incidents were reported respond to complaints about issues such as noise, dust and water quality.
through our CSP complaints and incidents management system.
These We also share air quality monitoring information through related to unauthorised impacts to cultural heritage and a community site-specific websites and community monitoring programmes.
Where waste reuse and recycling are not possible, we manage it in purposeIn 2017, we were pleased to reach the resolution of herder complaints designed facilities while minimising disposal costs and future liabilities, and lodged with the International Finance Corporation IFC Ombudsman avoiding potential adverse impacts.
In 2017, we disposed of, or stored, regarding our Oyu Tolgoi operation.
This followed a four-year dispute 1,317 million tonnes of mineral waste predominantly waste rock and resolution process involving herder households, local government and our tailings and 328,050 tonnes of non-mineral waste.
About one-fifth of our Oyu Tolgoi operational representatives.
mineral waste has the potential to react with air and water or break down to Protecting the environment create potentially harmful contaminants, such as acid and metalliferous drainage AMD.
Our controls are designed to prevent AMD impacts.
Climate change Our water resource management programme focuses on site-specific We acknowledge the changing global climate and support the intent of risks, such as security of water supply, managing the quality of water the Paris Agreement to limit global warming to less than two degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels.
We are aiming for a substantial returned to the environment, and balancing operational needs with those of local communities, Traditional Owners and regulatory requirements.
In decarbonisation of our business by 2050.
Our approach is supported by 2017, we strengthened our water governance and planning processes.
our climate change position statement available online at riotinto.
Where sites have material water risks, they have site-specific water Climate change presents complex challenges for companies, governments targets.
We confirm performance against these targets and focus efforts and society.
In partnership with our stakeholders, we are reducing emissions, managing risk and building resilience to climate change.
on operations that need to improve.
At the end of 2017, 77 per cent of managed operations were on track to meet their local water performance Our climate change programme focuses on reducing the energy intensity targets by 2018. of our operations and the carbon intensity of our energy.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Management of tailings and structures Governance We operate tailings and large water storage facilities at 30 sites and have Business integrity closed impoundments that we monitor at eight sites.
We are rmly committed to operating with integrity and being We continue to review and audit facilities including independent external accountable for our actions.
The key principles that guide our behaviour in reviews to ensure that practices at all managed tailings and major water The way we work are supported by standards that cover antitrust, bribery storage facilities conform to our Management of tailings and water and corruption, conicts of interest, benets, sponsorships and donations, storage facilities standard.
We align our approach to the ICMM position data privacy, fraud and third-party due diligence.
All these are reinforced statement on tailings management.
Assurance over these storage annually through workforce training both online and face to face.
In 2017, facilities by internal and independent third-party reviews remains a focus.
we launched our new company purpose and promoted the values of We also work with our joint venture partners to minimise the safety, teamwork, respect, integrity and excellence.
This was supported environmental and social impacts and risks associated with tailings by face-to-face sessions using real scenarios to promote discussion and management at our non-managed operations.
During 2017, we improved our tailings governance and data reporting We maintain a strict stance against bribery and corruption, which is processes and we completed detailed analyses of practices at five prohibited in all forms.
Any Rio Tinto employee found to be not complying operations.
From these analyses we will adopt further improvements with anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws will face disciplinary action, up in 2018. to and including termination.
Details of regulatory matters can be found on page 50 in the chairmans governance review of this Annual report.
We are working with mining and metals industry peers to better understand and implement best practices to manage risks associated Our business integrity compliance programme is aligned with the with tailings and water storage facilities.
We are collaborating on two risk-based approach included in our business integrity standard.
Our research projects led by the University of Western Australia to training programme and materials are updated to ensure they remain understand static liquefaction in mine tailings and the placement of engaging and relevant to the risks employees encounter.
During 2017, ltered tailings on top of conventional wet tailings.
we provided additional training to targeted audiences on specic areas of our programme.
Value chain Speak-OUT, the Groups condential and independently operated Sharing part of the wealth created from our operations with communities, whistleblowing programme, enables employees, suppliers, contractors regions and countries associated with our purchases, operations and sales and community members to report anonymously, subject to local law, any provides long-term opportunities.
Responsible supply practices are significant concerns about the business, or behaviour of individuals.
critical to our partner-to-operate approach, establishing sustainable We are committed to a culture of transparency and encourage employees supply chains for our customers and meeting expectations for greater to speak up about their issues and concerns, whether through their transparency about our supply chain.
management, human resources team or through Speak-OUT.
Our contributions include the payment of tax to local and national As part of our efforts to continually improve our Speak-OUT programme, governments, dividends to shareholders, the direct and indirect we launched our Talk to Peggy campaign during 2017.
The campaign employment we generate, procurement opportunities and investment in gives Speak-OUT a human face that engenders trust and confidence that community programmes.
The payments we make to our suppliers reports are taken seriously and we respond to the facts.
This is helping us represent a significant part of our global economic contribution.
The gures to create a safe environment in which to report.
in this section include the Groups share of joint ventures and associates.
We have also centralised our reporter management process and Globally, the Groups direct economic contribution was US$41.8 billion in improved engagement with whistleblowers through regular and 2017.
This has resulted in better quality of investigations US$27.7 billion in value add, made up of payments to employees, and improvement in case cycle time.
payables to governments and returns to capital.
These actions have contributed to an increase in reporting rate and US$14.1 billion as payments to suppliers for goods and services.
changed the feedback received from reporters, from negative and Our capital investment was US$4.5 billion.
demonstrating lack of confidence in the process, to positive, including reporters interacting more openly with investigators.
We are also seeing We are a major employer and tax contributor to local, state and national employees raising concerns face to face, outside of the hotline, as well as jurisdictions.
We promote governance over the benets of mining that using Speak-OUT to seek advice on an emerging issue.
ow through to host communities and governments by being transparent in the payments we make and by providing local employment and In 2017, 712 incidents were reported through Speak-OUT, compliance procurement opportunities.
Details of the payments including corporate managers or management, representing an increase of approximately six per cent on last year.
The increase is mainly due to a higher volume of income tax, royalties and other taxes we made to governments will be published in our Taxes paid in 2017 report, and made available online.
incidents raised outside of the hotline.
Thirty-three per cent of cases raised this year were substantiated, resulting in corrective and During 2017, we continued improvements to our Know your supplier preventative actions, representing an increase of seven points on 2016. procedure which establishes a process to understand legal, ethical and These include business integrity issues in general, but also issues relating reputational risks arising from use of a supplier, and continued with our to safety violations, environmental procedures, human rights, financial Supplier code of conduct.
Both include human rights considerations.
We reporting, harassment and bullying, and retaliation for reporting.
also progressed work on third-party risk-based due diligence We remain dedicated to open and transparent dealings with our assessments on our commercial relationships.
Information on the Groups operational, financial and Our local procurement practices aim to deliver benets for communities, sustainable development performance is issued on time through a suppliers and businesses.
In 2017, our Iron Ore business introduced a number of channels, such as media releases and regulatory lings.
We local procurement programme, including an online portal for local communicate views to governments and others on matters affecting our businesses to register their interest and view upcoming procurement business interests.
th During 2017, we ofcially opened Silvergrass, the 16 mine in our Pilbara iron ore operations, and continued to build the Amrun bauxite project and the underground copper mine expansion at Oyu Tolgoi.
These growth developments enable us to continue sharing wealth and opportunities.
Details of these and other developments can be found in the product groups and Growth & Innovation pages of this Annual report.
com 33 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Respecting human rights We manage a range of non-operational legacy sites, including those Wherever we operate, we respect and support human rights consistent inherited through acquisitions and mergers.
During 2017, 11 of the sites with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
We have a human rights progressed to the point where we can relinquish them.
policy and procedures and have made voluntary commitments to the In many jurisdictions we maintain long-term responsibility for monitoring OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, the UN Global Compact and managing closed sites.
We are also learning from the commitments and the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights VPSHR.
Our and expectations associated with operations we have relinquished.
During human rights approach is consistent with the United Nations Guiding 2017, we conducted a post investment review of the Holden mine Principles on Business and Human Rights UNGPs.
Where our standards remediation in Washington State, US and are now applying the lessons and procedures are stricter than local laws, we apply our own standards.
learned when planning future closures.
Our most salient human rights issues include those relating to security, land access and resettlement, Indigenous peoples rights including In many jurisdictions where we operate, regulatory frameworks for large cultural heritage, environment including access to water, labour rights mine closure remain undeveloped or untested.
In collaboration with our and in-migration-related impacts on local communities such as access to peers, we are improving our understanding of opportunities, seeking health services.
solutions to challenges and engaging governments to establish good In 2017, we engaged investors, civil society and community members on closure policies and regulations.
land access, cultural heritage, environment, labour rights, and modern We aim to progressively rehabilitate land as we operate an asset.
25 per cent of our disturbed land excluding land disturbed for We undertake due diligence activities in line with the UNGPs to identify, hydroelectricity dams had been rehabilitated.
prevent and mitigate adverse human rights impacts of our operations.
Non-managed operations and arrangements Human rights considerations are included in our social risk analysis and We hold interests in companies and joint ventures we do not manage, impact assessment processes.
We conduct human rights studies and across a range of commodities, the two largest being the Grasberg programmes at high-risk sites when required.
In 2017, all employees copper-gold mine in Indonesia and the Escondida copper mine in Chile.
were required to complete business integrity training including a human Details of other non-managed joint ventures are included in the rights module.
Training sessions on modern slavery were also conducted Production, reserves and operations section on page 223. on a targeted basis with our procurement, ethics and compliance teams.
We actively engage with our partners in these larger joint ventures To support our Communities and Social Performance target for through formal governance structures and technical exchanges to learn 2016-2020, operations collect data on the effective capture and and improve performance.
We endeavour to ensure that the principles in management of community complaints.
All operations are required to The way we work are applied and we encourage our partners to embed a have a complaints, disputes and grievance mechanism in line with the strong safety, security and human rights culture in their workforces.
effectiveness criteria for operational-level grievance mechanisms in the UNGPs.
We strive for the free, prior and informed consent of Indigenous PT Freeport Indonesia PTFI, a subsidiary of Freeport-McMoRan, Inc. owns communities as defined in the 2012 International Finance Corporation and operates the Grasberg mine.
We have a joint venture interest Performance Standard 7 and the ICMM position statement on Indigenous attributable to the 1995 mine expansion.
We engage with PTFI through five Peoples and Mining.
forums: the Operating, Technical, Exploration and Sustainable Development committees, and the Tailings Management board.
In 2017, we progressed a pilot embedding human rights considerations in tender documentation for major construction projects.
We have further The largest of these, the multidisciplinary Technical Committee, enables included human rights into our risk and incident management framework.
discussion of joint venture activities such as environmental management, orebody knowledge, project execution, worker health and safety, We publish our annual slavery and human trafficking statement in communities, mine planning, processing and tailings management.
compliance with the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015, which outlines the steps Rio Tinto is represented by a senior environmental manager on the PTFI taken during the year to ensure that slavery and human trafficking are not tailings management board, which meets twice a year at Grasberg and taking place in any of our operations or supply chains.
The statement is includes third-party experts.
A Rio Tinto senior safety professional based published online at riotinto.
In 2017, Rio Tinto made a formal in Indonesia also works closely with PTFI on issues of strategic submission to the Australian Parliaments Joint Standing Committee on significance such as fatality prevention programmes.
Foreign Affairs, Defence and Trade regarding its inquiry into establishing a Modern Slavery Act in Australia.
Further information on Rio Tintos support Rio Tinto has a 30 per cent interest in Escondida, which is managed by of the introduction can also be found on riotinto.
Our seats on the Owners Council enable us to give regular input on strategic and policy matters.
During 2017, construction of the We provide training for security personnel and conduct security and human Escondida Water Supply desalination project was completed, and the rights analysis in support of our security arrangements.
Our online VPSHR system became fully operational.
By utilising seawater, the plant will training is mandatory for all security personnel at high-risk sites and significantly reduce demand on fresh groundwater resources around the elsewhere it is strongly recommended.
During the year, we conducted mine which is located in an extremely arid climate.
VPSHR and use-of-force training at five of our locations in South Africa, Madagascar, Namibia and Jamaica.
As a participant in the Voluntary Tragically, there were three fatalities at the operations of our non-managed Principles Initiative we also contributed to the design of a VPSHR training joint arrangements in 2017.
Two fatalities occurred at PTFI: one contractor package for private security personnel and public security forces.
died in a landslide resulting from heavy rains and flash flooding: and one contract employee died when preparing a mine area for production Closure activities.
One employee working at the Alumar alumina refinery in Brazil The metals and mining industry is entering a new stage in its life cycle, died from burns while working on a washer tank in the refinery.
Rio Tinto has with Rio Tinto and many of our peers developing detailed planning to a 10 per cent interest in Alumar, which is managed by Alcoa.
enable the closure of a number of large operations over the next decade.
Rio Tintos planning and cost provisioning for closure of mines and We continue to work with our partners to share fatality prevention facilities starts during project development and extends across the asset initiatives, including CRM and learning critical lessons, to ensure the life cycle to ensure that post-closure outcomes are achievable and that circumstances leading to incidents are not repeated.
The exchange is impacts and risks are minimised.
The work is governed by our Closure two-way, as we learn from their efforts as well.
Assurance During 2017, we reviewed our closure strategy so that our approach to We engaged an independent external assurance organisation, closure is consistent and effective across the full life of each asset.
A , to provide the directors of Rio Tinto with result of the review is the establishment of a dedicated centralised assurance on selected sustainable development subject matters, as closure group to support our businesses and sites to manage closure explained on page 35. activities across the life of all assets and to manage post-production  assurance statement satisfies the requirements decommissioning and deconstruction, rehabilitation, remediation and any long-term management obligations.
of subject matters 1 to 4 of the ICMM assurance procedure.
We work with local communities and regulators to evaluate potential Further information on external auditors and internal assurance is post-closure land uses and develop closure objectives.
During 2017, we included in the Governance report on pages 65 and 66. continued detailed closure planning for a number of large operations that will reach the end of their commercially viable life over the next ten years.
