Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information operating activities by approximately US$259 million in the first half of 2017.
These reductions will be offset by savings in future periods.
Directors report Rio Tinto completed a US$1.5 billion buy-back of Rio Tinto plc shares during 2017, comprising of US$500 million and US$1 billion on-market share buy-back programmes announced on 8 February 2017 and 2 August 2017 respectively.
The directors present their report and audited consolidated financial An additional US$2.5 billion was committed to the ongoing share statements for the year ended 31 December 2017. buy-back programme on 21 September 2017, returning the proceeds of the sale of Coal & Allied to its shareholders.
As part of this, Scope of this report A$750 million off-market share buy-back of Rio Tinto Limited shares For the purposes of UK company law: was completed on 13 November 2017.
A US$1.925 million on-market the reports under the heading Governance report on pages 50 to 69 buy-back of Rio Tinto plc shares commenced on 27 December 2017, and the additional disclosures under the heading Shareholder to be completed no later than 31 December 2018. information on pages 250 to 258 are hereby incorporated by A further US$1 billion share buy-back programme of Rio Tinto plcs reference into, and form part of, this Directors report: ordinary shares was announced on 7 February 2018, also to be certain items that would ordinarily need to be included in this completed no later than 31 December 2018.
Directors report have, as permitted, including an indication of likely On 16 February 2018, Rio Tinto announced that, following the future developments in the business of the company and the Group, Government of Mongolias withdrawal from the Tavan Tolgoi power instead been discussed in the Strategic report on pages 1 to 48, while project, Oyu Tolgoi will now be obliged to deliver a domestic power details of the Groups policy on addressing financial risks and details source for the operation within four years.
Rio Tinto will continue to about financial instruments are shown in note 30 to the Group review its capital expenditure forecasts for the project but has already financial statements: and earmarked US$250 million a year for the development of a power taken together, the Strategic report and this Directors report are station in Mongolia in its 2019 and 2020 capex forecasts.
intended to provide a fair, balanced and understandable assessment People of the development and performance of the Groups business during the year and its position at the end of the year, its strategy, likely Executive Committee developments and any principal risks and uncertainties associated With effect from April 2017, Rio Tinto appointed Philip Richards as with the Groups business.
Group executive, Group General Counsel.
Philip has responsibility for Rio Tintos Legal, Governance and Risk functions and is a member of For the purposes of compliance with DTR 4.1.
8R, the the Rio Tinto Executive Committee.
required content of the Management Report can be found in the With effect from January 2018, Rio Tinto appointed Simon Trott as Strategic report or this Directors report, including the material chief commercial officer.
Simon is also a member of the Rio Tinto incorporated by reference.
A full report on director and executive remuneration and shareholdings Board can be found in the Remuneration Report on pages 70 to 105 which for On 10 February 2017, Rio Tinto appointed David Constable and the purposes of the Australian Corporations Act, forms part of this Sam Laidlaw to the board with immediate effect and announced that Directors report.
Simon Henry would join the board with effect from 1 July 2017.
Simon's appointment to the board was subsequently brought forward Dual listed structure and constitutional documents effective from 1 April 2017.
An explanation of the dual listed companies DLC structure of Rio Tinto On 9 March 2017, the Group announced that its chairman, Jan du Plessis, was to retire after the completion of an orderly plc and Rio Tinto Limited, and aspects of the companies constitutional provisions can be found on pages 248 to 258.
That section provides a succession process.
On 20 June 2017, Rio Tinto announced that senior independent description of voting arrangements, including restrictions which may apply in respect of the shares of either company under specified director John Varley had resigned as a non-executive director and would step down from the board with immediate effect.
chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Operating and financial review On 26 June 2017, Rio Tinto announced that Ann Godbehere had been appointed senior independent director on the Rio Tinto board, in which Rio Tintos principal activities during 2017 were minerals and metals capacity she would lead the process under way to appoint a new exploration, development, production and processing.
chairman to succeed Jan du Plessis.
Ann joined the Remuneration The subsidiary and associated undertakings principally affecting the Committee and remains the chair of the Audit Committee.
profits or net assets of the Group in the year are listed in notes 33 to 36 to Simon Thompson was appointed chair of the Remuneration the financial statements.
All of these appointments were with immediate effect.
On 15 September 2017, Rio Tinto announced that its chief financial Significant changes and events affecting the Group during 2017 and until officer, Chris Lynch, is to retire by the end of September 2018 after the the date of this report have been: completion of an orderly succession process.
Financial On 4 December 2017, Rio Tinto announced that Simon Thompson On 5 April 2017, the Australian Commissioner of Taxation issued would succeed Jan du Plessis as chairman on 5 March 2018.
Simon amended income tax assessments to Rio Tinto for the calendar years will step down from his role as chair of the Remuneration Committee 2010 to 2013, requiring Rio Tinto to pay additional tax of upon appointment as Chairman and will be succeeded by A$379 million plus interest of A$68 million, a total of A$447 million.
The Australian Tax Office has acknowledged that the amended On 15 February 2018, Rio Tinto announced that it had appointed Moya assessments do not relate to tax avoidance, and no penalties are Greene as an independent non-executive director.
Rio Tinto challenged the amended assessments.
executive officer of Royal Mail Group, will join the board in the second On 10 April 2017, Rio Tinto disclosed details of the US$4 billion paid in half of 2018.
It was also announced, that Paul Tellier, a non-executive taxes and royalties and the more than US$35 billion direct economic director since 2007, will be stepping down from the board at the contribution delivered to host communities in 2016. conclusion of the Rio Tinto Limited 2018 AGM.
On 23 June 2017, Rio Tinto announced that it had successfully Regulatory completed its bond tender and redemption exercises announced on On 17 October 2017, Rio Tinto was notified by the US Securities and 22 May 2017 and had reduced gross debt by a further US$2.5 billion.
Exchange Commission SEC that the SEC had filed a complaint in Since the start of 2016, the nominal value of the Group's outstanding respect of Rio Tintos disclosures and timing of the impairment of bonds has reduced from approximately US$21 billion to about Rio Tinto Coal Mozambique RTCM.
The impairment was reflected in US$9.5 billion.
The early redemption costs reduced underlying Rio Tintos 2012 year-end accounts.
Rio Tinto intends to vigorously earnings by approximately US$180 million and cash flow from defend itself against these allegations.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information On 17 October 2017, Rio Tinto announced that it had reached a restrictions that may from time to time be imposed by laws, settlement with the UKs Financial Conduct Authority FCA in relation to regulations or Rio Tinto policy for example, those relating to market the timing of the impairment of RTCM.
The FCA determined that abuse or insider dealing or share trading or those relating to Rio Tinto had breached the FCA's Disclosure and Transparency Rules Australian foreign investment : and imposed a financial penalty on Rio Tinto of 27,385,400 restrictions on the transfer of shares that may be imposed following a US$36.4 million.
The FCA made no findings of fraud, or of any systemic failure to supply information required to be disclosed, or where or widespread failure by Rio Tinto.
The registration of the transfer may breach a court order or a law, Australian Securities and Investments Commission is also reviewing the or in relation to unmarketable parcels of shares: RTCM impairment.
restrictions on the transfer of shares held under certain employee share plans while they remain subject to the plan.
"Transactions On 24 January 2017, Rio Tinto announced that it had entered into a At the AGMs held in 2017, shareholders authorised: binding agreement for the sale of its Australian wholly owned the on-market purchase by Rio Tinto plc or Rio Tinto Limited or its subsidiary, Coal & Allied Industries Limited, to Yancoal Australia subsidiaries, of up to 137,492,259 Rio Tinto plc shares representing Limited ""Yancoal"" for up to US$2.45 billion."
This required approximately ten per cent of Rio Tinto plcs issued share capital, shareholder approval as Yancoal is considered to be a related party of excluding Rio Tinto plc shares held in Treasury at that time : Rio Tinto as a consequence of Chinalco being a 10.1 per cent shareholder in the Rio Tinto Group.
Following competing bids by the off-market purchase by Rio Tinto plc of up to 137,492,259 Glencore plc between 9 June and 23 June 2017, an improved revised Rio Tinto plc shares acquired by Rio Tinto Limited or its subsidiaries offer from Yancoal was received on 25 June 2017, comprising total under the above authority: and consideration of US$2.69 billion, before working capital and other the off-market and or on-market buy-back by Rio Tinto Limited of up adjustments.
Following general meetings of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto to 42.4 million Rio Tinto Limited shares representing approximately Limited on 27 June 2017 and 29 June 2017, respectively, the ten per cent of Rio Tinto Limiteds issued share capital at the time.
transaction was approved by eligible shareholders, with 97.2 per cent of the votes cast voting in favour and completed on 1 September 2017.
Substantial shareholders On 24 November 2017, it was announced that Rio Tinto and Chinas Details of substantial shareholders can be found on page 252.
Sinosteel Corporation had agreed to extend the Channar Mining Joint Venture.
This third extension will increase the life of the joint venture Dividends to cover production expected to total 290 million tonnes of iron ore.
Details of dividends paid and declared for payment, together with the On 10 January 2018, Rio Tinto received a binding offer from Liberty companys dividend policy can be found on page 254.
House to acquire Rio Tintos Aluminium Dunkerque smelter in northern France for US$500 million, subject to final adjustments.
In Directors accordance with French law, Rio Tinto launched a consultation process The names of the directors who served during or since the end of the with employees, relevant European works councils and other year and their period of appointment are set out on pages 52 to 54 of stakeholders in relation to the bid.
Subject to satisfactory completion the Governance report.
Details of each directors qualications, of these consultations, Rio Tinto expects to complete the sale of experience and special responsibilities, together with their recent Aluminium Dunkerque in the second quarter of 2018. directorships, are also shown on pages 52 and 54.
On 26 February 2018, Rio Tinto received a binding offer from Hydro of US$345 million, subject to final adjustments, to acquire Rio Tintos All directors, save for Jan du Plessis and Paul Tellier, will stand for ISAL smelter in Iceland, its 53.3 per cent share in the Aluchemie anode re-election at the 2018 annual general meetings.
plant in the Netherlands and its 50 per cent share in the Alumiumum Secretaries uoride plant in Sweden.
In accordance with applicable laws, Rio Tinto will launch a consultation process with employees, relevant European Steve Allen is the Group company secretary, having been appointed on works councils and other stakeholders in relation to the bid.
He is company secretary of Rio Tinto plc and joint satisfactory completion of these consultations and certain other company secretary, together with Tim Paine, of Rio Tinto Limited.
conditions, Rio Tinto expects to complete the sale in the second Steves and Tims qualications and experience are set out on page 54. quarter of 2018.
Indemnities and insurance Details of events after the balance sheet date are further described in The Articles of Association and Constitution of the companies provide note 42 to the financial statements.
for them to indemnify, to the extent permitted by law, directors and ofcers of the companies, including ofcers of certain subsidiaries, Risk identi cation, assessment and management against liabilities arising from the conduct of the Groups business.
The The Groups principal risks and uncertainties are set out on pages 20 directors of the companies, the Group company secretary and the joint to 25.
The Groups approach to risk management is discussed on page company secretary of Rio Tinto Limited, and certain employees serving 19. as directors of certain eligible subsidiaries at the Groups request have also received direct indemnities consistent with these provisions.
The Share capital indemnities are qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for the Details of the Groups share capital as at 31 December 2017 can be purposes of the UK Companies Act 2006 and each of these qualifying found in notes 27 and 28 to the financial statements.
Details of the third-party indemnities was in force during the course of the financial rights and obligations attached to each class of shares can be found on year ended 31 December 2017 and as at the date of this Directors pages 250 and 251 under the heading Voting arrangements.
No amount has been paid under any of these indemnities during the year.
Where, under an employee share plan operated by the company, participants are the beneficial owners of the shares, but not the registered Qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions as dened by section owners, the voting rights are normally exercised by the registered owner 235 of the UK Companies Act 2006 were in force during the course of at the direction of the participant.
the financial year ended 31 December 2017 and as at the date of this Directors report, for the benefit of trustees of the Rio Tinto Group Details of certain restrictions on holding shares in Rio Tinto and certain pension and superannuation funds across various jurisdictions.
No consequences triggered on a change of control are described on page 251 amount has been paid under any of these indemnities during the year.
under the heading Limitations on ownership of shares and merger obligations.
There are no other restrictions on the transfer of ordinary The Group has purchased directors and ofcers insurance during the Rio Tinto shares save for: year.
In broad terms, the insurance cover indemnifies individual directors and ofcers against certain personal legal liability and legal defence costs for claims arising out of actions taken in connection with Group business.
b The shares were purchased in the currency of the stock exchange on which the purchases took place and the sale price has been converted into US dollars at the exchange rate on the date of settlement.
c Shares purchased in connection with the dividend reinvestment plans and employee share plans are not deemed to form any part of any publicly announced plan or programme.
d This figure represents 2.6 per cent of Rio Tinto plc issued share capital at 31 December 2017. e At the Rio Tinto plc AGM held in 2016, shareholders authorised the on-market purchase by Rio Tinto plc, Rio Tinto Limited and its subsidiaries of up to 137,431,729 Rio Tinto plc shares.
This authorisation expired on 14 April 2017. f At the Rio Tinto plc AGM held in 2017, shareholders authorized the on-market purchase by Rio Tinto plc, Rio Tinto Limited and its subsidiaries of up to 137,492,259 Rio Tinto plc shares.
This authorisation will expire on the later of 30 June 2018 or the date of the 2018 AGM.
g The average price of shares purchased on-market by the trustee of Rio Tinto Limiteds employee share trust during 2017 was US$48.69.
h At the Rio Tinto Limited AGM held in 2016 shareholders authorised the off-market and or on-market buy-back of up to 42.4 million Rio Tinto Limited shares.
i At the Rio Tinto Limited AGM held in 2017 shareholders authorised the off-market and or on-market buy-back of up to 42.4 million Rio Tinto Limited shares.
j The Average price paid per share includes the off-market share buy-back programme by Rio Tinto Limited.
k The shares were purchased at A$63.67 per share under the Rio Tinto Limited off-market share buy-back, representing a 14 per cent discount to the relevant market price.
l Rio Tinto completed a US$1.5 billion buy-back of Rio Tinto plc shares during 2017, comprising of US$500 million and US$1 billion on-market share buy-back programmes announced on 8 February 2017 and 2 August 2017 respectively.
An additional US$2.5 billion was committed to the ongoing share buy-back programme on 21 September 2017, returning the proceeds of the sale of Coal & Allied to its shareholders, to be completed no later than 31 December 2018.
A A$750 million off-market share buy-back of Rio Tinto Limited shares was completed on 13 November 2017 and the remaining US$1.925 million on-market buy-back of Rio Tinto plc shares commenced on 27 December 2017 to be completed no later than 31 December 2018.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information c Scope 1 emissions include emissions from combustion of fuel and operation of Political donations managed facilities.
It includes emissions from land management and livestock management at those facilities.
No donations were made during 2017 for political purposes as defined by d Scope 2 emissions include emissions from the purchase of electricity, heat, the UK Companies Act 2006 in the EU, Australia or elsewhere.
Government regulations e Total emissions is the sum of scope 1 and scope 2 emissions minus emissions that are associated with the generation of electricity, heat, steam or cooling Our operations in around 35 countries are subject to extensive laws and supplied to others.
These emissions exclude indirect emissions associated with regulations imposed by local, state, provincial and federal governments.
transportation and use of our products reported on page 32.
These regulations govern many aspects of our operations how we f Rio Tinto greenhouse gas intensity index is the weighted emissions intensity explore, mine and process ore, conditions of land tenure and use, health, for each of Rio Tintos main commodities relative to the commodity intensities safety and environmental requirements: and how we operate as a in the 2008 base year set to 100.
This index incorporates approximately 98 per cent of Rio Tintos emissions from managed operations.
company including laws regarding securities, taxation, intellectual g All the numbers are restated to ensure comparability over time.
Amendment property, competition and foreign investment, provisions to protect data due to changes in measurement and calculation methodologies including privacy, conditions of trade and export and infrastructure access.
In adoption of updated global warming potentials from IPCC fourth assessment addition to these laws, several operations are also governed by the report or immaterial updates to data.
provisions of specific agreements, which have been made with h Numbers restated from those originally published to ensure comparability over governments.
Some of these agreements are enshrined in legislation.
The geographic and product diversity of our operations reduces the likelihood of any single law or government regulation having a material Exploration, research and development effect on the Groups business as a whole.
The Group carries out exploration as well as research and development in support of its activities, as described more fully under Growth & In Mongolia, amendments to the Law on State Registration of Legal Innovation on pages 46 and 47.
Amounts charged for the year, net of Entities, Law on Corporate Income Tax and Minerals Law were passed on any gains and losses on disposal, generated a net loss before tax for 10 November 2017 and are effective from 1 January 2018.
The exploration and evaluation of US$460 million 2016: US$453 million.
amendments provide a transfer of shares and interests in a mineral Research and development costs were US$58 million 2016: US$60 licence holder or in its ultimate holder to be an indirect transfer of a million.
As a result, such income of sale of rights is taxed at 30 per cent.
Financial instruments Details of the Groups financial risk management objectives and policies Environmental regulations and exposure to risk are described in note 30 to the 2017 financial Rio Tinto is subject to various environmental laws and regulations in the statements.
countries where it has operations.
Rio Tinto measures its performance Dealing in Rio Tinto securities against environmental regulation by tracking and rating incidents according to their actual environmental and compliance impacts using Rio Tinto operates rules which restrict the dealing in Rio Tinto securities five severity categories minor, medium, serious, major or catastrophic.
by directors and employees with regular access to inside information.
Incidents with a consequence rating of major or catastrophic are of a These rules require those people to seek clearance before any proposed severity that require notification to the relevant product group chief dealing and place restrictions on when some people can deal.
executive and the Rio Tinto chief executive immediately after the incident These rules also prohibit such persons from engaging in hedging or other occurring.
In 2017, there were no environmental incidents at managed arrangements which limit the economic risk in connection with Rio Tinto operations with a major or catastrophic impact.
securities issued, or otherwise allocated, as remuneration that are either unvested, or that have vested, but remain subject to a holding period.
During 2017, six managed operations incurred fines amounting to There are also restrictions applying to a broader group of employees US$89,502 2016: US$57,618.
Details of these fines are reported in requiring them to seek clearance before engaging in similar the performance section of the sustainable development report at: arrangements over any Rio Tinto securities.
Financial reporting Australian corporations that exceed specific greenhouse gas emissions or energy use thresholds have obligations under the Australian National Financial statements Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Act 2007 NGER.
All Rio Tinto entities The directors are required to prepare financial statements for each covered under this Act have submitted their annual NGER reports by the financial period, which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the required 31 October 2017 deadline.
Group as at the end of the financial period, and the profit or loss and cash flows for that period.
This includes preparing financial statements in Further information on the Groups environmental performance is accordance with UK company law that give a true and fair view of the included in the sustainable development section of this Annual report, on state of the companys affairs, and preparing a Remuneration Report pages 28 to 37, and on the website.
that includes the information required by Regulation 11, Schedule 8 Greenhouse gas emissions of the Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups a b Greenhouse gas emissions in million tCOe Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended and the 2 Australian Corporations Act 2001. g 2017 2016 In addition, the Code requires that the board provides a fair, balanced and c h Scope 1 20.0 21.0 understandable assessment of the companys position and prospects in d h Scope 2 11.0 11.4 its external reporting.
e Total emissions 30.6 32.0 Management conducts extensive review and challenge in support of the Ratios boards obligations in this regard, seeking to ensure balance between f h GH intensity index 73.0 74.4 positive and negative statements and good linkages throughout the GH intensity Annual report.
The directors were responsible for the preparation and h approval of the Annual report for the year ended 31 December 2017. tCO2 -e t of product 0.067 0.070 They consider the Annual report, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced a Rio Tintos greenhouse gas emissions for managed operations are reported in and understandable, and that it provides the information necessary for accordance with the requirements under Part 7 of The UK Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
Our approach and shareholders to assess the companys position and performance, methodology used for the determination of these emissions are available at: business model and strategy.
b Rio Tintos greenhouse gas emission inventory is based on definitions provided by The directors are responsible for maintaining proper accounting records, The World Resource Institute World Business Council for Sustainable in accordance with UK and Australian legislation.
They have a general Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Carbon Reporting and Accounting responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to Standard, March 2004.
com 109 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information safeguard the assets of the Group, and to prevent and detect fraud and reasonably likely to materially affect, the internal controls over financial reporting of each of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
The directors are also responsible for ensuring that appropriate systems are in place to maintain and preserve the integrity of Management evaluation of the effectiveness of the companys internal the Groups website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and control over financial reporting was based on the criteria established in dissemination of financial statements may differ from current and future Internal Control-Integrated Framework 2013 issued by the Committee of legislation in other jurisdictions.
The work carried out by the external Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission.
Based on this auditors does not involve consideration of such developments and, evaluation, management concluded that our internal control over accordingly, the external auditors accept no responsibility for any financial reporting was effective as at 31 December 2017. changes, should any be made, to the financial statements after they are made available on the Groups website.
Audited information Under Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups The directors, senior executives, senior financial managers and other Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended, the information members of staff who are required to exercise judgment in the course of included in respect of: the single total gure of remuneration for each the preparation of the financial statements are required to conduct director as set out on pages 83 and 85 and Table 1b on page 99: details themselves with integrity and honesty and in accordance with the of the directors total pension entitlements as set out on pages 85 and 87: ethical standards of their profession and the business, as are all details of scheme interests awarded to the directors during the financial other Group employees.
year as set out on pages 84 and 86 and Table 3 on pages 101 to 105: details of payments to past directors as set out on page 87: and the The directors consider that the 2017 Annual report presents a true and statement of the directors shareholdings and share interests, as set out fair view and has been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting in Tables 2 and 3 on pages 100 to 105 of the Implementation Report are standards, using the most appropriate accounting policies for Rio Tintos all auditable.
The Australian Securities and Investments Commission business, and supported by reasonable judgments and estimates.
The issued an order dated 14 December 2015, under which the Remuneration accounting policies have been consistently applied as described on page Report must be prepared and audited in accordance with the 118.
The directors have received a written statement from the chief requirements of the Corporations Act 2001 applied on the basis of certain executive and the chief financial of cer to this effect.
In accordance with modi cations set out in the order as detailed on page 210.
The the internal control requirements of the Code and the ASX Principles, this information provided in the Remuneration Report has been audited as written statement con rms that the declarations in the statement are required by section 308 3C of the Corporations Act.
founded on a sound system of risk management and internal controls, and that the system is operating effectively in all material respects in Auditors relation to financial reporting risks.
Further information in relation to directors responsibilities in accordance with the UK Disclosure and Each person who held the of ce of director at the date the board resolved Transparency Rules is set out on page 210. to approve this report makes the following statements: Disclosure controls and procedures so far as the directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information The Group maintains disclosure controls and procedures as this term is of which the auditors are unaware: and fide ned in US Exchange Act Rule 13a-15 e. Management, with the each director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken as participation of the chief executive and chief financial of cer, has a director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Groups information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to US Exchange Act Rule information.
13a-15 b as of the end of the period covered by this report and has concluded that these disclosure controls and procedures were effective at Non-audit services and auditor independence a reasonable assurance level.
Details of the non-audit services and a statement of independence Managements report on internal control over financial reporting regarding the provision of non-audit services undertaken by our external Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate auditor, including the amounts paid for non-audit services are set out on internal control over financial reporting.
The companies internal control pages 65 to 66 of the Governance report.
over financial reporting is a process designed under the supervision of the chief executive and chief financial of cer to provide reasonable assurance Going concern regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation and fair The directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have satis ed presentation of the Groups published financial statements for external themselves that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of reporting purposes in accordance with International Financial Reporting accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Additionally, the Standards as fide ned on page 118. directors have considered longer-term viability and their statement in this regard may be found on page 18.
The Groups internal control over financial reporting includes policies and procedures that pertain to the maintenance of records that, in 2018 AGMs reasonable detail: The 2018 AGMs will be held on 11 April in London and 2 May in accurately and fairly reect transactions and dispositions of Melbourne.
Separate notices of the 2018 AGMs are produced for the assets: shareholders of each company.
provide reasonable assurances that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in Directors approval statement accordance with IFRS, and that receipts and expenditures are The Directors report is delivered in accordance with a resolution of the being made only in accordance with authorisations of board.
management and directors of each of the companies: and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition of the Groups assets that could have a material effect on its financial statements.
Jan du Plessis Due to inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting Chairman cannot provide absolute assurance, and may not prevent or detect all 28 February 2018 misstatements whether caused by error or fraud, if any, within each of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
There were no changes in the internal controls over financial reporting that occurred during the period that have materially affected, or are 74 110 riotinto.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information 2017 financial statements Contents Page Page Primary financial statements Capital and reserves Group income statement 112 Note 27 Share capital Rio Tinto plc 151 Group statement of comprehensive income 113 Note 28 Share capital Rio Tinto Limited 151 Group cash flow statement 114 Note 29 Other reserves and retained earnings 152 Group balance sheet 115 Group statement of changes in equity 116 Additional disclosures Reconciliation with Australian Accounting Standards 117 Note 30 Financial instruments and risk management 153 Note 31 Contingencies and commitments 162 Outline of dual listed companies structure and basis of financial statements 117 Note 32 Average number of employees 165 Note 33 Principal subsidiaries 166 Notes to the 2017 financial statements Note 34 Principal joint operations 168 Group income statement and cash flow statement Note 35 Principal joint ventures 169 Note 1 Principal accounting policies 118 Note 36 Principal associates 170 Note 2 Operating segments 131 Note 37 Purchases and sales of subsidiaries, joint ventures, Note 3 Operating segments additional information 134 associates and other interests in businesses 171 Note 4 Net operating costs excluding items shown separately 135 Note 38 Directors and key management remuneration 171 Note 5 Employment costs 135 Note 39 Auditors remuneration 172 Note 6 Impairment charges and reversals 136 Note 40 Related-party transactions 173 Note 7 Share of profit after tax of equity accounted units 137 Note 41 Exchange rates in US$ 173 Note 8 Finance income and finance costs 137 Note 42 Events after the balance sheet date 173 Note 9 Taxation 138 Note 43 Share-based payments 174 Note 10 Earnings loss per ordinary share 139 Note 44 Post-retirement benefits 176 Note 11 Dividends 139 Note 45 Rio Tinto Limited parent company disclosures 182 Note 46 Related undertakings 183 Group balance sheet Note 12 Goodwill 140 Rio Tinto plc company information 202 Note 13 Intangible assets 141 Note 14 Property, plant and equipment 143 Rio Tinto financial information by business unit 206 Note 15 Investments in equity accounted units 144 Note 16 Inventories 144 Australian Corporations Act summary of ASIC relief 209 Note 17 Deferred taxation 144 210 Note 18 Trade and other receivables 146 Directors declaration Note 19 Assets and liabilities held for sale 147 Auditors independence declaration 211 Note 20 Other financial assets including non-quasi equity loans to equity accounted units 147 Note 21 Cash and cash equivalents 147 Independent auditors report of  LLP to the Note 22 Borrowings and other financial liabilities 148 members of Rio Tinto plc and  to the members Note 23 Capitalised finance leases 149 of Rio Tinto Limited 212 Note 24 Consolidated net debt 149 Note 25 Trade and other payables 149 Financial summary 2008-2017 220 Note 26 Provisions including post-retirement benefits 150 Summary financial data in Australian dollars, sterling and US dollars 221 111 Annual report 2017 riotinto.
