Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Greenhouse gas emissions Iron Ore Throughout 2017, the Iron Ore product group continued to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions intensity compared with the baseline target set in 2008.
Since 2008, the product groups greenhouse gas Financial performance emissions intensity has improved by 5.3 per cent.
2017 2016 Review of operations US$ million US$ million a In the Pilbara region of Western Australia, Rio Tinto operates the Gross revenue 18,251 14,605 worlds largest integrated portfolio of iron ore assets.
This system Net cash generated from operating activities 8,466 5,959 comprises 16 mines, four independent port terminals, over 1,700km of Underlying earnings 6,692 4,611 the largest privately owned heavy freight railway in Australia, and a Capital expenditure 1,201 868 supporting infrastructure, all linked by the Operations Centre in Perth.
Five highly valued products are sold to over 100 customers globally.
Net operating assets 16,537 16,359 th Underlying EBITDA 11,520 8,526 In 2017, Rio Tinto opened Silvergrass, its 16 mine.
The US$338 million mine will produce low-phosphorous ore crucial to Iron Ore Company of Canada and Simandou are reported within Energy & Minerals see maintaining the premium Pilbara Blend product.
a Gross revenue and capital expenditure are defined on page 208 under Notes to financial In May, Rio Tinto reached the historic milestone of five billion tonnes information by business unit.
of iron ore exported from the Pilbara.
th Strategy and priorities In August, Rio Tinto and Sinosteel marked the 30 anniversary of their historic Channar Mining Joint Venture.
The event was attended The Iron Ore product groups strategy is focused on delivering by former Australian Prime Minister Bob Hawke, who was present at optimal value from a fully integrated system of assets.
the original signing ceremony in 1987.
Rio Tinto has delivered more The business strategy is guided by the following principles: than 250 million tonnes under the joint venture.
th Exclusive use of assets in a fully integrated system that delivers In December, the 15 anniversary of the Bao-HI Joint Venture, consistent returns throughout the cycle.
involving Rio Tinto and China Baowu Group, was celebrated.
More than 150 million tonnes have been delivered into the joint venture Mine-to-market productivity that maximises free cash flow from the existing asset base.
Sequencing resource development to optimise mines and product.
In 2017, the Iron Ore product groups underlying earnings increased Quality people and partners driving innovation.
This was achieved through record sales volumes, continued cash cost savings and Making a lasting and positive contribution that will enable strong higher iron ore prices.
Iron ore shipments for 2017 met guidance at 330.1 million tonnes The product groups strategic priorities are to: Rio Tinto share: 272 million tonnes, an increase of 1 per cent on Run safe, healthy and fatality-free operations.
Initial guidance for 2017 of 330 million to 340 million tonnes Fully engage all employees and contract partners.
was revised in July to 330 million tonnes due to lower first half production and rail maintenance.
Production of 329.8 million tonnes Sustain the competitive advantage of premium products, the Rio Tinto share: 271.3 million tonnes in 2017 was in line with 2016 flagship of which is Pilbara Blend.
A stronger performance in the second half offset the impacts Realise the full potential of the system to maximise cash flow and of adverse weather conditions in the first quarter and accelerated productivity from the existing asset base.
rail maintenance in the second quarter.
Harness innovation and technology to help drive superior performance.
In 2017, Chinas crude steel production remained well-supported at an all-time high of almost 900 million tonnes for the second year in a Follow a disciplined, value-over-volume strategy.
Broad-based steel demand across key end-use sectors, Engage with highly valued partners and support sustainable local including construction, manufacturing and infrastructure, kept steel and regional investment.
inventories well below average throughout the year.
Meanwhile, supply-side reforms were reflected in a structural Safety boost to steel-making capacity utilisation to rates significantly In 2017, there was a 19 per cent reduction in potential fatal incidents above historical trends both in China and the other major PFIs.
This improvement was supported by the critical risk learning steel producing regions.
programme, which facilitated engagement sessions focusing on Concurrently, the Chinese Governments focus on air quality application of incident learnings at a team level.
improvement made the need for productivity and the reduction in Despite this reduction, we maintain a vigilant approach to our safety emissions paramount.
This in turn incentivised demand for high-grade, risks.
We continue to embed our critical risk management fatality low-impurity iron ore products, such as the Pilbara Blend.
The prevention programme, focusing relentlessly on control to support reduction of small-scale secondary steelmaking capacity meant that fatality elimination.
more scrap became available to the large integrated steel producers.
The all injury frequency rate decreased by 2 per cent from 2016 to However, these producers had to expand their output to compensate 0.48.
Throughout 2017 and continuing into 2018, the focus is on the for the closures of inefficient mills, which, coupled with the basics: quality leadership in the field, improving the effectiveness of preference for higher quality products, lifted Chinas iron ore imports safety interactions and pre-start meetings, and leader coaching to for the seventh consecutive year, reaching an estimated record enable quality verifications.
figure of almost 1.1 billion tonnes.
Port inventories also rose by more than 30 million tonnes to end the year at around 145 million The product group continues its work to improve the wellbeing of our tonnes, though the growth was primarily driven by lower-grade ores.
employees through wellbeing training and the peer support programme.
The Platts 62 per cent Fe CFR cost and freight iron ore price peaked at US$95 per tonne in late February, but this was followed by Iron Ores commitment to safety was recognised at the Western a sharp decline to US$54 per tonne in June.
Prices oscillated around Australian Department of Mines, Industry Regulation and Safety the US$65 per tonne level during the fourth quarter of 2017.
Awards for Excellence ceremony in October.
Rio Tinto had six finalists across three award categories that focused on safety and health, A strong pipeline of initiatives implemented in 2017 resulted in preenvironmental excellence, as well as community partnerships.
tax cash cost reductions of US$341 million.
The Iron Ore product Innovative work on a rail-mounted platform to eliminate risks group has now delivered US$1.7 billion of cumulative savings, associated with working at heights won the engineering category in compared with the 2012 base, making a significant contribution to the Safety and Health section.
the wider Rio Tinto Group pre-tax savings.
Further efficiency improvements reduced the Pilbara cash unit costs to US$13.4 per tonne in 2017, compared with US$13.7 per tonne in 2016.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Operating cost initiatives included optimising maintenance the views of local communities near our operations and improve strategies and tactics and partnering with suppliers for improved regional and community planning.
Productivity improvements included Rio Tinto began working with the West Australian Government and increasing ore train payloads and decreasing cycle times.
TAFE Western Australia to pioneer a new curriculum for the mining The Iron Ore product group continues to be a leader in safe industrys jobs of the future.
The company will provide up to autonomous mining technologies.
The Operations Centre controls A$2 million toward the Vocational Education Training initiative.
and operates major assets, including autonomous haul trucks and Development projects drills, processing plants, train loading and unloading, and stockyard stacking and reclaiming machines.
The Iron Ore product groups mineral resources position increased in 2017 as part of ongoing resource development drilling programmes.
A fourth site enabled by an Autonomous Haulage System AHS was This continues to support sustaining production and growth options.
opened during the year at Silvergrass.
In addition, retrofitting projects Managing this resource base efficiently will create a development at the Marandoo and Brockman 4 mines will see the fleet expand to sequence that maximises the value of assets and maintains the more than 140 AHS-enabled trucks by the end of 2019.
The required delivery of product.
Ore reserves also increased after mine automated truck fleet continues to provide advantages relating to depletion.
Given their significance to the business and its customers, safety, productivity and operating costs.
On average, the autonomous the focus continues on the premium Pilbara Blend products.
fleet operated an additional 700 hours and at 15 per cent lower load and haul cost in 2017 than comparable conventional haul trucks.
Since 2012, the product group has followed a disciplined, value-accretive, low-cost brownfield approach to expansion.
The The performance of autonomous trucks and the increased utilisation of addition of Silvergrass, comprising the installation of a satellite all trucks, together with improvements in payload, has reduced fleet crusher and an overland conveyer, added an extra 10 million tonnes requirements, resulting in lower capital expenditure and operating costs.
Automated haul trucks have also been shown to offer significant The Koodaideri project is being studied as the next major safety benefits with zero injuries attributed to AHS-enabled trucks replacement mine and is a low-cost option that would help underpin since deployment.
An investment of US$30.9 million was TM Considerable progress was made by the AutoHaul project during approved in May to complete the feasibility study.
More than 60 per cent of all train kilometres are now completed in autonomous mode with a driver on board for The study is assessing a number of options, including a 40 million supervision.
tonne per annum capacity dry crushing and screening plant, nonprocess infrastructure, product stockyards, a rail loop and load-out A pilot run was completed in September with the train making a and a 170 kilometre rail link to the main line.
It has a suggested nearly 100 kilometre journey without a driver on board: the first fully capital requirement of approximately US$2.2 billion, with the autonomous heavy haul train journey ever completed in Australia.
potential for construction to begin in 2019.
The feasibility study The project is on schedule to be completed by the end of 2018.
The will build on this work and consider a range of capital, timing TM total approved spend for the AutoHaul project is US$940 million.
Throughout 2017, the Iron Ore product group maintained its focus A number of sustaining mine developments also progressed in 2017 on supporting Traditional Owners, local businesses and communities including Yandi Oxbow and West Angelas Deposit F, which provide within its operational footprint.
The product group continued actively high-quality, low-cost options to sustain existing production.
New implementing the Regional Framework Deed and its ten land access projects in development include Yandi Billiard South which will agreements with Pilbara Traditional Owners.
benefit greatly from an in situ processing plant and infrastructure, and will utilise the existing Yandicoogina automated truck fleet.
Iron Ore has agreements with all Pilbara Traditional Owner groups on whose land it operates.
These agreements incorporate mutual Around US$2 billion has been allocated for replacement mine capital obligations to deliver positive outcomes in areas such as over the next three years, the majority of which is still to be approved employment, education and training, cultural heritage management, and includes some spend on Koodaideri.
environmental management and land access.
Five reviews of Outlook Benefits Management Structures established under these agreements were completed during 2017, with joint participation by Having exceeded 100 million tonnes in both 2015 and 2016, Chinese Traditional Owner and Rio Tinto representatives.
Over 100 heritage steel exports reversed trend and declined more than 30 per cent to surveys were undertaken in 2017 across the Pilbara footprint, with approximately 75 million tonnes in 2017.
This was in spite of robust the full involvement of Traditional Owner representatives.
Chinese steel production in 2017, as strong demand and higher prices The Iron Ore product group employs approximately 960 Indigenous in the domestic market led to a decline in exports.
employees, including 437 Pilbara Aboriginal people PAP as at 31 Lower Chinese steel exports in turn incentivised restarts and December 2017.
In May 2017, the Pilbara Aboriginal employment commissioning of new steelmaking capacities in the rest of Asia.
The target was met for the first time with a result of 12.4 per cent combination of supply-side reform in the Chinese steel industry, against a target of 12.2 per cent.
The PAP target is based on the together with synchronised global economic growth, is likely to result latest census data.
Total Indigenous employment was 8.2 per cent in a continuation of the trend of rising steel output across the rest of across the product group as at 31 December 2017.
Augmented by cyclical recoveries in developed regions, Iron Ore also exceeded the Indigenous employment target of 8 per Rio Tinto expects ex-China crude steel production to significantly cent in the national Reconciliation Action Plan for Australia.
outpace China in growth terms and reach a record of more than 850 The Iron Ore product group continues to support programmes and million tonnes in 2018, exceeding levels not seen since before the initiatives across the Pilbara, and its fly-in, fly-out FIFO source global financial crisis.
communities in regional Western Australia and Perth.
The ten-year However, contestable seaborne iron ore supply is also expected to anniversary of FIFO operations from Busselton in the South West to continue to expand in 2018, with the ramp-up of major producers operations in the Pilbara was celebrated in August.
expansion projects to nameplate capacity.
The Community Infrastructure and Services Partnerships CISP with the City of Karratha and the Shire of Ashburton were extended a further five years, helping to improve infrastructure and services in the region.
Rio Tinto will contribute a further A$7.7 million to the City of Karratha CISP and A$5.7 million to the Shire of Ashburton CISP over a period of five years.
Rio Tinto will contribute A$8 million towards the construction of the Wickham Community Hub and a further A$7.5 million toward its operation.
The Hub will feature a public library, a water playground, a skate park and multi-purpose facilities.
During the year the company partnered with the countrys leading science and research agency, the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation CSIRO to implement a new community sentiment survey in the Pilbara to better understand 39 Annual report 2017 riotinto.
