STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Independent limited assurance report What we found Based on the work described below, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the selected subject matter for the year ended 31 December 2017 has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting criteria.
To the directors of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited together Rio Tinto Responsibilities What we did  Rio Tinto engaged us to perform a limited assurance engagement on Our responsibility is to express a conclusion based on the work we the selected subject matter within the Sustainable development performed.
sections of the Rio Tinto 2017 Annual report and the Rio Tinto 2017 Rio Tinto Strategic report for the year ended 31 December 2017.
Rio Tinto management is responsible for the preparation and Selected subject matter presentation of the selected subject matter in accordance with the Rio Tintos assertion that it has incorporated the requirements of the Reporting criteria.
10 sustainable development principles of the International Council What our work involved on Mining and Metals ICMM and the mandatory requirements set out in ICMM Position Statements into its own policies.
We conducted our work in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 Revised Assurance Engagements Rio Tintos assertions regarding the approach that it has adopted Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information and for to identify and prioritise its material sustainable development risks and opportunities selected subject matter relating to greenhouse gas emissions the International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410 Assurance Rio Tintos assertions regarding the existence and status of Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements.
These Standards implementation of systems and approaches used to manage the require that we comply with independence and ethical requirements following selected sustainable development risk areas: and plan the engagement so that it will be performed effectively.
Safety Greenhouse gas emissions Main procedures performed Energy use Making enquiries of relevant management of Rio Tinto regarding the Water management processes and controls for capturing, collating and reporting the The following Rio Tinto performance data related to the selected performance data within the selected subject matter, and evaluating sustainable development risk areas: the design and effectiveness of these processes and controls Number of fatalities Validating the operation of controls over the accuracy of injury All injury frequency rate classification and assessing the final injury classification applied for a sample of injuries reported during the year ended 31 Lost time injury frequency rate December 2017 Number of lost time injuries Testing the arithmetic accuracy of a sample of calculations of Total greenhouse gas emissions performance data within the selected subject matter Greenhouse gas emissions intensity Assessing the appropriateness of the greenhouse gas emission Total energy use factors applied in calculating the Total greenhouse gas emissions Percentage of managed operations with material water risk and Greenhouse gas emissions intensity that are on track to achieving their approved local water Testing performance data, on a selective basis, substantively at performance targets both an operational and corporate level, which included testing at Reporting criteria a selection of operations from across Aluminium, Copper & Diamonds, Energy & Minerals, and Iron Ore The subject matter above has been assessed against the ICMM Undertaking analytical procedures over the performance data Sustainable Development Framework and the definitions and within the selected subject matter approaches within the Glossary which will be presented at Making enquiries of relevant management and reviewing a sample www.
com sd2017 as at 9 March 2018. of relevant management information and documentation Our Independence and Quality Control supporting assertions made in the selected subject matter We have complied with relevant ethical requirements related to We believe that the information we have obtained is sufficient and assurance engagements, which are founded on fundamental appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion.
principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour.
The firm applies Auditing Standard ASQC 1 Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Financial Reports and Other Financial Information, Other Assurance Engagements and Related Services Liza Maimone  Engagements and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of Partner ABN 52 780 433 757 quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding 28 February 2018 Melbourne compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation responsibilities by commissioning an independent Inherent limitations Restriction on use assurance report in connection with the selected Inherent limitations exist in all assurance This report has been prepared in accordance with our subject matter.
engagements due to the selective testing of the engagement terms to assist Rio Tinto in reporting its Limited assurance information being examined.
Therefore fraud, error sustainable development performance.
We do not or non-compliance may occur and not be detected.
accept or assume responsibility for the consequences of This engagement is aimed at obtaining limited Additionally, non-financial data may be subject to any reliance on this report for any other purpose or to assurance for our conclusions.
As a limited assurance more inherent limitations than financial data, given any other person or organisation.
Any reliance on this engagement is restricted primarily to enquiries and both its nature and the methods used for report by any third party is entirely at its own risk.
analytical procedures and the work is substantially determining, calculating and sampling or We consent to the inclusion of this report in the Rio less detailed than that undertaken for a reasonable estimating such data.
Tinto 2017 Annual report and the Rio Tinto 2017 assurance engagement, the level of assurance is Strategic report to assist Rio Tintos members in lower than would be obtained in a reasonable assessing whether the directors have discharged their assurance engagement.
Professional standards require us to use negative wording in the conclusion of a limited assurance report.
com 35 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Rio Tinto took a stand against family and domestic violence, Inclusion and diversity including implementing standard support available to affected employees.
This was launched in Australia with plans to roll out further in 2018.
Our Australia business undertook the path of White Ribbon accreditation, which recognises workplaces that are Our commitment to inclusion and diversity taking active steps to stop violence against women.
We are a global company and, wherever we operate and across every part Through innovative online focus groups, we heard directly from of our business, we strive to create an inclusive culture where diversity is over 500 employees about their views on inclusion and diversity recognised and valued.
By bringing together men and women from and what matters to them.
Using these insights, in 2018 we will be diverse backgrounds and giving each person the opportunity to contribute developing a stronger narrative to engage our whole population on their skills, experience and perspectives, we believe that we are able to the diversity journey.
develop the best solutions to challenges and deliver value for Rio Tinto Building leadership capability is a key enabler of inclusion and and its stakeholders.
This approach is re ected and put into effect diversity.
Our Leading for Success programme was launched and through the companys Diversity and Inclusion policy, which is available 1,500 of our senior leaders completed the programme, including on our website.
the chief executive and Executive Committee.
During 2018 a further 5,000 middle and front-line leaders will participate in the What inclusion and diversity means for Rio Tinto programme.
The Rio Tinto Graduate Talent programme was re-launched, with a Embracing workforce diversity age, gender, race, national or ethnic focus on bringing diverse graduates into the business on a origin, religion, language, political beliefs, sexual orientation and two-year development programme.
Forty one per cent of the physical ability.
graduates we hired were women and 29 per cent were nationals Valuing diversity of perspective leveraging the diverse thinking, skills, from regions where we are developing new businesses.
In 2018, experience and working styles of our employees and other stakeholders.
we aim to hire 50 per cent women and 30 per cent from regions Building a exible organisation providing opportunities for work where we are developing new businesses.
arrangements that accommodate the diverse needs of individuals at Our sites all over the world continue to invest in building local different career and life stages.
capability and increasing the representation of Indigenous Respecting stakeholder diversity developing strong and sustainable employees in our workforce.
relationships with diverse shareholders, communities, employees, Ongoing active involvement in local Women in Mining groups, governments, customers and suppliers.
professional womens associations and other key diversity groups.
Our current focus Local inclusion and diversity committees and interest groups Our goal is to have a workforce that is representative of the countries and across the organisation continue to bring tangible actions to life.
communities in which we operate, and to have a culture that is inclusive Proportion of women employees and board members where all people feel heard, valued and respected.
Currently our focus is As at 31 December 2017, the proportion of women on the board was to improve the representation of women and of people from nationalities 18 per cent two female: nine male.
This is set to increase to 30 per cent representative of our current and future footprint, and to continue to build in 2018 as a result of planned succession changes at the board level.
an inclusive culture in which all talent can thrive.
The proportion of women on the Executive Committee was 27.3 per cent Some of our activities and initiatives relating to diversity during 2017 and three female: eight male.
The proportion of women in senior our plans for 2018 include: management was 22.4 per cent and in the overall workforce was A global minimum standard for paid parental leave for all 18 per cent.
For these purposes, senior management are employees in employees.
With a successful roll-out in the US during 2017, in business unit or functional leadership roles who are direct reports of 2018 we will implement the changes through the organisation so Executive Committee members, and those at general manager, that all employees will be able to access a minimum standard of Group adviser and chief adviser levels.
paid parental leave, regardless of their personal circumstances.
Subsidiary board diversity Women represented 12 per cent of the directors of our principal controlled subsidiary undertakings during 2017 15 female: 110 male.
Measurable objectives and progress Progress continues to be made in meeting our measurable objectives for workforce diversity and we will continue to put strong focus on increasing these measures for 2018.
In 2017, we increased the graduate pool from 69 2016 to 150 and maintained the focus for gender diversity and intake of graduates who were nationals from regions where we are growing new businesses.
Through strategic business impacts ie divestments we were able to maintain our gender balance and increase under-represented nationalities.
Strong focus will continue in 2018 for our graduate intake with measures of 50 50 gender split and 30 per cent under-represented nationalities.
Percentage of women represented Percentage of women represented Percentage of our graduate intake who in our senior management in our graduate intake were nationals from regions where we are growing new businesses 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 19.2% 22.4% 46.4% 41% 36.2% 29% 36 36 riotinto.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information equal pay to ensure that any differences are due to legitimate factors, Rio Tintos commitment to and will take action as appropriate.
Gender pay gap pay equity The gender gay gap, unlike equal pay, is also influenced by the relative seniority of men and women in an organisation or industry.
Rio Tinto strives to create an inclusive culture where all people are Across the entire Group, the gender pay gap on 1 February 2018 was heard, valued and respected.
We embrace workforce diversity and just under one per cent.
However, this apparently good result for the value differences.
Consistent with our vision for inclusion and Group as a whole reflects the large sample size and marks a less diversity, we are committed to ensuring that employees with similar favourable positon at our head office in the UK.
Across the entire skills, knowledge, qualifications, experience and performance are paid workforce, as the equal pay pap suggests, there is relatively little equally for the same or comparable work.
difference between the average pay of men and women, but there is still a relatively low level of gender diversity in the most senior Both the equal pay gap and the gender pay gap measure pay management positions.
Rio Tinto is addressing this issue through a differences between women and men in the workplace, but they number of initiatives, including a target to increase the representation measure two different things: of women in senior management roles by two per cent year on year, and for women to represent 50 per cent of our graduate intake in - An equal pay gap arises when men and women employed by 2018. the same company, in the same location, performing equal work, do not receive the same pay.
Both the equal pay gap and the Group-wide gender pay gap are measured and monitored on a voluntary basis by Rio Tinto, in parallel - The gender pay gap is a measure of the difference between with country-specific mandatory reporting requirements.
Under UK mens and womens average earnings across an organisation or regulations, while none of our UK employing entities meet the industry, regardless of the roles that each are performing.
It is minimum reporting threshold of 250 employees, details of the gender normally expressed as a percentage of mens earnings.
pay gap for the largest entity Rio Tinto London Limited have been voluntarily disclosed on our website at riotinto.
Equal pay Note: Defined as full time equivalent, contractual base salary: excludes Pacific Aluminium Equal pay is at the core of Rio Tintos approach to pay equity.
We use due to insufficient data being available a like-for-like approach to measure and monitor equal pay across the Group irrespective of the regulatory requirements and methodologies that we are required to adopt for local reporting.
This means that we compare the pay of employees performing the same roles in the same location or country.
This like-for-like approach is used for all jobs where both females and males are represented, and it is weighted based on the number of female incumbents in each job.
A positive percentage indicates an equal pay gap in favour of men.
A negative percentage indicates an equal ay gap in favour of women.
Rio Tintos equal pay gap on 1 February 2018 was three per cent.
Rio Tinto will continue to monitor 37 Annual report 2017 riotinto.
