Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Group strategy Supportive market conditions and strong value focus Following the volatile and depressed market conditions experienced potential ina tionary cost headwinds, companies remain focused on over recent years, 2017 was a strong year for the mining sector.
Many maintaining strong balance sheets, reducing costs and improving commodity markets continued to strengthen during the year, aided productivity.
Our early and consistent action in these areas continues by economic expansion and positive consumer sentiment in advanced to position us well: our balance sheet is among the strongest in the economies, and robust Chinese demand.
Meanwhile, supply was sector: our cost and productivity programmes are delivering results: impacted by a number of environmental, geopolitical and technical and we have new volumes coming on line from our ongoing challenges, with the rate of new supply additions continuing to lag investment in organic growth.
behind natural mine depletions across many commodities.
These A clear and effective strategy is critical for us to perform strongly under a external tailwinds supported prices for a number of our commodities range of industry conditions.
Our goal is to deliver superior value for our in 2017, helping to generate strong cash ow, which we used to shareholders through the cycle, and we believe the best way to do this is further strengthen our balance sheet and deliver signica nt cash to focus on the four Ps: portfolio, performance, people and partners.
We couple this with our disciplined approach to capital allocation.
While supportive market conditions are always welcome, we continue This seeks to ensure that every dollar we generate is applied to the to focus on the value levers that are within our control.
During 2017, highest-returning opportunity whether that be for maintaining our we delivered further cost reductions, increased our productivity from balance sheet strength, investing in compelling growth opportunities or mine to market and continued to allocate capital in line with our delivering superior shareholder returns.
Across the industry, and in view of A clear strategy to deliver value through the cycle World-class Balance sheet Portfolio assets strength Capital Superior cash Superior Operating Performance allocation generation shareholder excellence discipline returns Compelling People and Capabilities growth partners 8 8 riotinto.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Superior cash generation 1.
Portfolio At the heart of our approach is a portfolio of In 2017, we: world-class assets from our Pilbara iron ore Invested US$2.0 billion in sustaining capital expenditure and US$2.5 billion in growth business, to our Queensland bauxite assets, opportunities, including our Silvergrass iron ore mine in Western Australia, the Oyu Tolgoi our Canadian aluminium smelters and our underground copper mine development in Mongolia and our Amrun bauxite project in global suite of copper mines.
multi-decade assets that deliver attractive Opened our Silvergrass iron ore mine in Western Australia, having completed the returns throughout the cycle, while providing construction of the mine safely, on budget and within 12 months.
material opportunities for growth over the Continued lateral development and the sinking of Shaft 2 at the Oyu Tolgoi underground long term.
We use a clear strategic copper mine development in Mongolia.
framework to assess our existing assets and Completed installation of wharf modules and positioned process plant beneficiation new opportunities taking into account the modules and transfer tower on location at the Amrun bauxite project in Queensland.
industry attractiveness and the competitive advantage of each asset, and its capacity to Approved a US$368 million commitment Rio Tinto share: 55 per cent or US$202 million deliver strong and stable returns.
to further advance the Resolution Copper project in the US.
Announced an increase to our Pilbara iron ore reserves in Western Australia.
Completed the sale of our Coal & Allied thermal coal business for US$2.69 billion.
Priorities for 2018: Continue to progress the development of the Oyu Tolgoi underground copper mine in Mongolia and the Amrun bauxite project in Queensland.
Continue to ramp-up production from the conveyor system at our Silvergrass iron ore mine.
Complete the sale of Aluminium Dunkerque.
Complete the sale of ISAL, Aluchemie and Aluminium Fluoride.
Performance In 2017, we: Safety is our number one priority and is core to Suffered one safety fatality and one health fatality at our managed operations, and everything we do.
A well-run operation is a safe therefore did not meet our goal of zero harm.
Completed over 1.4 million critical control verications in our critical risk management We seek to generate value at all stages of the fatality prevention programme.
value chain from mine through to market.
We Announced a record full-year dividend of US$5.2 billion, as part of total shareholder prioritise value over volume in all of our returns of US$9.7 billion declared with respect to 2017. operating and investment decisions.
We have Paid US$6.3 billion in cash returns to shareholders, comprising US$4.2 billion in dividends delivered substantial cost savings over recent and US$2.1 billion in share buy-backs.
years and this remains a key focus area.
Beyond this, we continue to increase the productivity of Reduced our net debt from US$9.6 billion to US$3.8 billion.
our existing assets, as a substantial and Delivered US$0.4 billion in post-tax free cash ow from mine-to-market productivity initiatives.
low-risk source of incremental returns.
Achieved US$2.2 billion of operating cash cost improvements in 2016 and 2017, achieving our target of US$2.0 billion six months ahead of schedule.
We have established a leading position in the development and use of technology and Reinforced our focus on driving mine-to-market value with the appointment of a chief innovation allowing us to deliver more tonnes commercial officer and further investment in a centralised Commercial group headquartered in Singapore.
more cheaply and with less risk.
As the industry faces increasingly complex geological, Made strong progress with the automation of the Pilbara iron ore train system TM environmental and cost pressures, our AutoHaul, with more than 60 per cent of all train kilometres now completed in autonomous mode with a driver on board for supervision.
technology advantage will be an increasingly important value driver.
Priorities for 2018: Continue to implement our new Process Safety standards at all relevant operations.
Our commercial activities seek to deliver the maximum value from each of our businesses.
Deliver US$1.1 billion in cumulative post-tax free cash ow from mine-to-market productivity initiatives over 2017 and 2018, as part of our target to deliver cumulative free Our centralised marketing function works cash ow of US$5.0 billion from these initiatives from 2017 to 2021. hand-in-hand with our operations, so that our TM resource management is fully aligned to the Complete the AutoHaul project automation of the Pilbara train system by the end of 2018. prevailing market.
Establish a dedicated Rio Tinto closure team to oversee the responsible planning and oversight of future mine closures including near-term mine closures such as the Argyle Over the years we have leveraged our diamond mine in Western Australia and the Gove alumina renery in Northern Territory.
understanding of customer needs to create new markets for our products, including hightemperature Weipa bauxite, and champagne and pink diamonds.
We deploy our capabilities in supply chain optimisation and a variety of logistics solutions across the Group and have in-house centres of excellence for value-in-use analysis, pricing and contracting strategies.
Together, these activities allow us to manage risk and capture value in all market conditions.
com 9 Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Group strategy 3.
People As our industry evolves, new capabilities will be In 2017, we: Launched the new Rio Tinto purpose and enhanced our company values and global code of required and we must attract, develop and business conduct, The way we work, to set a strong sense of direction, increase employee retain the right people to meet this challenge.
engagement and attract future talent.
We continue to strengthen our technical and commercial capabilities in particular, through Enabled 1,500 leaders to improve their leadership skills through a six-month development programme called Leading for Success.
our centres of excellence around these areas.
Beyond this, we are committed to building a Exceeded our target of 20 per cent women in senior management roles with female diverse and inclusive workforce at all levels of representation of 22.4 per cent at year end 2017. the organisation.
Introduced a new global minimum standard for paid parental leave.
Successfully negotiated enterprise agreements at Rio Tinto Kennecott, Kitimat, Havre-Saint-Pierre and Gove Aluminium, and with the European Works Council.
Refreshed our graduate programme and held our first graduate summit bringing together young leaders from around the world to build relationships and share ideas.
Priorities for 2018: Continue to improve employee engagement through strong leadership and creating a high-performing and inclusive workforce.
Deploy the Leading for Success development programme to all 6,500 leaders by the end of 2018.
Continue to improve the diversity of our workforce by creating an inclusive workplace and building a diverse pipeline of talent.
Reposition the Group employee value proposition EVP to ensure we attract, retain, galvanise and inspire our workforce.
Strengthen the approach to our people performance culture.
Implement technical career paths and continue to build deep technical capabilities.
Partners As a global company, the environment in which In 2017, we: we operate is becoming more complex.
To Strengthened our sustainable development partnership with Tsinghua University by secure access to new resources, while extending the tenure of the Tsinghua-Rio Tinto Joint Research Centre for Resources, managing the varying risk proles of our Energy and Sustainable Development.
businesses across the globe, we must partner Extended our Channar Mining joint venture in Australias Pilbara region and agreed to with a range of external stakeholders.
These supply an additional 10 million tonnes of iron ore to the joint venture.
include our customers, suppliers, investors, Signed a Technical Collaboration Agreement with China Minmetals Corporation, governments and local communities see formalising a collaborative partnership in mineral exploration both inside and Delivering value for all of our stakeholders on outside China.
Signed a Memorandum of Understanding MoU with the Government of Serbia to Partnerships are relevant at all stages of the progress the Jadar lithium-borate project through the study and permitting phases.
value chain and mining life cycle from Signed a MoU with Chinas State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration exploration, through to operations, marketing Commission SASAC to develop executive training for Central State-owned Enterprise and mine closure.
Successful partnerships leaders on areas including stakeholder engagement, licence to operate, environmental enable us to secure and maintain our licence to and economic assessments and community engagement.
operate and are a key long-term success factor for our industry.
Priorities for 2018: Continue to progress the Oyu Tolgoi copper development, under our recently established country ofce and joint working group with the Government of Mongolia.
Continue to build strong long-term partnerships with key stakeholders at every stage of our business from exploration, to development, operations and through to mine closures.
Continue to look at new opportunities in metals and minerals associated with new technologies, trends and the needs of an urbanising and changing world under the leadership of our Rio Tinto Ventures unit.
Build our partnership capabilities across the business to deal with external complexities and social performance opportunities.
Deliver our communities investment strategy.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Capital allocation discipline Our 2018 strategic priorities We adopt a consistent and disciplined approach to capital allocation.
We enter 2018 in a strong financial position and with good Our first allocation is to sustaining capital.
Throughout 2018, we will continue to focus on the four dividends for our shareholders.
Finally, we assess the best use of the Ps Portfolio, Performance, People, and Partners and our valueremaining capital between compelling growth, debt management and over-volume approach, to generate superior returns for our further cash returns to shareholders.
At each stage, we apply shareholders over the short, medium and long term.
stringent governance and assessment criteria to ensure that every As always, safety will remain our number one priority as measured dollar is spent in the right way.
both by the elimination of fatalities and minimising our all injury frequency rate and lost-time injuries.
Our strong focus on operating Balance sheet strength and commercial excellence will continue in 2018, as we seek to In a cyclical and capital-intensive industry such as mining, a strong extract efficiency improvements across our entire value chain and balance sheet is essential to preserve optionality and generate work towards delivering US$5.0 billion of incremental free cash flow shareholder value at all points in the cycle.
At 31 December 2017, our from mine-to-market productivity initiatives by 2021. balance sheet was in a very strong position, with net debt of US$3.8 billion and a net gearing ratio of 7per cent.
We see this as a We will continue to shape our portfolio of assets, ensuring that we major competitive advantage providing us with resilience against focus only on the highest-returning, world-class assets in our market and macroeconomic volatility, the ability to fund shareholder preferred industry sectors and seeking to exit assets that do not fit these criteria.
We will progress our high-return growth projects, returns through the cycle and a readiness to take advantage of investment opportunities as they arise.
including the Amrun bauxite project in Queensland and the underground expansion at Oyu Tolgoi.
We expect to invest around Quality growth US$5.5 billion in capital expenditure during 2018.
We have a high-quality pipeline of near-term and longer-dated Investing in our people and our partnerships with external projects across the portfolio.
By reinforcing capital discipline and stakeholders remains a key focus for 2018.
We are investing ever reshaping our projects, we have retained significant, high-quality more in developing the technical and commercial capabilities that will growth despite further reducing our capital expenditure.
enable us to unlock maximum value from our assets.
In addition, we will continue building and maintaining strong partnerships across all Superior shareholder returns stages of the value chain, founded on trusted relationships and our We are committed to delivering superior returns to shareholders over reputation for doing things the right way.
Strong partnerships allow the long term, and the cash returns we pay out to shareholders are a us to access and execute new opportunities, maximise value from our vital component of this.
In a cyclical industry such as mining, we existing assets and manage licence-to-operate risks.
believe the most prudent way to deliver strong returns is to allow the As we look ahead to 2018, we see reasons for both optimism and overall level of returns to vary with the cycle.
Accordingly, we aim to deliver shareholders total cash returns of 40 to 60 per cent of caution.
Favourable macroeconomic conditions are expected to underlying earnings through the cycle.
This policy is sustainable continue, and while we may see a slowdown in Chinas growth during during cyclical lows, and allows shareholders to participate more fully 2018, growth prospects in Europe and emerging markets look strong.
in the upside during high points in the cycle.
We are also seeing increased demand for a number of materials that will underpin future growth and the decarbonisation of the economy.
However, we expect cost inflation to increase across the industry during 2018, and at a macro level we see uncertainty in a number of areas including ongoing geopolitical tensions, a rise in protectionism and threats from technological disruption and cyber security.
It is clear that we are living in a period of rapid change.
In this environment, we will continue to apply our value-led approach to capital spending and will drive performance improvements right across our value chain.
Maintaining balance sheet strength remains a priority, and we will continue to position Rio Tinto as an agile, open and collaborative company ready to respond to the opportunities and challenges that emerge.
