Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Business model How we create value Our competitive advantages stem from our asset portfolio, our strong Rio Tinto owns a global and diversi ed portfolio of world-class assets: balance sheet, and the operating and commercial excellence achieved by the result of investment decisions made in line with our long-standing our teams.
Coupled with our framework for managing risk effectively, these provide We create value through the way we nd, develop and operate these strength across the cycle, and through the challenges that the external assets, how we market the minerals and metals they produce, and the environment presents.
legacy we leave at the end of their lives.
Our approach is described in our business life cycle below, along with To optimise the value of our portfolio over time, we pursue opportunities examples showing some of the ways we create value.
for productivity improvements, cost reductions and focused growth.
We are committed to running and growing our business in ways that are increasingly safer, smarter and more sustainable.
Explore and evaluate Develop Mine and process Our in-house exploration team has a multiOur approach is to develop orebodies so that We create value by operating our assets safely decade track record of discovering orebodies in they deliver value over the long term.
We apply and ef ciently, and by building on our leadership both green eld and brown eld settings.
To rigorous assessment and review processes position in low-cost operations.
With a global maintain our focus on targets that are that aim to ensure we only approve operating model, we can apply standard important to Rio Tinto, we run most investments that offer attractive returns well processes and systems across the Group in areas exploration programmes ourselves, but we above our cost of capital.
We assess the such as health, safety, environment and also partner with others where this gives us spectrum of risk and how we will manage it communities, procurement, operations and access to skills or opportunities that we do not see page 18. maintenance.
This extends the life of our possess in-house.
equipment and optimises the extraction of ore, Once we have con rmed the value of a meaning higher production, lower costs and Our exploration teams are often the first resource and received internal and external maximised value.
Our operations bring bene t to contact with communities we may work approvals to develop it, the project moves into local economies by providing employment alongside for decades, so we explore the implementation phase.
The product groups opportunities, procurement, and the transparent respectfully and make sure we engage with work in partnership with Rio Tinto Projects payment of tax and royalties.
part of the Growth & Innovation group see page 46.
Our commitment to technology and innovation Using our orebody knowledge, we develop our also sets Rio Tinto apart.
It enables us to take resources and position our products in the As we develop an operation, we plan the most advantage of opportunities that may not be marketplace in ways that add value and ef cient con guration for mining the orebody available to others, improves our productivity and support the Groups investment decisionand getting the products to market building helps us tailor our products to customer needs.
Our geological expertise gives us the in optionality to respond to changes in market TM Through our Mine of the Future programme, we con dence to keep looking for the most elusive conditions.
We work closely with our nd advanced ways to extract minerals deep discoveries.
customers to create demand that maximises within the Earth while reducing environmental the value of the deposit over its lifetime.
We We have a strong tradition of developing impacts and further improving safety.
We use our also work in partnership with host innovative technologies to resolve speci c network of partnerships with academia, governments and communities, identifying exploration challenges.
We apply these technology suppliers and other experts to tap into ways in which we can deliver mutual bene ts technologies, together with our tried and knowledge and technical prowess that augment from the development of our operations.
tested exploration techniques, to drive our own capabilities.
discovery success in the future.
Business model in action Business model in action Business model in action We are using modern analytical techniques In constructing the export wharf for the Amrun At our Pilbara Iron Ore operations, we have been such as mineral chemistry, together with our bauxite project in Australia, we applied nding new ways to keep our people safe by decades of geotechnical expertise, to better techniques from the oil and gas industry that eliminating working with live equipment.
Teams understand our resources and maximise the have delivered safety and productivity bene ts have improved work practices using tools and value we generate from mining and over traditional construction methods.
Modules technologies, such as wireless and thermal processing, while minimising the for the kilometre-long wharf were prefabricated cameras, to ensure they are always kept safe.
environmental impact of our activities.
off-site in China, allowing for more streamlined Once trialled, these innovations are being rolled assembly at Amrun and eliminating more than out across sites to deliver safe and practical 300,000 high-risk work hours on site.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Delivering value for all of our Market and deliver Close down and rehabilitate stakeholders To be successful, we must continue to build strong partnerships at all stages of our business model.
Through our global footprint and diverse portfolio, we are able to create value for our stakeholders in a variety of ways.
Communities Our operations create jobs for local communities and can open up new markets for local suppliers.
Communities often bene t from the infrastructure we put in place and once our operations are closed, we restore the sites for instance for community use, new Our business is based on the supply of highClosure planning is part of every assets life industry, or back to native vegetation.
quality products that have been developed to cycle.
We start planning for closure from the meet our customers needs.
The minerals and earliest stages of investment and development Customers metals we supply mostly to industrial to help optimise outcomes and minimise risk.
We supply our customers with the right companies that process them further form the materials at the right time, so they can add Where possible, we aim to progressively basis of products that are used in everyday life value by turning them into the end products rehabilitate sites during the years of active and are essential to advancing standards of that society needs to sustain and enhance operation.
When a resource reaches the end of living and human progress.
Our diverse portfolio its life, we seek to minimise its financial, social modern life.
Through recycling, many of our allows us to respond to demand throughout and environmental impact by nding products last well beyond the lifetime of our countries economic development cycles, sustainable and bene cial future land uses.
including in infrastructure, transport, We identify post-closure options that take into machinery, energy and consumer goods.
Governments account stakeholders concerns while ful lling We are often a major economic and social Rio Tintos marketing teams work with our regulatory requirements.
contributor to the local, state and national operations to align our resource management jurisdictions in which we operate.
Our tax with market needs and to make sure we offer products and services that maximise value for payments and sovereign equity participation our customers.
We are strengthening our enable governments to develop and maintain commercial capabilities, including through our public works, services and institutions.
We Commercial organisation headquartered in help create growth that endures far beyond Singapore, a strong sales and marketing the active life of our operations.
presence in each of the markets we serve, Our people value-focused organisations including We invest in our people throughout their Procurement and Marine & Logistics, and commercial insights from our market and careers, offering diverse employment industry analysts.
prospects, opportunities for development, and competitive rewards and bene ts that have a What we learn from our markets and customers clear link to performance.
helps us to re ne our investment decisions.
We deliver a number of products ourselves, with Shareholders logistics capabilities that include our own Our primary objective is to deliver superior networks of rail, ports and ships.
shareholder returns through the cycle.
We do this by balancing disciplined investment with Business model in action Business model in action prudent management of our balance sheet During 2017, we applied to have some of our The main remediation works at the Holden and shareholder returns.
Canadian aluminium assets certi ed under the copper mine in Washington State, US, were Suppliers Aluminium Stewardship Initiative ASI a completed in 2017.
Mining of the Holden mine global organisation set up to promote ended in the 1950s.
Rio Tinto never operated By seeking the right balance of global, national improvements in the environmental, social and the mine, but inherited the site through and local supply capability, and supporting governance impacts of aluminium production, acquisition, and has managed its remediation.
local supplier development wherever possible, use and recycling.
The ASIs new certi cation The American Exploration & Mining Association we drive value for our shareholders and deliver programme will give customers, end users and recently awarded Rio Tinto an Environmental economic bene ts for the communities in other stakeholders greater visibility of the Excellence Award for its clean up of the which we operate.
responsible footprint of aluminium products.
