Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Key production locations Key sales destinations Group overview Australia Mainland China Japan South Korea Introduction to Rio Tinto Taiwan For 145 years, Rio Tinto has been pioneering the production of Full operating review 38 materials essential to human progress.
Aluminium Our minerals and metals help make modern life work.
They are found Building on more than a century of experience and expertise, Rio Tinto in buildings and infrastructure, in vehicles and transport networks, is a global leader in the aluminium industry.
Our business includes and throughout the home.
high-quality bauxite mines, large-scale alumina refineries, and some of Through the products we deliver, and the partnerships we create and the worlds lowest-cost, most  aluminium nurture, Rio Tinto works to make a difference in our local communities smelters.
Products The portfolio we have created, and that we are continually optimising, Bauxite provides us with a competitive advantage.
By investing throughout Bauxite is the ore used to make aluminium.
It is first refined into the cycle, we have developed a suite of high-quality, expandable alumina, which is subsequently smelted into primary aluminium.
Our assets that are positioned for decades of premium production.
whollyand partly-owned bauxite mines are located in Australia, Brazil and Guinea.
Our organisation is centred on these assets, which themselves are managed through four product groups: Iron Ore, Aluminium, Alumina Copper & Diamonds and Energy & Minerals.
In turn, these four Alumina aluminium oxide is extracted from bauxite via a refining product groups are supported by our global and headquarters process.
Approximately four tonnes of bauxite are required to produce functions, and by our Growth & Innovation and Commercial groups.
two tonnes of alumina, which in turn yield one tonne of aluminium.
Our whollyand partly-owned alumina refineries are located in Australia, Our strategy is founded on our asset portfolio, on building a Brazil and Canada.
high-performance culture across the business, and on maintaining discipline when allocating capital.
This allows us to focus on Aluminium maximising cash through a value-over-volume approach, and on Aluminium is a versatile modern metal.
Light, strong, flexible, delivering superior returns to our shareholders.
corrosion-resistant and infinitely recyclable, it is one of the most widelyused materials in todays world.
The largest markets for aluminium are As they deliver our strategy, our 47,000 people worldwide work with a transportation, machinery and construction.
Rio Tintos smelters are in common code of conduct and the same set of values: safety, Canada, France, Australia, New Zealand, Iceland and Oman.
teamwork, respect, integrity and excellence.
Safety is our number one priority, and always comes first at Rio Tinto.
Strategic advantages Access to large and high quality bauxite ore reserves, strategically We continue to pioneer progress for a better future.
Every day, we located to meet growing demand in China.
look for ways to make our business stronger driving productivity and performance from mine through to market.
Among the lowest-cost bauxite producers.
Exceptional hydropower position, which delivers significant cost and Iron Ore other advantages in an energy-intensive industry and an increasingly carbon-constrained world.
Rio Tinto operates a world-class iron ore business, supplying the global seaborne iron ore trade.
We are well positioned to benefit from the The worlds first certified low carbon dioxide aluminium, RenewAl, continuing demand across China, other Asian economies, and the with a carbon footprint one third of the industry average.
Located in the Pilbara region of Western Australia, our Iron Ore product groups operations are able to achieve industry-leading Key production locations Key sales destinations margins.
Canada Asia Products Australia Americas Iron ore Europe Europe Iron ore is the key ingredient in the production of steel, one of the most Full operating review 40 fundamental and durable products for modern-day living, with uses from railways to refrigerators, and pipes to paperclips.
Strategic advantages Strong presence in key markets.
Proximity to key Asian markets.
World-class assets, comprising an exclusive, integrated supply chain with extensive long-term optionality.
A premium product suite, which drives strong customer relationships, supported by technical expertise.
A high-margin 68 per cent FOB EBITDA margin and low-cost position with a Pilbara cash unit cost of US$13.4 per tonne in 2017.
Strong mineral resources providing multiple high-quality, low-cost options to sustain and grow our Pilbara operations.
Industry leader in supply chain management, responsible mining, and technology and innovation.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Salt Copper & Diamonds Salt is one of the basic raw materials for the chemicals industry, and is Rio Tintos Copper & Diamonds product group manages operations in indispensable to a wide array of automotive, construction and electronic Australia, Canada, Mongolia and the US.
We also have interests in products, as well as in water treatment, food and healthcare.
non-managed operations in Chile and Indonesia.
We are the worlds ninth largest producer of copper and one of the worlds largest diamonds Titanium dioxide producers.
As by-products of its copper production, the group also The minerals ilmenite and rutile, together with titanium dioxide slag, can be transformed into a white titanium dioxide pigment or titanium metal.
produces gold, silver, molybdenum and other materials such as sulphuric acid, rhenium, lead carbonate and selenium.
The white pigment is a key component in paints, plastics, paper, inks, textiles, food, sunscreen and cosmetics.
Titanium metal is lightweight, Products chemically inert and strong, making it ideal for use in medical applications Copper and in the aerospace industry.
Copper is a vital component for the worlds electricity infrastructure, digital communications and green technologies.
Voice, data and Uranium information systems rely on copper, and it helps power wind energy and Uranium is one of the most powerful energy sources, and is used in the solar collection, as well as energy-efficient buildings and electric vehicles.
production of clean, stable, base-load electricity.
After uranium is mined, Copper is also used in medical applications and drinking water it is processed into uranium oxide.
This product is then sold for processing infrastructure, where it is valued for its antimicrobial properties.
into fuel rods for use in nuclear power stations.
Diamonds Other products from the Energy & Minerals product group include Rio Tinto produces diamonds in a full range of sizes, qualities and colours high-purity ductile iron, steel billets, metal powders and zircon.
for all established and emerging consumer markets.
High-purity ductile iron is supplied to the foundry industry for ductile castings.
Steel billets are transformed into seamless pipe for the oil and Gold gas industry or wire rod, which has many applications from fasteners to Gold is used as a financial instrument and a store of value, but it has automotive springs.
Metal powders are used in a variety of industries, medical, electronic and computing applications, as well as in jewellery.
such as automotive, and in sintered components, food enrichment, friction, water treatment and welding.
Zircons high refractive index and Silver solid opacity makes it ideal for the ceramics industry, mainly for tiles and Silver is used in electronic devices, in aerospace and medical applications, sanitaryware.
It is also used to manufacture catalysts, refractories, and and to make jewellery.
As a precious metal, it is also used as an medical prosthetics, as well as being applied in nuclear reactors, chemical investment.
Molybdenum Strategic advantages When combined with other metals, molybdenum creates more durable materials that are better able to resist high-temperatures and corrosion.
Demand-led, integrated operations that are responsive to the It is often used to produce metal alloys such as stainless steel.
Minerals business poised to benefit from mid-to-late developmentStrategic advantages cycle demand growth as consumption increases in emerging markets.
A portfolio of large, high-quality copper assets.
A lean, scalable operating model running cash-focused businesses.
Global copper and diamond exploration, mining and processing Key production locations Key sales destinations operations.
North America North America Strength in delivering mine-to-market productivity.
Australia China Leading technology and processes for underground mining.
Africa Japan Europe Key production locations Key sales destinations Full operating review 44 Australia Australia Chile China Growth & Innovation Mongolia India The Growth & Innovation group supports Rio Tintos assets to achieve North America Japan superior performance throughout their lifecycle by optimising value from Indonesia North America the development of the initial concept to the point when a mine or Europe processing facility is eventually closed.
Growth & Innovation works in Full operating review 42 partnership with Rio Tintos product groups to find, study, develop and optimise assets to ensure they are safe, productive and profitable.
Its Energy & Minerals centralised exploration, capital projects and technical capabilities enable Rio Tintos Energy & Minerals product group comprises mining, refining Growth & Innovation to deliver portfolio growth and solutions to and marketing operations in 14 countries, across six sectors: borates, operational and business challenges through innovation, productivity and coal, iron ore concentrate and pellets, salt, titanium dioxide and uranium.
The Energy & Minerals group also includes the Jadar lithium-borate Full operating review 46 project in Serbia and the Simandou iron ore project in Guinea.
Products Commercial Borates The Commercial group is focused on maximising the value of our Refined borates are used in hundreds of products and processes.
They are products: growing value in the marketplace through partnership with the a vital ingredient of many building materials and are essential companys customers, suppliers, product groups and Group functions.
They are also commonly used in glass and Headquartered in Singapore, and integrated with Rio Tintos assets, hubs, ceramic applications, including fibreglass, television screens, floor and and offices globally, Commercials purpose is to provide the commercial wall tiles, and heat-resistant glass.
insights to drive value along the mine-to-market value chain.
Commercial Coal incorporates and utilises the knowledge and capabilities of the global Coking coal, or metallurgical coal, is mixed in furnaces with iron ore to Sales & Marketing, Procurement, and Marine & Logistics organisations, produce steel.
Following the disposal of Coal & Allied during 2017, Rio supported by the Market Analysis, Commercial Treasury and other Tinto now has only limited interests in thermal coal, which remains an functions, to ensure our approach to business is driven by a important part of the energy mix in some parts of the world.
The Commercial group came under the leadership of the newly appointed chief commercial officer on 1 January 2018.
