Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information between the provisions of various existing long-term incentive plans, Remuneration Report: notably with respect to malus and claw-back.
Awards under the EIP will be granted in accordance with the prevailing Remuneration Policy.
If approved, the 2018 PSA and deferred element of the STIP Annual statement by the will be granted to executives under this Plan.
Remuneration Committee 2018 decisions chairman Consistent with prior practice, annual salary increases for executives are in line with the base salary increases applying to the broader employee population.
The maximum opportunity for executives under the STIP also remains the same as last year.
The 2018 safety measures, weightings and targets are fully disclosed on page 91.
Dear shareholders, We expect to disclose the 2018 financial and individual targets On behalf of the board, I am pleased to introduce our 2017 directors retrospectively in the 2018 Implementation Report.
remuneration report the Remuneration Report.
The level of PSA to be granted to executives in May 2018, as a The Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with percentage of base salary, will be broadly equivalent to those made in applicable legislation and corporate governance guidelines in the UK 2017.
Consistent with our practice since 1998, the awards made are and Australia.
Australian legislation requires disclosures in respect of calculated using the average share price over the previous calendar key management personnel, being those persons having authority year.
As such, the PSA awards granted in 2018 will be calculated and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities using the 2017 average share prices of 34.10 and A$65.23.
The key management personnel are, in addition to the decision to use average prices over the year, rather than spot prices, directors, the members of the Executive Committee who are not is intended to mitigate the impact of share price volatility.
Throughout this Remuneration Report, the members of the performance conditions for the 2018 PSA are set out in the Executive Committee are collectively referred to as executives.
They are listed on page 55, with details of the positions held during 2017 performance and remuneration the year and dates of appointment to those roles.
The 2017 single total figure of remuneration for the chief executive, In addition to this introduction, the Remuneration Report is divided Jean-Sbastien Jacques, is higher than the previous year, mainly into two parts: the statement of remuneration policy, which because 2017 was J-Ss first full year as chief executive.
summarises our policies and practices the Remuneration Policy : and For the chief financial officer, Chris Lynch, the single total figure of the annual report on remuneration, which shows how the remuneration is also higher than in 2016.
This is mainly due to the Remuneration Policy has been applied the Implementation Report.
higher value of share awards vesting in 2017, partly offset by a lower Under UK legislation, the Remuneration Policy is subject to a triennial STIP award.
binding vote, while the Implementation Report including this introduction is subject to an annual advisory vote.
The Remuneration Short-Term Incentive Plan Policy was last approved by shareholders in 2015 and accordingly will On pages 82, 84 and 86 of this Report, we retrospectively disclose the be submitted for shareholder approval at our AGMs in 2018.
Under financial and individual STIP targets, set by the board for 2017.
While most of the 2017 targets were achieved, the overall 2017 STIP Australian legislation, the Remuneration Report as a whole is subject awards for both executive directors, expressed as a percentage of the to an advisory vote.
All remuneration related resolutions will be voted maximum award, are lower than last year.
Further details are given on at the AGMs as Joint Decision Matters by Rio Tinto plc and below.
Short-Term Incentive Plan Safety Remuneration Policy In October 2017, a colleague died at our Rio Tinto Kennecott As part of the triennial review of our Remuneration Policy, we operation in Utah and there was a health related death of a colleague consulted shareholders and other stakeholders in the UK and undertaking field reconnaissance work in the Pilbara, Australia.
result, we did not achieve our goal of zero fatalities during calendar year 2017.
While there was broad-based support for many of the changes and enhancements that we proposed, including an increased focus on Given that fatalities occurred in 2017, reductions were applied as fatalities in the safety component of the Short-Term Incentive Plan required by the Policy, with the safety results for the chief executive STIP, our most significant proposal to substitute Restricted Stock and the chief financial officer being reduced from 49.5 per cent of for the performance share awards PSA granted under the Longmaximum to 37 per cent and 42 per cent, respectively.
These Term Incentive Plan LTIP and significantly reduce the maximum adjustments reflect the level of oversight they had for safety quantum of the award received a more mixed response.
Similarly, downward adjustments were made for certain other executives.
The board and management remain of the view that Restricted Stock has considerable merits in a long-term cyclical industry such as The combined performance against our all injury frequency rate mining.
However, the new UK threshold, of an 80 per cent vote in AIFR, lost time injury LTI and critical risk management CRM favour for an acceptable outcome, represents a significant fatality prevention programme targets resulted in a STIP safety result impediment for any company seeking to introduce an innovative for the Group broadly equal to target, with one product group remuneration scheme, particularly given the range of opinions that achieving an above target STIP safety result and three product currently exist within the investor community.
Following the groups achieving below target STIP safety results.
shareholder consultation, we therefore decided to withdraw this Short-Term Incentive Plan Financial proposal and to revert to a conventional LTIP structure.
However, we The underlying unflexed earnings and STIP free cash flow achieved are proposing to remove the performance measure relating to by the Group in 2017 were between target and outstanding.
The relative EBIT margin improvement for PSA granted under the LTIP, as underlying flexed earnings and STIP free cash flow results were it is complex, opaque and impossible to track during the performance slightly below target.
As a result, vesting for PSA granted for 2018 will be subject to two equally weighted measures of relative total shareholder return The Committee made adjustments to the targets in 2017 to take TSR against the Euromoney Global Mining Index and the MSCI account of events outside managements control and to ensure a World Index.
The combination of these two measures will align like-for-like comparison with the targets.
executives and shareholders by rewarding long-term, relative The most significant adjustment in 2017 related to the impact on iron outperformance against the mining sector and the broader market.
ore shipments of unfavourable weather conditions across northern They also have the merit of being simple and transparent.
Western Australia in 2017 that significantly exceeded 2017 plan We are also seeking shareholder approval for a new umbrella assumptions.
Other significant adjustments related to the disposal of agreement the Equity Incentive Plan EIP that will govern all Coal & Allied in September 2017, the strike in the non-managed future long-term, share-based remuneration, including PSA and the operations in Escondida, and the write-down of deferred tax assets in deferred element of the STIP as well as restricted share awards relation to the Grasberg operation.
granted to employees below Executive Committee level.
The EIP is being introduced to simplify, consolidate and ensure consistency 70 70 riotinto.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information The net impact of all adjustments, both positive and negative, during the five-year performance period and concluded that vesting increased the Groups result against the financial targets from 56 per of awards was justified.
As a consequence, the portion of the award cent of maximum to 67 per cent of maximum 2016: from 83.5 per relating to TSR vested on 19 February 2018.
The Committee will cent to 83 per cent of the maximum.
This was a larger net impact make a final determination of the relative improvement in EBIT than in previous years, and therefore the Committee paid particular margin measure when the details of the margin performance of the attention to all the proposed adjustments to ensure that they were in comparator group companies become available in May 2018.
If accordance with agreed principles.
applicable, this portion of the award will vest on 31 May 2018.
Long-Term Incentive Plan Gender pay The PSA granted under the LTIP in 2013 had three equally weighted The Company continues to monitor both equal pay and the gender performance metrics: TSR relative to the Euromoney Global Mining pay gap across the Group.
While we have made good progress in Index: TSR relative to the MSCI World Index: and improvement in EBIT ensuring equal pay for equal work, we need to focus on the relatively margin relative to global mining comparators.
low level of gender diversity in senior management roles in order to continue to close the gender pay gap in all locations.
Further details Rio Tinto outperformed against the Mining Index, but underof both equal pay and the gender pay gap, together with the steps we performed against the MSCI World Index, resulting in a 33.3 per cent are taking to address this issue, are provided on page 37 of the award under these two components, out of a maximum of 66.7 per Report.
This outcome reflects the design intention that executives should not unduly benefit from windfall gains when commodity prices Yours sincerely, are high, nor suffer when prices are low.
The estimated performance against the EBIT margin measure is that Rio Tinto ranked no.
3 against a comparator group of 11, which would result in a vesting of 90.98 per cent for this measure representing 30.33 per cent of the total award.
We can only provide an estimate at this time as we do not have the reported data for all the comparator companies.
As noted above, we propose to remove this measure from PSA granted under the LTIP from 2018.
Simon Thompson Overall, the estimated vesting for the award when the TSR and EBIT Remuneration Committee chairman margin portions are combined is 63.66 per cent of maximum.
The Committee gave consideration to the Groups overall performance 71 Annual report 2017 riotinto.
