Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information tracks progress centrally, and ensures the Process Safety standard requirements are met.
Energy & Minerals Greenhouse gas emissions Since 2008, the product groups greenhouse gas emissions intensity has improved by 4.5 per cent.
Iron Ore Company of Canada began Financial performance implementation of a coke reduction strategy resulting in an improved intensity of 0.062 tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent per tonne of iron 2017 2016 concentrate and pellets produced, compared with 0.064 tonnes in 2016.
US$ million US$ million Gross revenue 7,764 6,734 Review of operations Net cash generated from operating activities 1,939 1,370 Energy & Minerals underlying earnings of US$1,242 million were Underlying earnings 1,242 612 US$630 million higher than 2016, reflecting higher prices, primarily for Capital expenditure 467 141 coal, iron ore and the majority of Rio Tinto Iron & Titaniums products, Net operating assets 6,313 7,049 along with higher volumes and cash cost improvements across many of the operations.
These more than offset stronger local currencies and the Underlying EBITDA 2,803 1,806 impact of Cyclone Debbie which affected coal production in early 2017.
Iron Ore Company of Canada and Simandou are reported within Energy & Minerals, reflecting Coal & Allieds thermal coal operations are included up to their sale on management responsibility.
1 September 2017: the 2016 comparative therefore includes an additional four months of Coal & Allied earnings, equivalent to Strategy and priorities US$109 million, compared with 2017.
The Energy & Minerals product group has a portfolio of high-quality Gross sales revenues for the product group in 2017 of US$7,764 million mining, refining and marketing operations and projects.
These connect were 15 per cent higher than 2016 as a result of higher prices and higher customers and consumers around the world with products that enhance sales volumes across most products.
The exception was coal, which was their quality of life and contribute to human progress.
Demand growth for impacted by the cyclone and disposal of Coal & Allied.
industrial minerals typically comes mid-to-late in the economic Pre-tax cash cost improvements achieved by the product group in 2017 development cycle, following peak requirements for commodities such as were US$116 million and Energy & Minerals has now delivered iron ore and copper.
US$1.5 billion of cumulative savings compared with the 2012 base.
The product groups strategy is focused on operating low-cost, Net cash generated from operating activities of US$1,939 million was demand-led businesses.
Through its integrated marketing strategies and 42 per cent higher than 2016, benefiting from higher prices and further insight, the product group creates and grows global markets for its cost improvements.
The 2016 comparative included cash flows generated products to deliver value for Rio Tinto and its shareholders.
from Coal & Allied for the last four months of US$136 million.
The Energy & Minerals strategy focuses on: increase in capital expenditure included the development of the Safety as the number one priority.
Wabush 3 open pit mine at Iron Ore Company of Canada.
2016 capital Prioritising value over volume.
expenditure was presented net of the US$192 million proceeds from the Operating demand-led, integrated operations that can respond quickly sale of the Mount Pleasant thermal coal assets.
The resulting free cash to the changing external environment.
flow achieved during 2017 of US$1,467 million was 19 per cent higher Creating and growing global markets through technical research and than in 2016. development and market insight.
Energy & Minerals also contributed US$2.5 billion disposal proceeds to Enhancing operating performance by driving productivity, cost the Group following the sale of Coal & Allied in September 2017. optimisation and by streamlining the organisation.
Borates Strengthening its position in traditional segments and entering Rio Tinto Borates Rio Tinto: 100 per cent supplies approximately 30 per attractive new markets.
cent of the worlds refined borates from its world-class deposit in Boron, Rio Tinto Ventures California.
It also has borates refineries and or shipping facilities in China, Rio Tinto Ventures was formed in early 2017.
The teams principal France, Malaysia, the Netherlands, Spain and the US, as well as the Jadar objective is to identify, evaluate and acquire new, value accretive lithium-borate project Rio Tinto: 100 per cent in Serbia.
Rio Tinto advanced projects and operating businesses, across a spectrum of Borates production of 517,000 tonnes boric oxide equivalent was 3 per commodities, principally those which are not currently represented in the cent higher than in 2016, with production aligned to market demand.
Groups portfolio and which Rio Tinto believes will benefit from Gross revenue of US$630 million was comparable to 2016, and earnings macro-economic trends such as urbanisation and disruptive technology.
of US$126 million were 8 per cent higher, which included a gain on the This is to provide options for and support execution of the Groups growth sale of mineral rights in 2017. agenda and capital allocation strategy to create value for Rio Tinto Following a review of the technical and economic support for treatment of shareholders.
calcium borate ore types, this material has been written back to mineral resources at Boron and a revised life of mine is now 2042.
A Joint Ore Safety Reserves Committee JORC Table 1 release supporting the changes will The product group is committed to supporting the Groups approach to be released to the Australian Securities Exchange ASX in conjunction ensuring its teams safety, health and wellbeing.
With a workforce with this Annual report.
spanning multiple geographies, languages and cultures, and processes Coal that range from underground mining to smelting, the Energy & Minerals Rio Tinto Coal Australia RTCA manages the Hail Creek Rio Tinto: 82 per product group faces diverse health and safety risks.
It continues to focus cent and Kestrel Rio Tinto: 80 per cent coal mines.
On 24 January 2017, on fostering a culture of accountability, visible and engaged leadership, Rio Tinto announced it had reached a binding agreement for the sale of its and teamwork across employees and contractors.
100 per cent shareholding in Coal & Allied Industries Limited to Yancoal The product groups primary focus is the elimination of work-related Australia Limited.
The transaction completed on 1 September 2017 for a fatalities.
This has been supported by a focused implementation of the consideration of US$2.69 billion, before working capital and other critical risk management fatality prevention programme, with an adjustments.
emphasis on critical control verification for fatality risks and process Hard coking coal production of 7.7 million tonnes Rio Tinto share was 5 safety exposures.
per cent lower than in 2016 due to the impact of Cyclone Debbie in the In 2017, there were no fatalities in the product group for a second first quarter of 2017.
The sale of Coal & Allied, coupled with mine consecutive year and a continued year-on-year reduction in potential fatal production sequencing changes at Hunter Valley Operations and Mount incidents PFIs.
The primary causes of PFIs involved driving, working at Thorley Warkworth, resulted in semi-soft coking coal production of height and isolation.
The explosion at Rio Tinto Iron & Titaniums 2.0 million tonnes and thermal coal production of 13.9 million tonnes.
Sorel-Tracy facility involving the carbon monoxide gas collection system These figures were lower than in 2016 by 51 per cent and 17 per cent underlined the importance of the process safety work.
Revenues increased to US$2,829 million, a 7 per cent frequency rate reduced from 0.47 in 2016 to 0.43 in 2017. increase on 2016, as the impact of higher prices outweighed the impact of The Energy & Minerals product group continued to embed learnings from the sale of Coal & Allied and Cyclone Debbie.
This was also the main PFIs, and to carry out PFI review processes through peer reviews to reason for earnings increasing from US$382 million to US$716 million.
The product group also developed a new As at the year end, RTCA run-of-mine reserves and resources were approach for process safety, which uses internal and external resources, 398 million tonnes and 2,153 million tonnes respectively 100 per cent 44 44 riotinto.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information basis, reflecting the loss of Coal & Allied tonnes following the divestment Work continued on the feasibility study for the Zulti South mine expansion on 1 September 2017. at RBM in South Africa, which will maintain RBMs low-cost smelting capacity and zircon production.
The project remains one of the best Iron Ore Company of Canada IOC undeveloped mineral sand deposits in the industry, given its large IOC Rio Tinto: 58.7 per cent operates a mine, a concentrator and a ilmenite resource with high rutile and zircon content in the overall mineral pelletising plant in the Canadian province of Newfoundland and Labrador, suite.
together with rail and port facilities in Sept-les, Quebec.
IOC continued as Rio Tinto remains in discussion with North Atlantic Potash Inc. NAPI, a a supplier of high-quality, premium pellets and high-quality, subsidiary of JSC Acron, a world leader in fertiliser production, regarding low-contaminant concentrate.
The company remains focused on further the optimum development pathway for their exploration joint venture in increasing productivity and increasing production to nameplate capacity Saskatchewan, Canada.
the full-load sustainable output of the facility following completion of the Concentrate Expansion Project in 2014.
The development of the On 28 October 2016, Rio Tinto and Chinalco signed a non-binding Wabush 3 open pit mine, approved in the first quarter of 2017, is agreement to sell Rio Tintos entire stake in the Simandou project in progressing as planned and is expected to be in production in the second Guinea to Chinalco.
The Heads of Agreement HOA set out the proposed half of 2018.
IOC achieved full year production of 11.2 million tonnes principal terms of the sale with the aim of signing a binding agreement.
Rio Tinto share of saleable production.
Pellet production of 6.1 million Considering uncertainties in development timing and selection of final tonnes was 7 per cent higher than 2016, with pellet demand continuing to infrastructure options, the project ore reserves have been written back to be strong and product mix being optimised to meet customer demand.
A JORC Table 1 release supporting the changes will be Concentrate production of 5.0 million tonnes was 2 per cent higher than released to the ASX in conjunction with this Annual report 2016.
Revenues of US$1.9 billion were 41 per cent higher than 2016, riotinto.
mainly associated with higher prices and volumes, resulting in a US$171 million increase in earnings to US$235 million.
Outlook Rio Tinto Iron & Titanium RTIT In 2017, metallurgical coal has been characterised by stronger than RTIT is the worlds largest producer of high-grade titanium dioxide expected demand in China, coupled with supply disruptions, both in China feedstocks.
It mines ilmenite at its wholly-owned Rio Tinto Fer et Titane and for seaborne exporters.
2017 premium hard coking coal prices RTFT operation in Canada, its managed Richards Bay Minerals RBM averaged US$190 per tonne, supported by synchronous steel demand operation in South Africa Rio Tinto: 74 per cent, and its managed QIT and production growth across all major metallurgical coal demand Madagascar Minerals operation Rio Tinto: 80 per cent.
RTIT produces regions: a trading environment not observed since before the global high-grade titanium dioxide feedstocks at its world-class metallurgical financial crisis.
Robust Chinese steel margins have supported a push for complexes at RTFT and RBM, as well as valuable co-products that include mill productivity, resulting in increased demand for higher quality coking high-purity ductile iron, steel billets, metal powders and zircon.
At 1.3 coal, and encouraging coastal mills to increase seaborne imports.
million tonnes, titanium dioxide slag production was 25 per cent higher in However, supply disruptions, such as Cyclone Debbie in early 2017, 2017 than in 2016, as RTIT continued to optimise production to match removed more than 10 million tonnes of Australian supply from the demand.
One of nine furnaces at RTFT remains idle, along with one of market, and this was followed by port maintenance and logistics four furnaces at Richards Bay Minerals.
RTITs revenues increased by bottlenecks in Queensland during the fourth quarter of 2017.
24 per cent, due to the higher sales volumes and prices for titanium Meanwhile, supply-side reforms and new environmental policies in China dioxide feedstocks and metallic products, along with higher prices for removed Chinese domestic supply, creating a tightly constrained market zircon.
Earnings improved by US$115 million to US$201 million and, and elevating prices well above marginal costs.
Additional supply is coupled with the higher sales volumes and prices, reflected cash cost expected to come to the market from Australia, Mozambique and the US improvements.
in 2018 and 2019, potentially leading to lower prices than those achieved in 2017.
Salt The uranium market remained oversupplied in 2017, with many market Dampier Salt Rio Tinto: 68.4 per cent, the worlds largest solar salt players along the value chain reporting excess inventories.
The uranium exporter, produces industrial salt by solar evaporation of seawater at spot price fell from US$26 lb in the first quarter to below US$21 lb for Dampier and Port Hedland, and from underground brine at Lake MacLeod, much of the year, until capacity curtailment announcements boosted spot all in Western Australia.
Salt is sold principally to base chemical industry prices as the year drew to a close.
Adverse policy shifts in South Korea markets in Asia.
Salt production of 5.1 million tonnes Rio Tinto share and Japan, as well as an increasingly competitive energy market in the was comparable to 2016, with a 2 per cent reduction to align to market US, have dampened the expected demand growth in these markets.
Earnings of US$3 million were US$22 million lower than 2016 reflecting lower prices.
Market conditions for titanium dioxide continued to improve in 2017, with Uranium strengthening pigment prices supported by low inventory and tight The Uranium business comprises Energy Resources of Australia Ltd ERA, supply.
Consequently, feedstock demand has improved year-on-year, Rio Tinto: 68.4 per cent, which operates the Ranger Mine in the Northern with RTITs sales volumes up significantly.
RTIT will continue to flex Territory of Australia, and Rssing Uranium Limited Rio Tinto: 68.6 per production capacity to meet demand, while optimising working capital.
cent in Namibia, together with the Roughrider project Rio Tinto: 100 per Improved conditions have also been evident in the zircon market.
The cent in Canadas Athabasca Basin, which is managed by the Groups mediumand long-term view of these markets will continue to be driven central exploration division.
Uranium production of 6.7 million pounds by improving global economic conditions, urbanisation and demand Rio Tinto share was 5 per cent higher than in 2016 due to higher grades growth in emerging markets, as per capita incomes rise.
and mill throughput at Rssing.
ERA continued to process existing Borates demand growth was primarily driven by the agriculture and stockpiles in 2017.
The higher sales volumes were more than offset by construction sectors in 2017.
Offtake across most regions held firm, lower prices, resulting in revenues decreasing by 9 per cent, and a loss incurred of US$26 million 2016: earnings of US$10 million.
Also included although borates demand in China was impacted by environmentalin the loss was an expense to increase the provision for closure at ERA.
related shutdowns during the third quarter.
Rio Tinto Borates is focused upon increasing its share of higher value products to capture higher An impairment charge of US$177 million post-tax, Rio Tinto share was margin growth opportunities, while also improving safety performance recognised during 2017 relating to Rssing, due to oversupply in the and its cost position.
uranium market resulting in structural changes to forecast prices.
This charge was excluded from underlying earnings.
Development projects The Jadar project in Serbia is a lithium-borate deposit that was discovered by Rio Tinto in 2004.
If developed, it could supply a significant proportion of the global demand for lithium and borates.
Findings so far are encouraging, and prefeasibility assessments are ongoing to confirm the economic business case for the project and to advance its environmental and socioeconomic impact assessments.
On 24 July 2017, Rio Tinto signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Government of Serbia to form a joint working group to progress the study and permitting phase of the project.
