ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC MARKET REVIEW AN EXCITING FUTURE Since 2010, we have established ourself as the dominant PLC Awards new entrant in the UK banking market for personal and New Company of the business customers, bringing a genuine alternative to Year Award the established high street banks and delivering exceptional growth.
The UK banking market is ripe for our customers want, is perfectly UK banking deposits disruption.
We are proud to be the positioned to take market share.
bn only new entrant to the high street, offering business and retail customers The UK has a large, attractive banking a real choice and shaking up the market competition.
A mere seven years The UK has a large, well developed since launch, through the aftermath banking market that continues to 2,284 of the financial crisis, we have opened grow, supported by the strength of the Dec 2017 over 1 million customer accounts, UK economy.
Our goals are to reach have over 16 billion of assets and 27.5 billion of deposits by 2020 and have achieved our first full year of to continue to grow after that.
billion of deposits represents only 4% 11.7 of the current market.
In 2017, our Metro Bank Change in the UK banking industry total deposits and loans grew 47% Dec 2017 is long overdue.
Century-old banks and 64% respectively, standing at Source: Bank of England.
are adapting to a changing consumer 11.7 billion and 9.6 billion in total.
whose expectations of their banks are This creates the perfect platform for quite rightly increasing.
In todays now us to continue to grow from, winning UK lending culture, customers crave choice and customers who are dissatisfied with bn instant fulfilment banking wherever, how their existing banks treat them.
however and whenever they chose.
A legacy-free bank like ours, with In November, the Bank of England state-of-the-art real-time technology increased interest rates for the first time and prime retail stores open when in over ten years, from 0.25% to 0.5%, 2,382 Dec 2017 9.6 Metro Bank Dec 2017 Source: Bank of England.
UK mortgages bn 1,367 Dec 2017 6.2 Metro Bank Dec 2017 Source: Bank of England.
18 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 METRO BANK PLC in order to address increasing inflation.
Customers want an integrated experience as a leading criteria for choosing a bank, This was accompanied by an indication Major high street banks continue to while larger SMEs focussed on high quality of a further two rate rises before 2020. close branches.
During 2017, the big five personalised service and flexibility.
Our deposit led strategy produces UK banks reported that they planned high volumes of low-cost, sticky to close 482 branches.
While these Our focus on service and convenient deposits: our service quality means banks dont value branches, customers opening hours has resulted in a customers choose to join and stay do.
A recent Accenture Survey found significant share of new business with us.
Our strategy creates a naturally that 20% of customers visited a bank accounts being opened.
In our current hedged balance sheet, and future branch weekly, and that millennials heartland of London and the South rate rises represent an opportunity.
were the demographic most likely to East we are winning 17% of SME visit a branch 23% did so weekly.
This business current account switchers.
In its June Financial Stability Report, the demonstrates the continued necessity Bank of England highlighted concerns of being able to provide face-to-face We are well positioned to benefit from about the level of unsecured consumer services and advice.
Our investment in regulatory changes lending, requiring banks to hold more stores in prime retail locations where The pace of regulatory change than 10bn of additional capital to customers can walk out working or continues to be high.
prepare for potential adverse changes.
speak to their business manager without We had already begun reducing our an appointment creates compelling Our simple IT architecture means we are exposure to consumer lending due to service advantage over our competitors.
ready to adapt to emerging consumer concerns about pricing compression behaviour, innovation and regulation.
relative to the risk involved.
Only 2% of Digital banking is expanding rapidly.
We prepared for the changes resulting our lending is in unsecured consumer Online banking represents the most from the Payment Services Directive credit, and we have no customers common way retail customers engage 2 PSD2 which came into effect on with interest free periods on credit with their bank, while mobile banking is 13thJanuary 2018.
This new legislation cards: the impact of any marketthe most popular channel for younger will help make online payments safer for wide deterioration will be relatively customers.
This demonstrates the customers, and give them more choice low on our current balance sheet.
need to invest in a multi-channel by bringing in new types of payment experience: customers should be able services, increasing competition In addition to our current footprint, to access their banking services the between payment service providers there is a big opportunity across way they want to, and benefit from and opening the door to new providers.
Our current a consistently positive experience Customers can now use authorised store network only covers 26% of across all channels.
Our strategy has Third Party Providers TPPs to receive the SME market.
Store numbers have always reflected this growing trend, their account information in one place.
now reached 55, with expansion resulting in continuously market PSD2 opens the door for us to develop as far west as Swindon and as far leading NPS scores from customers.
or partner with others to provide north as Peterborough.
The chart new services for our customers.
below illustrates the potential for Business banking customers are also further growth nationally and looking for leading service.
While In November 2017, the Bank of the opportunities it presents.
charging levels are an important factor England announced the end of the for businesses, smaller SMEs also cite Term Funding Scheme TFS, which convenience store location and hours had been put in place to encourage banks to lend to support UK economic growth.
During 2017, the TFS had the Aberdeen effect of increasing competition for Metro Bank Stores quality lending opportunities, resulting 3 Top 30% SME regions in margin compression as lenders Edinburgh Glasgow had access to low cost funding.
The withdrawal of the scheme means that this cheap funding is at an end and banks that do not have a strong deposit franchise may suffer margin Durham Durham compression or lower growth.
Our Hull York Corridor deposit-led strategy and high quality Bradford Trafford Leeds Stockport service has created a sustainable Manchester Kirklees Liverpool competitive advantage that will Sheffield Northwich fuel our sustainable growth.
Which April 2017 Shrewsbury Peterborough Birmingham 2.
Accenture: 10 Mega Trends driving the future of Cambridge payments 2017 Milton Keynes Luton 3.
ONS 2016, Data set ID: UKBAF01, Enterprise by area Harlow Turnover size band and GB Local Authority Reading Southend-on-sea Districts including UK total, Metro Internal Data.
YouGov SME banking Survey Q2 2017 Bath Swindon corridor 5.
Charterhouse Research Business Banking Survey, Brighton and Hove YE Q4 2017.
Based on interviews with businesses that had switched main bank in the 12 months Plymouth prior to interview.
Data weighted by region and turnover to be representative of businesses in Great Britain.
19 Financial statements Governance Strategic report
