Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information Copper & Diamonds underlying earnings were US$263 million, compared with an underlying loss of US$18 million in 2016.
The change in Copper & Diamonds underlying earnings was driven by improved prices and cost reductions together with final the insurance settlement relating to the Manefay slide at Kennecott in 2013, which more than offset the one-off impacts of the Escondida strike US$176 million and a deferred tax asset write-down at Financial performance Grasberg US$144 million.
2017 2016 The product group achieved pre-tax cash cost improvements in 2017 of US$ million US$ million US$160 million, bringing total savings delivered across Gross revenue 4,842 4,524 Copper & Diamonds since 2012 to US$1.4 billion.
1 Net cash generated from operating activities 1,695 977 Net cash generated from operating activities inclusive of dividends Underlying earnings loss 263 18 received from Escondida of US$1,695 million was 73 per cent higher than 2 Capital expenditure 1,374 924 2016, with all managed operations being cash flow positive before capital Net operating assets 11,743 11,530 expenditure as a result of higher prices and cost reductions.
Increased capital expenditure of US$1,374 milllion included US$820 million for Underlying EBITDA 1,904 1,387 development of the Oyu Tolgoi underground mine in Mongolia.
a Net cash generated from operating activities excludes the operating cash flows of an equity accounted unit Escondida but includes dividends received from the equity Rio Tinto Kennecott accounted units.
Rio Tinto Kennecott Rio Tinto: 100 per cent operates a mine, b Capital expenditure excludes the capital expenditure of an equity accounted unit concentrator, smelter, copper refinery and precious metal plant in the US Escondida.
Rio Tinto Kennecott accounts for almost 11 per cent of the USs annual copper production and is one of the largest copper producers Strategy and priorities in the country.
The operation is focused on maximising value through The Copper & Diamonds product groups portfolio of large, high-quality asset optimisation and operational excellence at all stages of its value assets includes interests in three of the worlds Tier 1 copper mines.
Rio Tinto Kennecotts mined copper production was The product groups strategy is to deliver sustainable value by: 3 per cent lower than 2016, with lower grades partially offset by higher mill throughput.
The operation produced 126 thousand tonnes Driving continuous improvements in health, environment and safety of refined copper, 204 thousand ounces of refined gold, and five thousand the number one priority and value.
Improved utilisation and payload Maximising value from existing operations through improvements in increased truck productivity in 2017 resulting in higher volumes of total productivity.
In addition, the operation Developing brownfield copper growth options and new, maximised available smelter capacity by the receipt of 161 thousand world-class greenfield projects in low-risk jurisdictions.
Focusing on cost control and cash generation.
tonnes of third-party concentrate for tolling in 2017.
Developing people and partnerships, and engaging employees.
In April 2017, Rio Tinto Kennecott reached a labour contract agreement Safety with four unions representing its employees.
In 2017, the all injury frequency rate for Copper & Diamonds managed a Oyu Tolgoi operations was 0.80, compared with 0.67 in 2016.
Product group Located in Mongolias South Gobi Desert, Oyu Tolgoi Rio Tinto: operations are focused on addressing this trend by embedding safety 33.5 per cent indirect interest through a 50.8 per cent interest in activities through education, leadership and workplace improvements.
Turquoise Hill Resources Ltd is one of the worlds largest copper-gold Tragically, a Rio Tinto Kennecott employee suffered a fatal injury when developments.
Since 2012, operations have been mining ore from the exposed to sulphur dioxide gases while performing regular work to Oyu Tolgoi open pit and producing copper-gold concentrate at a facility remove debris from a boiler.
There were also two fatalities at the located adjacent to the mine site.
Open-pit operations produced 157 Grasberg mine, in which Rio Tinto is a joint venture partner.
thousand tonnes of copper, 114 thousand ounces of mined gold and 974 In addition to its efforts to reduce injuries, Copper & Diamonds has thousand ounces of silver 100 per cent basis during 2017.
Mined copper continued to embed the companys critical risk management fatality production for 2017 was 22 per cent lower than 2016 with production prevention programme and process safety programmes into all its from the open pit reducing as anticipated due to lower head grades, as operations.
These are aimed at identifying and mitigating the risks that phases two and three, which were sources of higher grade ore, were fully can lead to fatalities and catastrophic events.
In the spirit of continuous depleted by the end of 2016. improvement, the product group also continues to learn from and share Escondida leading safety practices with its joint venture partners.
Located in Chiles Atacama Desert, Escondida Rio Tinto: 30 per cent interest, is the worlds largest copper-producing mine.
Escondidas two Greenhouse gas emissions open-cut pits currently feed three concentrator plants, as well as two At 3.4 million tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent tCOe, Copper & 2 leaching operations.
In 2017, Escondida produced 903 thousand tonnes of a Diamonds greenhouse gas GHG emissions increased by 0.1 million mined copper 100 per cent basis.
Mined copper production was tonnes COe compared with 2016.
An intensity improvement at Argyle 11 per cent lower than 2016 due to a 43-day labour strike.
Concentrator 2 from an increased production was offset by marginal increases in intensity throughput increased towards the end of 2017 following commissioning at Rio Tinto Kennecott, Oyu Tolgoi and Diavik.
of the Los Colorados Extension.
The construction of a desalination facility approved in 2013 to provide a long-term sustainable supply of water for Review of operations the operations reached completion on budget in December 2017.
The product group has four copper assets and two diamonds assets in production.
In 2017, total mined copper decreased by 9 per cent, and total Grasberg diamonds production increased by 20 per cent.
Located in the province of Papua, Indonesia, Grasberg is one of the worlds Rio Tinto was the worlds ninth largest copper supplier in 2017 and one of largest copper mines.
Grasberg is owned and operated by PT Freeport the largest diamond producers.
During the year, the product group Indonesia PTFI, a subsidiary of US-based Freeport-McMoRan, Inc. produced 478 thousand tonnes of mined copper Rio Tinto share, and Freeport.
Through a joint venture with Freeport, Rio Tinto is entitled to 22 million carats of rough diamonds Rio Tinto share.
In addition, the a 40 per cent share of production above an agreed threshold until the end Copper & Diamonds group produced 260 thousand ounces of mined gold, of 2021 and 40 per cent of all production thereafter.
Rio Tintos full 4,194 thousand ounces of mined silver and five thousand tonnes of participation has been delayed due to the application of force majeure molybdenum as by-products.
provisions in the joint venture agreement.
The first full year in which Rio a Safety measures reported for Copper & Diamonds exclude those Tinto will participate to the full extent of 40 per cent of production is now for Oyu Tolgoi: these are included within Growth & Innovation.
com Annual report 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION PRODUCTION, RESERVES AND OPERATIONS Production, reserves Strategic report Governance report Financial statements and operations Additional information source all of its power requirements for the operation from domestic Rio Tintos share of mined copper production at Grasberg was sources within four years from 15 February 2018. approximately six thousand tonnes of copper in 2017.
Rio Tintos share of mined gold was nil due to the minimum production threshold not being Oyu Tolgoi LLC is continuing to evaluate all viable power options, met.
including the construction of an Oyu Tolgoi site-based power plant.
The In January and February 2017, the Indonesian Government issued new cost and means of financing the power plant will be finalised between mining regulations to address exports of unrefined metals, including shareholders.
Rio Tinto will continue to review its capital expenditure copper concentrates, and other matters related to the mining sector.
forecasts for the project but has already earmarked US$250 million per These regulations impact PTFIs operating rights, including its right to annum for the development of a power station in Mongolia in its 2019 and continue to export concentrate without restriction, and, as a result, had a 2020 capital expenditure forecasts.
significant impact on Rio Tintos share of production in 2017.
The Resolution Copper project Rio Tinto: 55 per cent located in Arizona, In March 2017, the Indonesian Government amended the regulations and US, is one of the worlds largest known undeveloped copper deposits.
issued a permit to PTFI that allowed concentrate exports to resume in Drilling, proposed development and engineering studies continue and the April 2017.
On 19 February 2018, PTFI received an extension of its export permitting process is on schedule.
In 2017, Resolution Copper executed permit to 19 February 2019.
PTFI continues to engage with the an Agreement To Initiate with the United States Forest Service and the Indonesian Government in relation to the basis upon which operations at Bureau of Land Management, which establishes the schedule for Grasberg will continue beyond 2021 with regard to the rights conferred by completion of the pre-conditions to full implementation of the Southeast its Contract of Work and the Governments stated intention to apply the Arizona Land Exchange and Conservation Act.
provisions of the 2009 Minerba Law and associated regulations.
In December 2017, Rio Tinto approved a US$368 million commitment Argyle Diamond Mine Rio Tinto share: US$202 million to further advance the Resolution Located in the remote east Kimberley region of Western Australia, Argyle Copper project.
The funding will improve infrastructure and facilitate mine Rio Tinto: 100 per cent is one of the worlds largest producers of planning as part of the pre-feasibility study.
In 2017, Argyles carat production increased by 23 per cent, compared with 2016, as a result of the reprocessing of The Grasberg mine is in the process of developing large-scale, high-grade higher-grade recovery tailings.
underground orebodies located beneath and near the Grasberg open pit.
Work on the underground orebodies is expected to ramp up over several A combination of lower production volumes compared with forecast, a years following the anticipated transition from the Grasberg open pit.
smaller than expected contribution from productivity improvements and lower realised prices triggered a reassessment of the recoverable During 2017, Diavik continued to advance the development of the A21 value of Argyles assets.
In assessing the recoverable value, it was kimberlite pipe.
The A21 pipe is expected to be at full production capacity determined that the property, plant and equipment was fully impaired by the fourth quarter of 2018. resulting in a pre-tax impairment charge of US$172 million.
The lower than previously forecast diamond production has resulted in a reduction Outlook to reserves and the elimination of resources.
The remaining reserves The copper market experienced an eventful start to 2017, when two underpin the operation until 2020, with opportunities to extend subject to major disruptions of mine supply resulted in a price spike to a three-year technical and financial performance.
A JORC Table 1 supporting the high.
After three consecutive years of supply surplus, 2017 recorded a changes will be released to the ASX in conjunction with this Annual report moderate deficit, conditions that Rio Tinto expects to continue over the riotinto.
During this period, China will remain a key driver of copper fundamentals from both supply and demand perspectives.
The Chinese Diavik Diamond Mine Governments ambition to improve environmental standards may disrupt Diavik Rio Tinto: 60 per cent is located in Canadas remote Northwest metal production and trade flows, although policy aimed at widespread Territories, producing predominantly large, white gem-quality diamonds.
adoption of green technologies will boost growth in copper consumption.
Carats recovered in 2017 were 12 per cent higher than 2016 due primarily to an improvement in the grade of the ore. Outside of China, favourable conditions in the industrial sector across Development projects most major economies are expected to underpin sustained demand in 2018.
Meanwhile, supply growth will remain constrained by low grades At Rio Tinto Kennecott the South Wall Pushback project continued in and major mine depletion, as well as challenges to mine extension plans 2017.
This development project will extend the life of the mine and and greenfield start-ups.
remains on track for completion in 2020 to underpin over a decade of high-quality cash flow and a return to higher grades from 2021.
In Global rough diamond supply grew in 2017 and volumes may remain addition, depressurisation activities performed prior to and during 2017 at a similar level in 2018.
Prices partially recovered in 2017 as the reduced geotechnical risk within the mine.
Rio Tinto Kennecott is also in downstream sentiment improved, and the outlook for jewellery retail the process of refining its closure planning, which looks beyond the markets in 2018 appears healthy across major regions.
Key indicators of operational stage in the life cycle of the mine to its post-mining future.
demand have turned positive in the EU, remained positive in the US, and This is a complex process due to the size, complexity and longevity of the are strengthening in India and China.
Market sentiment is improving as operation.
Throughout the closure planning process, engagement with polished dealers expect restocking to occur on strong seasonal affected and interested parties will take place, thereby better positioning demand.
the business for strategic decisions that are an essential part of maintaining the licence to operate.
Mixed signals emanated from Indian diamond cutters and polishers, who make up the bulk of the industrys midstream operators.
Financial and Work to develop Oyu Tolgois underground mine approved project spend fiscal policies in India have helped trading conditions, although stocks of of US$5.3 billion before power supply continued in 2017 and remains on low-grade rough diamonds have coincided with weak prices and some track.
The total project workforce was over 6,600 at the end of 2017, bankruptcies of midstream participants.
more than 85 per cent of whom are Mongolian nationals.
Lateral development is on schedule: Shaft 2 sinking completed in January 2018 and completion of Shaft 5 sinking is expected by the end of the first quarter of 2018.
The underground mine is expected to be fully ramped up in 2027, with the highest grades anticipated between 2024 and 2026.
First production tonnes are expected in 2020.
Rio Tinto continues to work with its partners to develop the best solution for a domestic power supply for the Oyu Tolgoi operation, following the Government of Mongolias withdrawal from the Tavan Tolgoi Power Project TTPP.
The Government of Mongolia has terminated the Southern Region Power Sector Cooperation Agreement PSCA such that the TTPP project is no longer a viable option.
As a result, and in line with the terms of the 2009 Investment Agreement, Oyu Tolgoi is obliged to 43 Annual report 2017 riotinto.
