STRATEGIC REPORT SHARED PROSPERITY COMMITTED TO MUTUALBENEFIT Tullow has a role to play in creating shared prosperity and leaving a legacy of sustainable social and economic benefits.
We aim to do this by paying fair and appropriate amounts of tax, being transparent in the payments we make to governments, creating local employment, and building capacity to enable local businesses to compete as prospective suppliers to Tullow.
Tullow has negotiated and sustained a licence to operate in 2016:$1billion.
This included $235 million spent with local Africa and South America by seeking to align our business with suppliers, $205 million in payroll globally and $3.4 million the national development priorities of our host countries.
indiscretionary spend on social projects.
Our total payments Through our exploration success over the years, Tullow has made to the Ghanaian Government in 2017 amounted to initiated nascent oil industries in Ghana, Kenya and Uganda.
Wherever we operate and enjoy exploration success, there is clearly a role for us to play in supporting the development of Socio-economic investment institutional and industry capacity to help meet our needs and In 2017, the focus has been on embedding our new to allow governments and national economies to optimise the socio-economic investment SEI strategy and governance socio-economic benefits that a growing oil industry can bring.
process, which is based on the implementation of rigorous project selection criteria and performance measurement We do this by paying fair and appropriate amounts of tax to our toensure that SEI projects create measurable value for host governments, being transparent about the taxes we pay, bothTullow and host communities.
creating local employment within Tullow and across our supplier base, and helping to build capacity to enable local businesses The SEI strategy targets three objectives: to participate in our supply chain and in the broader economy.
1 c apacity building through education and skills development, Tullows Group scorecard includes Key Performance Indicators specifically in Science, Technology, Engineering and KPIs that track the progress we make in the area of Shared Mathematics STEM, to provide the skills required for Prosperity, which account for part of Executive Directors and peopleto participate in the modern economy: employees variable, performance-related pay.
See pages 20 to23 for more information.
2 s trengthening the local economy through activities that support the growth of local businesses such as enterprise Tax transparency development and local business incubation centres : and Our payments to governments, including payments in kind, 3 inv esting in shared infrastructure and logistics by amounted to $224 million in 2017 2016: $438 million.
Total adaptingand leveraging existing Tullow and jointly funded payments to all major stakeholder groups including employees, infrastructure plans and projects for our business to suppliers and communities, as well as governments, brought benefithost communities.
our total socio-economic contribution to $667 million NATIONALS IN COUNTRY & BUSINESS UNIT % SPEND WITH SUPPLIERS $ MILLION 2,512 Local nationals as a % National 2,038 of in-country workforce 1,932 International suppliers 1,008 Local nationals as a % registered in country of in-country staff International 719 752 Local nationals as a %of Business Unitstaff Local nationals as 898 a%of Business 1,195 174 Unitworkforce 843 1,094 489 309 337 225 235 Ghana Uganda Kenya 2014 2015 2016 2017 52 Tullow Oil plc 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 76 85 82 75 75 80 83 76 96 96 83 83 1 AFRICAN SCIENCE ACADEMY Tullow is supporting the African Science Academy ASA 10of the 40 students were in the top quartile when compared asixth form college located in Tema, Ghana, that welcomes against the United Kingdom secondary schools overall young women from all over Africa who have a passion for performance in A levels in similar subjects.
Three graduates mathematics and science.
The girls study three core subjects were awarded MasterCard scholarships to study at at advanced level Maths, Further Maths and Physics and Edinburgh University.
sit the internationally recognised Cambridge International Tullow also funded ASAs pilot Maths Teaching Skills ALevels at the end of an intense 12-month programme.
Masterclass in August 2017 with 20 maths teachers attending Thisgold standard qualification opens the doors to from senior secondary schools across Ghana.
In September engineering, science and computing degrees at leading 2017 the Tullow Ghana Managing Director and a number of universities and sets them apart from their peers.
staff participated in the ASAs mentoring programme which Tullow contributed towards 40 bursaries and the first was also featured on CNNs Inside Africa Programme cohortof students graduated in 2017 with impressive results.
opening new doors to STEM for women.
SEI governance and decision making are now the responsibility In Kenya, Tullow sustained the 2016 increase in the proportion of an SEI Board comprised of senior Tullow leaders.
This Board of Tullow capital expenditure targeting local suppliers.
In 2017, 30 per cent of our overall supplier spend was with Kenyan considers proposals and allocates funds to the investment businesses, down marginally from 33 per cent in 2016, but with projects that will deliver the impacts we desire.
a higher absolute value due to increased expenditure related to In 2017, the SEI Board approved funding for a number of education the 2017 South Lokichar appraisal campaign.
New projects include the development of a We have continued to promote improved access to supply STEM programme at the Right to Dream Academy, engineering chainopportunities for local firms, whether through pre-tender scholarships to Ashesi University College, bursaries to the seminars in Ghana or targeted capacity development initiatives African Science Academy and an integrated STEM school for local firms in Turkana County, Kenya.
In both countries we project in the Western Region in collaboration with Sabre Trust have provided training to existing suppliers and have worked and Youth Bridge Foundation.
with contractors to build their awareness of the forward Next year, in addition to awarding scholarships to universities requirements of our development and production operations.
and polytechnics in Ghana and Kenya, Tullow plans to improve InGhana, we executed a six-month pilot scheme for placing a the measurement and reporting of outputs and impacts related portion of our foreign exchange requirements with local banks.
Local job creation Opportunities for local business In Ghana, Tullow has continued to build a robust relationship In 2017, our overall supplier spend was lower than last year with the regulator as we seek to maximise local content and owing to the completion of the TEN project on time and on participation in our business activities.
A multi-year localisation budget in August 2016 and due to the continued capital strategy outlining Tullows vision, approach and roadmap for constraints imposed by lower oil prices.
localisation over the next four years is on track.
This strategy captures key initiatives for improving localisation, including the Nevertheless, whilst the absolute supplier spend with local setting up of a Localisation Steering Committee.
The strategy suppliers in Ghana decreased, as a percentage of the total spend has led to the localisation of 11 expat positions in 2017 and the it increased to 26 per cent, up from 16 per cent.
Our spend with appointment of the first Ghanaian Offshore Installation local suppliers in Ghana increased to 26 per cent of total spend Manager OIM.
Meanwhile, our spend with international suppliers fell from 40 per cent in 2016 to 20 per In Kenya, we are proactive in identifying opportunities for cent in 2017.
While this partly reflects the conclusion of the localising roles and providing candidates with the development capital-intensive phase of development on the TEN fields, it support required to enable this, which has included sponsorship also reflects our continued efforts to direct spending towards for advanced postgraduate qualification, professional certification locally registered international firms and Joint Ventures such as the National Examination Board in Occupational Safety between local and international firms.
Joint Ventures registered and Health NEBOSH, and job rotation in country and in other in country meet the requirements of Ghanas Local Content and parts of Tullows business to provide Kenyan staff with exposure and hands-on experience.
Local Participation Regulations LI2204, bring further foreign direct investment to build capacity to meet the requirements of the industry, and develop a competitive supplier base for Tullow This Strategic Report and the information referred to herein to engage.
have been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: On selected contracts we continue to mandate minimum local content expectations with our international suppliers.
Contracts with in-country capability in 2017 included: construction, information services, socio-economic investment projects, civil engineering, Kevin Massie training and consultancy services, aviation and marine transport.
Corporate Counsel and Company Secretary www.
com 53 MOVING TOWARDS DEVELOPMENT Appraisal drilling operations in the South Lokichar Basin, Kenya.
54 Tullow Oil plc 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors report 56 Audit Committee report 67 Nominations Committee report 73 EHS Committee report 76 Remuneration report 78 Other statutory information 101 www.
