STRATEGIC REPORT W hat we do We have three broad business areas which provide solutions for our customers.
Business areas Investing Investment Insurance and Annuities Management We provide reliable and secure We provide institutional and personal We help people safeguard their pension income for individuals and investment management services, families financial futures through members of corporate pension managing the investments of many providing insurance covering life, schemes.
We use some of our of the UKs biggest corporate critical illness, and disability, long-term funds from pensions pension schemes.
long-term sickness, buildings, and other products to invest possessions, pet and travel.
in infrastructure, homes and small businesses.
Business segments Legal & General Retirement LGR Legal & General Investment Legal & General Insurance LGI Legal & General Capital LGC Management LGIM General Insurance GI Client types Institutional clients LGIM has for a long time been the UKs leading Legal & General Retirement LGRI investment manager for DB plans, establishing Working with companies, pension fund an expertise in liability driven investments LDI trustees and their advisers to provide risk and equity index funds.
We have a 42% share of transfer solutions, with a UK market share the LDI market.
We have continued to broaden of around 30%.
our range significantly and have strong capabilities in active fixed income, multiasset Launched PRT business in the US in 2015, and real asset investments.
We have now established a leading position in Legal & General Capital LGC US LDI and are building our presence in Asia, Builds relationships directly with partners the Middle East and across Europe.
and LGIM to develop direct investments and increase the riskadjusted returns on shareholder assets.
Corporate workplace We offer a leading workplace proposition, Legal & General Insurance LGI combining administration and investment Top four player in UK Group Protection market, services as well as offering investment only.
We are No 1 in the UK for managing DC assets, with 68.2bn AUM at 31 December 2017.
Retail clients We were ranked third in the UK for retail net Legal & General Insurance LGI Legal & General Retirement LGRR flows over the first nine months of 2017 with No 1 in UK retail protection, with 24% market LGRR deals directly with customers and net flows of 3bn, distributed mostly by financial share.
Top 10 provider of US term life through advisers and partners.
We also offer our products online and insurance.
UKs largest mortgage club, UK individual annuities, with 14% market by phone.
We announced the acquisition of an distributing housing loans to consumers.
share in first three quarters of 2017.
No 1 Exchange Traded Fund ETF provider in 2017.
General Insurance GI in UK lifetime mortgages, with 33% No 7 in UK household insurance.
Geographic Our main UK office is based in the City of Our main UK offices are based in In the UK were based in London, Hove, London.
Our US investment management Birmingham, Hove, Cardiff and Solihull, Bracknell and Sherburn, North business is located in Chicago.
Our US office is based Yorkshire.
Our US risk transfer business is international offices in Hong Kong and Tokyo.
We also have a Bermuda office.
12 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Investing and Annuities #1 Our distinct in lifetime mortgages way of working #2 in UK pensions risk transfer LGIM Investment Management #1 UK liability driven investments LDI LGR LGC #1 manager of UK defined contribution assets Our three asset businesses, LGIM, Top 3 LGR and LGC work very closely UK retail funds net flows together.
Collaboration is vital to source and manage long-term direct investments which enable us to deliver #1 improved risk-adjusted investment returns for shareholders.
manager of UK defined benefit assets LGC invests in early stage assets, some of which can be used to back Insurance annuity liabilities for LGR.
LGIM and LGR work together in the #1 pension fide-risking journey, where UK individual life insurance provider many pension schemes that make use of LGIMs liability driven investments proposition, eventually transition into a full buyout through LGR.
LGIM work with LGR Retail not only as customers move from workplace pensions into annuities but also to provide other integrated post-retirement products such as retail investments and lifetime mortgages.
WHAT WE DO L LE EG GA AL & G L & GE EN NE ER RA AL G L GR RO OU UP P P PL LC | A C | AN NN NU UA AL R L RE EP PO OR RT A T AN ND A D AC CC CO OU UN NT TS 2 S 20 01 17 7 13 13
