GOVERNANCE Board of directors Committee membership key Sir John Kingman Nigel Wilson Jeff Davies Chairman Group Chief Executive Chief Financial officer Appointed October 2016 Appointed in September 2009 as Appointed March 2017 Audit CFO: appointed CEO June 2012 Corporate Governance Nomination Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Remuneration John had a long Whitehall career: Nigel was Senior Independent Jeff was appointed Group Chief Risk as second Permanent Secretary to Director SID of The Capita Group Financial Officer on 9 March 2017.
HM Treasury, he had responsibility for Plc from 2009 until 2012, and was He was previously a senior partner Committee Chairman the Treasurys economics ministry SID Chairman of Halfords Group Plc of Ernst & Young LLP EY and led functions, for policy relating to business, from 2006 until 2011. their European risk and actuarial financial services and infrastructure.
Prior to joining Previous appointments include: He was closely involved in the UK EY in 2004, he held a number of McKinsey & Co where clients response to the financial crisis, handling senior actuarial roles at Swiss Re included BP, Citibank, Cadbury, the resolution of Northern Rock and Life & Health.
He is a Fellow of the Santander, Kingfisher, Courtaulds, leading negotiations with RBS, Lloyds Institute of Actuaries.
Whitbread and Globe Investment and HBOS on their 37 billion Trust : Group Commercial Director recapitalisation.
He was the first Chief of Dixons Group plc: Managing Executive of UK Financial Investments Director of Stanhope Properties plc: Ltd. From 2010 to 2012, John was Chief Executive, Corporate of Global Co-Head of the Financial Guinness Peat Aviation GPA : Institutions Group at Rothschild.
and Managing Director of Viridian John is non-executive Chair of UK Capital.
Nigel was also Deputy Research and Innovation and is a Chief Executive and Chief Financial World Fellow of Yale University.
He is also a member of the Prime In 2015 and 2016 Nigel was a Ministers Council for Science and member of the Prime Ministers Technology.
External appointments: Royal Opera House Covent Garden Foundation Trustee National Gallery Trustee Rothschild Senior Adviser Mark Zinkula Kerrigan Procter Chief Executive officer, LGIM Chief Executive officer, LGC Appointed September 2012 Appointed March 2017 Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Mark was appointed to the Board Kerrigan was appointed to the Board in September 2012, having been on 9 March 2017.
He recently moved appointed Chief Executive Officer to become CEO of LGC.
He was CEO of LGIM in March 2011.
Prior to that, of the LGR business division from he was CEO of Legal & General 2013 until 2017.
He was previously Investment Management America head of solutions at LGIM from 2006 to LGIMA and played an integral part 2012 where he was responsible for in the establishment and successful Liability Driven Investment and fund expansion of LGIMA.
Prior to joining solutions for defined benefit and LGIMA, Mark was at Aegon Asset defined contribution pension schemes Management where he was global across Europe and the US.
Prior to head of fixed income.
joining the Group, he worked at RBS in the financial markets division where he External appointments: held several roles.
Kerrigan started The Investment Association his career in 1994 with EY Corporate Board member Finance before moving to Mercer.
The Financial Reporting Council He is a Fellow of the Institute of Limited Director Actuaries and has a PhD in number theory from Kings College, London.
56 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE Julia Wilson Carolyn Bradley Philip Broadley Other Board members during the Senior independent Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director year were: Non-Executive Director Appointed December 2014 Appointed July 2016 Rudy Markham retired from the Board Appointed November 2011: Senior on 25 May Independent Director from May 2016 Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Richard Meddings retired from the Carolyn was appointed to the Philip was appointed to the Board Board on 25 May Skills and experience: Board in December 2014.
He has extensive Mark Gregory retired from the Board Julia was appointed to the Board has a strong consumer-focused insurance experience having spent on 9 March in November 2011 and became the background having worked at Tesco over 14 years in senior roles in Senior Independent Director in May from 1986 until 2013.
During this insurance including as Group 2016.
She has significant corporate time, Carolyn held a range of senior Finance Director at Old Mutual plc finance, tax and accounting positions in various roles including and prior to that as Group Finance experience.
She is the Group Finance Chief Operating Officer, Tesco.
com, Director of Prudential plc.
Philip Director of 3i Group plc, which Marketing Director, UK and as currently serves as a member of the includes responsibility for finance, Group Brand Director.
Oxford University Audit and Scrutiny investment valuations and treasury.
Committee and is a member of the External appointments: She has been a member of its Code Committee of The Takeover Marstons PLC Board since 2008.
Previously, she Panel as well as the Panels Finance Non-Executive Director was the Group Director of Corporate Committee.
He is also a Fellow of the The Mentoring Foundation Finance at Cable & Wireless plc, Institute of Chartered Accountants Non-Executive Director where she also held a number of in England and Wales.
Cancer Research UK Trustee other finance-related roles.
Julia is Majid Al Futtaim Retail LLC External appointments: a member of the Institute of Non-Executive Director AstraZeneca PLC Non-Executive Chartered Accountants in England Cambridge Judge Business Director and Wales ACA and the Chartered School Advisory Board Member Eastbourne College Chairman Institute of Taxation.
The Invicta Film Partnership No.
6 London Library Treasurer External appointments: LLP Member 3i Group plc Director Lesley Knox Toby Strauss Geoffrey Timms Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Group General Counsel Appointed June 2016 Appointed January 2017 and Company Secretary Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Lesley was appointed to the Board Toby brings extensive insurance Geoffrey has been the Group in June 2016.
She brings a wealth of experience to the Board following General Counsel since 1999 and, international, strategic and financial an executive career in UK financial in addition, the Group Company services experience having spent services which included Group Secretary since 2008.
Geoffrey over 17 years in senior roles in financial Director of Insurance and Chief is also a Director of CALA Group services, including with Kleinwort Executive of Scottish Widows at Holdings Limited and the Bracknell Benson, Bank of Scotland and British Lloyds Banking Group and, prior Regeneration Partnership Limited Linen Advisors.
Lesley previously to that, Chief Executive of Aviva Prior to joining Legal & General, served as Chair on the Board of UK Life.
Geoffrey was a solicitor with Clifford Alliance Trust PLC and as Senior Chance and then Clyde & Co.
External appointments: Independent Director at Hays plc.
Macmillan Cancer Support External appointments: Trustee Centrica plc Non-Executive Toric Limited Director Director and Chair of the Pacific Life Re Limited Director Remuneration Committee Thomas Cook Group plc Non-Executive Director Grosvenor Group Chair Design Dundee Limited Director NGS Trading Company Limited Director BOARD OF DIRECTORS LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 57 GOVERNANCE Executive Committee Executive Other business unit Directors Chief Ex ecutive Officers CEOs Nigel Wilson Group Chief Executive Director See Board of Directors page 56.
Jeff Davies Chief Financial officer See Board of Directors page 56.
Mark Zinkula Chief Executive officer, Legal & General Investment Management See Board of Directors page 56.
Kerrigan Procter Chief Executive officer, Cheryl Agius Bernie Hickman Chris Knight Legal & General Capital Chief Executive officer, Chief Executive officer, Chief Executive officer, See Board of Directors page 56.
General Insurance Legal & General Insurance Legal & General Retirement, Retail Cheryl is the Chief Executive Officer Bernie is the Chief Executive Officer Chris is the Chief Executive Officer of of General Insurance.
Cheryl was of Legal & General Insurance.
Bernie Legal & Generals Retail Retirement previously Head of UK Strategic joined Legal & General in 1998 from business.
Chris was previously the Retirement Pension Risk Transfer Commercial Union now Aviva.
Chief Financial Officer of Legal & where she was responsible for large Between 2005 and 2010 he was the Generals Retirement Division where Pension Risk Transfer transactions Managing Director of Retail he was responsible for driving the and solutions for defined benefit Protection.
Bernie became Chief financial results of the business.
pension schemes and back book Executive Officer of Legal & General Prior to this he was the Finance transactions.
Prior to this UK role, Home Finance and MD of Individual Director of the groups UK Savings Cheryl set up our US Retirement Retirement in 2014, where he and Protection business.
Chris is a business, securing our first landmark launched its digital platform for qualified actuary, and has had a transaction for $430m in 2015. lifetime mortgages achieving a 25% 28-year career in the UK and Cheryl joined Legal & General in market share within the first year.
He international financial services 2011 having previously worked for has also held the positions within the markets.
He joined Legal & General over 20 years in the retirement and group of Group Financial Controller, in 2009. insurance industry.
Cheryl is a Investor Relations Director and Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries.
Laura Mason Jackie Noakes Chief Executive officer, Legal & Chief Executive officer, General Retirement, Institutional Mature Savings Laura has been CEO of Legal & Jackie is responsible for Legal & Generals Institutional Retirement Generals Mature Savings business business since January 2018 and in the UK.
Jackie joined Legal & previously served as Managing General in 2007 and has led a variety Director of Direct Investment at Legal of shared services across the & General Capital.
Laura joined Legal business including IT, Group & General in 2011 where she was Procurement, Financial Reporting initially responsible for Annuity and Facilities Management.
Laura is a joining Legal & General, Jackie held qualified Actuary and spent eight senior IT roles at American Express years at Towers Watson as and worked for various financial consultant to all the major UK Life services companies, including Bank Insurers.
Laura has a First Class of Ireland, Firemans Fund, Blue Cross Honours Degree in Engineering & Blue Shield and Royal & Sun Science from University of Oxford, Alliance, living and working in and a PhD in Engineering Science Ireland, Sweden, Australia and Neural Networks and Signal America.
Processing also from the University of Oxford.
58 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 GOVERNANCE Additional Executive The role of Commit tee members the Executive Committee The Group Executive Committee Exco, chaired by the Chief Executive, brings together the heads of Legal and Generals business units with the executive committee members shown on these pages.
Exco is responsible for the day-to-day implementation of strategy agreed by the Board.
Exco meets regularly to ensure continued cooperation between the business units and the effective adoption of our culture, a key focus for the group.
Exco also monitors and manages risk, ensures efficient operational Simon Gadd John Godfrey Emma Hardaker-Jones management and adherence to Group Chief Risk officer Group Corporate Affairs Director Group HR Director compliance and addresses key issues such as health and safety, Simon is the Group Chief Risk John has worked in the City for Emma joined Legal & General as diversity and environmental and Officer.
Simon has had a varied over 30 years, providing advice Group HR Director in 2017.
career with Legal & General since on corporate affairs and previous role was as Global HR completing a mathematics degree at communications to US, European Director and Board Director at PA Oxford University.
He qualified as an and Japanese financial institutions.
Consulting, co-leading the actuary in 1991 and roles undertaken He joined Legal & General as Group successful sale of 51% of PA since have included defined benefit Communications Director in 2006, Consulting to The Carlyle Group in pension valuation, various pricing becoming Corporate Affairs Director 2015.
Prior to PA Consulting, Emma and marketing roles, general following the global financial crisis.
spent a number of years as Group management roles, and leadership Since then, his responsibilities have Head of Talent and Resourcing at BP.
Simon has variously included communications, Emma has also held roles at led several different businesses public affairs and policy, corporate Prudential and the Bank of England within Legal & General, including the social responsibility and brand.
In and was the co-founder of a dot com Retail Protection business, Group 2016 he left Legal & General to work start-up, Skillvest.
Emma has Protection business and as MD of in government as head of the Prime significant international experience Annuities from 2006 to 2012.
Ministers Downing Street Policy having worked in Europe, North Unit, returning to the company in America, Asia and Africa.
Stephen Licence Paul Miller Geoffrey Timms Group Chief Internal Auditor Group Strategy and M&A Director Group General Counsel & Company Secretary Stephen is the Group Chief Internal Paul is Group Strategy and M&A Auditor.
Paul joined Legal & General See Board of Directors page 57.
General in 2014 having previously in June 2017 from Goldman Sachs been Emerging Markets Chief International where he was Head Internal Auditor at RSA Insurance of European Insurance within the where he was responsible for the Investment Banking Division.
Internal Audit activity in the groups As an investment banker for nearly businesses across Latin America, 20 years, Paul advised companies Asia, Middle East and Eastern and financial investors on strategy Europe.
His 20 years Internal Audit and mergers and acquisitions in life experience has included Life, insurance, property and casualty General and Healthcare insurance insurance and asset management.
in both Legal & General and Lloyds Whilst based in the UK he worked of London markets.
He was also with clients across EMEA Europe, previously an audit consultant at Middle East and Africa, North the London Stock Exchange Group.
Stephen is a Chartered Member of the Institute of Internal Auditors.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 59
