OUR INVESTMENT CASE There are five elements to our investment case -- each element is a strength in itself but, to - gether, they combine to set us apart from our competitors, giving us a solid platform from which to innovate and grow.
During 2017 we continued to review each element of our investment case and looked to align these more closely to the future core operations of our key business segments and the ongoing integration of recent acquisitions.
Which provides Key attributes Element us as an organisation with: of this element Highlights in 2017 A strong and defendable Global leader in A&F market 1.
Global market core business representing 5% leader in Apparel Increasing market share in some 70% of Group sales and Footwear Sales growth driven by key stable market A&F thread markets across all territories Leading the response to meet changing industry needs -- spe - ed, 8% productivity, innovation, quality, corporate responsibility Sales growth in premium brands and sustainability such as Epic and Nylbond 2.
Leading player Ability to build scale through Global presence in multiple hi-tech in Performance technology, innovation and end use sectors some of which are 12% acquisition high growth Materials market Revenue growth to $276m -- - including acquisitions Performance Materials offer hi-tech products that guarantee performance and safety and a 18% more sustainable product offer Double digit organic sales Innovation in developing or growth in hi-tech end uses acquiring new competencies and e. g. telecommunications technologies -- - such as lightweight Significant post-acquisition sales carbon and Spun by the Sun growth from Gotex of c. 30% 3.
Refocused Americas Major player in the Market leading brands in New North American leadership Crafts business Americas textile North and Latin America team to focus on consumer crafts market marketing and enhancing Deep customer relationships digital offers with North American retailers Commencing integration of Latin American Crafts business into Industrial 4.
Delivering self-help Focused improvement Productivity gains and programmes and procurement initiatives initiatives 11% experienced management Adjusted operating profit Investing in energy waste to deliver margin and growth through operational reduction to improve financial improvements leverage, procurement and operational efficiencies productivity savings.
Successfully Global strategic change offsetting input cost pressures programme -- C - onnecting Disciplined approach to SD&A for Growth cost base -- flat costs year on year - 5.
Track record Strong cash flow generation Balancing key cash demands and high returns on capital of organic investment, pension of delivering free 15% employed ROCE schemes, bolt on acquisitions cash flow Full year dividend payment and shareholder dividends of 1.44 cents per share Increased ROCE over recent years Adjusted free cash flow generation of 12% to $87m For more go online www.
com investors investmentcase Alternative Performance Measure see note 37 on page 143 3
