Derivatives can generally be used with the aim of enhancing the overall investment returns of a fund by taking on an increased risk, or they can be used with the aim of reducing the amount of risk to which a fund is exposed.
Direct investments Direct investments, which generally constitute an agreement with another party and represent an exposure to untraded and often less volatile asset classes.
Direct investments also include physical assets, bilateral loans and private equity, but exclude hedge funds.
Dividend cover Dividend cover measures how many times over the net release from operations in the year could have paid the full year dividend.
For example, if the dividend cover is 3, this means that the net release from operations was three times the amount of dividend paid out.
Earnings per share EPS EPS is a common financial metric which can be used to measure the profitability and strength of a company over time.
It is the total shareholder profit after tax divided by the number of shares outstanding.
EPS uses a weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year.
Economic capital Economic capital is the capital that an insurer holds internally as a result of its own assessment of risk.
It differs from regulatory capital, which is determined by regulators.
It represents an estimate of the amount of economic losses an insurer could withstand and still remain solvent with a target level of confidence over a specified time horizon.
Economic Capital Requirement ECR The amount of Economic Capital required to cover the losses occurring in a 1-in-200 year risk event.
Economic Capital Surplus The excess of Eligible Own Funds on an economic basis over the Economic Capital Requirement.
This represents the amount of capital available to the company in excess of that required to sustain it in a 1-in-200 year risk event.
ECR coverage ratio The Eligible Own Funds on an economic basis divided by the Economic Capital Requirement ECR.
This represents the number of times that the ECR is covered by Eligible Own Funds.
Eligible Own Funds Eligible Own Funds represents the capital available to cover the groups Economic or Solvency II Capital Requirement.
Eligible Own Funds comprise the excess of the value of assets over liabilities, as valued on an Economic Capital or Solvency II basis, plus high quality hybrid capital instruments, which are freely available fungible and transferable to Full-year report 2017 Glossary absorb losses wherever they occur across the group.
Eligible own funds shareholder view basis excludes the contribution to the groups solvency capital requirement of with-profits fund and final salary pension schemes.
Employee engagement index The Employee engagement index measures the extent to which employees are committed to the goals of Legal & General and are motivated to contribute to the overall success of the company, whilst at the same time working with their manager to enhance their own sense of development and well-being.
Escape of Water Escape of water is a type of home insurance claim relating to leakage from fixed water tanks, apparatus e. g. washing machine or pipes Euro Commercial paper Short term borrowings with maturities of up to 1 year typically issued for working capital purposes.
FVTPL Fair value through profit or loss.
A financial asset or financial liability that is measured at fair value in the Consolidated Balance Sheet reports gains and losses arising from movements in fair value within the Consolidated Income Statement as part of the profit or loss for the year.
Full year dividend Full year dividend is the total dividend per share declared for the year including interim dividend but excluding, where appropriate, any special dividend.
General insurance combined operating ratio The combined operating ratio is calculated as the sum of incurred losses and expenses, including commission, divided by net earned premium.
Generally accepted accounting principles GAAP These are a widely accepted collection of guidelines and principles, established by accounting standard setters and used by the accounting community to report financial information.
Gross written premiums GWP GWP is an industry measure of the life insurance premiums due and the general insurance premiums underwritten in the reporting period, before any deductions for reinsurance.
ICAV Irish Collective Asset-Management Vehicle A legal structure investment funds, based in Ireland and aimed at European investment funds looking for a simple, tax-efficient investment vehicle.
IFRS profit before tax PBT PBT measures profit attributable to shareholders incorporating actual investment returns experienced during the year but before the payment of tax.
Index tracker passive fund Index tracker funds invest in most or all of the same shares, and in a similar proportion, as the index they are tracking, for example the FTSE 100 index.
Index tracker funds aim to produce a return in line with a particular market or sector, for example, Europe or technology.
They are also sometimes known as tracker funds.
International financial reporting standards IFRS These are accounting guidelines and rules that companies and organisations follow when completing financial statements.
They are designed to enable comparable reporting between companies, and they are the standards that all publicly listed groups in the European Union EU are required to use.
Full-year report 2017 Glossary Key performance indicators KPIs These are measures by which the development, performance or position of the business can be measured effectively.
The group Board reviews the KPIs annually and updates them where appropriate.
LGAS Legal & General Assurance Society Limited.
LGIM Legal & General Investment Management.
LGR new business Single premiums arising from annuity sales and back book acquisitions including individual annuity and pension risk transfer, the volume of lifetime mortgage lending and the notional size of longevity insurance transactions, based on the present value of the fixed leg cash flows discounted at the LIBOR curve.
Liability driven investment LDI A form of investing in which the main goal is to gain sufficient assets to meet all liabilities, both current and future.
This form of investing is most prominent in final salary pension plans, whose liabilities can often reach into billions of pounds for the largest of plans.
Lifetime mortgages An equity release product aimed at people aged 60 years and over.
It is a mortgage loan secured against the customers house.
Customers do not make any monthly payments and continue to own and live in their house until they move into long term care or on death.
A no negative equity guarantee exists such that if the house value on repayment is insufficient to cover the outstanding loan, any shortfall is borne by the lender.
Matching adjustment An adjustment to the discount rate used for annuity liabilities in Economic Capital and Solvency II balance sheets.
This adjustment reflects the fact that the profile of assets held is sufficiently well-matched to the profile of the liabilities, that those assets can be held to maturity, and that any excess return over risk-free that is not related to defaults can be earned regardless of asset value fluctuations after purchase.
Mortality rate Rate of death, influenced by age, gender and health, used in pricing and calculating liabilities for future policyholders of life and annuity products, which contain mortality risks.
Net release from operations Net release from operations is dened as release from operations plus new business surplus strain.
Net release from operations was previously referred to as net cash and provides information on the underlying release of prudent margins from the back book.
New business surplus strain The net impact of writing new business on the IFRS position, including the benefit cost of acquiring new business and the setting up of reserves, for UK non profit annuities, workplace savings, protection and savings, net of tax.
This metric provides an understanding of the impact of new contracts on the IFRS profit for the year.
Full-year report 2017 Glossary Operating profit Operating profit measures the pre-tax result excluding the impact of investment volatility, economic assumption changes and exceptional items.
Operating profit therefore reflects longer-term economic assumptions and changes in insurance risks such as mortality and longevity for the groups insurance business and shareholder funds, except for LGIA which excludes unrealised investment returns to align with the liability measurement under US GAAP.
Variances between actual and smoothed assumptions are reported below operating profit.
Exceptional income and expenses which arise outside the normal course of business in the period, such as merger and acquisition and start-up costs are excluded from operating profit.
Overlay assets Overlay assets are derivative assets that are managed alongside the physical assets held by LGIM.
These instruments include interest rate swaps, ination swaps, equity futures and options.
These are typically used to hedge risks associated with pension scheme assets during the derisking stage of the pension life cycle.
Open architecture Where a company offers investment products from a rang of other companies in addition to its own products.
This gives customers a wider choice of funds to invest in and access to a larger pool of money management professionals.
Pension risk transfer PRT PRT represents bulk annuities bought by entities that run final salary pension schemes to reduce their responsibilities by closing the schemes to new members and passing the assets and obligations to insurance providers.
Present value of future new business premiums PVNBP PVNBP is equivalent to total single premiums plus the discounted value of annual premiums expected to be received over the term of the contracts using the same economic and operating assumptions used for the new business value at the end of the financial period.
The discounted value of longevity insurance regular premiums and quota share reinsurance single premiums are calculated on a net of reinsurance basis to enable a more representative margin figure.
PVNBP therefore provides an estimate of the present value of the premiums associated with new business written in the year.
Platform Online services used by intermediaries and consumers to view and administer their investment portfolios.
Platforms usually provide facilities for buying and selling investments including, in the UK products such as Individual Savings Accounts ISAs, Self-Invested Personal Pensions SIPPs and life insurance and for viewing an individuals entire portfolio to assess asset allocation and risk exposure.
Profit before tax attributable to equity holders PBT Profit attributable to shareholders incorporating actual investment returns experienced during the year but before the payment of tax.
Purchased interest in long term business PILTB An estimate of the future profits that will emerge over the remaining term of life and pensions policies that have been acquired via a business combination.
Recapitalisation Cost An additional liability required in the group Economic Capital balance sheet, to allow for the cost of recapitalising the balance sheet following a 1-in-200 year risk event, in order to maintain confidence that our future liabilities will be met.
This is calculated using a cost of capital that reflects the long term average rates at which it is expected that the group could raise debt and allows for diversification between all group entities.
Real assets Real assets encompass a wide variety of tangible debt and equity investments, primarily real estate, infrastructure and energy.
They have the ability to serve as stable sources of long term income in weak markets, while also providing capital appreciation opportunities in strong markets.
Release from operations The expected release of IFRS surplus from in-force business for the UK non-profit Insurance and Savings and LGR businesses, the shareholders share of bonuses on with-profits business, the post-tax operating profit on other UK Full-year report 2017
