STRATEGIC REPORT MARKET OUTLOOK RESPONSIVE TO CHANGING MARKET DYNAMICS OIL PRICE ECONOMIC & Oil prices continued to be volatile through 2017, bottoming POLITICAL OVERVIEW outaround $45 bbl in mid-June before hitting a two-year high 2017 was another busy year for politics, not least in the UK of$64 bbl in early November.
Prices have continued on a and Europe given the ongoing Brexit backdrop and a snap firmerfooting into 2018, with escalating geopolitical tensions general election, major elections in both France and Germany, acrossthe Middle East, particularly in Kurdistan and between and Catalonias struggle for independence.
Donald Trumps Saudi Arabia and Iran, acting as price-supportive factors.
election win in late 2016 continued tocause both tension The resurgence of shale oil and its impact on the global market and hope as hestrived toachieve his promised reform plans.
willcontinue to maintain near-term downward pressure on In Beijing, XiJinping declared China is becoming a mighty prices.
Tullows strategy to mitigate this risk, set out on pages 46 force thatcould lead the world on political, economic, and 47 in our discussion on principal risks, focuses on ensuring military and environmental matters in a new era of our business remains robust and competitive at$50 oil and Chinese power.
Meanwhile tensions between the US and maintaining our long-term hedging policy, to protect North Korea ratcheted up, adding some geopolitical concern againstfluctuations.
to analready nervous backdrop as terrorist incidents in a number of major global cities also continued into 2017.
Irrespective of this unpredictable environment, the long-term fundamentals for the oil sector continue to look strong, with On the economic front, global growth remained robust: Tullow well placed to benefit.
The IEAs New Policies Scenario however, inflation and central bank policy remained key predicts global oil needs will rise more slowly than in the past, themes for investors.
Reflation was the keyword early and at a lower rate than total energy consumption such that its inthe year, as Donald Trumps reforms provided hope of relative share in the overall energy mix continues its long-term future growth.
China, the worlds second largest economy, decline.
Renewables share of the overall energy mixwill continue continues to grow steadily and is currently focused on to rise, albeit still from a much lower base.
The growing energy technology leadership, improving productivity and reining demand generated by population growth ispartially offset by indomestic debt.
Except in the UK where ongoing energy efficiency gains.
Nevertheless, the 30 per cent increase in Sterling GBP weakness sent inflation soaring to 3 per cent forecast energy demand by 2040 is greater than the fall in oils inflation in developed markets remained rather elusive, share of the total energy market and oil demand is forecast to proving problematic for central bankers keen to return stay on a rising trajectory to 105 million barrels of oil per day policy to a more typical level following the prolonged recovery by2040.
This growth is driven largely by the production of from the global financial crisis.
Nevertheless, the US Federal petrochemicals, closely followed by rising consumption for Reserve raised rates twice over the course of the year.
trucks fuel efficiency policies cover 80per cent of global car InEurope, with core inflation slowly returning as the year sales today, but only 50per cent of global truck sales, for progressed, the European Central Bank announced that aviation and for shipping.
itwould halve the pace of its monthly quantitative easing purchases, albeit extending it for a further nine months inorder tosmooth the return to normality without rattling GLOBAL DEMAND FOR OIL AVERAGE BRENT CRUDE financial markets.
And, for the first time in more than a MMBOEPD PRICE $ BBL decade, the Bank of England was effectively forced to raise 100 the base rate by 25 basis points thus negating the post-EU $54 BBL referendum cut, despite a struggling economic backdrop, 98 as a currency-impacted headline Consumer Prices Index hit 3 per cent for the first time since 2012.
14 Tullow Oil plc 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 109 100 54 45 54 1 AFRICAN ECONOMIC & POLITICAL OUTLOOK Ghana Non-operated production areas Ghanas headline economic performance in 2017 was strong Of all the countries in Tullows portfolio, it is the West African 1 GDP grew by 5.9 per cent, mostly as a result of rising oil countries in our non-operated business which are the most production at theTEN field and First Oil shipments from dependent on oil production and which have been most reliant ENIs Sankofa project.
Oil&Gas activity is expected to in recent years on high oil prices to compensate for secular contribute to robust growth in 2018, cementing our industrys decline in their maturing fields.
role as a key driver of Ghanas economic outlook.
Unsurprisingly, their economies have been badly affected by However, despite improving headline growth, the Ghanaian the post-2014 collapse in oil prices and the reconfiguration economy is still in recovery mode after the balance of payments ofoil industry capital allocation priorities has resulted in crisis in 201415: an IMF programme to restore Ghanas debt lower levels of investment and the accelerated withdrawal sustainability was extended in 2017 until April 2019. ofa number of major IOCs.
In this context, the Government is targeting ambitious deficit While the structural reforms needed to reset their economies reductions based on improved domestic revenue mobilisation for a lower-for-longer oil price environment have been 3 and expenditure management.
Our ongoing efforts to remove unevenly implemented across the CEMAC bloc, Gabon and costs and maximise production uptime at TEN and Jubilee Equatorial Guinea have begun the process of adjusting to the align well with Ghanas immediate focus on maximising the new competitive landscape facing their respective industries.
economic value of its resources, while the activities foreseen With the right policy set in place, they could stand to benefit in the GJFFD will extend Jubilees material contribution to from the continued commitment of smaller low-cost Ghanas economic prospects into the next decade.
operators and portfolio investors like Tullow and should be able to identify incremental value addition opportunities Kenya and be better positioned to compete for exploration capital.
Kenya is emerging from its unsettled, drawn-out 2017 election 1.
Source: IMF World Economic Outlook, Oct 2017. with an economy in reasonably good shape.
Source: IMF World Economic Outlook, Oct 2017.
2 by 5.5 per cent as businesses and consumers reversed the 3.
Economic and Monetary Community of Central Africa comprising wait-and-see stance adopted in the run-up tothe election.
Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Equatorial Guinea, The uncertainty of the election process suppressed demand Gabon and Republic of Congo.
and put pressure on the shilling and equity prices in Q4, but not at a level requiring emergency policy intervention.
Robust headline growth notwithstanding, a number of weaksignals of future stress are emerging: fiscal space isreceding due to rising debt service obligations and the requirement for central government financing of devolved county administrations.
The public debt burden while not excessively high by regional standards is rising quickly.
It will take time for the post-election period to settle, but weak signals of stress and the need to deliver against pre-election commitments should translate into a renewed sense of Government urgency and focus to facilitate and deliver growth-enhancing development projects, including Tullows South Lokichar development.
CLIMATE CHANGE REGULATION Governments are putting in place taxes, carbon trading potential of our activities and implement appropriate reduction schemes and other measures to limit greenhouse gas GHG initiatives, taking into account the overall stability of our operations.
We are currently undertaking a review of how many We also work to ensure that our business is responsive to of our countries of operation will be subject to emissions and applicable legal and regulatory developments designed to carbon policies by 2020. address climate change, and maintain transparency in our performance reporting and openness in our engagement To help anticipate greater regulatory requirements for GHG aboutclimate change.
emissions, we factor a shadow carbon cost into our own investment decisions for large new projects to ensure that therate of return on investment for these projects is still viablein the event of carbon taxes being imposed.
Our strategy 16 Further information on our position on climate change can be Operations review 26 found on page 37, but our aim is to minimise the GHG emissions Governance & Risk management 38 www.
