STRATEGIC REPORT O u r c u l t ur e Our purpose is to improve the lives of our customers, build a better society for the long term and create value for our shareholders.
This shapes every aspect of how we do business Our Behaviours How we communicate Straightforward Building trust by doing what we say and saying what we mean.
We are fair and transparent, open to feedback and always seek to communicate in a fair and genuine way.
How we work together Collaborative Working together constructively: seeking out IMPROVING UNDERSTANDING originality in ideas and valuing the diversity in OF MENTAL HEALTH ISSUES our teams.
We engage our networks and Our Not a red card campaign has been hugely successful in raising stakeholders to shape our ideas and manage the subject of mental health, aiming the impact of our decisions.
Hopefully through this campaign and others, we can break down those barriers and encourage more people to be open about mental health issues.
How we deliver Nigel Owens, Rugby Union referee Purposeful Balancing performance with principles to do whats right for the business and our customers.
We work with pace and energy, always taking ownership and demonstrating excellent execution.
2 2 L LE EG GA AL & G L & GE EN NE ER RA AL G L GR RO OU UP P P PL LC | A C | AN NN NU UA AL R L RE EP PO OR RT A T AN ND A D AC CC CO OU UN NT TS 2 S 20 01 17 7 STRATEGIC REPORT O ur business principles Customer led Economically Fair and transparent Inclusive We develop solutions to and socially useful We want to treat all the We value inclusiveness build financial resilience We aim to ensure our stakeholders in our and embrace difference and meet our customers products, services and business with integrity to engage our people and present and future investments show both and openness.
empower them to deliver financial goals.
We treat our customers, excellent customer Our customers are at the Our long-term financial employees, investors, suppliers outcomes and better heart of everything we do.
sustainability is for the benefit and regulators with integrity business results.
We develop solutions to of our customers, employees, and openness.
It should be We recognise and reward build financial resilience and shareholders, suppliers and easy to understand our success, investing in the meet their present and society at large.
intentions, provide us with development and wellbeing future financial goals.
feedback, challenge us and of our employees.
We strive Examples We strive to achieve great Financial security work with us.
There is to be a vibrant business that We aim to embed being value, excellent service and openness and transparency values inclusiveness and responsible in everything we do responsiveness: being in how we make decisions embraces difference, where throughout our business.
At the easy to deal with and heart of our business is giving and manage risks.
our people are engaged and customers financial security communicate with.
empowered to deliver Examples throughout life with investments, Speaking out outstanding business results.
Examples insurance and retirement products.
We have launched a new speak up Clear, warm communications Examples Active ownership initiative, part of our cultural Communicating with customers 50 50 by 2020 We aim to improve the commitment to listening and acting in a way that is clear, fair and not This initiative is designed to performance of the companies we on feedback from employees.
misleading is at the heart of our encourage gender diversity invest in through responsible board business.
We seek to avoid jargon Working with NGOs and remove the barriers to behaviour and commitment to and technical language.
Last year, 20 areas of our business women progressing throughout good environmental, social and worked with over 350 NGOs and the company.
Creating the right products governance practices.
experts to look at our policies and Our product life-cycle management Helping vulnerable customers Real assets make sure we were fit for purpose.
sets out the standards we require, Our insight into the needs of We create direct investments and the approach we follow when vulnerable customers helps us which generate better investment designing, launching and create products and investments returns for our long-term money managing products.
which help people through difficult and help build cities, homes, jobs times.
We liaise with charities and Critical friends and communities.
social enterprise experts to help We use a number of charity sector guide us on how we can improve.
professionals, known as critical friends, who help us review our existing products and services offered to customers.
This helps us improve our service, processes and innovate new products.
90 secs 98.3% 350 50% Approximate time for Percentage of life insurance claims Number of NGOs reviewing our There were equal numbers of male SmartQuote to produce a paid out in 2017 policy areas to make sure that we and female employees hired and household insurance quote are fit for purpose promoted at the most senior level in 2017 OUR CULTURE L LE EG GA AL & G L & GE EN NE ER RA AL G L GR RO OU UP P P PL LC | A C | AN NN NU UA AL R L RE EP PO OR RT A T AN ND A D AC CC CO OU UN NT TS 2 S 20 01 17 7 3 3 3
