25 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION OUR RESOURCES THE RESOURCES WE NEED TO DELIVER OUR PRODUCTS The personal objectives of the Chief Executive OUR OUR PEOPLE Officer are cascaded through the organisation, Engaging, developing and retaining with each employee setting aligned objectives PEOPLE our more than 15,000 employees is according to his or her role.
important to us and we work hard to WE ARE PIONEERS WITH A PURPOSE Through this process, each employee can be a great place to work as well as a Smith & Nephew is a company of pioneers, clearly see how their efforts contribute to the responsible corporate citizen.
extending access to advanced medical overall success of the business, which drives technologies and enabling better outcomes SEE OPPOSITE execution, accountability and engagement.
Weve been doing this This engagement is measured through a since 1856. biennial Global Employee Survey using the RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT From our beginnings as a small family Great Place to Work Trust Index.
In 2017, 88% Innovation is part of our culture and pharmacy in Hull, England, we have grown in of our global employees participated in this we invest 5% of our revenue to develop size and scope.
Over the past six years, we survey, providing meaningful results that have new products that will help to improve have fundamentally changed the structure driven actions for improvement.
We track our patients lives.
of our Company, creating greater alignment progress against these actions using regular and presenting one face to our customers.
We have brought pioneering products and In 2017 we raised our overall Trust Index score technologies to market, such as JOURNEY II by five percentage points, to 67%, meeting and PICO, and have successfully completed MANUFACTURING & QUALITY our target for improvement.
We achieved many significant acquisitions, widening our We operate our global manufacturing Great Place to Work recognition in a further customer base around the world.
efficiently, and to the highest possible five countries, ahead of our target of two standards, to ensure product quality at We are proud of the work we do and share a more.
In total we have received recognition competitive pricing.
mission to support healthcare professionals in in nine countries.
their daily efforts to improve the lives of their PAGE 29 In addition to the Trust Index, we have patients.
We achieve this by working together implemented a culture dashboard which to deliver our strategic priorities.
includes key metrics such as employee SALES & MARKETING Every employee has a role in our success, and retention, business performance and feedback We support our customers in over 100 so it is crucial that all employees feel engaged from new hires.
The foundation of this countries.
Our commercial teams are in their work and know its importance.
We start dashboard is our values: to Perform, Innovate highly specialised with an in-depth each year by setting clear and measurable and Earn Trust.
It provides a clear framework knowledge across the full range of objectives based on our strategy scorecard.
for our senior leaders to track progress and product franchises.
identify areas for additional focus, action PAGE 30 or reinforcement.
ETHICS & COMPLIANCE The CEO Awards salute employees CELEBRATING We are committed to doing business at all levels who make outstanding the right way and apply strict business contributions for the benefit of EXCELLENCE principles to the way we deal with our Smith&Nephew.
In 2017 Lorraine Belleville, a Packaging PAGE 32 Operator and Team Coordinator at our Mansfield facility in the US, was recognised for her significant contributions to TRAINING & EDUCATION Mansfields improvement of Finished Goods Every year, thousands of healthcare production by nearly 30% since 2016. professionals attend our training Lorraine took initiatives to improve theflow of courses around the world.
Education work at the facility by introducing important is fundamental to how tools such as a tracking scheme, daily we support our customers.
production sheet and visual management.
PAGE 32 26 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION OUR RESOURCES continued WE ENCOURAGE AND REWARD HIGHPERFORMANCE We set ambitious targets and we achieve them by creating a sense of purpose and urgency.
While achievement of these targets is crucial, our Performance Management Process measures not only what was achieved, but also that the behaviours displayed in doing so match our core values.
Smith & Nephews compensation philosophy is to pay for performance.
This means compensating employees for sustained performance that helps deliver timely and tangible results to drive the business forward.
By following this philosophy we have found that we not only attract, retain, and motivate talent, but it also helps drive better business results and provides an equitable work environment.
We are Living Wage Accredited in the UK, voluntarily paying above the government required minimum as we believe employees should receive fair BUILDING A LEADERSHIP CAREER compensation for the work they do.
The Companys Going the Extra Mile global Laura Whitsitt has built a leadership career at Smith & Nephew.
employee recognition programme is used by executives, managers and employees alike to Laura Whitsitt began her career at Far from a barrier, Laura believes her recognise and reward performance and our Smith & Nephew as an intern in product perspective as a female leader has worked corporate values.
Thirty years later and now in her favour, and has added value.
As a Senior Vice President of Research & woman I bring a different viewpoint to the We are committed to working with employees Development for Orthopaedics, Laura says table, and thats especially important in to develop each individuals talents, skills she still sees opportunities for growth and R&D, she says.
I am often asked why I have Laura says she has seen real progress over Employee advancement is merit-based, reflecting stayed at the same company for so long.
her career in adding more female leaders performance as well as demonstration of core Its important to me to learn and grow and to the ranks at Smith & Nephew, but competencies which include our values, with an be challenged, and Ive always had those there is more to do.
Mentoring has been emphasis on ethics and integrity.
We prioritise opportunities at Smith & Nephew.
very valuable, and I have certainly seen the development and promotion of existing In the male-dominated industry of a positive change in the number of females employees whenever possible.
Each year Smith orthopaedics, Laura says she has in managerial roles.
The more diversity & Nephew conducts a comprehensive global always felt respected for her expertise.
we have at higher levels of the Company, development and capability review process to Among the highlights of her career is the more momentum we have to build on.
identify high potential employees and ensure designing the Companys first and only they have well defined career development spinal systems and managing them through plans.
The Board reviews succession plans for to successful launch.
key executive roles and such plans are in place for other critical positions across our business.
In 2017, we added to our development 1 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 2017 programme three new opportunities: Leadership Edge, Pioneer and Continuous Learning Journeys.
In 2017, 560 employees have 15,933 59% 41% participated in these programmes.
These are Total employees Male Female designed to embed and enhance essential leadership skills for new and experienced managers, respectively through a combination 804 74% 26% of guided and self-service learning tools.
Our 2 Senior managers andabove Male Female myLearning self-directed online learning portal was nominated for a Learning Technologies Award for the Best Online Distance Learning 12 75% 25% Programme this year.
Board of directors Male Female Employees are provided with opportunities todevelop their skills and career through new 1 Number of employees at 31 December including part time employees and employees on leave of absence.
2 Senior managers and above includes all employees classed as Directors, Senior Directors, Vice Presidents and Executive Officers assignments and on the job experiences.
andincludes all statutory directors and Directors of our subsidiary companies.
27 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION OUR RESOURCES continued Gender diversity and equity are important areas Through our global intranet, we provide WE FOSTER AND EMBRACE DIVERSITY of focus for us.
Our goal is to have 33% women resources and tools to guide employees OF EXPERIENCE, BACKGROUND in senior management positions by 2020, in tomake decisions that comply with the law, AND IDEAS accordance with best practice as defined in the local industry code and our Company Code Smith & Nephews global diversity and inclusion Hampton Alexander Report.
Currently just over of Conduct.
We require advance approval programme, called Valuing Difference, is a quarter of senior management roles are held for significant interactions with healthcare designed to highlight the value of bringing by women, in line with the FTSE100 average professionals or government officials and different ideas and perspectives in from our work as defined by the 2017 Hampton Alexander we regularly assess existing and emerging and personal experiences.
We are also committed to ensuring that risks inthe countries in which we operate.
and manager tools and discussion guides, the our performance management and associated See page32 for more information on our programme encourages open dialogue and an rewards are equitable and free from any global compliance programme.
appreciation of the benefits of diverse teams.
The UK government We believe that diversity fuels innovation and has introduced a requirement that all employers WE VIEW INNOVATION are committed to employment practices based publish their gender pay ratio in the UK by 4 April ASANESSENTIAL SKILL on equality of opportunity and the ability of the 2018, which we will do on our website.
Innovation is owned by all of us who question person to perform the essential functions of the the status quo, dare to propose new solutions We recruit, employ and promote employees job, regardless of colour, creed, race, national and seek to be the best at what we do for the on the sole basis of the qualifications and origin, sex, age, marital status, sexual orientation benefit of our customers.
abilities needed for the work to be performed.
or mental or physical disability.
We do not tolerate discrimination on any At Smith & Nephew, we recognise that When we recognise and appreciate these grounds and provide equal opportunity based innovation includes the entire value chain within differences, they can help us better reflect the on merit.
We do not use any form of forced, our organisation from R&D to engineering, wide range of cultures, customers, and patients compulsory or child labour.
We support the manufacturing, distribution, sales, marketing, we serve, so we can better meet their needs Universal Declaration of Human Rights of and even facility utilisation and investment and be a better business thereby building the United Nations.
This means we respect strategy.
We also acknowledge only a few credibility with all.
Diversity is regarded as an the human rights, dignity and privacy of innovations will be truly disruptive, while others asset and it is further guarded by our global the individual and the right of employees to will result in equally as important incremental policies regarding Diversity and Inclusion and freedom of association, freedom of expression changes.
To help aid this, Smith&Nephew has Respectful Workplace.
As a global medical introduced an Innovation Council to support its technology business, Smith & Nephew culture of innovation and signal its importance Our Valuing Difference Programme is sponsored recognises that we have a responsibility to inthe Companys continued success.
by Chief Executive Officer Olivier Bohuon, take a robust approach to preventing slavery andSteering Committee members include The Council consists of Innovation and human trafficking.
Smith & Nephew is our ChiefHuman Resources Officer, Members Champions who reflect the diversity of the committed to preventing slavery and human of the Executive Committee and Regional Smith & Nephew employee base and have trafficking in its corporate activities, and its Presidents.
Together, the committee agrees the a strong appetite for trying new things.
Our full policy on preventing strategy which is then executed at the regional These champions will be responsible for slavery is available on our website.
and country-level in order to have the greatest generating creative ways to embed this value possible impact.
and look for opportunities to raise innovative WE DO THE RIGHT THING EVEN opportunities to the leadership team and to Local diversity councils meet regularly and work WHENNO ONE IS WATCHING celebrate success.
to translate strategy to local needs, execute All employees receive our Code of Conduct specific actions and share best practice.
and Business Principles when they join the Company, and renew their training and An example of a Valuing Difference Initiative is commitment to the Code on an annual basis.
the Elevate programme, which was attended by more than 275 female professionals in 2017.
Smith & Nephews Global Compliance Elevate is specifically designed to develop Programme not only helps our businesses our female leaders and includes a mix of comply with laws and regulations, but skill development and motivational support.
also creates the culture of trust we deem The programme has been highly successful, with essential to our success.
Our comprehensive the majority of participants stating they prioritise programme includes: Board and executive making time to attend the monthly webinar oversight committees: global policies and sessions and more than one-third promoted procedures: on-boarding and annual training orchanged roles in the past year.
for employees and managers: training for third-party sellers: monitoring and auditing processes: and reporting channels and recognition for demonstrating our values.
Annual training is required of all employees and any stakeholders who represent Smith&Nephew.
28 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION OUR RESOURCES continued Finally, we look to support our innovations with WE CARE ABOUT EACH OTHERS RESEARCH & compelling evidence of clinical and economic WELLBEING AND THE SUSTAINABILITY value.
The global R&D function includes our OF SMITH & NEPHEW DEVELOPMENT R&D Clinical, Medical and Scientific Affairs teams, Each of us treats our Companys resources led by the Chief Medical Officer.
This team and the worlds natural resources as if they ensures that, from conception, plans are were our own, and we take our responsibility $223m developed to support product launches to our communities seriously.
Smith & Nephew Investment in R&D in 2017 with the evidence increasingly required by not only applauds, but also supports the clinicians, payers and regulators.
Our products donations of employees time and resources.
undergo clinical and health economic Smith & Nephew has a single global R&D We encourage all our employees to volunteer assessments both during their development function, led by the President of Global R&D, their time and talents by providing eight and post-launch.
reporting directly to the Chief Executive Officer.
hours per year paid time for volunteer This team strives to increase value created During 2017 we secured a long-term efforts.
Many functions structure their team by research and development by focusing on partnership with the University of Hull to building activities around group volunteering three imperatives: Disruptive Innovation that create one of the worlds largest Wound opportunities such as Make a Wish Foundation matters, flawless execution of new product Care Research Clusters with the aim of events and the Helping Hands Project which development, and compelling evidence of developing scientific insights and innovative builds prosthetic hands for amputees in thirdclinical and economic value.
This includes the creation of world countries.
eight PhD studentships and a programme The Portfolio Innovation Board drives our Charity efforts are also coordinated across of collaboration between Smith & Nephews innovation strategy and framework.
This Board entire sites, and beyond.
In 2017, Smith new Hull R&D centre and the Universitys new identifies and selects only those projects & Nephew brought together many local Health Campus, both of which opened in 2017. that will make a meaningful difference to our companies in Hull with a More Together customers and their patients.
This includes We also announced a three-year partnership initiative to raise tens of thousands of pounds continuing to invest in incremental innovation with Imperial College London to develop for local charities.
Smith & Nephew was also to improve existing products in a way that enhanced surgical techniques relating to a major sponsor of the Hull City of Culture improves outcomes.
It also involves driving ligament function, biomechanics and soft celebrations, with employees contributing to greater efficiency through innovation, tissue injuries of the knee, including the most and benefiting from the year of activities potentially reducing our costs of goods.
common injuries of torn menisci and anterior on-site and across the city.
For instance, by making instrument sets cruciate ligament rupture.
See page 29. more procedure and patient-specific, we will Our social responsibility strategy is to We also continue to invest in scouting for reduce complexity and cost, to the benefit materially contribute to the delivery of our new technologies, identifying complementary of customers and the Company.
Finally, by Company Mission by engaging employees opportunities in our core and adjacent seeking more meaningfully disruptive products to prioritise philanthropic resources and segments.
In addition, we invest in and services, we will harness transformational efforts on areas that align with our business small companies developing compelling innovation to provide access to new strategy and values.
Resources include technologies in our franchise areas through technologies to people across the world.
product donations, matching gifts, and our incubation fund, and provide our expertise employee volunteerism.
Second, the team challenges itself to execute to help the development process, including flawlessly.
This means developing the right We believe selection and management of supporting clinical studies, and typically product at the right cost and quality, supported charitable and non-profit organisations and secure preferred access to technology as it by clinical evidence, in a timely manner.
activities is best accomplished at the local nears market readiness.
Our R&D experts in the UK, US, Europe, level within the framework of our social In 2017, we invested $223 million in R&D, in China and India have extensive customer responsibility strategy.
Each locations Site line with our commitment, set out in 2011, to and sector knowledge, which is augmented Leadership Council and or Camaraderie maintain our investment level at around 5% of by ongoing interaction with our marketing Council will design, construct, and operate revenue.
We expect to maintain this proportion teams.
Strict criteria are applied to ensure the local programme, including arrangement going forward, but to realise greater benefit new products fulfil an unmet clinical need, of funding.
These Councils build out the local through our new structure and strategic focus.
have a strong commercial rationale, and are social responsibility programme, selecting technologically feasible.
The R&D function charitable organisations and activities that best works closely with the marketing, clinical, engage the local employee population and regulatory affairs, manufacturing and supply underpin our Mission.
chain management teams to ensure we can We Innovate.
produce new products to clinical, cost and time specifications.
29 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION OUR RESOURCES continued MANUFACTURING & QUALITY GLOBAL OPERATIONS Smith & Nephew takes great pride in its expertise in manufacturing products to the highest quality and ensuring they reach our customers in a timely manner.
We operate manufacturing facilities in a number of countries across the globe, and a number of central distribution facilities in key geographical areas.
Products are shipped to individual country locations which hold small amounts of inventory locally for immediate supply to meet customer requirements.
Manufacturing is a dynamic process and our Global Operation leadership team is focused on successfully supporting delivery of the Groups strategic priorities by ensuring our footprint and expertise is ready to respond to geographical growth, new product development, greater external regulatory scrutiny and the commercial pressure to be ever more efficient.
Quality has always been paramount to Smith & Nephew.
We have a unified Quality Assurance and Regulatory Affairs team to ensure consistency across our country business units.
Requirements of global regulatory agencies have become more stringent in recent years and we expect themto continue to do so.
We are continuing to expand our portfolio globally through new product development and by registering our INNOVATING THROUGH PARTNERSHIP existing products in new markets.
In order to meet the expectations of regulators and Smith & Nephew is working with Imperial College London support this added complexity we continued to develop enhanced surgical techniques relating to ligament toinvest in our Quality and Regulatory expertise in 2017. function, biomechanics and soft tissue injuries of the knee, including the most common injuries of torn menisci and anterior cruciate ligament rupture.
The partnership with Smith & Nephew is Meniscus repair is one of the greatest priceless for our work.
It allows a strategic challenges of Sports Medicine.
By attack on the unanswered biomechanical combining the clinical expertise of Imperial issues in knee surgery.
Knowing funding is College with our pioneering approach to secure for three years allows a step-by-step new product development we expect to be due diligence approach to investigating able both to advance surgical techniques these issues rather than sporadic studies.
and accelerate the development of next This is the best way to translate from the generation products.
lab to patient care said Mr Andy Williams, Lead Surgical Researcher, Imperial College London and Fortius Clinic.
30 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION OUR RESOURCES continued OUR MANUFACTURING FACILITIES PROCUREMENT SALES & Our largest manufacturing operation We procure raw materials, components, MARKETING is based in Memphis Tennessee, US.
finished products and packaging materials The Memphis facilities produce key products from suppliers in various countries.
Our customers are the providers of medical and instrumentation in our Knee Implant, Hip These purchases include metal forgings and and surgical treatments and services in Implant and Trauma franchises.
These include castings for orthopaedic products, optical over 100 countries worldwide, ranging from the JOURNEY II and LEGION knees, the and electronic sub-components for sports orthopaedic surgeons to wound care nurses, ANTHOLOGY Primary Hip System and key medicine products, active ingredients and general practitioners and other clinicians, Trauma products such as the PERI-LOC Plating semi-finished goods for Advanced Wound but increasingly also economic stakeholders.
System, REDAPT and TRIGEN Intramedullary Management as well as packaging materials These include purchasing professionals Nails.
In addition to this, Memphis is home to across all product ranges.
in hospitals, healthcare insurers, materials the design and manufacturing process of the Suppliers are selected, and standardised managers and others.
VISIONAIRE patient matched instrumentation contracts negotiated, by a centralised sets, and OXINIUM Oxidised Zirconium.
We serve these customers through our procurement team wherever possible, with a This patented metal alloy is available for many sales force and other channels.
Our sales view to ensuring value for money based on the of our knee and hip implant systems as part of representatives are highly trained and skilled total spend across the Group.
On an ongoing our VERILAST technology.
Becoming a sales representative basis, we work closely with our key suppliers requires intense training, including passing a In Sports Medicine, our Alajuela Costa to ensure high quality, delivery performance strict certification programme.
Depending on Rica facility, opened in 2016, manufactures and continuity of supply.
their area of specialism, representatives in COBLATION technology.
Our Mansfield We outsource certain parts of our our surgical businesses must be able to Massachusetts, US facility manufactures manufacturing processes where necessary to demonstrate a detailed knowledge of all products for minimally invasive surgery obtain specialised expertise or to lower cost the surgical instruments used to implant a including the FAST FIX 360 Meniscal without undue risk to our intellectual property.
device, or have specific understanding of the Repair System, FOOTPRINT PK Suture Suppliers of outsourced products and services various surgical techniques a customer might Anchor, DYONICS Platinum Shaver Blades, are selected based on their ability to deliver use.
In our advanced wound management ENDOBUTTON CL Ultra and the HEALICOIL PK products and services to our specification, business, sales representatives must have suture anchor.
and adhere to and maintain an appropriate a detailed understanding of how patients The Aarau Switzerland, Tuttlingen Germany, quality system.
Our specialist teams work live with wounds and how clinicians seek Beijing China and Devrukh India facilities with and monitor suppliers through on-site to prevent and treat them, as well as deep manufacture a number of surgical device assessments and performance audits to knowledge of the clinical and economic products including key reconstruction and ensure the required levels of quality, service benefits of using our products within trauma products and the PLUS knee and hip and delivery.
The Warwick UK facility produces the Once a sales representative is certified, BIRMINGHAM Hip Resurfacing System.
GLOBAL SUPPLY CHAIN they typically spend the majority of their Our Global Supply Chain function ensures Our Oklahoma City Oklahoma, US facility time working directly with and supporting that our products reach our internal and produces and services electro mechanical customers, or identifying and contacting new external customers where and when they capital equipment as well as single use customers.
They help to provide in-hospital are needed, in a compliant and efficient sterile devices and also assembles some of support to aid in the safe and effective use of manner.
Bringing together people, knowledge our NPWT devices using components from our range of advanced medical technologies and expertise helps us meet our objectives third parties.
and our customers expectations, driving The majority of our wound management us to become more competitive, responsive Our Global Commercial Organisation oversees products are manufactured at our facilities and integrated.
all commercial activities sales, marketing, in Hull, Suzhou and Curaao.
These include market access, and commercial strategy We operate three main holding warehouses pioneering products such as PICO and across the Group for our full line of business.
for surgical products, one in each of ALLEVYN Life as well as our complex silver The organisation is led by two regional sales Memphis, Baar Switzerland and Singapore.
In Suzhou, presidents for the US and International, and These facilities consolidate and ship to we also manufacture our wound care products our Chief Marketing Officer CMO.
Within our local country and distributor facilities.
for the mid-tier in the Emerging Markets.
International region there are several regional Our distribution hubs for advanced wound Manufacturing of our Advanced Wound leaders for Europe & Canada, Asia Pacific and products are located in Neunkirchen Bioactive products takes place in Curaao and Latin America.
Germany, Derby UK and Lawrenceville at various third party facilities in the US.
Our sales forces in the Established Markets are specialised by channel and consist of a mixture of independent contract workers and employees.
In our Emerging Markets we operate through direct selling and marketing operations led by country managing directors, and through third party sellers.
31 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION OUR RESOURCES continued Smith & Nephew has three global marketing teams who set the strategic direction of our businesses, guide our research & development teams by specifying new products & services needed to realise those strategies, and develop the promotional assets and guidance to commercialise our products.
They utilise a variety of traditional and novel means to market to our customers, including scientific congresses, commercial trade shows, advertising in medical journals and, increasingly, digital channels.
These include product websites, social media channels, mobile applications and our professional educational platform called Education & Evidence.
Also reporting to our CMO is the global Commercial Excellence team, which drives numerous initiatives to strengthen commercial execution in both the sales organisation and our global marketing teams.
There is a strong focus on Sales Force Excellence to increase efficiency and effectiveness of our sales teams, and on Pricing to increase discipline in our transactional pricing and define better value creation strategies for our innovative products.
Other activities in Commercial Excellence include strategic planning, business intelligence and market research, digital marketing, and marketing communications.
In addition, our Health Economics and Outcomes Research HEOR team generates evidence on the economic impact of our products and provides supporting assets A DAY IN THE LIFE and tools to commercialise our products.
They do this through collaboration with leading medical centres in the world as well as existing Mustafa works as a Territory Manager in registries that track usage of our products.
our Sports Medicine franchise in the UK.
The HEOR team also reports to our CMO.
My time is split helping my customers to find answers to between supporting customers and the problems they face, to enable better their operating theatre teams in hospitals, outcomes for their patients.
meeting with potential customers, learning Were very lucky in the UK to be able to offer and researching techniques and trends, an excellent training facility to the surgeons and keeping in touch with my colleagues, we support.
Its a great feeling to be able to the business and my existing customers.
support a consultant to refine their surgical My favourite part of the job is the techniques.
Im also a mentor providing interactions I have with my customers.
expertise and guidance on our Resection Ibelieve that we sell solutions rather and Camera products to my colleagues in thanproducts, so everything I do is about the UK.
32 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION OUR RESOURCES continued We assess the compliance controls in ETHICS & TRAINING & Smith& Nephews businesses.
We conduct audits, supported by data analytics, and local COMPLIANCE EDUCATION monitoring.
We review the issues our testing CODE OF CONDUCT AND generates to identify patterns.
Smith & Nephew is dedicated to helping BUSINESSPRINCIPLES healthcare professionals improve the quality New distributors and other higher-risk of care for patients.
We are proud to support Smith & Nephew earns trust with customers, third parties are subject to screening and the development of surgeons and nurses by healthcare professionals, government are contractually obligated to comply with providing skills training and education on our authorities, patients and the public by acting applicable laws and our Code of Conduct.
in an honest and fair manner in all aspects Compliance training and certifications are ofits operations.
In February 2017, we inaugurated our Expert Connect Centre in the UK.
This new centre We expect the same from those with whom Managing Directors are required to complete for HCP training is a state-of-the-art learning we do business, including vendors who an annual certification to the Chief Executive environment with the latest audio-visual provide us with services and distributors and Officer to confirm the implementation of capabilities and 14-station bio-skills laboratory independent agents that sell our products.
Managers and employees for all levels of HCPs from around the globe.
Our Code of Conduct and Business Principles make an annual compliance certification In 2017, we provided more than 45,000 governs the way we operate to achieve and conflict of interest disclosure.
instances of training to surgeons through our these objectives.
Executive management, managers and Smith & Nephew training centres in the US, UK employees have a compliance performance Smith & Nephew takes into account ethical, and China, as well as running many courses at objective customised to their role.
social, environmental, legal and financial third party centres around the world.
considerations as part of its operating Working under expert guidance, attendees GLOBAL COMPLIANCE PROGRAMME: methods.
We have a robust whistle-blowing learn new techniques and refine skills, NEW ELEMENTS IN 2017 system in all jurisdictions in which we operate.
to ensure the safe and effective use of We are committed to upholding our promise In 2017, we created an Ethical Leadership our products.
in our Code of Conduct that we will not model, which includes four pillars: Advise, retaliate against anyone who makes a report Lead, Observe, and Coach or Report.
These courses are attended by residents, ingood faith.
We introduced this model during annual fellows and practicing surgeons who work manager training, reinforced the model together to review, discuss and train on current GLOBAL COMPLIANCE PROGRAMME: through further communications, and gave and forward-looking surgical techniques in EXISTING ELEMENTS managers resources they can use to raise their areas of clinical expertise.
Our courses awareness ofcompliance risks and rules.
Smith & Nephew has implemented what we help up-and-coming surgeons develop trust believe to be a world-class Global Compliance and gain the experience and confidence We benchmarked our whistle-blower Programme that helps our businesses comply necessary to become experts in their field.
This comprehensive The benchmarking confirmed that all Thousands of nurses receive face-to-face compliance programme includes: Board and Smith&Nephew reporting and substantiation training from Smith & Nephew representatives executive oversight committees: global policies rates met industry practices.
We conducted every year, including attending courses at and procedures: on-boarding and annual a comprehensive review of the guidelines our centres, and through our representatives training for employees and managers: training recently issued by the US Department of visiting them at their place of work.
for distributors and agents and higher-risk Justice on compliance programme effectiveness In 2017 almost 45,000 clinicians in the vendors: monitoring and auditing processes: and by the International Organisation of US alone benefited from our wound care reporting channels and employee-recognition Standards on Anti-Bribery Management educational resources.
for demonstrating our values in their Systems, and are also identifying any actions everyday work.
In addition, we provide healthcare needed to align tothisnew guidance.
professionals our online resources such We provide resources and tools to guide We applied enhanced standards prospectively asthe Global Wound Academy, The Wound employees to make decisions that comply with for new, potential partners and retrospectively Institute and, for surgeons, our Education the law, local industry codes and our Company for existing distributors.
We also developed and Evidence website.
Recently we began Code of Conduct.
We conduct review and new guidelines for distributors or agents utilising innovative, digital technologies approval in advance for significant interactions who need to enter the operating room to accelerate the learning experience of with healthcare professionals or government when acting on our behalf.
In 2017 we doubled the number officials.
We regularly assess existing and withour Procurement colleagues to integrate ofhealthcare professionals trained digitally emerging risks in the countries in which compliance controls into the Companys onSmith &Nephew products and techniques we operate.
We also conducted to 180,000. a comprehensive review of the types ofcomplementary workers we engage to ensure they receive appropriate anti-bribery and corruption compliance training and will implement an updated training strategy in 2018.
