STRATEGIC REPORT OUR STRATEGY A SUSTAINABLE & SELF-FUNDEDBUSINESS Tullows strategy is to create a business where our low-cost, long-life asset base in Africa creates the high-margin cash flow that funds our growth, reduce our debt and deliver shareholder returns.
Our strategy is to build a strong, sustainable and self-funded Exploration & Production business.
Asset out in Pauls CEO Statement, Tullows four strategic priorities are: LO W-COST, LONG-LIFE 1 PRODUCINGASSETS Maintaining and continuing to invest in our production and development assets remains a key priority.
The production revenues provide free cash flow to reduce debt, re-invest and deliver shareholder returns.
Managing these assets safely, to high BALANCE operational standards, utilising local staff and SHEET suppliers, whilstminimising costs and maximising INVESTMENT productionrevenues is our constant focus.
DECISIONS CASH FLOW FROM EXPLORATION TO OPERATIONS 2 BUILDRESERVES Building our reserves, resources and future production through targeted and disciplined exploration in Africa and South America is another key priority.
We continuously high-grade our lowcostacreage portfolio, managing equity interests toextract value, whilst retaining material exposure toour most highly prized drillable prospects.
ACTIVE PORTFOLIO 3 MANAGEMENT We actively manage our asset portfolio through Balance sheet Investment decisions divestments and acquisitions.
Farm-downs, disposals Deleveraging the balance sheet Tullow has a rigorous capital and acquisitions help us to manage our financial remains a high priority for the allocation process in order to risk exposure, generate cash or add value-accretive business and we are working appropriately balance its assets to our portfolio.
We will also look to acquire towards our long-term gearing investment in its producing fields, assets at any stage in the life cycle where we can policy of less than 2.5x net debt selective developments and create value for our shareholders.
Cash flow from operations DISCIPLINED, RETURNS-FOCUSED Tullow generates cash flow from 4 CAPITAL ALLOCATION its low-cost production assets in Prudent capital allocation, combined with careful Ghana andacross its West African cost management, runs through all our decision non-operated portfolio.
It ensures our assets remain competitive and helps us achieve a balance between investing inthe short-, nearand long-term growth engines forthe business.
16 Tullow Oil plc 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 1 Exploration Portfolio management Exploration is key for future growth.
While We actively high-grade our portfolio, maintaining thescale of exploration has reduced, we are the appropriate financial risk exposure ahead maximising exploration spend on high-impact of exploration and development projects, activities and taking advantage of low generating funds to both pay down debt and industrycosts.
create growth opportunities for the business.
We screen opportunities and only progress We continually monitor potential inorganic programmes that pass strict commercial, ways to grow the business, but will only act geological and risk criteria.
onopportunities that are value accretive and fitwell within our strategy and when we have the appropriate balance sheet to do so.
Free cash flow Free cash flow is the cash that Tullow is left withafter all our costs are covered.
Generating freecash flow EXPLORATION gives Tullow the flexibility tore-invest in future growth, RE-INVEST reduce debt and provide a return for shareholders.
PORTFOLIO Re-invest MANAGEMENT Re-investment in our existing portfolio of assets is vital to maximise the potential of ourasset base, to build and FINANCIAL FREE maintain the future revenue MANAGEMENT CASH FLOW streams that will in turn deliver our ambition of achieving a self-funded business.
SELECTIVE Dividends DEVELOPMENTS Tullow recognises that issuing a dividend is an important signal of financial DIVIDENDS discipline and is a way PRODUCING toreturn value to our FIELDS shareholders.
The Board reviews the Companys dividend policy annually andwill consider a dividend Financial management Selective developments alongside prioritising Financial management of our business Tullow has a proven track record of developing deleveraging of the balance includes value-protecting programmes such major projects on time and on budget.
Tullow sheet and investing in as insurance and oil price hedging policies.
will selectively develop discoveries it makes ourassets.
G&A and the cost of our debt are running that have a clear path to monetisation with costs thatwe carefully manage.
We have robust economics, where we have the right madegood progress in reducing these costs level of licence equity and Joint Venture inrecent years andembedded cost discipline Partners to effectively deliver the project.
and performance management are in place Producing fields toensure these costs are appropriately Tullow has low-cost, long-life oil producing controlled going forward.
assets inGhana and West Africa which provide stable cash flow for the Group.
Tullow plans to grow and sustain its production through further drilling in Ghana and bringing on additional production fromEast Africa.
