STRATEGIC REPORT A c t in g r esponsibly Our purpose is improving the lives of our customers, building a better society for the long term and creating value for our shareholders IN A NUTSHELL We believe that successful companies are those that understand the importance of behaving responsibly for the good of society and acting in the interests of their customers.
30 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Key areas we focus on for Making society more resilient corporate and social responsibility Ensuring our products and services Running our business to a are available to the widest range of higher standard social groups and that we support Strengthening our corporate customers who become vulnerable.
governance and sustainability policies, Transition to a low carbon reviewing our business principles and economy ensuring our people embrace diversity Running our own business in an and inclusion.
environmentally sustainable way, Creating new investments for creating products and services the future economy that support a low carbon future, Taking action to make our investment influencing the companies we invest activities more sustainable and in to act in an environmentally embrace Environmental, Social and resilient manner and ensuring that Governance ESG factors.
This applies our direct investments support the to our own direct investments, pension aim to limit climate change.
scheme investment funds and social investments through mechanisms such as Social Stock exchanges and community share schemes.
INVESTING IN GREEN ENERGY One of our four key focus areas for corporate and social responsibility is to support the transition to a low carbon economy.
We do this by trying to influence the companies we invest in to prioritise environmental sustainability.
We also invest in green energy and low carbon housing.
com CSR ACTING RESPONSIBLY LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 31 STRATEGIC REPORT | ACTING RESPONSIBLY Measuring our commitment to society Core belief Measure 2017 2016 2015 Creating new Cumulative total direct 14.4bn 10.0bn 7.2bn investments for the investments in areas such as UK future economy infrastructure, housing, SME Encouraging greater finance and green energy diversity at all levels of Running our business Total global tax contribution 1,234m 1,151m 947m the business is important to a higher standard for our future success.
Running our business Female representation 27% 27% 30% We are taking action to to a higher standard on board ensure we have a more Transition to a low Engagement with companies 108 n a n a inclusive and diverse carbon economy as part of Climate Impact pledge new initiative.
workforce, and actively engage with the Transition to a low Total CO emissions 44,796 50,381 54,162 2 carbon economy tonnes tonnes tonnes companies in which we invest to do the same.
Making society Contributions into UK 2.9m 3.0m 2.6m more resilient non-profit organisations Mark Zinkula, Executive Director and CEO, Legal & General Contributions into US $1.1m $0.8m $0.8m non-profit organisations Investment Management How we help our local communities Social investment Our ambitious 50 50 by 2020 initiative We work in the community to support Our award winning SE Assist fund has started in 2014 and continues to push four distinct areas of focus: our provided interestfree loans to 27 social hard on gender diversity, ensuring our employees, volunteering, education enterprises in Sussex and Wales.
Board is diverse and working hard to and social enterprises.
remove the barriers to womens How we are making our progression throughout the company.
Employees business more inclusive To help us achieve these goals we We encourage our employees to support Our vision for diversity and inclusion signed the Women in Finance Charter charities personal to them through our We are committed to increasing the in 2016 with a target to increase the sponsorship and time matching diversity of our workforce and are proportion of women in management programme and give as you earn working to build an inclusive culture roles from 35% to 40% in 2017. scheme.
Sir John Kingman, Chairman, that encourages all our people to build hosts the Community Awards each Our key successes have been at the successful careers appropriate to their year, recognising the amazing most senior level where the gender skills and talents.
balance of new starters was 50 50 We strive to be a vibrant business in 2017 and, because of our strong Volunteering that values inclusion and embraces pipeline of female leadership Employees are given time off during difference, where our employees are successors, 43% of our divisional working hours to support volunteering engaged and empowered to deliver MDs are now women.
activities, showing our commitment to business results because we believe encourage employees to get involved.
We continue to regularly monitor our better business decisions come from As a reward for volunteering outside of progress on diversity and inclusion: a diverse set of views.
work we offer time matching.
They however, these initiatives will take To achieve these goals we work with convert their volunteering time to cash time to show results and our progress leading diversity campaigns such as for their charity or community group.
towards achieving our Women in the 30% Club, of which our CEO and Finance target has been impacted by Financial education Chairman are members, the Diversity changes to our business that have In 2017 we delivered 48 days worth of Project which aims to bring more disproportionately affected women.
financial education to more than 6,200 diversity into the investment In 2018 we are renewing our focus children and more than 379 teachers.
management industry and the Hampton on our attraction and hiring practices We use our financial knowledge to Alexander Review which has a 33% to address those gaps.
help young people understand the target for women at Executive financial requirements that people face Committee level and their direct reports.
during their lives and the decisions that they may have to make.
32 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT PRETTY SAGOO Head of Strategic Pension Risk Transfer What specific steps are we taking We hold internal events with leaders to address gender balance?
It was so refreshing to We are committed to continuing our We facilitate regular networking work to create a more diverse and events for men and women to join.
Its the first firm Ive genderbalanced organisation which foster debate and create momentum worked at where staff will in turn help us reduce our gender for change.
We are approaching this in diversity is more than an Creating a gender diverse a number of ways: talent pipeline empty gesture.
Driven Changing the way we recruit We have career sponsorship and right from the top, there We aim to have balanced shortlists, mentoring programmes for senior and at least one woman on every women and our pipeline talent.
is genuine recognition shortlist for all of our roles.
We are striving to attract untapped that this makes for a We use diverse interview panels, talent returning to the workplace to ensure a fair and inclusive better place to work, after a career break by launching our interview process.
and ultimately a better We demand more from our We ensure that we have gender business outcome.
recruitment suppliers and engage balance when recruiting early career them in our gender diversity plans.
talent through apprenticeships, Pretty Sagoo We provide unconscious bias graduate and Investment 2020 Head of Strategic Pension Risk Transfer and interview skills training for programmes.
Creating a flexible, agile and Raising awareness with debate supportive environment and dialogue Wherever possible, we are creating We have visible and active an agile work environment by Board support.
providing the technology to enable people, and the support and training We champion the achievements to facilitate more flexible and of our female role models.
We communicate our progress We have a programme of workshops and engage our people through and support for working parents and internal social media discussions, carers including new parent coaching.
ACTING RESPONSIBLY LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 33 STRATEGIC REPORT | ACTING RESPONSIBLY Other activities and achievements Employee engagement supporting colleagues across our We also think beyond gender.
Our More than 6,350 people in our UK, locations.
We continue to work closely diversity and inclusion activities focus US and Asian businesses took part in with Time to Change and City Mental on the following three areas: the What Matters Employee Survey.
Health Alliance to drive good mental We saw our highest ever response health practices in the workplace.
Culture: Inclusion is one of our rate of 91%.
business principles and this means Learning and development creating the right culture for inclusion The worldwide Employee Engagement Our aim is to create a culture where to flourish.
In September October 2017 Index increased slightly from 76% in talent thrives and ambition can be colleagues around our business took 2016 to 77% in 2017.
We encourage our people to part in a variety of activities to increase in score reflects how our take ownership of their career and celebrate inclusion month, which culture is maturing through adoption development and provide a variety aimed to raise awareness of the of our behaviours and enablement of learning opportunities to support diversity in our business, to encourage through an agile or flexible working this, including onthejob experiences open conversations and to respond to environment.
All this is underpinned and support with professional the feedback from employees who told by continued strong leadership scores qualifications.
Our Learning Hub has us they wanted more opportunities to around the organisation.
A focus on thousands of resources to aid our celebrate our differences.
employee voice will continue in the peoples development, including next year as we continue on our digital elearning and online books, as well 2.
Communication: In 2017 as well as journey, influencing mindsets and as access to our facetoface training continuing our series of 50 50 by 2020 behaviours, whilst encouraging a catalogue.
We develop the skills and network events in partnership with healthy worklife balance.
knowledge of our people through Deloitte and XL Catlin we also businessaligned initiatives, including launched our L&GBT Network and held Employee wellbeing curriculums focused on digital skills, focus groups to better understand the Our goal is for our employees to be mental health and wellbeing, career journeys of our employees from emotionally, mentally and physically fit, recruitment and selection and ethnic minority backgrounds.
We resilient to change and performing at agile working.
partner with organisations such as their best.
We achieve this by working Stonewall, Vercida and Employers to deliver a proactive, integrated and Focus on corporate governance Network for Equality and Inclusion who consistent plan of activities to support active ownership help us to introduce best practice our commitment to our employees As one of the largest asset managers initiatives and benchmark our progress.
physical and mental health and in the world, we want all the wellbeing at work.
In May 2017 we companies we invest in to do as well 3.
Insight: In 2017 we introduced launched Talking About Mental Health as they can.
This is why we are active culture assessments for each business Its Not A Red Card Offence a new owners, using our size and influence to and we have established action plans campaign using the power of sport to bring about real, positive change to to increase ethnic minority and LGBT help lift the mental health taboo and companies, by raising the standards representation in our business.
encourage more conversations in the across entire markets and sectors.
We Good governance helps protect our have trained more than 60 employees clients investments.
From the to become Mental Health First Aiders Making a positive difference Gender Pay Gap to our gender pay gap Mean Median The Gender Pay Gap Regulations were Legal & General UK group Hourly Pay 30.5% 31.6% introduced in 2016 with the intention of 6,243 employees Bonus 65.6% 51.8% bringing additional transparency to the pay arrangements in large organisations.
These percentages show the The gender pay gap measures the differences between pay and difference in average pay of men and bonuses for men and women.
women, regardless of their seniority.
Our Our complete Gender Pay Gap gap results from having more men than report will appear on our website women in senior, more highly paid roles.
com Being fair and transparent is an mediacentre reports.
important part of our business.
We recognise and reward success and are committed to ensuring that those rewards and recognition are fair for everyone.
We acknowledge we have a gender pay gap and we are focused on the actions we need to take to close it.
34 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Active engagement in 2017 Activity 2017 Meetings held 370 Companies met 224 Meetings discussing environmental and social issues 57% Companies based outside the UK 50% UK companies voted against Our commitment to environmental at least one resolution 36% sustainability UK board directors voted against 178 We encourage public policies, investment practices and corporate behaviour that address longterm Top five themes discussed in our risks associated with the impact company meetings of climate change.
LGIM are signatories to the Task Force on 01 Climaterelated Financial Disclosures.
Board composition, for example, diversity, board refreshment, quality and skills Our strategy inspires us to build a better society for the long term and part of that is understanding and 02 03 responding to the risks and Remuneration Climate change opportunities that climate change appointment of executives to mergers presents.
We have a longstanding and acquisitions, we challenge commitment to minimise our company boards to show they are 04 05 environmental impacts and have delivering value for shareholders.
reported on our progress in our CSR Nomination and Company disclosure We work to make sure investor rights succession and annual reports for many years.
This are protected, to encourage companies year we have undertaken considerable and other investors to uphold codes work in this area: of practice and improve their culture.
Gender diversity In 2017, the corporate governance Were working with Carbon Clear achievements in 2017 team held 370 meetings, with board to set Science Based Targets to composition, executive pay and bring our businesses in line with climate change being the top three a 2C world 50% areas of focus.
Trucost and the WWF have assisted of hires and promotions at the most us in understanding how much senior level were women in 2017 If we see insufficient progress, we will carbon is held in our balance sheet use our shareholder power to vote against companies or their board of We have strengthened our customer 2% directors.
In 2017, globally we opposed offering in low carbon investment increase in the proportion of women more than 1,000 pay packages as through our Future World Fund at the senior level well as more than 2,800 director As part of our Climate Impact appointments.
Our scale means that Pledge, we have committed to our voice is heard, which is why we engage with 84 of the worlds 44% do not remain silent on the issues largest companies which hold the of our senior succession pool are women that matter.
We minimise abstentions key to the low carbon transition.
worldwide, so our clients can be sure In 2017, we held 108 company that we are working and engaging on meetings focused on climate change 58% their behalf.
We have invested in renewables: of our leadership successors are women NTR onshore wind farm capacity of 120MW Upside Energy, a demandside response business able to optimise power storage and consumption for consumers using its cloudbased technology We retained Green Stars for all of our 11 eligible Real asset investment funds as well as four European leader awards under GRESB The Global ESG Benchmark for Real Assets ACTING RESPONSIBLY LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 35 STRATEGIC REPORT | ACTING RESPONSIBLY Taskforce on Climate related TCFD Recommendations Disclosure Overview Financial Disclosures As a signatory to the Taskforce Governance Overall responsibility for climate change and environmental performance on Climate related Financial is held by our Group CEO Nigel Wilson.
The GCRE Committee chaired by our CEO is supported by our Group Environment Committee GEC.
Disclosures we are fully committed The GEC review the groups climate and environmental risk.
Our Assets to disclosing our approach to the and Liabilities Committee also carry out a review.
risks and opportunities presented by climate change.
Our approach Strategy We have made public our approach to managing risks and opportunities to each of the four disclosure areas through LGIMs Climate Pledge and the Carbon Disclosure Project.
This ranges from weather pattern impacts in our insurance business is outlined in the table.
to the opportunities to create new products to assist transition to a low carbon economy.
Full disclosure about our climate related impact, in accordance with To support our strategy we are committed to modelling climate scenarios the Task Force recommendations in including a 2C scenario and are working with Carbon Clear to set science-based targets.
We create products and services that support a our Climate Change supplement low carbon future and ensure that our direct investments support the available online in Q3 2018. aim to limit climate change.
A full breakdown of our environmental data will be Risk We have a formal framework for risk management policies in place, which management sets out approaches to managing different types of risks and defines the provided in our CSR report.
minimal control standard over the short, medium and long-term.
These can be broken down into four key areas where we capture information as a business and use it to influence our strategy and policies: We have set long-term targets on our own energy usage.
By 2020 we want to reduce carbon emission per policy by 20% based on 2013 baseline.
The natural resources used within our commercial property portfolio.
We set reduction targets and monitor through our managing agents Our own balance sheet investments.
For example, we are committed as a long-term investor in UK renewables and have a target to increase investments into UK energy infrastructure with our own money and that of our customers that support the transition to a low carbon economy over the next three years.
Our influence as an investor in publicly listed companies, specifically on environmental issues and transition to a low carbon economy.
Metrics Our mandatory carbon and headline data is included on page 253 of this and Targets report.
Measuring our commitment to society outlines our key carbon emission reduction targets and performance.
Gender diversity Anti-bribery and corruption Modern slavery Were firmly committed to We aim to ensure that Female Male maintaining the highest Legal & General Group Plc Board standards of business ethics, and its supply chains are Directors 3 7 honesty, openness and slavery-free in accordance accountability.
As part of this with the provisions of the Executive culture, the offer or acceptance UK Modern Slavery Act.
Committee 4 11 of bribes is unacceptable We already incorporate and Managers 999 1,713 behaviour for Legal & General report on a yearly basis our and its employees.
The commitment to the UN All employees 3,701 3,928 following principles apply to Global Compact.
the whole of the group Human rights Our respect for human rights worldwide: is embedded in how we do we will not sanction corrupt business.
Were a signatory to behaviour under any the UN Global Compact for all circumstances our worldwide operations and we will not engage in bribery are committed to upholding in any of our activities globally accepted human we will not tolerate the rights principles.
acceptance of bribes in any of our business activities we restrict the giving and receiving of gifts.
36 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017
