Business model AstraZeneca at a glance summarises our and life-cycle business.
In this section, we review our of a medicine business model how we create financial value and the resources we need in order to bring benefits to patients.
We are a global biopharmaceutical business which has: A science-led innovation strategy An R&D platform across small molecules and biologics Three main therapy areas: Oncology, Cardiovascular & Metabolic Diseases, Respiratory A portfolio of specialty care and primary care medicines A global footprint Who we are Our Purpose We push the boundaries of science to deliver life-changing medicines.
Our Purpose underpins everything we do.
It gives us a reason to come to work every day.
It reminds us why we exist as a Company.
It helps us deliver benefits to patients and create value for shareholders.
Our Values We follow the science.
Our Values determine how we work together and the behaviours that drive our success.
Our Values guide our decision making, define our beliefs and foster a strong AstraZeneca culture.
Our Sustainability We want to be valued and trusted by our stakeholders as a source of great medicines over the long term.
Our sustainability priorities broadening access to healthcare, furthering ethics and transparency, and protecting the environment underpin our business model and support the delivery of our business strategy.
Nucleotide therapies: antiMRNA Business Review from page 22.
14 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Strategic Report c i d e m d e t c e t o r p - t n e t a p f o n o i t a s i l a i c r e m m o c d n a g n i r u Strategic Report t c a s f r u a n e a y m 5, 1 t n 5 e s m e p s o a l h e p v e t d n e, y m r e p v o l o e c v s i e d d n d i n t a n e h c m r t a s e e s v e n R I What we do Our business activities span the entire life-cycle of a medicine.
How we create financial value Investment Inputs We invest in the discovery, development, manufacturing Applying our and commercialisation of our pipeline of innovative small resources to meet unmet molecule and biologic prescription medicines, including medical need Outputs targeted business development through collaboration, Improved health in-licensing and acquisitions.
Returns to 1 shareholders 2 Revenue generation We generate revenue from Product Sales of our existing 9 Our 3 medicines and Growth Platform launches, as well as from Purpose our externalisation activities.
Our focus is on creating 8 4 products that facilitate profitable future revenue generation, while bringing benefits to patients.
7 5 6 Reinvestment We reinvest in developing the next generation of innovative medicines and in our Growth Platforms that provide the platform for future sources of revenue in the face of recent losses of key product patents.
Life-cycle of a medicine Research and development phases 515 years Launch phase 515 years 1.
Phase II studies Identify unmet medical need aligned with our Conduct studies on smallto medium-sized Raise awareness of patient benefit and three therapy areas and undertake scientific groups of patients to test effectiveness and appropriate use, market and sell medicine.
research to identify potential new medicines.
tolerability of the medicine and determine Clinicians begin to prescribe medicines Initiate process of seeking patent protection.
and patients begin to benefit.
Design Phase III studies to generate Continuously monitor, record and analyse 2.
Pre-clinical studies data needed for regulatory approvals reported side effects.
Review need to update and pricing reimbursement globally.
the side effect warnings to ensure that Conduct laboratory and animal studies to patients wellbeing is maintained.
understand if the potential medicine is safe to 5.
Phase III studies Assess real-world effectiveness, and opportunities introduce into humans and in what quantities.
to support patients and prescribers, to achieve Determine likely efficacy, side effect profile Engage in studies in a larger group maximum benefit from the medicine.
of patients to gather information about effectiveness and safety of the medicine 8.
Phase I studies and evaluate the overall benefit risk profile.
Conduct studies to further understand the Initiate branding for the new medicine in Begin clinical studies with small groups of benefit risk profile of the medicine in larger preparation for its launch.
healthy human volunteers small molecules and or additional patient populations.
or patients biologics to understand how the Life-cycle management activities to broaden 6.
Regulatory submission and pricing potential medicine is absorbed into the body, understanding of a medicines full potential.
distributed around it and excreted.
Seek regulatory approvals for manufacturing, Consider additional diseases or aspects of Determine approximate dosage and identify marketing and selling the medicine.
disease to be treated by or better ways of side effects.
Submit clinical data to regulatory authorities administering the medicine.
and, if requested, generate further data Submit data packages with requests for increasingly in real-world settings to life-cycle management to regulatory demonstrate the safety and efficacy of authorities for review and approval.
the medicine to enable them to decide on whether to grant regulatory approvals.
Post-exclusivity Note: This is a high-level overview of a medicines life-cycle and is illustrative only.
It is neither intended to, nor Patent expiry and generic entry.
does it, represent the life-cycle of any particular medicine or of every medicine discovered and or developed by AstraZeneca, or the probability of success or approval of any AstraZeneca medicine.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Business model and life-cycle of a medicine 15 s n r u t e r f o t n e m t s e v n i e R y t i v i s u s l r c a x e e y - t s o 0 P 2 s r a e y n 5 o 1 i t a 5 r e e s n a e h g p e u h n c e n v u e a R L s e n i Business model What does our and life-cycle business model require of a medicine to be successful?
continued A talented and diverse workforce We need to acquire, retain and develop a talented and diverse workforce united in 61,100 pursuit of our Purpose and Values and employees fostering a strong AstraZeneca culture.
A leadership position in science We need to achieve scientific leadership if we are to deliver life-changing medicines.
To that $5.8bn end, we need to focus on innovative science, invested in our science prioritise and accelerate our pipeline and transform our innovation and culture model.
S ee Achieve Scientific Leadership from page 23.
How we add value Effective partnerships Improved health We need business development, specifically Continuous scientific innovation is vital partnering, which is an important element 600 to achieving sustainable healthcare which of our business model.
It supplements and collaborations worldwide creates value by: strengthens our pipeline and our efforts to achieve scientific leadership.
improving health outcomes and S ee Partnering on page 31. transforming patients lives enabling healthcare systems to reduce costs and increase efficiency Commercialisation skills improving access to healthcare We need a strong global commercial presence and and healthcare infrastructure skilled people to ensure that we can successfully 100 helping develop the communities launch our medicines, that they are available when countries in which in which we operate through local needed and that patients have access to them.
we are active employment and partnering.
S ee Return to Growth from page 26.
Financial value Revenue from our Product Sales and Intellectual property IP externalisation activities generates We need to create and protect our IP rights.
cash flow, which helps us: Developing a new medicine requires significant 100 investment over many years, with no guarantee of countries where we fund our investment in science and success.
For our investments to be viable, we seek obtain patent protection Growth Platforms to drive long-term value to protect new medicines from being copied for a follow our progressive dividend policy reasonable period of time through patent protection.
meet our debt service obligations.
S ee Intellectual Property from page 32.
This involves balancing the interests of our business, financial creditors and shareholders.
A robust supply chain We need a supply of high-quality medicines, S ee Financial Review from page 66. whether from one of the 31 Operations sites $13bn in 18 countries in which we manufacture or spent with suppliers the $13 billion we spend on the purchase of goods, services and active pharmaceutical ingredients APIs.
S ee Operations from page 30 and Supply chain management on page 42.
Financial strength We need to be financially strong, including having access to equity and debt finance, $4bn to bear the financial risk of investing in the net cash flow from entire life-cycle of a medicine.
operating activities S ee Financial Review from page 66.
16 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Strategic Report
