STRATEGIC REPORT | INVESTING AND ANNUITIES IN A NUTSHELL We provide secure pension income for individuals and for members of corporate pension schemes.
In order to create stable, very long-term income streams to back our pension obligations, we invest both in companies and in direct investments such as infrastructure and in this way increase risk-adjusted returns for shareholders..
Investing an d an n ui ti e s Giving people a great quality of life in retirement and building a better economy 16 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Putting assets from pensions Direct investments enable substantial to good use longterm funds from our pensions and Our total annuity assets have now insurance businesses to be put to reached 58.2 billion.
This money use to help bridge investment gaps comes from peoples retirement in these areas.
These investments savings, either from a defined benefit deliver attractive riskadjusted returns corporate pension scheme, where we for investors.
have assumed the responsibility for Up to the end of 2017 we had put paying the pension income or from a total of 14.4 billion in direct individual peoples pension pots, saved investments across the group.
We also through defined contribution schemes.
sold assets to the value of 1.2 billion.
TATTENHALL We invest part of LGRs annuity Our share of the gross proceeds from See our video about funds and LGCs 7.3 billion portfolio these transactions was 698 million.
Tattenhall: directly into the economy.
com investments help us match our media-centre videos liabilities and enable us to invest the money from peoples pension savings in a way that has a meaningful and positive impacts across the economy and society.
Our programme of direct investments: covers infrastructure, housing, clean energy, urban regeneration and SME finance.
We support small businesses and startups with debt and equity.
INVESTING AND ANNUITIES LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 17 STRATEGIC REPORT | INVESTING AND ANNUITIES CARDIFF REGENERATION Phase 1 of our regeneration project was completed in 2016.
We now have over one million square feet under construction.
Our retirement income business enables people to buy annuities at the time they retire, giving them a lifetime of guaranteed, secure income.
Pension risk transfer Achievements in 2017 In 2017, we completed 3.4 billion of UK pension buyin and buyout transactions.
The bulk annuity market remained especially buoyant in 2017.
Lane, Clark & Peacock reported in January 2018, that market volumes were set to exceed 10 billion for the fourth year in a row.
Against this PEARSON PENSION PLAN backdrop, we maintained our historical In late 2017, we concluded a 585 market share of around 30%.
million pension buy-in with the Trustee of The Pearson Pension Plan, The biggest overall market transaction covering around 2,400 pensioners.
Helping people have great in 2017 was the 1.2 billion buyin of The Pearson Pension Plan is a retirements the Pearson Pension Plan, which is long-standing client of LGIM who Legal & General Retirement LGR have worked with the Trustee to for one of our longstanding clients, have two businesses which not only reduce risk and get to the exciting through LGIM.
The buyin covered point where a significant amount work closely together, but also work around 2,400 members and the of risk could be transferred to an across the group to create synergies insurance company.
The buy-in transaction was split evenly between with Legal & General Capital LGC utilised an innovative umbrella Legal & General and another insurer, structure that allows for further and Legal & General Investment our share being 585 million.
transactions to be completed quickly.
Other bulk annuity transactions were Our pensions risk transfer business, with the trustees of the 3 billion LGR Institutional, works with trustees Merchant Navy Officers Pension Fund of DB schemes and their sponsoring and with the trustees of the 2 billion companies to ensure that the pension Plumbing & Mechanical Services UK promises that were made to these Industry Pension Scheme.
companies past and current employees are met.
Through a pension buyout we Our competitive advantages In 2017, we wrote 3.4 billion in buyout assume responsibility for a pension in pensions risk transfer and buyin business in the UK, of which schemes obligations and by doing so, The key to success in this market is 1.4 billion was with clients of LGIM.
enable the trustees of the scheme to relationship building.
We are a diverse International fide-risking fully settle their liabilities and the financial services group with LGIM, In 2017 our US pensions derisking sponsoring company to remove the LGC and LGR working together in team based in Stamford, Connecticut pensions obligations from its books.
the UK and internationally to help wrote over $700 million in bulk annuity trustees, sponsoring companies and Our individual retirement business, LGR transactions from US DB pension their advisers make informed Retail, has both a retirement lending schemes seeking to reduce their decisions and achieve the best and a retirement income business.
Further details are available outcomes for themselves and for lending business enables retired people on pages 28 and 29. the members of their schemes.
to release some of the equity in their Our scale, financial strength, The US represents a massive market homes to enhance their finances and transactional experience and opportunity, with $3.7 trillion in DB the quality of their life, through taking expertise enable us to offer pension liabilities, but only 4% transferred out loans which are repayable on death schemes attractive propositions.
or moving into longterm care.
18 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Individual annuities 2017 saw our individual annuity sales rise again after the decline seen in 20142015 following the Cameron governments pension freedoms.
We believe that annuities can often be an important product when people choose how to receive retirement income.
In 2017 we had sales of 671 million, the highest volume since 2014, representing a 78% increase on 2016.
The pension risk transfer Our success was driven by our high market goes from LIFETIME MORTGAGE quality customer service and our CASE STUDY strength in pricing, underwriting, strength to strength.
Nigel and Jenny have lived marketing and distribution.
in their beautiful cottage for 2018 is shaping up to be nearly 20 years.
They had an Lifetime mortgages interest-only mortgage, but another busy year.
We are as the end of the loan term Our lifetime mortgage product was approached, they still had a launched in 2015 and in 2017 we well positioned to continue substantial amount of the became the UK market leader by sales mortgage to repay.
to lead and achieve volumes, with a 33% market share.
It looked like they would have to sell their family home We made over 1 billion in loans to success in this growing to repay the outstanding people who wanted to use the equity mortgage, which would have and exciting market.
in their homes to boost their meant relocating and downsizing to a smaller home.
retirement resources, pay off existing Laura Mason It was something that caused debt or simply to generate a cash sum Chief Executive Officer, Legal & General sleepless nights and worry for themselves or their family to use.
Retirement, Institutional But then they found out Our market leadership is illustrated about lifetime mortgages.
by the fact that we won seven best They sought advice from a lifetime mortgage adviser, lifetime mortgage provider industry and discussed it with their Retail retirement giving people awards from media organisations such family before deciding that better retirements as Personal Finance, Investment taking out a Legal & General People before and after retirement can Lifetime Mortgage would Week and Your Mortgage.
We believe provide them with an benefit from propositions which cover that the reasons for our success are alternative solution to all aspects of retirement: the quality of our products, our their problem.
marketleading digital application Their Legal & General helping people achieve financial Lifetime Mortgage has processes and our strong distribution resilience to safeguard their enabled them to repay their partnerships.
In 2017 we secured a independence outstanding interest only fiveyear partnership agreement with mortgage completely and providing help so that peoples allowed them to continue The Cooperative Bank to offer our health and wellbeing are living in the home and location lifetime mortgages as an option for that they love, surrounded protected, enabling them to the banks interestonly customers by friends and family.
maintain their freedom who are approaching retirement.
In Jennys words: Since we creating living environments that have the lifetime mortgage Lifetime mortgages are excellent we feel relaxed.
We are support safety and security not worried anymore, we assets to use to match annuity helping people have access help feel safe.
liabilities because of their longterm and advice to support the nature and links to longevity.
decisions and plans they make supporting people to make valued contributions to family, friends and society so that they remain engaged in their communities.
INVESTING AND ANNUITIES LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 19 STRATEGIC REPORT | INVESTING AND ANNUITIES INSPIRED VILLAGES Our Tattenhall development marked our entry into the retirement housing sector.
Inspired Villages Group develops later living accommodation, creating safe, secure, social and comfortable village environments.
This can be an outstanding lifestyle Future strategy Building new homes choice for people whose existing homes no longer suit Our future strategy for Legal & General The UK still has a chronic need to their needs.
Retirement Retail is to consider how deliver more housing at scale.
Housing We now have invested in a we diversify our customer propositions shortage remains one of the biggest total of seven village schemes, to new markets and consumer threats to the future of the UKs located in Warwickshire, West Sussex, Devon, Cheshire, segments.
An example is that people economy, as well as creating Hampshire and Kent.
Our often use lifetime mortgages for debt intergenerational inequality.
We have vision is to create vibrant repayment.
We want to help people a multitenure strategy to speed up villages on the edge of and within the UKs towns and expand the use of lifetime mortgages housing delivery and significantly cities, building where people to finance sheltered housing and to reduce completion timescales.
want to live, close to family, use for intergenerational loans, where In addition, we are aiming to friends and facilities.
younger family members desperately revolutionise construction methods legalandgeneralgroup.
and create additional housing capacity media-centre videos through our modular factory in North Direct investments Yorkshire.
Progress on the production Providing investments to back of finished homes has been slower annuities and capital 80,000 than expected.
Direct investments and lifetime Homes we are involved in delivering in Our housing investments are designed mortgages can provide us with very the next five to 10 years.
not only to address the supplyside longterm, stable assets which we shortage, but also are aimed to be use to back our annuity book and Regenerating cities inclusive, increasing the availability of shareholder capital.
We are able to Its important that the UKs wealth is affordable housing, for both social obtain better returns to benefit shared across the country.
We have housing and the private rented sector.
shareholders, than is usually available a number of developments in cities with traded assets in fixedrate Our 1 billion build to rent which we are bringing forward in investments.
housing pipeline close partnership with the public June 2017 was an important milestone sector across the UK.
Projects include Being economically as the first residents moved into our the Newcastle Science Central and socially responsible new build to rent BTR development in development, where we have become The results of direct investments Salford.
Our BTR sites can offer higher longterm investment partners with are economically and socially positive, quality accommodation with lower Newcastle City Council and Newcastle as they enable a flow of capital living costs, with significantly reduced University.
This is set to create more investment to the wider UK economy.
energy bills, no agency fees, and than 4,000 jobs, 500,000 square feet They promote city growth and the access to a number of services such of office and research space, and development of regional hubs in cities as wifi and the gym.
such as Manchester, Salford, Leeds, announced new BTR schemes in Birmingham, Newcastle, Cardiff Leeds, Bath, Bristol and Birmingham.
The Birmingham scheme, announced in October 2017, represented the sixth UK city with our new rental offering, bringing the total pipeline of BTR units to more than 1,700.
20 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Potential 1.5tn total UNDERSTANDING THE RISKS 2017 loans equity in Over the years we have amassed over55s considerable expertise in our homes retirement businesses in assessing Source: Age Partnership and pricing for the risk of longevity and through LGIM we have extensive knowledge of selecting and managing the assets that back 1.5tn 3bn our promises.
As we grow our direct investment portfolio, Total equity combining the property market release market expertise of LGIM Real Assets with loans in 2017 our credit assessment capability, Source: Equity enables us to assess each Release transaction and its alignment Council with our risk appetite.
Renewing Britains rail infrastructure In November 2017 we announced a Our ambition is not only to provide 300 million debt investment scheme With Legal & Generals highquality housing but improve the to facilitate a 2 billion purchase of quality of peoples lives by helping to 50% of Walney Extension.
This will investment in Inspired upgrade infrastructure.
2017 saw a be the worlds largest offshore wind Villages we will create number of important investments in farm providing enough power for more the UKs rail network.
In September, than 590,000 homes and is a great communities across the a 120 million debt scheme helped asset for backing annuity payments.
whole of the UK where accelerate the purchase of High Speed 1 Small business finance HS1 by the Equitix, HICL and Infrared people want to live.
By November 2017 our Venture Capital consortium, connecting London to the and SME investment programme, Channel Tunnel.
We have now also James Bunce including our innovative SEAssist completed four rolling stock deals, for CEO, Inspired Villages product for social enterprises, had more than 550 million, helping to made investments in more than 100 finance a fleet of 665 Bombardier UK based companies, and is on track Aventra trains for Abellio East Anglia, to double that number during 2018.
14.4bn helping to increase train frequency and Invested in UK direct investments across reduce passengers journey times.
We Early stage companies which have the group since 2015 have also financed the supply of more benefited from Legal & Generals than 400 vehicles to be manufactured Venture Capital funding now have a Investing in later life living by Bombardier and CAF for use on the combined Enterprise Value of over By investing in Inspired Villages Group West Midlands Railway.
Prime areas of focus have in August 2017, a laterliving housing included technology, analytics, life Clean energy provider, we aim to accelerate the sciences and digital healthcare.
In Technological advances and innovation evolution of this sector.
This is the addition, we provide debt finance to can deliver clean, affordable and most undersupplied area of the SMEs by investing in the 1.9 billion reliable heat, power and transportation, housing market.
Our own Last Time plus Pemberton investment platform.
optimising the use of wind and solar Buyers report revealed that there are power.
Improvements in the energy 3.3 million elderly homeowners looking efficiency of our buildings and local to move to a smaller property in the generation can reduce reliance on UK.
In November, we invested in large expensive power stations.
Renaissance Villages, a second laterliving business.
By integrating this business into Inspired Villages, the development portfolio will increase to around 1,000 homes.
Our aim is to address the social and economic issues linked to the UKs ageing population, reducing health and care costs to the elderly through prevention and avoidance.
INVESTING AND ANNUITIES LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 21 STRATEGIC REPORT | INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT 22 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 S ST TR RA AT TE EG GI IC C RE REP PO OR RT T IN A NUTSHELL LGIM is one of Europes largest asset managers, with offices located in the US, Hong Kong and Japan.
Our wide range of strategies help clients manage their investment objectives we offer risk management solutions for DB pension schemes, were a leading provider of DC solutions and we have an established retail business.
Investment m a n a g e m en t Going for growth and paying pensions: investing with purpose We stand to benefit from longterm Most DB schemes are now closed trends despite a changing pensions to new entrants and many to future and investments landscape accrual of benefits.
Longer term, The pension industry has undergone scheme trustees are looking to close changes that have posed challenges deficits, while juggling the short-term for asset managers.
Successful need to pay pensions.
At LGIM, our businesses have had to adapt, diversify role is to support schemes along this and focus on meeting their clients journey and carefully manage the long-term investment goals.
different risks trustees face in meeting their ultimate goal of paying members The responsibility for retirement pensions in full.
Weve achieved our saving is shifting from employers to market leading position by evolving our individuals, and Legal & General investment capabilities to meet our Investment Management LGIM is clients needs as they implement repositioning its business for that fide-risking strategies.
Against this complex backdrop Our auto-enrolment schemes we remain focused on providing As we enter the next stage of the give members a greater level first-class service to our important pensions evolution, we are building of responsibility to manage their own retirement savings.
defined benefit DB pension scheme on our existing strengths to diversify clients while expanding in the fastinto new products and regions.
growing defined contribution DC, retail, consumer and international markets as trends evolve.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 23 STRATEGIC REPORT | INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT Supporting clients on their defined CASE STUDIES: contribution DC pensions journey 1.
CREATING STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS WITH DB SCHEMES In the past ten years we have evolved Our greatest competitive Two years ago, we entered into a strategic from a predominately DBfocused advantage is our culture.
partnership with the National Grid UK asset manager to become the largest Pension Scheme on its journey towards manager of DC assets in the UK.
We listen to customers full funding.
The partnership model has enabled open Our total DC assets have increased and really focus on dialogue with the client, and greater idea from 57.1 billion in 2016 to 68.2 generation, improving the schemes longterm delivering useful outlook.
This has helped the scheme to balance billion in 2017.
Within that, assets in three, competing longterm requirements: our workplace bundled business, products, consistent paying pensions, generating return and which provides both investment and reducing risk.
Working alongside the schemes performance and inhouse investment team and their other key administrative services to corporate advisers we used our latest strategic thinking schemes, has seen strong growth, exceptional service.
and market leading analytics to help the with assets increasing from 20.8 scheme achieve long term success, while This has allowed us to factoring in a wide range of risks such as billion to 27.7 billion.
We now also covenant, longevity and investment risk.
manage the pensions of 2.7 million be at the forefront of The results of this partnership can be seen customers through our workplace from the increased funding level, improving product trends and a cash flow and risk dynamics, and a pension platform.
In the past year we welldiversified portfolio of assets.
have taken on two significant new wide range of corporate schemes, Royal Bank of Scotland and 2.
GOING FURTHER FOR OUR DC governance topics.
Our Pathway BUNDLED CLIENTS funds were launched in our bundled RBS selected LGIM as the bundled service Mark Zinkula provider for the banks UK DC Pension scheme.
business: these are target date LGIM CEO We worked closely with RBSs pension funds that help members to build trustees to deliver a bespoke investment their retirement income and meet range and an efficient administration service their goals.
Members received their first personalised video benefit Meanwhile, our Master Trust, a statements this year and feedback on the scheme has been positive.
Were already multiemployer pension scheme, starting to see an impact on savings levels with is now the largest in the market.
It has an increase in engagement as a result of our assets of 4.7 billion and around innovative approach to communication.
Employers are increasingly choosing master trusts as they offer a full outsourcing solution, including independent governance.
Our commitment to investment excellence, firstclass administration and innovative ways of helping pension schemes engage with their members is increasingly recognised in the industry.
Last year, we won the DC Innovation of the Year award at the Professional Pensions Awards for our Future World Fund see case study on page 25.
68.2 billion Total UK DC pension assets 24 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Offering financial advisers and LGIMs acquisition of the Canvas wealth managers a full suite of European exchange traded fund ETF investment solutions platform was announced in November LGIMs Retail business, which provides and includes 20 products licensed for investment solutions to financial distribution in 14 countries.
With 25 advisers and wealth managers, has years expertise in passive investing at experienced rapid growth, building our core, our expertise will be both on the breadth of our investment extended and strengthened by this capabilities and our commitment to our new product range.
We were top three in UK net Engaging the nation retail sales last year Pridham report.
The UK personal investment market Our Retail teams partnerships with is undergoing significant change, intermediaries resulted in strong net as financial responsibility shifts flows, particularly in multi-asset, from institutions to the individual.
round-the-clock trading of Asia Pacific property and index products.
LGIM Digitalisation is also enabling a simpler, equities.
We also opened a new office was the best-selling fund manager more direct online experience for in Tokyo and secured our first within the Investment Association customers.
We have been developing Australian client.
Property sector for the second our personal investment proposition consecutive year.
along with a campaign to engage the nation to save and invest more.
LGIM We are also developing our distribution 4.
REWRITING THE RULES OF ENGAGEMENT: will build on its relationships with SPONSORING THE WORK OF BORING MONEY capabilities in Europe, while expanding existing customers and look to LGIM sponsored Boring Moneys Planet our reach internationally, including Investment exhibition, a reinterpretation encourage the under-invested majority Latin America.
of financial communications intended to of British adults to take their first steps disrupt the status quo.
We contributed to towards more secure financial futures.
a series of installations that explored new methods of communicating savings-related With government policy leading to the information to individual investors, with the weakening of financial safety nets, aim of making financial information, products its important that we offer products and the overall market easily understood.
Our new personal investing platform will and services that give savers the 3.
OUR FUTURE WORLD aim to incorporate this approach into its APPROACH opportunity to take more control.
communications and the overall proposition.
In November 2016, we launched our Future World Fund Increasing our international together with a major UK presence pension scheme.
Our international business continues UNDERSTANDING THE RISKS The Fund responds to the to expand rapidly.
International AUM long-term challenges facing We continue to invest in our pension funds, including has reached 228bn and we had system capabilities, business climate change risks.
This year, processes and people to ensure strong net inflows across all regions.
we made the fund available to that as we grow our business we a broader range of clients meet the expectations of all our In the US, LGIMA is now a leading when we launched a unit trust clients, comply with regulation US pension solutions provider, with an structure.
The fund uses an and mitigate the risks of loss or index-based strategy and also established fixed income and LDI track reputational damage from incorporates a climate tilt, operational failure and external record and a strong reputation in index giving investors greater events.
We expect the demand for exposure to companies that robust internal controls so that generate green revenues pension risk transfer deals to increase funds are managed in line with and that are more likely to client mandates, delivering rapidly in the US.
We are also developing benefit from the transition to fund performance and being our distribution strategy in the US DC a low-carbon economy.
The responsive to client needs are tilt also reduces exposure to market, where we are already seeing key to attracting new funds under companies with worse than management and minimising demand for a range of retirement average carbon emissions and fund outflow risks.
As a firm we are committed to ensuring the We continue to invest for growth in companies in which we invest deliver long-term sustainable the Asia Pacific region.
From our Hong value to our clients.
Kong subsidiary we service clients in China, Hong Kong, Korea, Singapore and Taiwan for passive, active fixed income and multi-asset mandates, which now total over $2 billion AUM.
In the past year we have also established a full trading and fund management function in Hong Kong to provide INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 25 STRATEGIC REPORT MANAGING THE RISKS Our exposure to mortality and morbidity risk, the risk of premature death or serious illness of our policyholders, mostly arises in our UK Workplace Protection and US Term Insurance businesses, where the risks were exposed to are epidemic and poor underwriting.
We seek to reinsure our catastrophe risks and closely manage our underwriting processes to minimise the risk of error.
Our UK Retail Protection business is extensively reinsured, such Insurance that we retain low levels of exposure to mortality and morbidity risks.
In our household insurance business we are exposed to the risk that weather events cause flooding, freezing or wind storm damage.
A digital and data enabled insurer We manage our exposure by maintaining a geographic spread of business and reinsurance for more extreme events.
We have been providing life insurance UK Retail Protection for our customers since 1836 and are Our UK Retail Protection business aims We aim to use data and the UKs largest provider of individual to help people achieve financial peace of life cover, with annual premiums of mind affordably, through life insurance new technology to play a 1.2 billion and a new business market products such as term insurance, major role in shaping the share of around 24%.
In 2017 our US whole of life insurance critical illness business wrote 973 million in cover and income protection insurance.
future of the insurance premiums, making us a top 10 provider With more than five million customers, industry to make life in the US term life market.
our success and market leadership is due easier, simpler and safer We also offer a focused range of UK to our multi-distribution channel strategy, general insurance products, primarily our scale, experience in underwriting and for our customers.
in the housing market, with newer dedication to delivering digital solutions products such as pet and travel to improve customer experience.
Our housing related continue to improve our product range, CEO, General Insurance activities also extend to our mortgage expand our distribution partnerships club, which strives to offer competitive and invest in technology to deliver mortgage deals to homebuyers and better customer service.
our surveying business which provides General Insurance services for homebuyers and people In 2017 we remained a leading online who are seeking to take out lifetime provider of household insurance cover.
Thirty eight percent of our premiums are now written direct to customers, with 96% of new customers in this channel coming through online transactions.
We are No 2 by market share in price comparison websites for home insurance.
26 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT Were developing additional products USING DIGITAL APPLICATIONS TO GROW OUR BUSINESSES and services that help treat mental The insurance division set up a new wellbeing in the same way as physical team in 2017 to focus on fintech.
With wellbeing in the workplace.
its large customer and client base both in the home and the workplace, spanning US Retail Protection savings, protection and pensions, we are well placed to pursue a strategy of Our US business has built success acquisitions and scale-ups to drive through relationships with broker new revenue streams and innovations.
agents, giving us a strong market The idol.
com share in the broker Term Life Our wholly owned business, market and a customer base of The idol.
com Investment Discounts 1.3 million policies.
Online contributes widely to the development of digital services within We are using technology to digitally the group and acts as an incubator of new digital comparison brands as well transform the business, which will as a supplier of technology to the UK SMART QUOTE: BECOMING THE enable us to widen our distribution aggregation market.
UKS LEADING DATA DRIVEN, reach and grow the customer base, DIGITALLY ENABLED INSURER SmartQuote targeting a much wider range of First UK general insurer to launch In August 2017 we launched our people than through our current SmartQuote where internal and market leading household product external data is used to provide an business model.
In the last year we SmartQuote which uses big data and enhanced customer-centric technology removing the need to have launched new products and have experience.
answer the lengthy questions typically started to distribute life insurance seen in the market.
A guaranteed Winners of InsurTech Awards for direct to customers.
quote can be produced by answering SmartQuote team.
five questions in about 90 seconds.
SmartQuote has a strong e-user We were the first to lead the market UK mortgage club and rating in the direct market with NPS with such a solution.
We generated 50% net promoter score and an surveying business significant interest amongst potential 81% customer ease score.
Our mortgage club has relationships partners leading to securing one deal with several others at advanced stages with 76 different lenders helping our of discussion.
Since the launch of distribution partners find appropriate SmartQuote our core direct take up mortgages for their customers.
our mortgage club facilitated 65 billion Salary Finance of core mortgages, and we were In 2017 we invested in a 40% stake in involved in one in five of all UK Salary Finance, which specialises in helping customers save money through mortgage transactions.
We also help loans and financial wellbeing at work.
customers through our surveying Salary Finance has added 250,000 In 2017 we purchased pet insurer business where in 2017 we arranged employees since we made our investment in September.
In January Buddies in order to grow our share more than 500,000 valuations.
2018, Yorkshire Building Society of the pet market, through accelerating became an additional provider, our access to breeders and the vet adding savings solutions to the Salary Finance platform.
We have seen pet business grow by over 60% and are now This investment illustrates the value No 1 for pet conversion on that we add as a digital innovator, with a mission to provide cheaper moneysupermarket.
alternatives to short-term lending, helping people progress from debt We also launched the first phase of our to saving through leading edge SmartClaim programme in November, technology.
Further bolt-on and beginning a journey to reduce claims scale-up investments are likely.
settlement times from days to minutes, ensuring we are a leader in end-to-end digital insurance.
Our SmartClaims innovation uses advanced data and technology capability to streamline the claims journey, enabling claims to be settled quickly and at lower cost, thereby improving customer outcomes and internal processes, whilst also reducing fraudulent claims UK Group Protection Were firmly committed to the workplace health and wellbeing market, investing in our business and improving the employee and employer experience through digital developments.
INSURANCE L LE EG GA AL & G L & GE EN NE ER RA AL G L GR RO OU UP P P PL LC | A C | AN NN NU UA AL R L RE EP PO OR RT A T AN ND A D AC CC CO OU UN NT TS 2 S 20 01 17 7 27 27 STRATEGIC REPORT Expanding o ur US reach Offering an increasing range of products and services in the US Our rapidly growing investment LGIAs digital transformation and management, life insurance and expansion is evident in the significant Our vision is to embrace pension risk transfer businesses are milestones achieved in the past year, all preparing for further expansion in including the launch of: technology tools that can the US after an impressive year.
a new direct-to-consumer streamline the business Following on from the growth seen in distribution channel and a new for the consumer, as well 2017, we want to build on the expertise guaranteed whole life insurance that has already made us a top 20 product designed to help as provide potential cost global asset manager.
The US is a key consumers between the ages savings for our insurance market for Legal & General and we are of 50 and 80 cover the cost of well positioned for further growth.
a new customer marketing The United States is the largest Bernie Hickman strategy designed to offer consumer market on earth with a GDP Chief Executive Officer, Insurance additional products and services of $18 trillion and 325 million people, to existing policyholders via direct with free trade agreements with 20 marketing such as a new other countries.
accidental death policy The key to driving further growth is to $47.4tn new digital customer service continue to diversify and utilise our tools made possible by Total North American assets under skills and experience into areas which management held by all companies partnerships where customers are expanding rapidly.
can now receive bill notifications, LGIMA US assets under management and issue payments from their Legal & General Insurance America mobile wallet, or receive a bill 189bn based in Frederick, Maryland reminder and issue payments via 2017 was a pivotal year for Legal & text on their smartphones.
General Insurance America LGIA as we moved to implement our digital Legal & General Retirement strategy and growth plans.
Our America based in Stamford, 33bn commitment to brokerage distribution Connecticut continues to grow and is the dominant We have brought an innovative and driver of our market share in the term customised solution to the US pension 2012 2017 life insurance space.
With more than fide-risking market.
Our longevity $53 billion in new coverage issued in science and mortality teams have built 2017, LGA is ranked in the top ten of up considerable expertise in modelling US life insurers and ended 2017 with risk.
A key innovation we have brought in excess of $703 billion of coverage to the US is our post-code longevity in force with more than 1.2 million model which was developed based on US customers.
We believe this enables us 28 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT IN A NUTSHELL Our expansion into the US market has continued to grow positively as we look to replicate the same unique business model that has made us market to more effectively price longevity risk, leaders across all businesses in the UK.
All three US providing us a competitive advantage.
businesses are becoming Our success is also aided by our ability self-sufficient as each are able to provide a customised approach with to support each other financially and administratively ever advanced service delivery capabilities.
increasing their presence We seek to provide innovative across the market.
solutions that meet the demands of the market.
In 2017 we wrote 15 pensions fide-risking deals totalling $719 million.
This represented a 59% increase in sales from the 2016 premium total.
In just over three years, we have written 22 deals totalling $1.6 billion.
Infrastructure projects Legal & General Investment UNDERSTANDING THE RISKS Late in 2016 we celebrated our first Management America The international markets we have US infrastructure deal to develop the based in Chicago, Illinois entered are those in which we University of California see image Our US investment management have a proven track record in the above.
We are planning further US UK, but there will always be some business was founded in 2006 and differences.
As we continue to infrastructure projects.
started to market our active fixed internationalise our businesses, we income and LDI capabilities to US DB are alert to the risks presented from differing legislative and regulatory schemes in 2009.
Today, we are a environments, and cultural values.
leading US pension solutions provider Alongside leveraging the with an established active fixed significant knowledge of managing the risks that we have income track record, and more built up over the years, we recruit recently hold a strong reputation in local expertise to ensure were index strategies.
We have $189 billion cognisant of these risk factors.
assets under management as of 31 December 2017, a $42 billion increase from 2016.
Our US based business now accounts for 14% of our AUM and our ambition is to increase this percentage substantially.
EXPANDING OUR US REACH LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 29
