BUSINESS MODEL For an interactive version of Our business model our business model go online: www.
com investors How Coats creates value Our vision is to become the world leader in value adding engineered yarns and threads for While having the right products and industrial and consumer use, and our business model provides us with the framework to services is critical, what is fundamental effectively design, manufacture, market and deliver high quality products and digital services.
to our success is our reputation.
Our financial strength, resilience and ability to generate free cash flow provides us with the capacity to undertake well-considered, valuable investment into our products, services and people, to better meet our customers needs and further our success and brand reputation.
While having the right products and services is critical, what is fundamental to our success is our reputation.
This ensures the trust and confidence of our stakeholders and therefore our ability to create ongoing value.
Three elements are pivotal to maintaining and further strengthening our reputation: our commitment to operating responsibly: our principles which guide our behaviours: and the effective and efficient management of risk.
These components underpin our overall approach and impact every decision we make as they help to safe-guard our reputation.
Our resources: Core strengths We have strong corporate responsibility Customer relationships -- - we work with nearly 30,000 apparel, footwear and accessories credentials amongst all component customers and approx.
These strong relationships, suppliers to the global garment industry.
across all levels of our customers organisations provides us with deep market insight.
Global asset base -- - we manufacture at some 50 sites, on six continents, with 100 warehouses, the majority of which are connected by a global ERP system: this ensures we are uniquely positioned to service the industries we serve on a short lead time basis.
People -- - our diverse international workforce of nearly 19,000 is both highly engaged and committed, with an employee engagement score of 83% in 2017 keeping us in top 10% of all companies globally.
Suppliers -- - we have a diverse and global supplier base of raw materials predominantly polyester and nylon, intermediates grey thread and bought-in Crafts products and other materials cones and chemicals.
Corporate Responsibility -- - we have strong credentials amongst all component suppliers to the global garment industry: this helps us build and maintain both our reputation and our relationships with key stakeholders.
Our talent: Operational and commercial expertise Sales and marketing -- - through our network of customer and supplier relationships we have close interactions with the worlds leading global retailers and are able to respond to their specific needs, pressures and aspirations.
Manufacturing -- - we are able to service our customers with a globally consistent quality and colour that has been manufactured to high ethical, employment, and environmental standards.
Whilst only 1-2% of the cost of a typical garment, seam failure as a result of lower cost threads can involve costly returns as well as reputational damage.
Our products are tested and measured against stringent quality and safety standards.
10 BUSINESS MODEL CONTINUED Our global asset base, engaged Our talent: Operational and commercial expertise continued workforce and strong CSR credentials New product process innovation -- - through our virtual global network we are always deliver an unrivalled and attractive seeking to innovate in the industries in which we operate and in 2017 we have invested in proposition for our customers.
innovation centres in the US, Turkey and China which are due to open in 2018.
Our R&D team works with customers to understand their needs, with support from academic institutions and specialist companies, developing new product solutions with our customers needs always front of mind.
Technical -- - we use our expertise to support our customers by making numerous technical interventions on the shop floor every year.
Digital -- - by offering the most comprehensive set of services in the industry: from colour sampling to online training and ecommerce, this makes it easier to do business with us and offers greater value and time benefits to customers.
Our products and services: Value enhancing products and services PRODUCTS Apparel and Footwear -- - we are the worlds leading manufacturer and supplier of a range of industrial sewing threads, with leading products such as Epic fashion apparel, Dual Duty denim and Nylbond footwear : under the Opti brand we are a major global manufacturer of metal, plastic and spiral zippers: and also offer a growing range of other trim products to the global garment industry, such as reflective tape and premium interlinings.
We continue to invest in developing the Performance Materials -- - we produce multiple innovative threads and yarns for traditional skills and expertise, in order to deliver and high technology uses and sell directly to global original equipment manufacturers the innovative products, digital solutions OEMs.
End-markets include household and recreation, healthcare medical sutures, and services that our customers automotive airbag thread, telecoms coated fibreglass to provide strength to fibre optic increasingly require.
cables, oil and gas flame retardant yarn for protective clothing and composites yarn commingled with carbon that is pressed into carbon fibre shapes.
Americas Crafts -- - In North America we sell to a handful of major retailers and to a lesser extent directly to consumers through Redheart.
com : in Latin America we sell to a mix of major retailers, independent stores and distributors.
SERVICES Through the acquisitions of GSD and Fast React, we offer industry leading consultancy, tools e. g. cost benchmarking and software to garment manufacturers and brands retailers to increase their productivity and reduce costs.
Our outputs: Benefits for stakeholders Through our activities we make an economic contribution that stretches far beyond the boundaries of our own operations as we buy from local, regional and global suppliers: through the wages we pay our employees: and as we pay interest to financial institutions and taxes and remittances to governments.
We are economically linked with the local communities in which we operate and the markets that we serve around the world.
As our business grows, then so does the positive economic contribution we make.
In 2017 Coats generated a total of $1.5 billion of economic value, of which the majority was distributed to our suppliers 63% and employees 23%.
A further 4% was paid in taxes to local and national governments.
All the while we continue to deliver benefits for our investors.
Operating profits reflect this and have delivered a double digit CAGR % growth increase between 2015--1 - 7.
By increasing profitability and disciplined capital management, both fixed assets and working capital, Alternative Performance we have seen our returns on capital measured as ROCE remain high at 35% in 2017.
Measures see note 37 By ensuring a track record of delivering good levels of adjusted free cash flow, we have on page 143 generated $236 million cumulatively between 2015--17.
