PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED Long Term Viability Statement In accordance with provision C. 2.2 of the 2016 revision of the Corporate Governance Code, the Directors have assessed the longer term viability of the Group over the period to December 2020.
The Directors assessment has been made with reference to the Groups current position and prospects, as detailed in the strategic report.
This takes into account the Groups business model, strategy, approach to allocating capital and the potential impact of the principal risks and how these are managed.
The Directors have also considered committed finance facilities which, following the refinancing exercise concluded in December 2017, all have a maturity of five years or longer.
The Groups strategic objectives and associated principal risks are underpinned by an annual Medium Term Plan process, which comprises a financial forecast for the current year and financial projections for the next three years.
The Medium Term Plan represents a common process with standard outputs and requirements at the Group level.
The Board reviews the Medium Term Plan annually.
Although this period provides less certainty of outcome, the underlying methodology is considered to provide a robust planning tool against which strategic decisions can be made.
For these reasons, the Directors have determined that a three-year time horizon to December 2020 is an appropriate period over which to provide its viability assessment, although they do have due regard to key points outside this timeframe, such as the due dates for the repayment of long-term debt.
The Directors have considered a range of severe but plausible scenarios that explore the Groups resilience to the potential impact of the principal risks as set out on pages 23 to 25 as well as other risks that could crystallise during the medium term.
The risks considered to have the most potential impact on viability were: A global economic downturn: Execution of the global strategic change programme: UK pension scheme deficit funding: and Potential developments in the Lower Passaic River proceedings.
These risks have been modelled both individually and in combination, notwithstanding the fact that the likelihood of all of these risks occurring simultaneously is considered to be very low.
The Directors have also taken into account a number of assumptions that they consider reasonable within these assessments including: The assumption that funding facilities will continue to be available throughout the period under review: The assumption that following a material risk event, the Group would adjust capital management to preserve cash: and The assumption that the Group will be able to mitigate risks effectively through other available actions.
Based on this assessment, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due over the period of the assessment.
