MARKET TRENDS For more on our market What markets do we serve?
environment go online Apparel and Footwear A&F www.
com investors Coats is the market leader in supplying premium thread to the Apparel and Footwear industries.
The global market for thread is estimated to be c. $4 billion and while thread represents only 1-2% of the cost of a typical garment, it is recognised to be a critical component in the overall garment performance.
We are a key supplier to the $1.5 trillion global apparel and c. $350 billion footwear industries, which are projected to grow at low single digits in the medium term.
In addition to thread we are also a major global supplier of zips and provide consulting and software services to the A&F industry.
Performance Materials We are a leading player in manufacturing high performance technical threads and yarn used in a range of industries which include automotive, household and recreation, medical, health and food, safety, telecoms, conductive and composites.
We estimate the addressable market i. e. that into which we currently or could realistically serve in the near term is c. $3.2 billion in size, of which c. $2.7 billion is in relation to high technology end uses e. g. composites.
We anticipate upper single digit medium term organic % growth in this area, with growth weighted towards high technology end uses.
Crafts America Our Crafts business is a market leader in the c. $1.8 billion Americas textile crafting industry of which c. $1.4 billion is in North America, which we categorise into two segments: handknitting yarns and needlecrafts, which includes consumer threads and zips.
Trends that are impacting our businesses: Trend #1: Our response in 1.
Growth of the urban middle class in Asia the year Globally, the Apparel and Footwear thread market is expected to grow by low single digits Investing in Asia manufacturing % over the medium term, but this is projected to be higher in Asia.
In 2018 it is expected that facilities such as a new retail sales in North America and Western Europe will for the first time account for less than warehouse in Vietnam.
And not only will Asian consumers demand more garments -- but - more affluent consumers will demand higher-end garments, so we expect that regional Growing scale and extent of sales from our many factories in Asia will increase over time.
our China domestic sales Demand for Performance Materials threads and yarns is increasing due to the pace of operations.
urbanisation for example, the rollout of fibre optic cable networks and economic growth, which means consumers purchase more products which require high performance threads for example, leisure goods, cars with airbags.
Speed to market Trend #2: Our response in The rise of fast fashion, which has dramatically reduced the time between catwalk to high the year street, and consumers demanding more than just the traditional two season cycle has put Offering customers technology tremendous pressure on the full garment supply chain.
Not only do all participants need to act solutions via Coats Global faster, to respond to shorter lead times, they need to act smarter also focusing on productivity.
Services to accelerate their lead times and planning.
Our global asset footprint means we are uniquely placed, across the entire component supply chain, to manufacture and distribute consistently high quality products to service retailers multi-location sourcing strategies.
We also have the digital tools such as our web-based service Coats Colour Express, the fastest thread sampling service in the world.
We also support garment manufacturers to become more productive.
Our technology solutions consulting offering includes time benchmarking tools and production planning systems both of which will improve speed to market.
Innovative uses of threads, yarns and soft materials Consumers are demanding more innovative products in every area of their lives and as a result new thread based application end uses continue to be identified.
We are at the forefront of innovating smart thread and yarns to enhance the functionality or performance of many products in multiple end markets.
This is a core competency in our Performance Materials business in which we have developed and grown sales in many new products such as flame retardant threads used in protective wear, and water swellable threads that protect deep water fibre optic cables.
8 MARKET TRENDS CONTINUED We are also developing new high-tech applications such as lightweight carbon composite Trend # 3: Our response in shapes made from commingled nylon and carbon fibre.
However, its not just in Performance the year Materials we are innovating.
Within A&F we are delivering innovative knitted upper yarn Creating the Global Innovation solutions into footwear and apparel markets to global sports brands as they strive to simplify Forum a cross functional their products e. g. Nike FlyKnit.
In Crafts we have developed insulating hand knitting yarns approach to harness and that can be used for winter gloves, hats and scarfs.
develop transformational ideas Our scale is a benefit and allows us to continually invest in new technologies and innovation: we can leverage our global, world class asset base to develop centres of excellence in key growth markets: as the market leader we are in a position to use bolt-on acquisitions to access new geographies and adjacent end-markets.
This is supported by our customer relationships, globally and across all levels of their organisation -- often it i - s these innovation conversations that help us come up with technological breakthroughs.
In 2017 we set up a Global Innovation Forum and have invested in developing innovation centres in the US, Turkey and China which are due to open in 2018.
Operating sustainably, increasing compliance and ethical standards Trend #4: Our response in Consumers, shareholders, authorities, brands retailers and manufacturers are all becoming the year increasingly focused on operating in a compliant and ethical way.
Be it environmental, labour Launch of EcoVerde, first or sourcing, the entire supply chain is coming under pressure not just to conform to local range of premium threads to requirements but also to higher international standards as well.
be made from 100% recycled post consumer waste.
Increasingly, environmental, social and governance standards are being used by our shareholders and potential investors as a critical part of their investment criteria, and we are Continuing the roll out of committed to driving excellence in all of these areas This goes to the heart of Coats values and programmes such as our Supplier standards.
We behave responsibly wherever we operate, and during 2017 we have launched Code and Ethics programme.
our Doing the right thing internal programme.
Ethical business practice is core to the way we do business and as such our Corporate Responsibility CR programme is integrated with our business strategy and helps us build and maintain both our reputation and our relationships with key stakeholders.
We regularly review the most relevant social, ethical, environmental and governance issues to Coats by using a range of benchmarks and consider the interests of our peers and key stakeholders, especially our employees, shareholders, brands and our customers.
We then rank the most important of these and ensure we have established relevant policies and programmes to manage our impacts.
For instance, we have invested significantly in upgrading Effluent Treatment Plants ETPs across many of our sites so we can reuse more and discharge cleaner water, as well as driving greater use of renewable energy in our units, which now stands at c. 30% of total energy used.
Increasing adoption of digital services Trend #5: Our response in Digital technology is playing an ever increasing role in everyday life and this is replicated the year in the industries in which we operate.
To ensure we remain and increase our relevance to Globalising our Online Business our customers we need to be more than just the supplier of the best products: we need model to service more to provide value adding services and customer experiences that deliver value.
We have been at the forefront of digital innovation by component suppliers to the global garment industry for several years now.
We introduced Coats Colour Express, the fastest thread sampling service in the world in 2012 and Opti Express, a revolutionary zip sampling service in 2015.
Once again we are leading our industry by introducing an online sales organisation to manage sales to our smaller customers.
Our Online Business teams provide telesales, service and technical support to customers, as well as enabling customers to place, monitor and pay for their orders using our market leading eComm platform.
The Online Business aims to increase efficiency while growing sales and market share with our small customers and is now operating across Eastern and Western Europe, Latin America and South and South East Asia.
By end of 2017 the Online Business was managing approximately 12,000 customers across EMEA, Asia and the Americas.
While in Crafts we have Redheart.
com, the most popular crafting website in the USA to which more than 18 million crafters have come for inspiration, and we have also launched our first mobile app for Red Heart during the year.
