STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICERS FOREWORD BUILDING ON OUR IMPROVED FINANCIAL STRENGTH We have continued to actively manage our financial position and ended 2017 with a number of major achievements.
Tangible benefits from Company reset Strong financial discipline As I reflect on Tullows performance in 2017, I am pleased with Financial and cost discipline is now firmly embedded in the significant progress we made throughout the year, right Tullowssystems, processes and management approach, from across the business.
We substantially reduced our net debt, low-cost items like travel through to material items of capital refinanced our bank lending facilities, further simplified the expenditure including major project activity.
We are on track to portfolio including exiting non-core assets, continued to lower deliver over $650 million of cost savings from the business our underlying cost base and began generating significant free since mid-2015 through to mid-2018, exceeding our original cash flow.
Material decisions made in 2017 resulted in key target by 30 per cent.
Our focus now is to ensure that these activities being executed: these combined with therealisation underlying savings are sustained year-on-year.
This is easier of tangible benefits from the reset of the business that was where we have direct control, but we must be vigilanton started around three years ago have helped place the third-party costs, particularly in a potentially improving market.
Prudent capital allocation We have forecast that we will spend around $460 million in 2018, compared to $225 million in 2017.
The increase year-on-year isprimarily due to our return to drilling at our high-return producing assets in Ghana.
This is combined with optimised Tullow moves into pre-Final Investment Decision FID spend in East Africa and 2018 in a much maintaining similar levels ofexploration tohigh-grade our prospect inventory and drill high-impact opportunities at a stronger financial relatively low cost.
Operating costs continue to come down position and has across the Group and in 2017 underlying cash operating costs theflexibility to take were $11.1 boe.
We anticipate this downward trend will advantage of growth continue toaround $10 boe or less as we realise further synergies in ourGhana operations and exit some of ourmost opportunities both mature, high-cost assets.
within our existing portfolio and in the Prioritising debt reduction wider market.
Reducing our net debt level to deleverage the balance sheet continues to be a key objective for the Group.
We started 2017 with $4.8 billion of net debt, a position that built up during the capital-intensive execution period of the TEN project.
The Rights Issue executed in the first half of the year was further supported by the work to deliver strong free cash flow generation of $543million.
This included sales revenue from our producing assets at an average realised oil price of $58.3 bbl, Business Interruption insurance proceeds, reducing our capital expenditure, and lower interest costs following the Rights Issue, among other factors.
The free cash flow generation together with proceeds from the Rights Issue allowed us toreduce our net debt by 27 per cent to $3.5billion by the endof the year.
As a result, we now have the financial flexibility we need to optimise investment in our assets.
Critically, we have a strong asset base LES WOOD, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER with which to increase EBITDAX and generate free cash flow, 10 Tullow Oil plc 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 1 which in turn helps to reduce our debt as we move towards our also evidence of the strong relationships that have been built gearing policy of less than 2.5xnet debt adjusted EBITDAX.
and maintained with not only our existing lending banks but also new banks that we were able to attract.
Weare already close to achieving this target, having moved from 5.1x at the end of 2016 to 2.6x at the end of 2017, affording Moving into 2018 us sufficient flexibility to invest in our existing asset base and Earlier this year, as I set up my new senior finance team I was exploration opportunities in 2018. able to take advantage of promoting internal talent to key positions Our 2017 key financial metrics reflect the outcomes of the positive tocreate a strong team.
With my new team I have been able actions we have taken over the last three years.
In 2017, sales tobuild on the strong foundation that Ian Springett had put in revenues amounted to $1,723 million 2016: $1,270 million, place and deliver strong results across all areas that are within generating free cash flow of $543 million.
We also reduced our the CFOorganisation.
I would like to thank Ian for all the net G&A expenditure to $95 million from $116 million in2016.
support he provided me, particularly in preparation for taking on the role of CFO.
However, the Company reported a net loss after tax of $189 million 2016: $597 million, largely as a result of non-cash impairments, We have made very good progress in 2017 towards our primarily driven by market conditions resulting from the lower longer-term financial objectives.
I believe that Tullow moves oil price outlook compared with the prevalent higher oil price into 2018 in amuch more robust financial position, with a environment when these investments were made.
While a loss strengthened balance sheet, embedded financial discipline is disappointing, and can often make headlines, these losses do andthe flexibility to take advantage of growth opportunities not affect the day-to-day financial health of our business or our both within our existing portfolio and in the wider market.
ability to invest or pay down debt and they must not detract from the clear financial progress wehave made.
They do, however, underline the importance of disciplined, efficient and effective capital investment across thelife cycle, which we have now embedded.
Les Wood Risk management and strengthening balance sheet Chief Financial Officer Financial risk management remains at the core of our financial 6 February 2018 strategy and we have seen once again in 2017 the benefits it can deliver.
Our long-standing approach to hedging remains important.
The programme contributed $110 million to revenues in 2017 against a backdrop of ongoing volatility in the oil markets.
Our prudent insurance policy has also meant that we have benefited from the regular reimbursements of our insurance cover for the Jubilee Turret Remediation Project.
We have recorded $221 million of insurance proceeds as received inthe year.
We have also taken proactive action to address our funding structure and the maturities of our bank debt.
InFebruary, we extended our Revolving Corporate Facility RCF by a further year to April 2019.
Then inNovember, we announced the successful refinancing ofourRBL facility ahead of our year-end objective, securing $2.5 billion of debt capacity, with final maturity Key performance indicators 20 in 2024 and a grace period of three years.
The process was Finance review 31 exceptionally well managed by the team over the course of the Principal Risks 42 year, and the result is testament to our strong asset base, and www.
