10 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION STRATEGIC PRIORITIES MAXIMISING OUR PERFORMANCE Smith & Nephew has a clear vision to build OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES asuccessful, sustainable business.
This vision isencapsulated in our corporate value proposition BUILD A STRONG POSITION supporting healthcare professionals by taking a INESTABLISHED MARKETS pioneering approach to the design of our advanced Build on existing strong positions, win medical products and services, by securing wider market share through greater product access to our diverse technologies for more customers and commercial innovation and drive efficienciesto liberate resources.
globally, and by enabling better outcomes for patients PAGE 11 and healthcare systems.
We are focused on transforming the growth profile FOCUS ON EMERGING MARKETS ofthe business while delivering this proposition.
We are working to rebalance the Group towards Deliver leadership in the Emerging Markets by building strong, direct customer relationships, higher growth opportunities.
Over the last five years, widening access to our premium products Smith & Nephew has materially improved the mix and developing portfolios designed for the ofhigher growth potential to lower growth businesses, economic mid-tier population.
shifting from one-third higher growth toover 50% today.
PAGE 12 Our strategic priorities, introduced in 2011, guide our actions in delivering these twin aspirations INNOVATE FOR VALUE of supporting healthcare professionals and Deliver pioneering products and business transformingour growth profile.
models that improve clinical and health economic outcomes and widen access acrossgeographies and patient groups.
PAGE 13 SIMPLIFY AND IMPROVE OUR OPERATING MODEL Pursue maximum efficiency in everything we do, streamline our operations and manufacturing, remove duplication and build strong global functions to support our commercial teams.
PAGE 14 SUPPLEMENT ORGANIC GROWTH WITH ACQUISITIONS Build our platform by acquiring complementary products or businesses in our higher growth segments and manufacturing and distribution capabilities in the Emerging Markets.
PAGE 15 11 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION STRATEGIC PRIORITIES continued BUILD A STRONG POSITION INESTABLISHED MARKETS Sports Medicine Joint Repair performance Established Markets for Smith was driven by good demand for our & Nephew are the US, Europe, $3,984m shoulder repair portfolio, and we added an Australia, Japan, Canada and exciting new technology when we acquired Revenue from Established Markets New Zealand.
Smith & Nephew Rotation Medical see page 15 for more.
2015 $3,919m Arthroscopic Enabling Technologies was delivered 84% of its revenue from impacted by continued softness in mechanical 2016 $3,978m these countries in 2017. resection.
The roll-out of our LENS visualisation 2017 $3,984m and WEREWOLF COBLATION systems are In the United States, our single largest country underway and we expect an increasing representing 48% of global revenue, reported contribution from these in 2018. revenue growth was flat and underlying growth was 2%.
The Other Established Markets In the US, and other countries, we are seeing 84% growth rate was flat on both an underlying a shift towards day-case surgery for total joints of Group revenue and reported basis.
starting to take place in Ambulatory Surgery In 2017 we focused on improving our Centre ASCs, something Smith&Nephew 0% 1% commercial execution.
With a simpler and isuniquely positioned to benefit from.
Through 1 Reported Underlying more agile commercial structure in each Sports Medicine we are already a partner country, supported by global functions, we tomany ASCs.
We believe we can leverage sought to drive improved performance and this customer knowledge andrelationships to WHY THIS KPI IS IMPORTANT greater efficiency.
This was supported by sales improve the performance of our knee implants We use this KPI to track the relative strength force excellence initiatives including a sharper franchise.
Our portfolio is well-suited for ASCs of our position in these markets.
focus on both health economic and clinical where early mobility and efficiency are key, evidence to support our products.
HOW WE PERFORMED asisour robotic NAVIO Surgical System due toits small footprint, portability and cost.
Growth in the US, our largest market, was In Reconstruction, the Knee Implants franchise offset somewhat by softer conditions in performed well, with the JOURNEY II Total The Advanced Wound Care franchise delivered some other markets.
Knee System driving good growth, as did strong growth in the US, but was held back by the LEGION Revision Knee System.
In Hip softer market conditions in Europe.
In Advanced 1 These non-IFRS financial measures are explained and reconciled Implants, the new REDAPT Revision and Wound Bioactives, SANTYL benefited from to the most directly comparable financial measure prepared in POLARSTEM Cementless Stem systems were anew analysis demonstrating its effectiveness accordance with IFRS on pages 38 and 178181. well received.
In Trauma & Extremities, new in advancing pressure ulcers through the healing 2 Advances in Wound Care.
Comparative 2 effectiveness of Clostridial Collagenase Ointment to medicinal clinical evidence supported increased uptake process, improving performance in the second honey for treatment of pressure ulcers.
Volume 6, Number 4 of our TRIGEN INTERTAN hip fracture system.
Advanced Wound Devices April 2017. performed strongly across the year, led by the continued success of our single use negative pressure wound therapy sNPWT device PICO.
SUPPORTING CUSTOMERS ATTHE ECC I ts very humbling to know we are helpingimprove patients outcomes.
Natalia Zielinska Bioskills Laboratory Manager Smith & Nephew is proud to support surgeons and nursesby enabling them to learn from experts in their fieldof speciality.
We do this at our state-of-the art training and innovation centres.
In early 2017 we opened the ExpertConnect Centre ECC in Croxley Park, Watford, on the outskirts of London, UK.
This is already establishing itself asa flagship destination for healthcare professionals from the UK, Europe and the Emerging Markets.
12 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION STRATEGIC PRIORITIES continued FOCUS ON EMERGING MARKETS We have been early investors in many Our Emerging Markets represent ofthe Emerging Markets.
There continue those outside the Established $781m tobequarterly fluctuations in the growth rates, Markets, including Brazil, Russia, and differences in performance between Revenue from Emerging Markets India and China.
The Emerging countries, so we look at the longer term 2015 $715m trends when making decisions, andthose Markets accounted for 16% of arevery favourable.
We also see the next wave of sustained 2017 $781m In 2017 we returned our Emerging Markets growth coming from the mid-tier, essentially business to sustainable double-digit revenue growth from widening access to a greater growth, up 13% on a reported basis and 12% proportion of the population in these countries.
This was a significant We are addressing this by steadily building 16% improvement over the flat underlying a dedicated product portfolio and specific of Group revenue performance of 2016. distribution model.
In China, our largest Emerging Markets country, We are well positioned to continue to 13% 12% we delivered double-digit revenue growth drive strong growth from the Emerging 1 Reported Underlying as we improved our commercial execution.
Markets over the medium term.
The much In the oil-dependent Gulf States we returned improved performance in 2017 is in line with WHY THIS KPI IS IMPORTANT to growth by focusing on securing more private where we see the medium term prospects healthcare business to compensate for the We use this KPI to track the growth of for this increasingly important segment of reduction in government tenders.
The majority Emerging Markets relative to global growth.
of our other Emerging Markets continued to HOW WE PERFORMED dowell across 2017.
Performance in the Emerging Markets improved strongly over the previous year.
1 These non-IFRS financial measures are explained and reconciled to the most directly comparable financial measure prepared in accordance with IFRS on pages 38 and 178181.
RETURNING CHINA TO GROWTH We have seen a return to double-digit growth in the attractive Chinese market.
Olivier Bohuon Chief Executive Officer China is our largest Emerging Market country.
Here we faced challenges in 2016 as the market growth slowed down.
In 2017 we improved our commercial execution and management of, and involvement in, the channel inventory.
Looking to the medium term, we believe that our growth prospects in China remain very attractive.
13 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION STRATEGIC PRIORITIES continued INNOVATE FOR VALUE In Sports Medicine our new LENS Surgical In 2017 we began to benefit from Imaging System and WEREWOLF COBLATION a suite of exciting new products, $223m System for resecting soft tissue are being solutions and business models as rolled out to customers.
In Reconstruction R&D expenditure we deliver on our strategic priority we expanded our REDAPT Hip and LEGION Knee revision systems.
In Advanced Wound 2015 $222m to innovate for value.
Management our pioneering disposable 2016 $230m In robotics, NAVIO is a unique and compelling single-use negative pressure wound therapy system.
In 2017 we successfully extended its sNPWT device PICO continued to perform 2017 $223m indications and introduced it to new countries strongly and we extended our ALLEVYN such as India.
We launched the total knee LIFE foam dressing range with a new nonarthroplasty TKA application for our JOURNEY border version.
II, LEGION and GENESIS II Total Knee Systems.
5% We also focus on providing customers with the Surgeons completed the worlds first roboticsof Group revenue evidence that demonstrates the effectiveness assisted bi-cruciate retaining total knee of our innovative products.
This new approach benefited from new clinical evidence showing WHY THIS KPI IS IMPORTANT used NAVIO to implant the new JOURNEY II its effectiveness at reducing surgical site XR bi-cruciate retaining total knee system Through this KPI we monitor our investment 1 infections and the TRIGEN INTERTAN hip currently in limited market release.
fracture system also performed strongly first and only bi-cruciate retaining robotics 2 supported by new clinical evidence.
HOW WE PERFORMED application commercially available.
The strong new product portfolio reflects We continue to develop new business models In the Emerging Markets we continue to build increased investment in R&D and to address changing or unmet customer our mid-tier portfolio.
Our ANTHEM Total Knee technology acquisitions.
During 2017 we ran the first study System, which, alongside the ORTHOMATCH ofour innovative Episode of Care Assurance Universal Instrumentation Platform, has been 1 OLeary, D. P. et al, Prophylactic negative pressure dressing use Program eCAP that combines our hip and designed to provide wider market access to in closed laparotomy wounds following abdominal operations.
knee implants with PICO and ACTICOAT Arandomised, controlled, open-label trial: The PICO Trial.
affordable knee treatments, performed well Annalsof Surgery, published online 06 December 2016.
During the year we 2 Smith & Nephew INTERTAN claims brochure The evidence is in...
The first results showed eCAP delivering launched into more markets, including Russia a97% decrease in hospital readmission and Saudi Arabia, and introduced a new rates following total joint replacement surgery Cruciate Retaining CR variant, extending based on 1,380 joint arthroplasties with theoptions available to surgeons.
onlytwo readmissions, a readmission rate ofonly 0.145% as compared to published ratesof 5.3% or more.
WORLD-CLASS R&D IN HULL B ritain is a global leader in medical technology innovation.
Partnerships such as this between Smith & Nephew and University of Hull further strengthen our position at the forefront of global medical research and development.
Emma Hardy MP for Hull West & Hessle In 2017 we announced a long-term partnership with the University of Hull tocreate one of the worlds largest Wound CareResearch Clusters with the aim of developing scientific insights and innovative treatments.
This includes the creation of eight PhD studentships and a programme of collaboration between Smith&Nephews new Hull Research & Development centre andthe Universitys new Health Campus.
14 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION STRATEGIC PRIORITIES continued SIMPLIFY AND IMPROVE OUR OPERATING MODEL 2.
GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE Since 2011 Smith & Nephew has G&A EXPENSES undertaken two successful efficiency 19.6% We have improved our G&A expense ratio over programmes that have delivered Operating profit Margin the last five years, but with our global function significant savings and created an structure we are now able to identify additional 2015 13.6% areas of opportunity to reduce costs and integrated Group structure.
improve service through: 2016 17.2% As announced with our Third Quarter 2017 Best-in-class Global Business Services Results, we believe that we now have the 2017 19.6% that includes a full-spectrum of support Group structure to allow us to strengthen services delivered quickly and efficiently, our competitive position by driving further enabling full focus on our customers and opportunities to accelerate performance business objectives.
22.0% through better execution, while at the same Service hubs in locations that align to our time realising savings through greater efficiency.
1 Trading profit Margin regional needs and deliver the best value In 2017 we completed our assessment of for money.
2015 23.7% these opportunities and started to implement System infrastructure that drives maximum a programme called APEX Accelerating 2016 21.8% efficiency, including rationalisation of legacy IT Performance and Execution in early 2018.
2017 22.0% systems and adopting a cloud-first strategy.
APEX is expected to deliver an annualised 3.
COMMERCIAL EFFECTIVENESS benefit of $160 million by 2022, with around three-quarters of this expected by 2020, for Whilst the commercial opportunities and WHY THIS KPI IS IMPORTANT a cash cost of up to $240 million, of which competitive environment continue to evolve We use this KPI to track our underlying a charge of around $100 million is expected with changing customer expectations, new profit growth and trading profitability.
in 2018. go-to-market approaches and price pressure, HOW WE PERFORMED we expect to improve overall productivity and APEX has three workstreams: accelerate top line growth through: Trading profit margin was up 20bps, in line with guidance.
MANUFACTURING, Increased sales and marketing effectiveness.
WAREHOUSINGAND DISTRIBUTION Selective refinement of structures 1 These non-IFRS financial measures are explained and reconciled We have already made significant and territories to meet customer and to the most directly comparable financial measure prepared in improvements over the last two years, and see market demands.
accordance with IFRS on pages 178181. further opportunities to simplify in line with best Being more responsive to customers use of practices to reduce overall cost, while improving tenders and changing service level demands.
quality and delivery through: More accurate demand forecasting to A best practice facility footprint with larger improve inventory management.
manufacturing hubs supported by speciality facilities where appropriate.
A product portfolio that meets the needs of our customers and complies with regulations, while minimising cost, complexity and inventory.
A supply chain that is streamlined and A MORE AGILE STRUCTURE efficient so that we are positioned to achieve the highest levels of delivery B ased on the preliminary work undertaken when I took over at benchmark cost.
as CFO, we undertook a thorough review of our business over the last few months.
Our objective was to look afresh at opportunities tostrengthen our competitive position and be more efficient.
We have now substantially completed this analysis and begunexecuting our programmes Graham Baker Chief Financial Officer 15 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION STRATEGIC PRIORITIES continued SUPPLEMENT ORGANIC GROWTH WITH ACQUISITIONS ArthroCare also had a strong pipeline of Whilst our focus in 2017 has been ARTHROCARE innovations, many of which have been onimproving our execution across In 2014 we acquired ArthroCare launched since the acquisition.
The ArthroCare our existing business, we have for $1.5 billion to strengthen our acquisition has met all of the three-year targets Sports Medicine business through made one acquisition and anumber that we set, many ahead of time.
complementary product portfolios of strategic agreements that give us The Board periodically reviews all acquisitions to andcustomer relationships.
evaluate longer-term performance and capture lessons learned to help improve strategy In 2017 we acquired Rotation Medical, Inc. $50m and process.
Collectively we are pleased the developer of a novel tissue regeneration with the performance of the technology and of additional sales from cross-selling technology for shoulder rotator cuff repair, Emerging Markets acquisitions we have made.
foran initial cash consideration of $125 million We continue to seek further opportunities to and up to $85 million over the next five $85m strengthen our technology and product portfolio years, contingent on financial performance.
1 of total synergies on trading profit level and Emerging Markets business.
Its bioinductive implant is highly complementary 1 These non-IFRS financial measures are explained and reconciled to our Sports Medicine portfolio, serving an to the most directly comparable financial measure prepared in WHY THIS KPI IS IMPORTANT unmet clinical need and providing a compelling accordance with IFRS on pages 178181.
2,3, 4 We use this KPI to demonstrate the returns 2 Preliminary investigation of a biological augmentation of rotator new treatment option for our customers.
cuff repairs using a collagen implant: a 2-year MRI follow-up from acquisitions.
Bokor, Sonnabend, Deady, Cass, Young, Van Kampen, Arnoczky We signed distribution agreements with Leaf published in Muscles, Ligaments and Tendons Journal 5 3 :144-150 HOW WE PERFORMED Healthcare, a developer of a unique wireless 2015.
3 Histologic Evaluation of Biopsy Specimens Obtained After Rotator patient monitoring system for pressure ArthroCare has met or exceeded all of the Cuff Repair Augmented With a Highly Porous Collagen Implant TM ulcer injury prevention, and MolecuLight i:X, three-year targets, many ahead of time.
Arnoczky, D. V. M. Shariff K. Bishai, D. O. M. S. F. A. O.
A. O. Brian a handheld point-of-care imaging device that Schofield, M. D. Scott Sigman, M. D. Brad D. Bushnell, M. D. We achieved both the cost and revenue M. B.
A. Jan Pieter Hommen, M. D. and Craig Van Kampen, Ph.
D. uses fluorescence imaging to display potentially synergies totalling $85m on a trading profit Arthroscopy: The Journal of Arthroscopic and Related Surgery, harmful concentrations of bacteria in wounds level, and the Return on Invested Capital in 33 2 :278-283 2016. inreal-time.
4 Evidence of healing of partial-thickness rotator cuff tears following year three exceeded our target.
arthroscopic augmentation with a collagen implant: a 2-year MRI 2017 marked the third anniversary of our largest follow-up.
Bokor, Sonnabend, Deady, Cass, Young, Van Kampen, Arnoczky.
Muscles, Ligaments and Tendons Journal 6 1 :16-25 acquisition, ArthroCare.
This strengthened 2016. our Sports Medicine business, with highly complementary product portfolios and customer relationships.
STRENGTHENING SPORTS MEDICINE We are proud of the impact our technology has made in healthcare and are excited by the opportunity to reach many more customers and their patients as an integrated part ofSmith& Nephews extensive Sports Medicine portfolio.
Martha Shadan Chief Executive Officer, Rotation Medical, Inc.
The bioinductive implant from Rotation Medical, Inc. has shown the ability 2,3, 4 to heal by inducing the growthof new tendon-like tissue.
With its small sales force, Rotation Medical, Inc. achieved revenue of $17m in2017.
We expect rapid growth as weroll out the product across our large Sports Medicine sales force, first focusing on the US where the product has FDA approval.
