Therapy Area Review 46 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report can Science Expand treatment options Oncology | From page 48 Understand disease Cardiovascular & Metabolic Diseases | From page 52 Transform outcomes Respiratory | From page 56 Develop best-in-class therapies Other Disease Areas | From page 60 Smarter, faster and cheaper drug discovery Our products The worlds most advanced drug discovery robot While this Therapy Area Review is working alongside our scientists to help make concentrates on our key marketed products, drug discovery smarter, faster and cheaper.
many of our other products are crucial Designed to work three times more quickly than to our business in certain countries previous drug discovery robots, NiCoLA-B can in Emerging Markets.
test up to 300,000 compounds a day and is also more scientist-friendly, flexible and responsive.
F or more information on our potential new products and product life-cycle developments, please see the Therapy For more information, see Area pipeline tables on pages 49, 53, www.
57 and 61 and the Development Pipeline table from page 202.
For information on Patent Expiries of our Key Marketed Products, please see from page 208.
Indications for each product described in this Therapy Area Review may vary among countries.
Please see local prescribing information for country-specific indications for any particular product.
For those of our products subject to litigation, information about material legal proceedings can be found in Note 28 to the Financial Statements from page 182.
Details of relevant risks are set out in Risk from page 210.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Therapy Area Review 47 Therapy Area Review continued Oncology Our ambition is to eliminate cancer as a cause of death through scientific discovery and collaborations.
We seek to achieve this by means of exploiting the power of four scientific platforms.
Cancer is the second leading cause of death globally, claiming more than eight million lives every year.
R&D continues to push boundaries in how we understand and fight cancer, but there is still more to do.
At AstraZeneca, we are committed to advancing the science of oncology to deliver life-changing medicines to people most in need.
Our strategic priorities Antibody that blocks inhibitory signals from the tumour tocells of the immune system resulting in enhanced In Oncology, our vision is to push the anti-tumour immunity.
boundaries of science to respond to unmet medical need and ultimately redefine the cancer treatment paradigm.
We are doing this through scientific innovation, accelerated clinical programmes and collaboration.
DNA damage response: Exploiting We have a deep-rooted heritage in Oncology mechanisms that selectively damage and offer a growing line of new medicines tumour cell DNA is another clinically that has the potential to transform patients validated approach to shrink tumours lives and AstraZenecas future.
At least six and improve progression-free and overall oncology medicines are expected to be survival.
Our market-leading programmes in launched between 2014 and 2020, of which DNA Damage Response focus on multiple Lynparza, Tagrisso, Imfinzi and Calquence ways to identify and exploit vulnerabilities are already benefiting patients.
to kill the tumour cells, while minimising toxicity to the patient.
In 2015, we decided that all new Oncology Antibody-drug conjugates ADC : launches would form a new Growth Platform, The use of ADCs is a clinically validated, under the designation of New Oncology.
highly potent approach that selectively targets cancer cells.
We seek to combine Our broad pipeline of next-generation innovative antibody engineering capabilities medicines is aimed at expanding our with cytotoxic drug molecules to attack treatment options for solid tumours and and kill the tumour while minimising toxicity haematological cancers, using four key to the patient.
scientific platforms: At the heart of our Oncology strategy is Immuno-oncology IO : IO is a promising a powerful combinations portfolio that therapeutic approach that harnesses the leverages our four scientific platforms to patients own immune system to help simultaneously attack multiple mechanisms fight cancer.
We aim to become scientific of tumour progression.
In a very competitive leaders in IO by identifying novel approaches and fast-moving environment, AstraZeneca that enhance the immune systems ability has a broad development programme to fight cancer, both with IO medicines on focused on first-in-class or best-in-disease their own, and in conjunction with other opportunities across multiple tumour types.
Tumour drivers and resistance Our 2017 commercial focus mechanisms: Potent inhibition of genetic In total, our marketed oncology medicines disease drivers is a clinically validated generated Product Sales of $4 billion approach to shrink tumours and improve worldwide in 2017.
Sales from our New progression-free survival and overall Oncology Growth Platform, totalled $1.3 billion survival.
Tumours, however, eventually in 2017, an increase of 98% at actual rate of develop resistance to these therapies.
exchange 98% at CER over 2016 $0.7 billion.
Our programmes seek to develop therapies that target resistance mechanisms and Faslodex 500mg is approved in more than the mutations that cause cancer cells to 80 countries, including the EU, the US and proliferate.
In 2017, Faslodex received 1st line label 48 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Oncology pipeline progressions Regional Imfinzi 2nd line bladder cancer US approvals Calquence 2nd line mantle cell lymphoma US Faslodex 1st line breast cancer FALCON US, JP, EU Lynparza 2nd line ovarian cancer SOLO-2 US, JP : breast cancer OlympiAD US Tagrisso 2nd line lung cancer AURA3 US, EU Tagrisso 2nd line lung cancer AURA17 CN Therapy area world market MAT Q3 17 Expedited review Breakthrough Therapy Designation: Calquence blood cancers US : Imfinzi 1st line lung cancer stage 3 PACIFIC US : Tagrisso 1st line lung cancer FLAURA US Orphan Drug Designation: Lynparza breast cancer OlympiAD JP : Lynparza ovarian $96.2bn cancer JP Priority Review Designation: Calquence blood cancers US : Imfinzi lung cancer stage 3 Annual worldwide market value PACIFIC EU, JP : Lynparza 2nd line ovarian cancer US : Lynparza breast cancer OlympiAD US, JP : Tagrisso 1st line lung cancer FLAURA US Accelerated approval: Calquence non-hodgkins lymphoma US : Imfinzi 2nd line bladder cancer US Regulatory Calquence mantle cell lymphoma US submissions Imfinzi lung cancer stage 3 PACIFIC EU, US, JP Lynparza 2nd line ovarian cancer SOLO-2 EU, US, JP Lynparza breast cancer OlympiAD JP, US Tagrisso 1st line lung cancer FLAURA US, EU, JP Phase III Imfinzi non-muscle invasive bladder cancer investment Imfinzi tremelimumab chemotherapy 1st line lung cancer Chemotherapy $19.2bn decisions Imfinzi chemo-radiation therapy lung cancer stage III Hormonal therapies $12.0bn Imfinzi epacadostat chemo-radiation therapy lung cancer Lynparza Imfinzi Avastin ovarian cancer Monoclonal antibodies mAbs $27.5bn Tagrisso lung cancer stage 3 Small molecule tyrosine Forxiga HF with a preserved ejection fraction kinase inhibitors TKIs $27.8bn Immune checkpoint inhibitors $9.7bn Phase II starts AZD4635 Imfinzi lung cancer: AZD8186 abiraterone for castration-resistant prostate cancer: Other Oncology Therapies $0.05bn progressions Imfinzi AZD9150 head and neck squamous-cell carcinoma: Imfinzi oleclumab MEDI9447 solid tumours: Imfinzi monalizumab solid tumours: Imfinzi Darzalex for relapsed refractory multiple myeloma: Imfinzi MEDI0457 head and neck squamous-cell carcinoma AstraZeneca focuses on specific segments within this overall therapy area market.
Strategic A global strategic oncology collaboration was established with MSD to co-develop and transactions co-commercialise Lynparza for multiple cancer types.
We will also jointly seek to develop completed and commercialise selumetinib, an oral, potent, selective inhibitor of MEK, part of the mitogen-activated protein kinase MAPK pathway, currently being developed for multiple extension for use as the treatment of oestrogen indications, including thyroid cancer.
Licensing agreement for rights to Zoladex in the US and Canada with TerSera receptor positive, locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer in postmenopausal Setbacks and The MYSTIC trial did not meet its primary endpoint of improving PFS compared to standard women not previously treated with endocrine terminated of care SoC in PD-L1 25% in patients with 1st line NSCLC.
In addition, Imfinzi monotherapy therapy in Japan, Russia, the EU and the US.
projects would not have met a pre-specified threshold of PFS benefit over SoC.
With respect to safety, The approvals were based on positive results the Imfinzi plus tremelimumab profile was consistent with expectations based on prior clinical from the Phase III FALCON clinical trial data.
The MYSTIC trial continues as planned to assess the additional primary endpoints of overall survival for Imfinzi monotherapy and for the Imfinzi tremelimumab combination.
comparing the efficacy and safety of Faslodex Discontinued: MEDI-573 for IGF metastatic breast cancer with Arimidex in the 1st line advanced breast cancer setting hormone-nave patients, Approved in January 2018. which was presented in 2016.
In November 2017, the FDA approved a new indication for Faslodex, expanding the indication to include use with abemaciclib Lynparza is an oral poly ADP ribose polymerase Our marketed products Arimidex anastrozole for the treatment of hormone receptor-positive PARP inhibitor available in more than 30 Casodex Cosudex bicalutamide HR, human epidermal growth factor countries for the treatment of adult patients Calquence acalabrutinib receptor 2 negative HER2- advanced or with BRCA-mutated high-grade serous Faslodex fulvestrant metastatic breast cancer in women with epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube or primary Imfinzi durvalumab Iressa gefitinib disease progression.
This approval, based peritoneal cancer.
In August 2017, the FDA Lynparza olaparib upon the MONARCH2 study, further expands granted approval for new use of the tablet Nolvadex tamoxifen citrate the growing body of evidence for using formulation of Lynparza as a maintenance Tagrisso osimertinib Faslodex in combination as a treatment for treatment for patients with recurrent, epithelial Zoladex goserelin acetate implant advanced breast cancer, as illustrated by the ovarian, fallopian tube or primary peritoneal FDA-approved combination with palbociclib adult cancer who are in response to platinumF ull product information on page 208. in March 2016.
Iressa was the first epidermal based chemotherapy, regardless of BRCA growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase status based on results from two randomised inhibitor EGFR-TKI to be approved for the trials, SOLO-2 and Study 19. treatment of advanced epidermal growth factor receptor EGFR mutation non-small cell On 12 January 2018, based on data from the lung cancer NSCLC and, as of 31 December randomised, open-label, Phase III OlympiAD 2017, had been approved in 90 countries.
trial, the FDA approved Lynparza for use Iressa received approval in the US in July 2015. in patients with deleterious or suspected deleterious germline BRCA-mutated gBRCAm, Zoladex continues to be a significant asset HER2- metastatic breast cancer who have in our on-market portfolio and a driver of our been previously treated with chemotherapy prostate cancer and breast cancer portfolios.
in the neoadjuvant, adjuvant or metastatic AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Therapy Area Review 49 Therapy Area Review Oncology continued Immuno-oncology franchise induced tumour necrosis factor receptorImfinzi is also being explored as a ligand: MEDI0457, a DNA vaccine against monotherapy and in combination human papilloma virus 16 18: NKG2A, with tremelimumab, an anti-cytotoxic a checkpoint receptor inhibiting the $4bn  protein 4 antibody, anti-cancer functions of NK and cytotoxic Product Sales of $4,024 million, across multiple tumour types and lines of T-cells: MEDI0680, an anti-programmed up 19% 19% at CER therapy.
This includes Phase III registrational cell death protein 1 PD1 mAb blocking trials in various stages of NSCLC, small-cell interactions with PD1 and its ligands: lung cancer, metastatic urothelial cancer, and AZD4635, an adenosine 2A receptor head and neck squamous cell carcinoma inhibitor.
These agents are in Phase I II HNSCC, and hepatocellular carcinoma development for a range of solid tumours HCC.
Our IO development programme and have the potential for combination also includes additional Phase I II studies with other molecules in the portfolio, in a broad range of haematologic and solid including Imfinzi.
tumours and an extensive range of combinations, including with small molecules, Tumour drivers and resistance other biologics and chemotherapies.
mechanisms franchise In May 2017, Imfinzi met a primary endpoint Tagrisso is a highly selective, irreversible of  and clinicallyinhibitor of the activating sensitising EGFR meaningful progression-free survival mutation and the resistance mutation PFS in all-comer patients with locallyT790M.
The product is being investigated setting.
This new approval for Lynparza advanced, unresectable Stage 3 NSCLC in Phase III studies in the adjuvant setting makes it the first and only PARP inhibitor whose disease has not progressed for the treatment of patients with EGFRm approved in metastatic breast cancer, following chemo-radiation therapy in a NSCLC and in the advanced setting as and the only PARP inhibitor approved planned interim analysis of the PACIFIC a 1st line treatment of EGFRm NSCLC beyond ovarian cancer.
Tagrisso is the first Phase III trial.
The full data were presented and as a 2nd line treatment of EGFRm approved EGFR-TKI indicated for patients at the European Society for Medical T790M NSCLC.
Additionally, studies in with metastatic EGFR T790M mutationOncology congress in September 2017. combination with other small molecules positive NSCLC.
After receiving accelerated Imfinzi is the first medicine to show are under investigation.
approval in several countries in 2015-2016, superior PFS in this setting.
In July 2017, In July 2017, AstraZeneca announced Tagrisso was granted full approval based on Breakthrough Therapy Designation positive results from the Phase III FLAURA the Phase III AURA3 confirmatory trial in the was granted by the FDA for Imfinzi in this trial comparing the efficacy and safety of US and EU in early 2017, and is now approved indication and it included Priority Review Tagrisso with current 1st line EGFR-TKIs in in more than 60 countries worldwide, status in the US.
The therapy is currently previously untreated patients with EGFRm including the US, EU, Japan and China, under regulatory review in the EU and US.
The results were subsequently for patients with EGFR T790M mutationIn June 2017, the first patient was dosed presented at the European Society for positive advanced NSCLC.
Imfinzi is a human with Imfinzi in POSEIDON, a Phase III 1st Medical Oncology congress in September mAb directed against PD-L1 and our first line NSCLC study of Imfinzi and Imfinzi 2017.
In October 2017, the FDA granted IO product on market.
In May 2017, Imfinzi tremelimumab combined with chemotherapy.
Breakthrough Therapy Designation for received its first accelerated approval in In November 2017, the first patient was also Tagrisso for the 1st line treatment of the US in previously treated patients with dosed in HIMALAYA, a Phase III study patients with metastatic EGFRm NSCLC.
designed to assess Imfinzi and Imfinzi The therapy is currently under regulatory tremelimumab in the treatment of patients review in the US, EU and Japan.
Calquence is a selective inhibitor of Bruton with no prior systemic therapy for Calquence is a BTK inhibitor in Phase III tyrosine kinase BTK.
development in B-cell malignancies and the medicine was granted accelerated In July 2017, the Phase III MYSTIC trial, a solid tumours.
In August 2017, the FDA approval by the FDA for the treatment of adult 1st line NSCLC study of Imfinzi and Imfinzi granted Breakthrough Therapy Designation patients with mantle cell lymphoma MCL tremelimumab, failed to meet one of its for Calquence for the treatment of patients who have received at least one prior therapy.
primary endpoints improving PFS when with MCL who have received at least one comparing against the standard of care prior therapy.
Details of material patent litigation relating in patients whose tumours express PD-L1 Selumetinib is a mitogen-activated protein to Calquence, Faslodex, Imfinzi and Tagrisso on 25% or more of their cancer cells.
kinase inhibitor in Phase III development are included in Note 28 to the Financial The study is ongoing for its two other for adjuvant differentiated thyroid cancer.
Statements from page 182. primary endpoints, overall survival OS Selumetinibs development programme in each of the monotherapy arm and the also includes trials in neurofibromatosis In the pipeline combination therapy arm.
Our Oncology pipeline continues to progress.
Other IO agents in early development Savolitinib is a selective inhibitor of c-MET It now includes 32 NMEs in development.
include: MEDI9447, targeting ecto-5- mesenchymal epithelial transition factor In October 2017, AstraZeneca received a nucleotidase CD73 : AZD9150, an antisense receptor tyrosine kinase, an enzyme which sixth Breakthrough Therapy Designation for oligonucleotide that downregulates STAT3 has been shown to function abnormally in an oncology medicine from the FDA since expression in the tumour microenvironment: many types of solid tumours.
During the year, we also expanded AZD5069, a chemokine receptor 2 inhibitor: trials in papillary renal cell cancer in patients several of our projects to incorporate novel MEDI9197, a small molecule agonist with a genetic aberration in the c-MET combinations and various types of cancer.
targeting toll-like receptor 7 8: MEDI0562, pathway and in Phase II trials in combination Some of our key projects from each of our a humanised agonistic mAb that targets with Tagrisso and Iressa in EGFR mutated platforms are outlined below.
OX40: MEDI1873, targeting glucocorticoidlung cancer with c-MET amplification.
50 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Antibody-drug conjugates franchise Moxetumomab pasudotox, an anti-CD22 recombinant immunotoxin, is being investigated in a Phase III study for adult patients with hairy cell leukaemia who have relapsed after, or not responded to, standard therapy.
In November 2017, can AstraZeneca announced moxetumomab had met the primary endpoint of this study.
MEDI4276 is an HER2 bispecific ADC, Science bring benefits to which entered clinical development for more patients a range of solid tumours.
MEDI3726 is a PSMA ADC and MEDI7247 OlympiAD is an ADC against an undisclosed target.
With over three years experience in ovarian cancer, Lynparza, the first poly-ADP ribose polymerase PARP Key Oncology collaborations inhibitor, represents the proof that and transactions targeting the DNA Damage Response In 2017, collaborations between AstraZeneca pathway works beyond the laboratory.
and various partners have continued to Following the initial approval of this new class of medicine, in June 2017, mature, with new data presented at medical we presented the full results from the congresses.
We also concluded three new Phase III OlympiAD trial, the first Cediranib is an orally administered major agreements.
positive randomised trial to evaluate multi-vascular endothelial growth factor the efficacy and safety of a PARP receptor VEGFR inhibitor which is currently inhibitor beyond ovarian cancer.
In February 2017, AstraZeneca entered into an The OlympiAD results also marked being tested in combination with Lynparza agreement with TerSera for the commercial the first time a targeted therapy showed in Phase III trials in patients with platinumrights to Zoladex in the US and Canada.
benefit over the current standard sensitive relapsed ovarian cancer and Zoladex is an injectable luteinising hormoneof care for patients with germline platinum-resistant refractory ovarian cancer.
BRCA-mutated HER2- metastatic breast releasing hormone agonist, used to treat cancer.
On 12 January 2018, the FDA AZD5363 is a protein kinase B inhibitor prostate cancer, breast cancer and certain granted approval to Lynparza in this in Phase II development for breast and benign gynaecological disorders.
Lynparza has the broadest prostate cancer.
clinical trial programme of any Vistusertib is an inhibitor of the mammalian PARP inhibitor, and this milestone In July 2017, AstraZeneca and MSD demonstrates how AstraZeneca target of rapamycin serine threonine kinase announced that they had entered into a followed the science to expand the TORC1, TORC2 and is in Phase II global strategic oncology collaboration to potential of Lynparza to benefit many development for the treatment of solid co-develop and co-commercialise Lynparza patients in multiple settings.
The companies will AZD9496 is a selective oestrogen receptor develop and commercialise Lynparza jointly, down-regulator in Phase I development for both as monotherapy and in combination the treatment of breast cancer.
Independently, Other agents in early development include: AZD1775 is a Wee1 inhibitor in Phase II the companies will develop and commercialise AZD5991, an MCL1 inhibitor: AZD4753, development for ovarian and other solid Lynparza in combination with their respective a CDK9 inhibitor: AZD5153, a bromodomain tumours in combination with Lynparza.
PD-L1 and PD-1 medicines, Imfinzi and 4 inhibitor: AZD4785, an antisense It is also being evaluated in combination pembrolizumab.
The companies will oligonucleotide targeting KRas: and with chemotherapy and as monotherapy.
also jointly develop and commercialise AZD8186 an inhibitor of PI3 kinase and.
AZD6738 is an ATR inhibitor in Phase II AstraZenecas selumetinib, an oral, potent, development in combination with selective inhibitor of MEK, part of the DNA damage response franchise Lynparza in triple negative breast cancer, mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway, Lynparza is being evaluated in a broad gastric cancer and other solid tumours.
currently being developed for multiple range of Phase III trials, including BRCAm It is also being investigated in combination indications, including thyroid cancer.
adjuvant and metastatic breast cancer, with Calquence in chronic lymphocytic gBRCAm pancreatic cancer, gBRCAm leukaemia and in combination with On 31 October 2017, AstraZeneca and ovarian cancer and prostate cancer.
radiation therapy and chemotherapy Incyte announced the expansion of their In February 2017, AstraZeneca announced as well as a monotherapy.
As part of the positive results of OlympiAD, a Phase Phase I clinical studies are progressing agreement, the companies will evaluate III randomised, open-label, multicentre for the ATM inhibitor, AZD0156 for the the efficacy and safety of epacadostat, study assessing the efficacy and safety of treatment of gastric and colorectal cancers Incytes investigational selective IDO1 Lynparza tablets compared to physicians and the aurora B kinase inhibitor, AZD2811 in enzyme inhibitor, in combination with choice chemotherapy in patients with acute myeloid leukaemia and solid tumours.
Imfinzi, a human mAb directed against HER2- metastatic breast cancer with An ATM inhibitor designed to cross the blood PD-L1, compared to Imfinzi alone.
The germline BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutations, brain barrier, AZD1390 is in Phase I exclusive collaboration for the study which are predicted or suspected to be development for the treatment of gliobastoma population allows for the two companies deleterious.
The results were subsequently multiforme in combination with radiation.
to conduct a Phase III trial in patients with presented at the American Society of locally-advanced Stage 3, unresectable Clinical Oncology congress in June 2017 NSCLC whose disease has not progressed and submitted to Health Authorities for following platinum-based chemotherapy regulatory review in the US, EU and Japan.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Therapy Area Review 51 Therapy Area Review continued Cardiovascular & Metabolic Diseases AstraZeneca is following the science to transform how cardiovascular, renal and metabolic diseases are understood, interact and impact one another.
Our strategic priorities Cardiovascular CV disease remains the number one cause of death globally and constitutes a burden on patients overall health and wellbeing, as well as on society and healthcare systems.
However, science is now uncovering commonalities between CV, renal and metabolic diseases CVMD, explaining why reducing CV risk is so complex.
We know there is clinical overlap Messenger RNA being read by a ribosome to produce signalling proteins.
between these diseases and their associated complications, yet, in many cases, each condition is managed in isolation.
Recognising that these conditions often 2.
We are investing in science to demonstrate co-exist, we are seeking to address unmet CV and mortality benefits by slowing the medical need by better understanding how our underlying progression of CV-related disease portfolio of medicines might be used to help and protecting the organs of the CV system.
tackle multiple risk factors or co-morbidities across CVMD, and whether combinations 3.
Ultimately, we are looking to do more of these medicines might offer benefits for than slow CV-related disease.
As we begin to recognise the modify or even halt the natural course of common underlying mechanisms behind CV, the disease itself and regenerate organs.
renal and metabolic diseases, we can use this knowledge to redefine the way these diseases We have more than 25 potential medicines are understood, how patients are treated, and medicine combinations in our pipeline, and how we can ultimately reduce CV risk.
including small molecules and biologics, to address cardiac regeneration and A distinctive strategy conditions such as chronic kidney disease To address this extended CVMD risk, CKD, acute coronary syndromes ACS, we are focusing our efforts on the HF and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis NASH.
commonalities between diseases and their underlying mechanisms.
We have Our approach a three-pronged science-driven strategy: We believe this strategy makes us different.
For example, we are pioneering a new 1.
Today, we are delivering life-changing results approach in the field of cardiac regeneration, in the core CV disease areas as we know them while investing in rigorous clinical and their complications, with medicines already programmes evaluating the use of our being used or in late-stage development: medicines in large patient populations in Metabolic disease: Forxiga, Bydureon, both Established and Emerging Markets.
Onglyza These include global randomised clinical Heart failure HF : Forxiga trials that are as close as possible to Renal: ZS-9, roxadustat, Forxiga clinical practice, as well as real-world Atherosclerosis: Brilinta, Epanova, Crestor.
52 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Cardiovascular & Metabolic Diseases pipeline progressions Regional Bydureon Type 2 diabetes DURATION-8 US, EU approvals Bydureon BCise Type 2 diabetes US Bydureon Type 2 diabetes DURATION-7 EU Forxiga Type 2 diabetes CN Qtern saxagliptin dapagliflozin FDC Type 2 diabetes US Therapy area world market Expedited review Priority Review Designation: roxadustat CKD CN MAT Q3 17 Regulatory Bydureon Type 2 diabetes DURATION-7 US, EU submissions Bydureon weekly autoinjector Type 2 diabetes EU $186.4bn roxadustat anaemia in CKD CN Annual worldwide market value Phase III Brilinta paediatric programme investment decisions Phase II starts verinurad for CKD: AZD5718 FLAP coronary artery disease: MEDI0382 GLP-1 glucagon dual progressions agonist Type 2 diabetes: MEDI5884 cholesterol modulation Strategic Licensing agreement for rights to Seloken in Europe with Recordati transactions completed Setbacks and Discontinued: MEDI4166 PCSK9 GLP-1 for diabetes CV: AZD4076 miR103 107 for NASH: High blood pressure $36.2bn terminated MEDI8111 for trauma bleeding Abnormal levels of blood projects cholesterol $21.3bn Diabetes $76.2bn Thrombosis $8.5bn Other $44.1bn In its indication for the long-term prevention Our marketed products: Cardiovascular disease of CV death, heart attack and stroke 1 Atacand Atacand HCT Atacand AstraZeneca focuses on specific segments within for patients with a history of heart attack, Plus candesartan cilexetil this overall therapy area market.
Brilinta 60mg is approved in over 60 countries.
Brilinta Brilique ticagrelor 2 Crestor rosuvastatin calcium 3 Plendil felodipine In May 2017, a new formulation of Brilique 4 Seloken Toprol-XL metoprolol succinate 90mg, an orally-dispersable tablet ODT, 5 Tenormin atenolol was approved by the EMA, making Brilique 6 Zestril lisinopril dihydrate the first and only P2Y12 receptor inhibitor to Metabolic diseases be made available in ODT form in Europe.
Bydureon We continue to strengthen our commitment exenatide XR injectable suspension to following the science through strategic In June 2017, the CFDA in China approved Byetta exenatide injection partnerships, collaborations and new Brilinta 60mg tablets for patients with a history Farxiga Forxiga dapagliflozin Kombiglyze XR saxagliptin clinical studies.
Subsequently, in July 2017, and metformin HCI the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Komboglyze saxagliptin and We also develop programmes that seek to Security agreed to add Brilinta 90mg to the metformin HCI improve access to healthcare by providing National Reimbursable Drugs List NRDL, Onglyza saxagliptin Qtern saxagliptin dapagliflozin education about these diseases.
For example, following which provincial reimbursement Symlin pramlintide acetate Early Action in Diabetes is collecting and listing PRDL was achieved in all 31 provinces Xigduo dapagliflozin and sharing better practices in policymaking by the end of 2017. metformin HCI from more than 35 countries, outlining how Xigduo XR dapagliflozin and metformin HCI policymakers, payers and other decisionIn August 2017, a new sub-analysis of Phase III makers can best prevent, diagnose and trial data PEGASUS-TIMI 54 was presented F ull product information on page 208. control diabetes.
Our Healthy Heart Africa at the Annual Congress of the European Programme seeks to tackle hypertension Society of Cardiology ESC in Barcelona, Spain, and the increasing burden of CV disease demonstrating a 29% risk reduction in CV death 1 Licensed from Takeda Chemicals in Africa.
For more information on Healthy from treatment with Brilinta 60mg twice daily, Industries Ltd. 2 Heart Africa, see pages 29 and 40. versus placebo, in patients taking low-dose Licensed from Shionogi.
The extension of the global licence agreement with aspirin but still at high risk of an atherothrombotic Shionogi for Crestor and the modification event the specific patient population defined of the royalty structure became effective Cardiovascular disease in the European label for Brilinta.
Our 2017 focus 3 Divested China rights to China Medical Brilinta Brilique is an oral antiplatelet Systems Holdings Ltd effective At the same congress, the ESC published two 29 February 2016. treatment for ACS, an umbrella term for 4 major new Guidelines for the management Divested US rights to Aralez sudden chest pain and other symptoms due Pharmaceuticals Trading DAC effective of ST-segment elevation patients, and for to ischaemia insufficient blood supply to the 4 October 2016. dual antiplatelet therapy DAPT.
These were 5 Divested US rights to Tenormin to Alvogen heart, and for the long-term prevention of CV significant not only for their recommendation of Pharma US Inc. effective 9 January 2015. death, heart attack and stroke for patients 6 Licensed from Merck.
Divested US rights Brilinta 90mg as the preferred oral antiplatelet with a history of heart attack.
to Zestril to Alvogen Pharma US Inc. therapy over clopidogrel for 12 months effective 9 January 2015.
DAPT post-ACS, but also for the first time, In its ACS indication, Brilinta 90mg is approved preferentially recommending Brilinta 60mg in over 100 countries, and is included in for 12 months DAPT in high-risk post-heart 12 major ACS treatment guidelines globally.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Therapy Area Review 53 Therapy Area Review Cardiovascular & Metabolic Diseases continued In December 2017, we announced investment Renal diseases in THALES, a new randomised, placeboIn the pipeline controlled Phase III DAPT trial in stroke.
We continue to develop roxadustat, a potential This study forms part of PARTHENON, first-in-class oral hypoxia-inducible factor $7.3bn AstraZenecas largest ever CV outcomes prolyl hydroxylase inhibitor HIF-PHI.
We programme involving nearly 80,000 patients, are collaborating on the development and Product Sales of $7,266 million, within which THEMIS is the next major commercialisation of roxadustat in the US, down 10% 10% at CER trial due to read out, studying the benefit China and other markets not covered by an of ticagrelor for the prevention of CV agreement between FibroGen and Astellas.
events among Type 2 diabetes patients.
In October 2017, our partner FibroGen announced that the CFDA had accepted the $1bn Crestor is approved in over 115 countries NDA for roxadustat, based on positive top-line for the treatment of dyslipidaemia and China results announced in January 2017.
Annual sales of Brilinta Brilique  elevated cholesterol.
and Farxiga Forxiga each Crestor faces competition from generic We continue to progress ZS-9 sodium exceeded $1 billion products.
The substance patent protecting zirconium cyclosilicate, a treatment for Crestor in Japan expired in May 2017 followed hyperkalaemia.
In March 2017, the FDA issued by the launch of an authorised generic in a second Complete Response Letter CRL.
September 2017 and subsequent generic The CRL was related to an inspection by entrants.
The substance patent protecting the FDA of the dedicated manufacturing Crestor in Europe expired on 30 June 2017 facility in Texas, US and did not require the and the paediatric extension expired in generation of new clinical data.
AstraZeneca completed the manufacturing Our 2017 focus process validation and submitted an NDA We are focused on redefining the approach In the pipeline for ZS-9, with a decision expected in the to treating Type 2 diabetes and harnessing RhLCAT MEDI6012 is an enzyme essential first half of 2018.
In the EU, we announced complementary mechanisms of action by to high-density lipoproteins HDL maturation in February 2017 that the CHMP of the EMA refining our R&D efforts to include diverse that is in Phase II development for reduction had issued a positive opinion recommending populations and patients with significant of CV events.
the approval of ZS-9 for the treatment of co-morbidities, such as CV disease, obesity, hyperkalaemia.
After a pause in advancing NASH, and CKD.
Our global clinical research AZD8601 is an investigational modified the opinion, in light of the CRL, the CHMP programmes seek to advance understanding mRNA-based therapy that encodes for re-adopted its positive opinion in January of the treatment effects of our diabetes vascular endothelial growth factor-A 2018 with a decision expected in the first half medicines in broad patient populations, VEGF-A and is currently in Phase II of 2018.
The CRL and the CHMP pause have as well as explore combination products to for HF treatment.
extended our  timelines help more patients achieve treatment success for launch, but the long-term potential of the earlier in their disease.
AZD5718 is a target based on a genometherapy has not been impacted by these wide association study linking halotypes short-term delays.
In February 2017, the FDA approved onceof FLAP gene.
It is currently in Phase II daily Qtern tablets Forxiga 10mg and Onglyza with the first launch indication in ACS Verinurad RDEA3170 is a potent selective 5mg fixed-dose combination as an adjunct to patients with treatment initiation within uric acid reabsorption inhibitor that has been diet and exercise to improve glycaemic control the first month from myocardial infarction.
in Phase II development as a urate-lowering in adults with Type 2 diabetes who have therapy.
A Phase II trial was initiated in June inadequate control with Forxiga 10mg or who Clinical studies 2017 and will now progress the development are already treated with Forxiga and Onglyza.
With Epanova omega-3-carboxylic acids, of verinurad for CKD.
We are committed to making Qtern available we are evaluating patient groups where to patients and, after securing the appropriate there is high unmet medical need.
Therefore, Clinical studies access, Qtern was launched in the US at the AstraZeneca continues to advance its Roxadustat is in Phase III development for the beginning of January 2018. large-scale CV outcomes trial STRENGTH treatment of anemia in patients with CKD, on to evaluate the safety and efficacy of Epanova dialysis and not on dialysis with a programme In March 2017, we received marketing on CV outcomes in combination with statin consisting of 15 studies which are expected authorisation from the CFDA for Forxiga 5mg therapy for the treatment of patients with to enrol more than 10,000 patients worldwide.
Forxiga mixed dyslipidaemia who are at increased The initial data read-out for our sponsored was the first SGLT2 inhibitor to be approved risk of CV disease.
STRENGTH is the trials, ROCKIES and OLYMPUS, is anticipated in China.
This is an important milestone for largest CV outcomes trial of any prescription to align with the availability of pooled safety patients with Type 2 diabetes in China given omega-3 and completed enrolment in April data in co-ordination with our partners, its prevalence it now impacts some 114 2017, with approximately 13,000 patients.
expected in 2018, and we expect to present million patients in China, representing almost Results are anticipated in 2019. data read-outs from both trials in 2018. one third of diabetes cases worldwide.
54 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report can Science improve patient outcomes The DapaCare programme We have initiated the extensive DapaCare clinical programme aimed at better understanding the CV and renal profile of Forxiga across a spectrum of people with established CV disease, CV risk factors and varying stages of renal disease, both with and without Type 2 diabetes.
We aim to provide healthcare providers with evidence needed to improve patient outcomes.
The DapaCare programme will enrol nearly 30,000 patients in randomised clinical trials, supported by a multinational real-world evidence study.
The DapaCare clinical programme currently comprises: Also in March, we shared results of the landmark The 24-week data from the DEPICT-1 trial CVD-REAL study.
This first large real-world showed that Forxiga, when given as an oral DECLARE, DAPA-HF, DAPA-CKD: evidence study of its kind showed that treatment adjunct to adjustable insulin in patients with Three large outcomes trials.
DELIGHT: An exploratory Phase II with SGLT2 inhibitors, versus other Type 2  Type 1 diabetes, III study evaluating efficacy, diabetes medicines, significantly reduced rates demonstrated significant and clinicallysafety and pharmacodynamics of hospitalisation due to HF and mortality.
relevant reductions from baseline in HbA1c, of dapagliflozin alone and in weight reductions, and lowered total daily combination with saxagliptin in CKD patients with Type 2 diabetes At the annual American Diabetes Association insulin dose at 24 weeks compared to and albuminuria.
scientific sessions in June 2017, we presented placebo at both the 5mg and 10mg dose.
DAPA-MECH: Series set of updated safety data on the risk-benefit profile mechanistic studies of the SGLT2 of Forxiga and data from the DURATION-8 trial In October 2017, the FDA approved inhibitor class.
CVD-REAL: The first wave evaluating the efficacy and safety of Forxiga Bydureon BCise injectable suspension, primary study evaluated the risk in combination with Bydureon, supporting a new formulation of Bydureon in an improved of hospitalisation for HF and the established clinical profiles of these once-weekly, single-dose autoinjector mortality in patients with Type 2 medicines.
In the updated safety analysis device for adults with Type 2 diabetes whose diabetes and assessed data from more than 300,000 patients across of Forxiga, data pooled from 30 Phase IIb III blood sugar remains uncontrolled on one six countries, 87% of whom did clinical trials showed no new safety signals or more oral medicines in addition to diet not have a history of CV disease.
and the incidence of adverse events was and exercise to improve glycaemic control.
generally similar to that in the control groups.
A regulatory application for the new autoinjector device was accepted by In August 2017, the EMA approved the the EMA.
Also in October 2017, in a separate Clinical studies incorporation of DURATION-8 data into sNDA, the FDA approved the inclusion of The DECLARE study, a large CV outcomes the Bydureon and Forxiga European label.
data from the DURATION-8 clinical trial trial to assess the impact of Forxiga on into the Farxiga and Bydureon labels.
CV risk benefit, when added to a patients In September 2017, during the annual meeting current diabetes therapy, continued in 2017. of the European Association for the Study of In the pipeline The trial was fully enrolled in 2015 with Diabetes, we presented the full results from the MEDI0382 is a novel dual GLP1-glucagon approximately 17,000 adult patients with EXSCEL EXenatide Study of Cardiovascular peptide, which was discovered in our Type 2 diabetes and is expected to be Event Lowering trial.
The trial demonstrated MedImmune laboratories and which was completed in the second half of 2018.
CV safety with Bydureon in patients with inspired by our scientists studying the Type 2 diabetes at a wide range of CV risk.
molecular mechanisms that drive the Two further international, multicentre, parallel Bydureon did not increase the incidence beneficial effects of bariatric surgery.
group, event-driven, randomised, doubleof major adverse CV events, a composite The molecule completed a first Phase II blind, placebo-controlled Forxiga studies endpoint of CV death, non-fatal heart attack study earlier in the year and we have seen are underway.
One, DAPA-HF, is evaluating myocardial infarction or non-fatal stroke, promising data.
We are currently evaluating its effect on the incidence of worsening HF compared to placebo.
While there were fewer MEDI0382 in a larger global Phase II study or CV death for patients with chronic HF CV events observed in the Bydureon arm of to understand dose-response and in a while the second, DAPA-CKD, is evaluating the trial, the primary efficacy objective did not number of clinical pharmacology studies.
its effect on renal outcomes and CV mortality meet statistical significance.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Therapy Area Review 55 Therapy Area Review continued Respiratory We aim to transform the treatment of respiratory disease for patients with our growing portfolio of inhaled and biologic medicines along with scientific research targeting the underlying causes of disease.
Breaking new ground with respiratory biologics Building on our 40-year heritage in inhaled respiratory medicines, AstraZeneca is now positioned for leadership in respiratory biologics.
The approval of Fasenra in the US, Europe and Japan is a positive step towards our ambition to transform care for severe asthma patients whose disease is driven by eosinophilic inflammation.
Fasenra is Esonophil prior to apoptosis.
Natural killer cell being recruited by a biologic.
a new anti-eosinophilic mAb which has demonstrated efficacy versus placebo in pivotal clinical trials and is the first approved respiratory biologic with an 8-week maintenance dosing regimen.
Looking further Respiratory is one of AstraZenecas main ahead, the Phase IIb results for tezepelumab, therapy areas, and our medicines reached published in the New England Journal of more than 18 million patients in 2017.
Medicine in September 2017, signalled its We have a strong pipeline with more than potential as the broadest and most promising 33,000 patients participating in Phase I-IV biologic for the treatment of persistent respiratory clinical trials across the world.
uncontrolled asthma seen to date.
Our ambition is to transform outcomes for patients with respiratory diseases through: E lisabeth H. Bel.
Moving Upstream Anti-TSLP in Persistent Uncontrolled Asthma.
New England Journal our strength in inhaled combination of Medicine.
2017: 377:10. medicines including Symbicort, AstraZenecas number one medicine Our strategic priorities in 2017 by Product Sales Today, more than 600 million individuals a leading biologics portfolio, initially for have asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary patients with severe respiratory disease disease COPD and significant opportunities a robust early pipeline where our goal remain to expand care.
About 250 million is to achieve disease modification, of asthma and COPD patients are in early intervention and cure.
AstraZenecas top 12 commercial markets US, Australia, Brazil, Canada, China, France, Asthma is one of the most common and chronic Germany, Italy, Japan, Russia, Spain lung diseases worldwide and a serious global and the UK, but more than 175 million of health problem, affecting airways in the lung.
those patients today do not receive any Inflammation and narrowing of the airways may maintenance treatment.
Despite currentlycause wheezing, breathlessness, chest tightness available treatments, therapeutic advances and coughing.
Combination therapy, given in a are needed to reduce the morbidity and single-inhaler of an inhaled corticosteroid ICS mortality of these chronic diseases.
with a long-acting beta2-agonist LABA such AstraZeneca estimates that these advances as Symbicort, is a cornerstone of treatment, will help to drive 8% growth in the global helping to treat moderate-to-severe asthma.
respiratory medicine market over the next For patients with mild asthma, we are decade, reaching $52 billion by 2027. investigating the use of Symbicort Turbuhaler 56 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Respiratory pipeline progressions Fasenra CALIMA, SIROCCO severe asthma US, EU, JP Regional approvals None Expedited review Fasenra severe asthma JP Therapy area world market Regulatory Bevespi Aerosphere COPD EU submissions MAT Q3 17 tezepelumab asthma Phase III Phase III investment decision $67.3bn investment decisions Annual worldwide market value AZD8871 MABA for COPD: AZD7986 DPP1 COPD : Phase II mild asthma study Phase II starts progressions None Strategic transactions completed tralokinumab STRATOS 1 and STRATOS 2 asthma trials failed to meet their primary Setbacks and endpoints, and the programme for asthma has been terminated.
terminated Also discontinued: Symbicort breath actuated inhaler development for asthma COPD: projects AZD9412 Inhaled IFN for asthma COPD: AZD9898 for LTC4S asthma Asthma $20.2bn Approved in January 2018.
Other $31.2bn AstraZeneca focuses on specific segments within this overall therapy area market.
of their first hospital admission for a severe Our marketed products: Accolate zafirlukast exacerbation.
COPD is associated with Bevespi Aerosphere glycopyrrolate significant economic burden, accounting 1 and formoterol fumarate for $32 billion of direct costs and $20 billion 2 Bricanyl Respules terbutaline 3 of indirect costs in the US, while in Europe, Bricanyl Turbuhaler terbutaline Daliresp Daxas roflumilast COPD accounts for 56% of the 39 billion 3 Duaklir Genuair aclidinium formoterol cost of respiratory diseases.
COPD remains Eklira Genuair Tudorza Pressair underdiagnosed and often under-treated.
3 aclidinium 4 prescribed as an anti-inflammatory reliever AstraZenecas current inhaled portfolio includes Fasenra benralizumab 3 Oxis Turbuhaler formoterol as needed, recognising the variability and both ICS in combination with a long-acting Pulmicort Turbuhaler Pulmicort Flexhaler inflammatory nature of disease in these patients.
bronchodilator and non-ICS-containing dual 3 budesonide This programme will demonstrate the impact bronchodilator combinations to address patients 2 Pulmicort Respules budesonide 5 of Symbicort as-needed on exacerbations with different needs across the spectrum of Symbicort pMDI budesonide formoterol Symbicort Turbuhaler and asthma control compared to standard of disease severity.
AstraZenecas current pipeline 3 budesonide formoterol care in patients with mild asthma.
Up to 10% includes a triple combination of PT010 3 Tudorza Pressair aclidinium of asthma patients have severe, uncontrolled budesonide glycopyrronium formoterol asthma despite standard of care asthma fumarate in development for COPD patients.
F ull product information on page 208. controller medications.
Such patients experience debilitating symptoms and face Our 2017 focus 1 increased risk of hospitalisations, emergency Inhaled combination medicines Inhalation aerosol.
room visits and even death, despite current We continue to invest in Symbicort which, 3 In a dry powder inhaler.
Severe, uncontrolled asthma can in addition to being AstraZenecas number 4 Subcutaneous injection.
5 lead to a dependence on oral corticosteroids one medicine in Product Sales in 2017, Inhalation suspension.
OCS, with systemic steroid exposure was also the number one ICS LABA potentially leading to serious shortand combination globally in volume terms in long-term adverse effects, including weight 2017.
Pricing pressure was in line with gain, diabetes, osteoporosis, glaucoma, expectations as prices rebase ahead of anxiety, depression, CV disease and immunoanticipated generic entries.
There is also a significant physical continue to be offset by Emerging Market and socioeconomic burden associated growth, led by demand for acute and with severe, uncontrolled asthma with these maintenance care in China.
patients accounting for 50% of asthma-related costs.
For these difficult to treat patients, we In January 2017, the FDA approved Symbicort are developing biologic medicines that address Inhalation Aerosol 80 4.5 micrograms for the the underlying causes of their disease.
treatment of asthma in paediatric patients aged six to 12 years.
The FDA approval was COPD is a chronic, progressive disease based on the CHASE ChildHood Asthma characterised by obstruction of airflow in Safety and Efficacy clinical trial programme, the lungs that can result in debilitating bouts which included the CHASE 3 Phase III trial.
Improving lung function, In addition, in January 2017, the FDA granted managing daily symptoms such as six months of paediatric exclusivity for breathlessness, and reducing exacerbations Symbicort Inhalation Aerosol.
Symbicort are important to the management of COPD.
was already approved in the US to treat Exacerbations are associated with mortality asthma in patients 12 years and older and in COPD, with one study reporting that 50% for the maintenance treatment of airflow of COPD patients will die within four years obstruction in COPD in adults.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Therapy Area Review 57 Therapy Area Review Respiratory continued $4.7bn Product Sales of $4,706 million, down 1% 1% at CER 18 m Respiratory medicines reached 18 million patients in 2017 In September 2017, the FDA approved Circassia was granted the rights to Duaklir in on results from the WINDWARD clinical trial Symbicort for the reduction of exacerbations the US.
Circassia is also leading the promotion programme, including two pivotal Phase III in patients with COPD.
The approval was of Tudorza in the US, with the option to gain full exacerbation trials, SIROCCO and CALIMA, based on data that evaluated COPD commercial rights in the future.
In September reported in the Lancet in September 2016. exacerbations as the primary endpoint in 2017, we announced positive top-line results The approvals were also based on the Phase two Phase IIIb trials RISE and Study 003, from the Phase III AMPLIFY trial for Duaklir, III OCS-sparing trial, ZONDA, which was supported by data from two legacy Phase which met its primary endpoints and published in the New England Journal of IIIa trials SUN and SHINE.
The RISE data demonstrated a  Medicine in May 2017.
ZONDA demonstrated was published in Respiratory Medicine.
improvement in lung function in patients a  and clinicallyIn November 2017, we announced clinical with moderate to very severe stable COPD, meaningful reduction in daily maintenance, data from the Phase III SYGMA trials, which compared to each individual component OCS use from baseline for patients with examined Symbicort Turbuhaler prescribed either aclidinium bromide or formoterol.
severe, uncontrolled OCS-dependent as an anti-inflammatory reliever as needed We anticipate the US submission of an NDA eosinophilic asthma receiving benralizumab in patients with mild asthma.
The primary in the first half of 2018. compared with placebo.
objectives in severe-asthma exacerbation rates and asthma control were met.
In December 2017, we also announced positive In the pipeline top-line results from the Phase III ASCENT trial Inhaled combination medicines In 2017, AstraZeneca launched the Turbu for Tudorza, which met its primary efficacy AstraZeneca has made significant progress programme in eight countries.
Turbu is endpoint of demonstrating a statistically in delivering the ATHENA programme, our our digital Integrated Patient Solution for significant reduction in the annual rate of Phase III clinical trial programme for PT010, Symbicort Turbuhaler, which helps patients moderate or severe COPD exacerbations which includes more than 11 trials and with asthma and or COPD to better manage compared to placebo.
The four key ATHENA trials their disease using a Bluetooth-enabled trial also met the primary safety endpoint, are ETHOS, KRONOS, TELOS and SOPHOS.
monitoring device and smartphone app.
demonstrating an increase in time to first In January 2018, we announced top-line major adverse cardiovascular event MACE results from the KRONOS trial that PT010 AstraZeneca is advancing its portfolio of compared to placebo.
We plan to submit an demonstrated a  next-generation inhaled medicines which sNDA for an expanded Tudorza label following improvement compared with dual utilise Aerosphere Delivery Technology.
combination therapies in six out of seven In 2017, we launched Bevespi Aerosphere, our lung function primary endpoints, based on dual combination of glycopyrrolate formoterol Biologic medicines forced expiratory volume in one second fumarate, in the US for the maintenance AstraZenecas first respiratory biologic, Fasenra, FEV1 assessments in patients with moderate treatment of adults with COPD, and our was approved for severe, eosinophilic asthma to very severe COPD.
In total, eight of the nine regulatory submission for Bevespi Aerosphere by the FDA in November 2017, as well as by primary endpoints in the KRONOS trial were in the EU was accepted.
Our Aerosphere the EC and the Japanese Ministry of Health, met, including two non-inferiority endpoints Delivery Technology provides consistent drug Labour and Welfare in January 2018.
Fasenra to qualify PT009 budesonide formoterol delivery in a pressurised metered-dose inhaler.
distinctively targets and depletes eosinophils, fumarate as one of the comparators.
the biological effector cells in approximately In April 2017, AstraZeneca entered a 50% of asthma patients that lead to frequent In February 2018, we announced results of strategic collaboration with Circassia for the exacerbations, impaired lung function the Phase III TELOS trial, which compared development and commercialisation in the and asthma symptoms.
Fasenra is the two doses of PT009 budesonide formoterol US of two inhaled medicines, Tudorza LAMA first respiratory biologic with an 8-week fumarate to its individual components, PT005 and Duaklir LAMA LABA, for the treatment maintenance dosing regimen.
The approval of formoterol fumarate and PT008 budesonide, of COPD.
Under the terms of the collaboration, Fasenra, in the US and EU respectively, is based and to Symbicort Turbuhaler to assess lung 58 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report can Science help us understand how targeted therapies work in respiratory diseases Cell imaging technology As scientists in the field of respiratory research, we use cell imaging technology to illuminate what happens when a specific pathway is activated with an investigational medicine.
function in patients with moderate to very During the year, we announced the results of severe COPD to qualify PT009 as active Phase III trials for tralokinumab, an investigational comparator in PT010 clinical programme.
anti-IL-13 human immunoglobulin-G4 mAb The illustration shows two different All primary endpoints were met, with the that blocks binding and signalling of IL-13 to immune cell types, one red and one exception of the lung function primary endpoint green.
The red cells are eosinophils, IL-3 receptors, a potential target in severe, which play a key pathogenic role in comparing low dose PT009 to PT005.
The green cells and STRATOS 2 were Phase III trials are natural killer cells.
The eosinophils Biologic medicines designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety have been treated such that they are In addition to AstraZenecas progress with now recognisable to the natural killer of tralokinumab in patients with severe, cells.
The natural killer cells target Fasenra in severe asthma, AstraZeneca is uncontrolled asthma, despite treatment the eosinophils which results in cell investigating Fasenra for at-home use in an with ICS plus LABA.
In the STRATOS 1 death blue.
autoinjector device as well as for indications trial, tralokinumab did not meet its primary in other diseases.
In the first half of 2018, Severe asthma is a heterogeneous endpoint of a significant reduction in the disease with complex biology.
we expect the results of our Phase III COPD annual asthma exacerbation rate AAER, Cell imaging helps us to visualise the trials, TERRANOVA and GALATHEA.
although a clinically-relevant reduction in effects of our investigational drugs on AAER was observed in a sub-population inflammation and follow the science AstraZeneca and our partner Amgen to develop medicines targeted to a of patients with elevated FeNO Fractional particular inflammatory phenotype.
published landmark data in the New England exhaled Nitric Oxide, a biomarker Journal of Medicine from the PATHWAY associated with increased IL-13 activity.
For more information, please see Phase IIb trial of tezepelumab in patients with The primary analysis population specified our website, www.
Tezepelumab our-focus-areas respiratory, Down in the STRATOS 2 trial was subjects with the microscope.
is a first-in-class anti-thymic stromal elevated FeNO, but tralokinumab did not lymphopoietin TSLP mAb that blocks TSLP, achieve a  reduction an upstream driver of multiple downstream in AAER.
In the OCS-sparing trial, TROPOS, inflammatory pathways.
Tezepelumab met its tralokinumab did not achieve a statisticallyprimary efficacy endpoint in PATHWAY with The ALLEVIAD Phase IIa trial data showed significant reduction in OCS use when added the data demonstrating significant annual that tezepelumab did not meet statistical to the standard of care in patients dependent asthma exacerbation rate reductions of significance on the primary endpoint EASI 50 on OCS.
AstraZeneca has discontinued the 61%, 71% and 66% in the tezepelumab of the 12-week exploratory trial that evaluated development of tralokinumab in severe asthma.
arms receiving either 70mg or 210mg every tezepelumab in moderate to severe atopic Through a licence agreement signed in 2016, four weeks or 280mg every two weeks, dermatitis AD as add-on treatment to LEO Pharma is developing tralokinumab respectively.
Significant and clinicallyregular medium-to-high strength topical in adults with moderate-to-severe atopic meaningful reductions in exacerbation rates glucocorticosteroids.
Numeric differences dermatitis and Phase III trials are ongoing.
were observed independent of baseline in favour of tezepelumab, however, were blood eosinophil count or other type 2 observed across a number of disease activity T2 inflammatory biomarkers.
Due to its endpoints EASI, IGA and SCORAD response activity early in the inflammatory cascade, compared to placebo.
tezepelumab may be suitable for patients with both T2 and non-T2 driven asthma, including those ineligible for current biologic therapies which only target the T2 pathway.
A pivotal Phase III trial NAVIGATOR for tezepelumab in severe asthma was initiated in November 2017.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Therapy Area Review 59 Therapy Area Review continued Other Disease Areas In addition to our focus on the treatment of diseases in our three main therapy areas, we are also selectively active in the areas of autoimmunity, infection, neuroscience and gastroenterology, where we aim to develop best-in-class therapies and follow an opportunity-driven approach.
Our approach in these other disease Psoriasis is a chronic disease in which the areas looks to maximise revenue through immune system causes skin cells to grow externalisation and on-market products: rapidly.
Instead of being shed, the skin cells advance the novel product pipeline with pile up, causing painful and itchy, red, scaly partnerships where appropriate: and patches that can bleed.
Approximately 100 preserve a company stake in the most million people worldwide suffer from psoriasis.
Despite available treatment options for moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis, many patients do not experience a resolution Autoimmunity of underlying inflammation, clearing of Systemic lupus erythematosus SLE, symptoms or an improved quality of life.
or lupus, is an autoimmune disease that occurs when the immune system produces In the pipeline antibodies that attack healthy tissue, including We are making important progress in skin, joints, kidney, the brain and blood advancing our pipeline and improving vessels.
SLE can cause a wide range of treatment options and clinical outcomes for symptoms.
Among these are pain, rashes, patients with inflammatory and autoimmune fatigue, swelling in joints, and fevers.
Common molecular pathways are associated with a greater risk of death from often shared across multiple autoimmune causes such as infection, nephritis and diseases, which provides opportunities to cardiovascular disease.
Inflammation of the identify and work with approaches that could kidneys caused by SLE known as lupus become treatments for more than one disease.
nephritis can lead to significant morbidity and even death.
Current treatment of SLE Anifrolumab is a developmental mAb that focuses on suppressing symptoms and inhibits the activity of all type I interferons controlling disease flares and, in the case IFN, which play a central role in lupus.
of lupus nephritis, preventing renal failure.
A majority of patients with SLE show a high interferon gene signature, and increased Neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder levels of type I IFN have been shown to NMOSD is a rare, life-threatening correlate with SLE disease activity and autoimmune disease of the central nervous severity.
During 2017, we completed system in which the bodys immune system enrolment in two Phase III trials, TULIP-SLE1 attacks healthy cells, most commonly in the and TULIP-SLE2, of anifrolumab in patients optic nerves and spinal cord, resulting in with moderate-to-severe SLE.
NMOSD may cause severe completed enrolment in a Phase II SLE muscle weakness and paralysis, loss of vision, study evaluating a subcutaneous respiratory failure, problems with bowel route of administration of anifrolumab.
and bladder function and neuropathic pain.
Anifrolumab is also in Phase II development There is currently no cure or approved for lupus nephritis.
medicine for this rare disease.
60 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Other Disease Areas pipeline progressions Duzallo gout US Regional Kyntheum brodalumab psoriasis EU: by partner approvals Siliq brodalumab psoriasis US: by partner Nexium paeds and sachet GERD JP Orphan Drug Designation: inebilizumab MEDI-551 neuromyelitis optica EU Expedited review None Regulatory submissions None Phase III investment decisions None Phase II starts progressions Partnership with Sanofi for development and commercialisation of MEDI8897 Strategic RSV antibody.
Divestment to Aspen of the remaining rights in the anaesthetics transactions portfolio and to Grnenthal of the rights to Zomig outside Japan completed Discontinued: verinurad for hyperuricemia gout: AZD3241 MPO for multiple Setbacks and system atrophy terminated projects Approved in January 2018.
Infection Our marketed products: Infection Seasonal influenza is a serious public health 1,2 Fluenz FluMist Tetra Quadrivalent problem that causes severe illness and death live attenuated influenza vaccine in high-risk populations.
In 2017, the US 3 Synagis palivizumab Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices, under the Centers for Disease Neuroscience Movantik Moventig naloxegol Control and Prevention CDC, continued its Seroquel IR quetiapine fumarate recommendation issued in 2016 that FluMist Seroquel XR quetiapine fumarate Quadrivalent LAIV should not be used in the 4 Vimovo naproxen and US for the 2017 to 2018 influenza season until esomeprazole magnesium further data is available.
This recommendation Gastrointestinal was based on concerns regarding low Losec Prilosec omeprazole In March 2017, the EMA granted Orphan effectiveness of the vaccine in the US in Nexium esomeprazole magnesium Drug Designation to inebilizumab MEDI-551 previous seasons.
The vaccine remains for the treatment of NMOSD.
Inebilizumab is licensed in the US, Canada and the EU and currently in Phase II III clinical development we remain committed to supporting FluMist F ull product information on page 208. for NMOSD.
Quadrivalent Fluenz Tetra in the US and in the rest of the world.
Brodalumab is a human mAb that targets the findings of lower than expected vaccine 2 Daiichi Sankyo holds rights to Fluenz interleukin-17 IL-17 receptor.
During 2017, effectiveness informed our selection of a Tetra FluMist Quadrivalent in Japan.
AbbVie holds rights brodalumab Siliq in the US and Kyntheum new A H1N1 LAIV strain for the 2017 to 2018 to Synagis outside the US.
in Europe received both FDA and EMA flu season.
The new A H1N1 LAIV strain 4 Licensed from Pozen.
Divested US approvals for the treatment of adult patients has demonstrated improved performance rights to Horizon Pharma USA, Inc. effective 22 November 2013. with moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis in laboratory assays and we are currently who are candidates for systemic therapy or conducting a clinical study to further phototherapy and have failed to respond or no evaluate this strain.
We continue to keep longer respond to other systemic therapies.
the US CDC updated on our progress.
Through collaboration agreements, Valeant FluMist Quadrivalent Fluenz Tetra continues holds the exclusive licence to develop and to be recommended for use in many countries commercialise brodalumab globally, except outside the US based on their respective in Japan and certain other Asian countries public health authorities review of existing where rights are held by Kyowa Hakko Kirin and recent vaccine effectiveness data.
We through an agreement with Amgen, and in also have an ongoing agreement with the Europe, where LEO Pharma holds exclusive WHO to donate and supply at reduced prices rights to develop and commercialise a portion of vaccine production in the event Kyntheum for psoriasis.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Therapy Area Review 61 Therapy Area Review Other Disease Areas continued MEDI8852, an investigational human mAb Current commercialised AstraZeneca for the treatment of patients hospitalised with neuroscience brands include Seroquel Type A strain influenza, received Fast Track IR and XR atypical antipsychotics, which Designation from the FDA in March 2016. have lost exclusivity in all major markets.
The programme is on hold while a government The largest market for Seroquel XR was the or industry partner is sought to share late-stage US, where we lost exclusivity in November development costs and commercialisation 2016.
Two licensed generics were launched activities.
Discussions with potential partners at that time followed by four additional generic are ongoing.
entrants in May 2017 and another two in November 2017.
Three additional generics Respiratory Synctial Virus RSV is a common received final FDA approval but have not seasonal virus and the most prevalent cause yet entered the US market.
of lower respiratory tract infections among infants and young children.
It is the leading In June 2017, AstraZeneca announced $4.2bn cause of hospitalisations and admissions to an agreement with Grnenthal for the Product Sales of $4,156 million, paediatric intensive care units and leads to global rights to Zomig zolmitriptan down 18% 17% at CER nearly 200,000 deaths globally in children outside Japan, including the US, where under five years of age, with the majority the rights were previously licensed to of deaths occurring in developing countries.
In October 2017, Since its initial approval in 1998, Synagis has we entered into an agreement with Sawai become the global standard of care for RSV Pharmaceuticals Company Ltd for the prevention and helps protect at risk babies rights to Zomig in Japan.
Synagis is approved in more than 80 countries and we continue In September 2017, AstraZeneca announced to work with our worldwide partner, AbbVie, an agreement with Aspen, under which to protect vulnerable infants.
Aspen acquired the residual rights to our remaining anaesthetic medicines.
MEDI8897 is a novel extended half-life mAb for This builds on the agreement with Aspen the prevention of serious respiratory disease in June 2016, under which they gained caused by RSV in infants.
It is designed to the exclusive commercialisation rights to require dosing only once per RSV season the medicines in markets outside the US.
a potential breakthrough in RSV prophylaxis.
The agreement covered seven established In March 2017, we formed an alliance medicines Diprivan general anaesthesia, with Sanofi to develop and commercialise EMLA topical anaesthetic and five local MEDI8897 jointly.
MEDI8897 is currently in a anaesthetics Xylocaine Xylocard Xyloproct, Phase IIb clinical trial in preterm infants who Marcaine, Naropin, Carbocaine and Citanest.
are ineligible for Synagis, the current standard of care medicine.
In the pain space, we are continuing to explore ways of bringing Movantik Moventig to patients who need to manage the side Neuroscience effect of opioid induced constipation.
Alzheimers disease AD is the most common In August 2017, the FDA updated the form of dementia worldwide and is a major indication of Movantik to include adult health challenge facing the world today.
patients with chronic pain related to prior We are progressing lanabecestat AZD3293, cancer or its treatment who do not require our BACE inhibitor, in collaboration with Lilly frequent opioid dosage escalation.
for the potential treatment of AD.
A second interim analysis in the Phase III AMARANTH trial was completed in July 2017, and the Gastrointestinal independent data monitoring committee In 2017, use of Nexium continued to grow in a recommended the trial proceed with no limited number of markets such as China and modifications.
In addition, we initiated a Japan.
Demand for Nexium in China is expected new extension trial of the AMARANTH study to continue to grow over the next several years, to further evaluate the benefit of earlier based on broader geographic expansion as well intervention in the course of the disease.
as anticipated label expansions, and has the potential to become a top-selling medicine in Building on the current partnership for its class, as in Japan.
Patent protection for lanabecestat, we are also now co-developing Nexium remains in Japan.
For the rest of the with Lilly MEDI1814, an antibody selective for world, Nexium is subject to generic competition.
amyloid-beta 42 A42, which is currently in Nexium sales continue to decline under Phase I development as a potential diseasegeneric pressure in the US and EU.
62 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Strategic Report
