CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT APPLYING THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE The UK Corporate Governance Code Section E. 2.2 of the Code requires that when, in the opinion of As a UK premium listed company, Tullow Oil plcs governance the board, a significant proportion of votes have been cast against policies and procedures are based on the principles of the a resolution at any general meeting, the company should explain UKCorporate Governance Code 2016 the Code.
A copy when announcing the results of voting what actions it intends to ofthe Code is available at www.
take to understand the reasons behind the vote result.
At the Companys Annual General Meeting in April 2017, the Company This Corporate Governance Report describes how the Company proposed a special resolution to disapply statutory pre-emption has applied the principles and standards set out in the Code rights up to an additional 5 per cent of the Companys issued during the year and sets out our activities relating to the main share capital in connection with an acquisition or a specified sections of the Code: leadership, effectiveness, accountability, capital investment.
The resolution was not passed and a remuneration and relations with shareholders.
statement was not issued at the time of announcement as The Company is also required to disclose whether it has complied engagements with the Companys shareholders following the with the more detailed provisions of the Code during the year publication of the notice of meeting but prior to the Annual and, to the extent it has not done so, to explain any deviations General Meeting sufficiently explained to the Company the from them.
It is the Boards view that the Company has complied reasons for the vote, and the Board did not consider any with all of the provisions of the Code during the year ended furtheraction to understand the votes was required.
31December 2017, save for the two provisions set out below.
3.1 of the Code requires a Chairman on appointment to The long-term success of the Company is the collective meet the independence criteria set out in B.
1.1 of the Code and responsibility of the Board.
that a chief executive should not go on to be chairman of the The role of the Board same company.
If exceptionally a board decides that a chief The Board is accountable to shareholders for the creation and executive should become chairman, the Code requires that the delivery of strong, sustainable financial performance and long-term board should consult major shareholders in advance and should shareholder value.
It meets these aims through setting the Groups set out its reasons to shareholders at the time of the appointment strategy and ensuring that the necessary resources are available and in the next annual report.
On 11 January 2017, Tullow to achieve the agreed strategic goals.
The Board also sets the announced a number of proposed Board changes, including the appointment of Aidan Heavey as non-executive Chairman Companys key policies and reviews management and financial from the conclusion of the 2017 Annual General Meeting, subject performance.
The Board operates within a framework of controls to shareholder approval.
The Company consulted with major and these clear procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated shareholders in advance of the proposed appointment and set authorities allow risk to be assessed and managed effectively.
out its reasons to shareholders at the time of the appointment.
These are underpinned by the Boards work to set the Groups The appointment was subject to a maximum term of two years core values and standards of business conduct and ensure that and the Company has put in place certain mitigations for these, together with the Groups obligations to its stakeholders, Aidans lack of independence: for example, it has extended the are widely understood across all its activities.
responsibilities of the Senior Independent Director.
Shareholders Board meetings and visits approved the appointment of Aidan Heavey as Chairman of the The Board and its Committees deal with its core activities in Company at the Annual General Meeting in April 2017.
The Board planned meetings throughout the year.
Matters which require fully recognises the UK Corporate Governance Code implications decisions outside the scheduled meetings are dealt with through of the change but believes that this is a necessary and temporary additional ad hoc meetings and conference calls.
During 2017, deviation from the principles of the Code in order to ensure an the Board met seven times.
A programme of strategy presentations orderly transition of key stakeholder relationships held by Aidan covering a wide number of operational and other issues is made as the Companys founder and long-serving Chief Executive to the Board in June each year.
During the year, the Board received Officer as he moves into retirement.
A full explanation of the presentations from each of the Business Delivery Team leaders Boards decision is set out on page 73 in the Nominations and reviewed and approved the Companys strategy for each of Committee Report.
56 Tullow Oil plc 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 2 its Business Delivery Teams.
In addition, the Board reviewed Summary of the Boards work in the year the effectiveness of the implementation of Tullows Integrated During 2017, the Board considered all relevant matters within its Management System designed to centralise and simplify Tullows remit, with a particular focus on the following issues: policies and processes and more clearly map accountabilities strategy and resource allocation: within the business.
The Board also regularly reviews the Enterprise Risk Management System and the risks facing finance and treasury: theCompany in conjunction with the Audit Committee.
risk assessment and mitigation and non-technical risks in The Board normally holds one Board meeting at a principal major areas of operation: overseas office of the Group.
These meetings ensure that the stakeholder engagement: Board has a clear knowledge of the Companys overseas operations.
During the trip, members of the Executive Team and Senior portfolio management: Management from across the Group present to the Board and governance and compliance: have an opportunity to meet its members informally.
In addition, the Board meets a broad cross-section of staff, assesses Senior assurance, risk and internal audit: Managers and reviews in-depth operational matters and, in organisational design, development, capacity and diversity: particular, matters relating to non-technical risks.
In October 2017, the Board travelled to the Groups office in Cape Town and was process for evaluation entry into new countries: and able to combine the visit with the Africa Oil Week 2017 conference succession planning.
at which Board members, the Executive Team and Senior Managers met with a number of the Companys key stakeholders.
Attendance at meetings The attendance of Directors at the seven scheduled meetings The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director, and the of the Board held during 2017 was as follows: ChiefExecutive Officer maintain frequent contact with the otherDirectors in addition to the regular Board meetings.
of meetings attended Director out of a total possible Thisensures that all members of the Board have an opportunity to discuss any issues of concern and to be fully briefed on the Tutu Agyare 7 7 Groups operations.
Mike Daly 7 7 Anne Drinkwater 7 7 Matters reserved The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved that can Aidan Heavey 7 7 only be decided by the Board.
This schedule is reviewed by the Steve Lucas 7 7 Board each year.
The key matters reserved are the Angus McCoss 7 7 consideration and approval of: Paul McDade 7 7 the Groups overall strategy: Jeremy Wilson 7 7 Les Wood 4 4 Financial Statements and dividend policy: Ann Grant 2 2 borrowings and treasury policy: 1 Ian Springett 0 3 material acquisitions and disposals, changes to the Groups Simon Thompson 2 2 capital structure, material contracts, major capital expenditure Denotes Directors who were no longer Directors of the Company as at projects and budgets: 31 December 2017. entry into new countries: 1.
Ian Springett had taken an extended leave of absence in order to undergo treatment for a medical condition.
risk management and internal controls supported by the Audit Committee : In addition to the Board members, a number of the Executive Team members and Senior Managers attended relevant sections of succession planning and appointments supported by the Board meetings by invitation.
Nominations Committee : Division of responsibilities the Groups corporate governance and compliance The Chairman is primarily responsible for the effective working arrangements: and of the Board, whilst the Chief Executive Officer is responsible for key corporate policies.
the operational management of the business, for developing strategy in consultation with the Board and for implementation of the strategy.
This separation of responsibilities is clearly defined and agreed by the Board.
com 57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The UK Corporate Governance Code continued with the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer or the The Chairman ChiefFinancial Officer or for matters where such contact The Chairman leads the Board, setting the agenda and ensuring would beinappropriate.
During the year, he met with the other that the meetings provide adequate time for discussion.
non-executive Directors without the Chairman to discuss Asexplained above in this report, the current Chairman does theChairmans performance.
not meet the independence criteria set out in the Code and the Delegated authorities Board has set out its reasons why it believes that this is a Board Committees necessary and temporary deviation from the principles of the The Board has delegated matters to four Committees, the Audit Code and in the best interests of shareholders, host governments Committee, the EHS Committee, the Nominations Committee and other key stakeholders.
and the Remuneration Committee, and the Board is satisfied Non-executive Directors that the Committees have sufficient resources to carry out their The non-executive Directors have a broad range of business duties effectively.
Their terms of reference are reviewed and and commercial experience.
They provide independent and approved annually by the Board and the respective Committee constructive challenge to the Executive Management and Chairs report on their activities at the next Board meeting.
Details monitor the performance of the management team in delivering of Committee membership, roles and work are set out later in the agreed objectives and targets.
At the end of every scheduled this report: the Audit Committee on page 67, the EHS Committee Board meeting, the Chairman holds a discussion with the on page 76, the Nominations Committee on page 73, and the non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors.
These Remuneration Committee on page 78. are supplemented by informal meetings between the Chairman, Individual delegations the Chief Executive Officer and the non-executive Directors.
In addition to delegating certain matters to Board Committees, The non-executive Directors receive regular briefings on the the Board has also delegated certain operational and management more technical and operational aspects of the Groups activities.
matters to the Executive Directors.
In line with ICSA guidance, These include major development projects e. g. TEN, the Jubilee the Board approved formal terms of reference for the Executive Turret Remediation Project and the Kenya Early Oil Pilot Scheme Directors Committee in December 2014 and most recently reviewed and also matters of major strategic significance e. g. ITLOS and and reaffirmed these terms of reference in December 2017. the Greater Jubilee Full Field Development.
Non-executive Directors with particular expertise in such areas also meet the Effectiveness Chief Operating Officer and the Exploration Director to discuss Composition of the Board operations in more detail.
At the year end on 31 December 2017, the Board comprised the non-executive Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, two other Non-executive Directors are initially appointed for a term of Executive Directors and five independent non-executive Directors.
three years, subject to annual re-election.
This may, subject Their biographical details are set out on pages 40 and 41. tosatisfactory performance and re-election by shareholders, During the year ended 31 December 2017, there were a number beextended by mutual agreement.
of Board changes and the number of Executive Directors was Senior Independent Director reduced from four to three and the number of non-executive The Senior Independent Director is available to meet shareholders Directors was reduced from seven to six.
The Directors believe if they have concerns that cannot be resolved through discussion that the Board and its Committees consist of Directors with an NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR TENURE BOARD TIME % 13 yrs 1 Strategy & stakeholder management 35 36 yrs 4 Financial management 30 69 yrs 1 Safety, Sustainability & ExternalAffairs SSEA 7 Development & Operations D&O 10 Exploration & Appraisal E&A 4 Governance 7 Risk management 7 58 Tullow Oil plc 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 2 The Company Secretary appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence The Company Secretary is Kevin Massie, who is also the anddiversity of background to enable them to discharge their Companys Corporate Counsel.
He is responsible for duties and responsibilities effectively.
In our Full Year Results ensuring compliance with all Board procedures and for statement, we announced that Anne Drinkwater had informed providing advice to Directors when required.
The Company the Board she has decided not to stand for re-election at the Secretary provides company secretarial services to the 2018 AGM.
The Nominations Committee will begin a search for Board and the Group.
Heacts as secretary to the Audit, her replacement in 2018.
Nominations and Remuneration Committees and has direct Independence access to the Chairsof these Committees.
The Board considers each of the non-executive Directors to be Board evaluation independent in character and judgement, save for the Chairman, In 2017 the Board undertook an externally facilitated evaluation Aidan Heavey, and, as explained above in this report, the Board of its own performance and effectiveness and also that of its has set out its reasons why it believes that this is a necessary Committees.
The evaluation was coordinated by Lintstock Ltd, and temporary deviation from the principles of the Code and in which has no other connection to the Company.
Each of the the best interests of shareholders, host governments and other Directors was required to submit responses to a series of key stakeholders.
The Board is fully satisfied that Jeremy Wilson questionnaires designed by Lintstock with the assistance of demonstrates complete independence and robustness of character the Senior Independent Director and the Company Secretary and judgement in his capacity as Senior Independent Director.
and, in particular, to reflect on themes identified in the 2016 The Board is of the view that no individual or group of individuals exercise, including: the Boards composition: diversity and dominates decision making.
skills: Board dynamics: management of meetings: Board Appointments to the Board support and Committees: focus of meetings: strategic and The Nominations Committee reviews the structure, size and operational oversight: risk management and internal control: composition of the Board and makes recommendations to the human resource management: and priorities for change.
Board about any changes required.
As part of the appointments Itfocused heavily on the recent changes to the Board and process, candidates disclose any other significant time commitments their effectiveness.
The anonymity of all respondents was they may have and are required to inform the Board of any ensured throughout the process in order to promote the subsequent changes to such commitments.
open and frank exchange of views.
Lintstock subsequently produced a report which determined that the performance Commitment ofthe Board was seen to have improved since the last All Directors have disclosed their other significant commitments Boardreview.
Non-executive Director support and challenge and confirmed that they have sufficient time to discharge their of management were rated highly overall, as were the duties effectively.
management of meetings and the reporting to the Board Training and development needs from each of the Committees.
The management of human Induction resource and structure of the Company at the senior level All new Directors receive an induction programme when they was rated highly and the report identified skills that would join the Board.
This reflects their background, experience and benefit the Board and Senior Management in their succession knowledge and their understanding of the upstream oil industry planning going forward.
Continuing to progress Tullows and Tullow in particular.
The programme includes one-to-one diversity aspirations was identified as a top priority.
Priorities meetings with Senior Management, functional and Business for the Board in 2018 were identified in the report and have Unit heads and, where appropriate, visits to the Groups principal been used to formulate the Board objectives for 2018 agreed offices and operations.
New Directors also receive an overview by all the Directors and set out on pages 60 to 63. of their duties, corporate governance policies and Board Board objectives processes.
Les Wood was appointed as an Executive Director We remain confident that the Board has the experience and and Chief Financial Officer of the Company in June 2017 and track record to meet the Companys aims of delivering both participated in an induction to the role.
its immediate and long-term strategic objectives.
The Board Familiarisation and development sets its specific future objectives at the end of each year and All members of the Board have access to appropriate professional they reflect the focus of the Company in the year ahead.
development courses to support them in meeting their obligations Progress against each objective is tracked by the Company and duties.
During the year, Directors attended external seminars Secretary and reviewed with the Chairman periodically.
on relevant topics relating to the business.
They also receive The following table shows how the Board performed against ongoing briefings on current developments, including updates the 2017 objectives and also details the priorities and rolling on governance and regulatory issues.
agenda items that the Board will focus on in 2018.
Information and support Re-election Independent advice All Directors seek re-election every year and accordingly, Directors have access to independent professional advice, at the with the exception of Anne Drinkwater, all Directors will Companys expense, on any matter relating to their responsibilities.
stand for re-election in 2018 or, in the case of Les Wood, election for the first time.
The Board will set out in the Notice of AGM its reasons for supporting the re-election or election of each of the Directors at the forthcoming AGM.
The Notice of AGM will be mailed to shareholders separately.
com 59 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED 2017 Objectives 2017 Performance 2018 Objectives Strategy and Review Tullows strategy in light of the changed external environment.
The Company executed a Rights Issue to reduce gearing and provide financial Develop, review and test Tullows strategy with a strong and operational flexibility to enable growth over the next three to five years.
At focus on value creation and growth.
execution Ensure West Africa is managed to maximise cash flow, through safe and efficient operations and the efficient use of year end 2017, net debt was $3.5 billion, a reduction of c. $1.3 billion from year capital, whilst extending the period of production plateau.
Maintain a disciplined approach to execution and delivery end 2016.
In 2017, $543 million of positive free cash flow was generated.
Clarify the plan for commercialisation of East Africa resources and support its execution.
The Company successfully refinanced its RBL credit facility, obtaining Continue to deleverage the balance sheet and maximise Articulate Tullows risk appetite and encourage active portfolio management to balance risk and reward.
capital efficiency to increase positive free cash flow.
Deleverage balance sheet, manage financial structure and employ capital to maximise returns.
The strategy was debated at the Boards annual strategy offsite session in June Enhance performance and value growth from West Africa, Refocus the Company on value growth through a combination of exploration and new investment opportunities.
and regularly reviewed throughout the year as market conditions evolved.
The including our non-operated business.
outcome of that debate resulted in refinements to the Company strategy and Develop and commercialise our East African assets, the objectives for its implementation.
including: in Uganda, the completion of the farm-down Production performance on both Jubilee and TEN was strong and resulted in deal: and in Kenya, oil production with the Early Oil Pilot an upwards revision of our full-year West Africa net oil production guidance.
Scheme and progression towards FID in 2019.
The Greater Jubilee Full Field Development Plan was approved by the Pursue opportunities for growth and value creation Government of Ghana and significant progress was made on the Jubilee Turret through portfolio management, cost-effective exploration Remediation Project.
and the New Ventures programme.
The TEN FPSO commissioning was completed and, following the conclusion of Continue to develop the Chairman Succession Plan.
the ITLOS arbitration between the Governments of Ghana and Cte dIvoire, plans for resumption of drilling were approved.
In Kenya, good progress has been made on the Early Oil Pilot Scheme.
The Joint Development Agreement was signed, setting out a structure for the Government of Kenya and the Kenya Joint Venture Partners to progress the development of an oil export pipeline.
In Uganda, the Joint Venture Partners have commenced engagement with the Government of Uganda in order to progress the farm-down to CNOOC and Total towards completion.
Continue to assess our risk appetite and identify and mitigate key risks in our business.
The Board regularly reviewed Tullows risk management systems and Receive and review the report of the Boards Risk procedures, including as part of the strategy offsite session in June.
workinggroup and define Tullows Tier 1 risks management Ensure, through the Board Committee structure, an active overview of and interaction with the Companys andacorresponding risk appetite and mitigation Enterprise Wide Risk EWR process.
A Board working group on risk management and risk appetite for Tullows strategy for each.
Tier1 risks was established towards the end of the year.
Ensure there is an ongoing consideration of the Companys top risks and that these are identified in the EWR Review and approve the structure of risk management process and are being actively managed by the Executive.
The Board receives quarterly political risk reports, highlighting emerging within Tullow, including Committee and Board issues in countries and regions where Tullow is active.
The Board also receives responsibilities and interaction with management interim updates on any evolving issues.
The Enterprise Wide Risk Register is a consolidated register of the risks to the Group and is managed by the Executive Team and monitored by the Board.
Assurance over the process for its maintenance is the responsibility of the Audit Committee.
Maintain and enhance Tullows culture and values as market conditions continue to improve.
Following the Employee Pulse Survey undertaken in 2016, a number of specific Continue to enhance and communicate Tullows culture Governance initiatives have been implemented throughout the business and these are and values within its Group and to Tullows stakeholders andvalues Ensure that the Code of Ethical Conduct is actively followed throughout all levels of the Company and maintain a regularly maintained, monitored and reported on to enhance Tullows culture and business partners.
culture of accountability for Ethics & Compliance in both the Business Units and the Corporate Centre.
Ensure the Board retains oversight of adherence Monitor compliance against the new IMS and ensure that the IMS is continuously improved as the business evolves.
The Code of Ethical Conduct e-learning module was deployed again in 2017 to the Code of Ethical Conduct and ensure all levels Ensure that Tullows policies, standards and procedures, as set out in the IMS, are consistently followed ensuring and self-certification against the Code reached a 100 per cent response rate of the Company continue to retain accountability efficient, safe and responsible operations.
up from 97 per cent the year before.
Since the introduction of the IMS, internal audit and assurance reviews have Ensure that, as Tullows policies, standards and been carried out in conjunction with reviews by functional heads to ensure the procedures are developed and improved within individual policies, standards and procedures of the IMS are being appropriately the IMS, they continue to be understood and implemented and integrated within the business and, where amendments and followed by the Company.
improvements have been required, these have been adopted and will continue Ensure that strong corporate governance remains a to be monitored.
60 Tullow Oil plc 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 2 2017 Objectives 2017 Performance 2018 Objectives Strategy and Review Tullows strategy in light of the changed external environment.
com 61 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED 2017 Objectives 2017 Performance 2018 Objectives Organisational Work with the new CEO and Executive Team to ensure a smooth Executive transition.
New CEO and CFO formally appointed with a smooth transition process Ensure the Executive Team is provided with the support established.
The Senior Independent Director met regularly with the Chairman from the Board to implement Tullows strategy.
capacity Review Board structure for current environment and changed management.
and the CEO to ensure successful transition of key relationships ahead of the Continue to review the Board structure and the skill Review effectiveness of each Committee.
Chairmans retirement in or before the AGM in April 2019. matrix required to deliver the strategy of the Company.
Continue to assess the post-MSP organisational design and ensure that the Executive and OSE are actively improving Good progress on CEO transition to date with a clear division of roles established.
Continue effective succession planning for the Executive the organisational efficiency, effectiveness and accountability.
The Nominations Committee met frequently throughout the year to consider and non-executive Directors and Senior Management, Continue to develop effective succession planning for the Executive and non-executive Directors and Senior Management.
and advance succession planning and the skill matrix of the Board as a whole.
with a particular focus on the diversity aspirations of Ensure that the diversity programme, initiated in 2016, to improve diversity across the whole organisation remains an theorganisation.
External search consultants appointed to commence Chairman succession area of focus for the Executive Team.
Candidate lists under periodic review and discussions on timing of Review the effectiveness of each Committee.
Continue to assess and improve the organisational During the year, the number of Board members reduced from 11 to nine.
efficiency, effectiveness and accountability of the business as the demands on different functions evolve.
Succession planning and diversity were discussed periodically at the Board meetings and were reviewed in depth at the Boards strategy offsite meeting.
Implement Project LEAP and ensure the values it creates are embedded throughout the organisation for Broad consensus that Board diversity requires improvement, but considered the future.
preferable to appoint successor Chair in seat in order for him her to actively participate in any future Board changes.
A new Executive Team comprised of the Executive Directors and diverse Senior Management was established.
Our new Project LEAP was launched to create a significant and sustainable change in Tullows culture and approach to people development and diversity in the workplace.
Work with the new CEO to ensure a smooth transition of high-level stakeholder relationships.
The Chairman and the Board worked closely with the new CEO and met Ensure that Tullows strategy for growth is clearly Stakeholder with a number of high-level stakeholders during the year.
engagement Ensure that shareholders, staff and other major stakeholders understand and are aligned with the Tullow strategy.
Members of the Board and the new Executive Team engaged with Ensure the CEO and Executive Team maintain and create Ensure that the organisation fully understands the importance of stakeholder relationships in Tullows strategy of shareholders, civil society organisations, employees and other stakeholders strong relationships with the Companys stakeholders shared prosperity.
to discuss and strengthen the understanding of our strategy.
Internal communications and business updates took place more frequently Continue to work with all levels of Tullows stakeholders and continued to be improved upon, focusing on specific items such as shared to implement our strategy of shared prosperity.
prosperity in the countries we work with.
The Senior Independent Director and the Company Secretary met key stakeholders independent of management and were available throughout theyear.
62 Tullow Oil plc 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 2 2017 Objectives 2017 Performance 2018 Objectives Organisational Work with the new CEO and Executive Team to ensure a smooth Executive transition.
com 63 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Tullow is committed to regular dialogue with its shareholders RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS and the wider investment community and the IR team and Communication and dialogue Executives have maintained open and transparent dialogue 2017 was a year of significant news flow for Tullow, requiring throughout the year.
Ongoing communication has been through regular and proactive engagement with our shareholders.
Early regulatory announcements, regular meetings, presentations, in the year we announced a series of Board changes and the investor conferences and ad hoc events.
Over the year, the IR farm-down of our Uganda asset.
This was followed by a Rights team and Senior Management met with over 250 institutions Issue in March: the introduction of a new management team at comprising 70 per cent of the share register, and 170 firms that the Groups Half Year Results: resolution of the ITLOS border are non-holders.
Targeted roadshows, conferences and investor dispute in September: and finally the successful refinancing of meetings were conducted in England, Scotland, Ireland, East & our RBL facility in November.
West Coast USA, Germany, Switzerland, Spain, France, Ghana, Abu Dhabi and South Africa.
The combination of these events presented a timely opportunity to conduct an in-depth investor perception study, through an The Executive, Group Finance and IR teams have continued independent third-party provider, to gauge investor sentiment their engagement with our bond investors through a number and ultimately inform our investor relations IR plans going ofhigh yield conferences and one-on-one meetings throughout forward.
Interviews were conducted with 37 buy-side investors the year.
Going forward, a conscious effort is being made to and 10 sell-side analysts.
The results were presented and discussed better integrate our engagement with debt investors into our in detail with the Board in June, and the feedback continues to annual IR programme.
inform the content and style of our messaging to the market.
Tullow also proactively organised roadshows for governance The IR team plans to run a follow-up perception study in 2018 analysts, led by the Senior Independent Director SID, who was to track progress in key areas of the study that required improvement.
joined by the Company Secretary.
Institutional shareholders are offered the opportunity to meet the Chairman or the SID to discuss any issues and concerns in relation to the Groups governance and strategy.
Non-executive Directors are also available to attend meetings with major shareholders if requested to do so.
SHAREHOLDER ANALYSIS SHAREHOLDER ANALYSIS SHAREHOLDER ANALYSIS BY CATEGORY % BY GEOGRAPHY % BY INVESTMENT STYLE % Mutual fund manager 31 UK 61 Value & growth 44 Asset manager 20 Europe 21 Retail 16 Pension fund manager 14 North America 14 Value 13 Insurance fund manager 11 ROW 4 Hybrid 9 Private banking 7 Corporate 6 Corporate 6 Other 12 Other 11 64 Tullow Oil plc 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 2 Tullow conducted a series of meetings with socially responsible 2018 KEY SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENTS investors SRI when requested, to discuss topics including January health and safety, the environment, country and political risk Trading Statement and Operational Update and other operational matters.
These meetings are generally hosted by our Executive Vice President of Safety, Operations, February Engineering & External Affairs and the IR team.
Full Year Results Tullows sixth Ghana Investor Forum took place in May 2017 in Accra.
The event gave key institutional and retail shareholders April the chance to hear presentations and question the Executive Annual General Meeting Directors and Senior Managers from the Ghana Business Unit.
Annual General Meeting Trading Update Keeping shareholders informed July We ensure shareholders can access details of the Groups June Statement and Operational Update results and other news releases through the London Stock Half Year Results Exchanges Regulatory News Service.
In addition, these news releases are published on the Media section of the Groups November website: www.
Shareholders and other interested November Trading Update parties can subscribe to email news updates by registering on the website.
The Group continually looks for ways to improve how we use online channels to communicate with our stakeholders through our corporate website, webcasting andthrough social media.
Another important way we keep shareholders informed is through regular formal reporting and Tullows Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports are available on the corporate website.
COM Financial results, events, corporate reports, webcasts and fact books are all stored in the Investor Relations section of our website: www.
2017 Annual Report and Accounts: www.
com 65 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Accountability Remuneration This report provides shareholders with a clear assessment of The Board has delegated responsibility for agreeing the the Groups position and prospects supplemented, as required, remuneration policy for the Chairman, the Chief Executive by other periodic financial and trading statements.
Officer, the Executive Directors and the Senior Executives with the Remuneration Committee.
Its role and activities are set out The Boards arrangements for the application of risk management in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 78. and internal control principles are detailed below.
The Board has delegated oversight of the relationship with the Groups Constructive use of the AGM external auditor to the Audit Committee.
Its work is outlined in At the AGM held on 26 April 2017, shareholders received the Audit Committee Report on page 67. presentations setting out the key developments in the business and put questions to the Chairman, the Chairmen of the Audit, Internal controls Nominations and Remuneration Committees and other The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Groups members of the Board.
systems of internal control, which are designed to safeguard the assets of the Group and to ensure the reliability of financial A poll was used to vote for all resolutions at the 2017 AGM, information for both internal use and external publication and andthe final results which included all votes cast for and to comply with the requirements of the UK Corporate against and those withheld were announced via the London Governance Code.
Stock Exchange and on the Companys corporate website.
Notice of the AGM is sent to shareholders at least 20 working Overall control is ensured by a regular detailed reporting days before the meeting.
system covering both technical progress of projects and the state of the Groups financial affairs.
The Board has put in place On behalf of the Board procedures for identifying, evaluating and managing principal Aidan Heavey risks that face the Group.
Principal risks are regularly reported Chairman to the Board.
6 February 2018 Tullow recognises that any system of internal control can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that material financial irregularities will be detected or that the risk of failure to achieve business objectives is eliminated.
However, the Boards objective is to ensure that Tullow has appropriate systems in place for the identification and management of risks.
In accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board of Directors is required to monitor the Companys risk management and internal control systems and, at least annually, carry out a review of their effectiveness, and report on that review in the Annual Report.
At Tullow, the Board has delegated responsibility for this assessment to the Audit Committee, and results of the assessment are described on page 71.
Governance & Risk management 38 Viability statement 48 66 Tullow Oil plc 2017 Annual Report and Accounts
