2 OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION Results and dividends voting rights voting at any general meeting may be The loss on ordinary activities after taxation of the Group forthe conducted by a show of hands unless a poll is duly year ended 31 December 2017 was $188.5 million 2016:loss of demanded.
On a show of hands every shareholder who is $597.3 million.
present in person at a general meeting and every proxy or corporate representative appointed by a shareholder and No dividends have been recommended by the Board in 2017 present at a general meeting has one vote regardless of the 2016: nil.
number of shares held by the shareholder or represented by the proxy or corporate representative.
If a proxy has been Subsequent events appointed by more than one shareholder and has been On 6 February 2018, Anne Drinkwater informed the Board instructed by one or more of those shareholders to vote for shehas decided not to stand for reelection at the 2018 AGM.
the resolution and by one or more of those shareholders to Her directorship will therefore cease with effect from the close vote against a particular resolution, the proxy shall have one of the 2018 AGM, which is currently anticipated to take place vote for and one vote against that resolution.
On a poll, every on25 April 2018. shareholder who is present in person has one vote for every share held by that shareholder and a proxy has one vote for Share capital every share in respect of which he has been appointed as As at 6 February 2018, the Company had an allotted and fully proxy the deadline for exercising voting rights by proxy is set paid up share capital of 1,387,515,818 ordinary shares each out in the form of proxy.
On a poll, a corporate representative with a nominal value of 0.10. may exercise all the powers of the company that has authorised him.
A poll may be demanded by any of the following: a the Substantial shareholdings Chairman of the meeting: b at least five shareholders entitled As at 6 February 2018, the Company had been notified in to vote and present in person or by proxy or represented by accordance with the requirements of provision 5.1.
2 of the aduly authorised corporate representative at the meeting: Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure Guidance and c any shareholder or shareholders present in person or Transparency Rules of the following significant holdings byproxy or represented by a duly authorised corporate intheCompanys ordinary share capital: representative and holding shares or being a representative % of issued in respect of a holder of shares representing in the aggregate capital as not less than onetenth of the total voting rights of all Number of at date of Shareholder shares notification shareholders entitled to attend and vote at the meeting: or d any shareholder or shareholders present in person Standard Life Aberdeen plc 128,721,895 9.30 orby proxy or represented by a duly authorised corporate Prudential plc group of companies 69,271,752 5.01 representative and holding shares or being a representative Commonwealth Bank of Australia 36,836,077 4.03 in respect of a holder of shares conferring a right to attend Genesis Asset Managers, LLP 54,857,056 5.99 and vote at the meeting on which there have been paid up Majedie Asset Management Limited 29,209,276 3.20 sums in the aggregate equal to not less than onetenth of the 1 IFG International Trust Company Ltd 38,960,366 5.98 total sums paid up on all the shares conferring that right: 1.
Based on notification received 14 November 2006.
IFG is now known return of capital in the event of the liquidation of the as First Names Trust Company.
Company, after payment of all liabilities and deductions taking priority, the balance of assets available for distribution will be distributed among the holders of ordinary shares Shareholders rights according to the amounts paid up on the shares held by The rights and obligations of shareholders are set out in the them.
A liquidator may, with the authority of a special Companys Articles of Association which can be amended by resolution, divide among the shareholders the whole or any special resolution.
The rights and obligations attaching to the part of the Companys assets, or vest the Companys assets Companys shares are as follows: in whole or in part in trustees upon such trusts for the dividend rights holders of the Companys shares may, by benefit of shareholders, but no shareholder is compelled to ordinary resolution, declare dividends but may not declare accept any property in respect of which there is a liability: dividends in excess of the amount recommended by the control rights under employee share schemes the Directors.
The Directors may also pay interim dividends.
Company operates a number of employee share schemes.
Nodividend may be paid other than out of profits available Under some of these arrangements, shares are held by fordistribution.
Subject to shareholder approval, payment or trustees on behalf of employees.
The employees are not satisfaction of a dividend may be made wholly or partly by entitled to exercise directly any voting or other control rights.
distribution of specific assets: The trustees will generally vote in accordance with employees instructions and abstain where no instructions are received.
Unallocated shares are generally voted at the discretion of the trustees: and www.
com 101 C CORPORA ORPORATE TE G GO OVERNANCE VERNANCE OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION CONTINUED Shareholders rights continued under the $100 million senior secured revolving credit restrictions on holding securities there are no restrictions facility agreement between, among others, the Company under the Companys Articles of Association or under UK law and certain subsidiaries of the Company and International that either restrict the rights of UK resident shareholders to Finance Corporation and the lenders specified therein, hold shares or limit the rights of nonresident or foreign the Company is obliged to notify the agent who shareholders to hold or vote the Companys ordinary shares.
notifiesthe lenders upon the occurrence of a change There are no UK foreign exchange control restrictions on the ofcontrol: payment of dividends to US persons on the Companys if any lender so requires, it may cancel its commitments ordinary shares.
immediately and demand repayment of all outstanding amounts owed by the Company and certain subsidiaries Material agreements containing change of control provisions of the Company to it under the agreement and any The following significant agreements will, in the event of a connected finance document.
So long as such lender change of control of the Company, be affected as follows: states its requirement to be repaid within 20 business To the extent that a change of control occurs as a result of days of being notified by the agent such period being the any person, or group of persons acting in concert as defined notice period, the repayment amount will become due in the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers, gaining control and payable by no later than 10 business days after the of the Company: end of such notice period: and under the $2.4 billion or up to $2.9 billion in the event under the $600 million secured revolving credit facility thatthe Company exercises its option to increase the agreement between, among others, the Company and commitments by up to an additional $500 million and certain subsidiaries of the Company, BNP Paribas, Crdit thelenders provide such additional commitments senior Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank and Standard secured revolving credit facility agreement between, Chartered Bank and the lenders specified therein, among others, the Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company is obliged to notify the agent who theCompany, BNP Paribas, Crdit Agricole Corporate notifiesthe lenders upon the occurrence of a change andInvestment Bank, Lloyds Bank plc, ING Bank N. V. ofcontrol: DNB Bank ASA and The Standard Bank of South Africa Limited and the lenders specified therein, if any lender so requires, it may cancel its commitments immediately and demand repayment of all outstanding the Company is obliged to notify the agent who amounts owed by the Company and certain subsidiaries notifiesthe lenders upon the occurrence of a change of the Company to it under the agreement and any ofcontrol: connected finance document.
So long as such lender if any lender so requires, it may cancel its commitments states its requirement to be repaid within 20 business immediately and demand repayment of all outstanding days of being notified by the agent such period being the amounts owed by the Company and certain subsidiaries notice period, the repayment amount will become due of the Company to it under the agreement and any and payable within 10 business days after the end of connected finance document.
So long as such lender such notice period.
states its requirement to be repaid within 20 business to the extent that a change of control occurs, in general days of being notified by the agent such period being the terms, as a result of i a disposal of all or substantially all notice period, the repayment amount will become due the properties or assets of the Company and all its restricted and payable by no later than 10 business days after the subsidiaries other than through a merger or consolidation end of such notice period and, in respect of each letter of in one or a series of related transactions: ii a plan being credit issued under the agreement, full cash cover will adopted relating to the liquidation or dissolution of the be required by no later than 10 business days after the Company: or iii any person becomes the beneficial owner, end of such notice period: directly or indirectly, of shares of the Company which grant that person more than 50 per cent of the voting rights of theCompany: 102 Tullow Oil plc 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 2 under an indenture relating to $650 million of 6 per cent interest at the date of the change of control event.
The Senior Notes due in 2020 between, among others, the Company is required to give the Trustee notice of the Company, certain subsidiaries of the Company and occurrence of an event constituting a change of control Deutsche Trustee Company Limited as the Trustee, the within five calendar days of the occurrence of such event, Company must make an offer to noteholders to repurchase and the bondholders shall thereafter have 60 calendar days all the notes at 101 per cent of the aggregate principal in which to exercise the election referred to above.
If the amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest.
bondholders elect to redeem the Convertible Bonds, the Therepurchase offer must be made by the Company to Company is required to make payment of this amount allnoteholders within 30 days following the change of 14business days after receiving notification of such election.
control and the repurchase must take place no earlier than 10 days and no later than 60 days from the date Directors therepurchase offer is made.
Each noteholder may take The biographical details of the Directors of the Company at the upthe offer in respect of all or part of its notes: and date of this report are given on pages 40 and 41. under an indenture relating to $650 million of 6.25 per cent Details of Directors service agreements and letters of Senior Notes due in 2022 between, among others, the appointment can be found on pages 88 and 89.
Details of the Company, certain subsidiaries of the Company and Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company and Deutsche Trustee Company Limited as the Trustee, the in the Groups longterm incentive and other share option Company must make an offer to noteholders to repurchase schemes are set out on page 96 and pages 98 to 100 in the all the notes at 101 per cent of the aggregate principal Directors Remuneration Report.
amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest in the event that a change of control of the Company occurs.
Directors indemnities and insurance cover The repurchase offer must be made by the Company to As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under allnoteholders within 30 days following the change of whichthe Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors, to control and the repurchase must take place no earlier theextent permitted by the Companies Act 2006, against claims than10 days and no later than 60 days from the date from third parties in respect of certain liabilities arising out of, therepurchase offer is made.
Each noteholder may take orin connection with, the execution of their powers, duties upthe offer in respect of all or part of its notes: and andresponsibilities as Directors of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
The Directors are also indemnified against the cost to the extent that a change of control occurs, in general terms, of defending a criminal prosecution or a claim by the Company, as a result of: i any person or persons, acting together, its subsidiaries or a regulator provided that where the defence acquiring or becoming entitled to more than 50 per cent of isunsuccessful the Director must repay those defence costs.
the voting rights of the Company: or ii an offer being made TheCompany also maintains directors and officers liability to all of the Companys shareholders to acquire all or a insurance cover, the level of which is reviewed annually.
majority of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company or such offeror proposing a scheme of arrangement with Conflicts of interest regard to such acquisition, and thereby becoming entitled A Director has a duty to avoid a situation in which he or she has, toexercise more than 50 per cent of the voting rights of or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly theCompany : may conflict, with the interests of the Group.
The Board requires under a trust deed constituting $300 million of 6.625 per cent Directors to declare all appointments and other situations that guaranteed convertible bonds due in 2021 the Convertible could result in a possible conflict of interest and has adopted Bonds between, among others, the Company, certain appropriate procedures to manage and, if appropriate, approve subsidiaries of the Company and Deutsche Trustee any such conflicts.
The Board is satisfied that there is no Company Limited as the Trustee, the bondholders shall compromise to the independence of those Directors who have have the right to require the Company to: i convert, in appointments on the boards of, or relationships with, accordance with a formula specified in the trust deed, the companies outside the Group.
Convertible Bonds into preference shares in the Company, which in turn will be exchanged by the Company for ordinary shares: or ii redeem the Convertible Bonds at their principal amount, together with accrued and unpaid www.
com 103 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION CONTINUED Powers of Directors Appointment and replacement of Directors The general powers of the Directors are set out in Article 104 of The Company shall appoint disregarding Alternate Directors no the Articles of Association of the Company.
It provides that the fewer than two and no more than 15 Directors.
The appointment business of the Company shall be managed by the Board which and replacement of Directors may be made as follows: may exercise all the powers of the Company whether relating to the shareholders may by ordinary resolution elect any person the management of the business of the Company or not.
This who is willing to act to be a Director: power is subject to any limitations imposed on the Company by applicable legislation.
It is also limited by the provisions of the the Board may elect any person who is willing to act to be a Articles of Association of the Company and any directions given Director.
Any Director so appointed shall hold office only until by special resolution of the shareholders of the Company which the next Annual General Meeting and shall then be eligible are applicable on the date that any power is exercised.
for election: Please note the following specific provisions relevant to the each Director is required in terms of the Articles of exercise of power by the Directors: Association to retire from office at the third Annual General Meeting after the Annual General Meeting at which he or she Preemptive rights and new issues of shares the holders of was last elected or reelected, although he or she may be ordinary shares have no preemptive rights under the Articles reelected by ordinary resolution if eligible and willing.
of Association of the Company.
However, the ability of the However, to comply with the principles of best corporate Directors to cause the Company to issue shares, securities governance, the Board intends that each Director will submit convertible into shares or rights to shares, otherwise than him or herself for reelection on an annual basis: pursuant to an employee share scheme, is restricted under the Companies Act 2006 which provides that the directors of the Company may by special resolution remove any Director a company are, with certain exceptions, unable to allot any before the expiration of his or her period of office or may, by equity securities without express authorisation, which may be ordinary resolution, remove a Director where special notice contained in a companys articles of association or given by has been given and the necessary statutory procedures are its shareholders in general meeting, but which in either event complied with: and cannot last for more than five years.
Under the Companies there are a number of other grounds on which a Directors Act 2006, the Company may also not allot shares for cash office may cease, namely voluntary resignation, where all otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme theother Directors being at least three in number request without first making an offer on a preemptive basis to his or her resignation, where he or she suffers physical or existing shareholders, unless this requirement is waived mental incapacity, where he or she is absent from meetings byaspecial resolution of the shareholders.
of the Board without permission of the Board for six Repurchase of shares subject to authorisation by consecutive months, becomes bankrupt or compounds shareholder resolution, the Company may purchase its withhis or her creditors or where he or she is prohibited ownshares in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. bylaw from being a Director.
Any shares that have been bought back may be held as treasury shares or must be cancelled immediately upon Encouraging diversity in our workforce completion of the purchase.
The Company received authority Tullow is committed to eliminating discrimination and at the last Annual General Meeting to purchase up to a encouraging diversity amongst its workforce.
Decisions related maximum of 91,517,442 ordinary shares.
The authority lasts to recruitment selection, development or promotion are based until the earlier of the conclusion of the Annual General upon merit and ability to adequately meet the requirements of Meeting of the Company in 2018 or 26 July 2018. the job, and are not influenced by factors such as gender, marital status, race, ethnic origin, colour, nationality, religion, Borrowing powers the net external borrowings of the Group sexual orientation, age or disability.
outstanding at any time shall not exceed an amount equal to four times the aggregate of the Groups adjusted capital and We want our workforce to be truly representative of all sections reserves calculated in the manner prescribed in Article 105 of society and for all our employees to feel respected and able of the Companys Articles of Association, unless sanctioned to reach their potential.
Our commitment to these aims and by an ordinary resolution of the Companys shareholders.
detailed approach are set out in Tullows Code of Ethical Conduct and Equal Opportunities Policy.
We aim to provide an optimal working environment to suit the needs of all employees, including those of employees with disabilities.
For employees who become disabled during their time with the Group, Tullow will provide support to help them remain safely in continuous employment.
104 Tullow Oil plc 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 2 Employee involvement and engagement We use a range of methods to inform and consult with employees about significant business issues and our performance.
These include webcasts, the Groups intranet and town hall meetings.
We have an employee share plan for all permanent employees, which gives employees a direct interest in the business success.
Political donations In line with Group policy, no donations were made for politicalpurposes.
Corporate responsibility The Group works to achieve high standards of environmental, health and safety management.
Our performance in these areas can be found on pages 36 and 37 of this report.
Further information is available on the Group website: www.
com, including archived copies of the separate Corporate Responsibility Report which was published in previous years.
Auditor and disclosure of relevant audit information Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the Directors areaware, there is no relevant audit information as defined bysection 418 3 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditor is unaware and each Director has taken allsteps that ought to have been taken to make him or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys auditor will be proposed at the AGM.
More information can befound in the Audit Committee Report on page 70.
Annual General Meeting The Notice of Annual General Meeting will be mailed to shareholders separately and will set out the resolutions to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
The meeting will be held on 25 April 2018 at Tullow Oil plcs Head Office, 9 Chiswick Park, 566 Chiswick High Road, London W4 5XT, from 12 noon.
This Corporate Governance Report which includes the Directors Remuneration Report and the information referred to herein has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Kevin Massie Corporate Counsel and Company Secretary 6 February 2018 Registered office: 9 Chiswick Park 566 Chiswick High Road London W4 5XT Company registered in England and Wales No.
com 105 HIGH-GRADED & RESET EXPLORATION PORTFOLIO Exploration drilling operations, offshore Suriname.
106 Tullow Oil plc 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statement of Directors responsibilities 108 Independent auditors report for the Group and Company Financial Statements 109 Group Financial Statements 117 Company Financial Statements 153 Five-year financial summary 162 Supplementary information Shareholder information 163 Licence interests 164 Commercial reserves and resources 168 Transparency disclosure 169 Sustainability data 176 Tullow Oil plc subsidiaries 179 Glossary 181 www.
