Strategic Strategic Report Report We provide our shareholders with long-term growth in capital and income.
We do this by investing mainly in public and private equity markets, using borrowings to enhance returns and by controlling costs.
Our investments are held in a number of portfolios that are individually concentrated, but are managed as a whole to provide global diversification, lower volatility and lower risk.
This strategy produces investment out-performance over the longer term.
Business model ESG impact The Directors have a duty to promote the success of the Company.
As the Company has no employees and no premises, the Board As an investment company with no employees, we believe that has concluded that the direct impact of its activities is minimal.
the optimum basis for doing this and achieving our objective is a The Companys indirect impact occurs through the large range of strong working relationship with our appointed Manager, FCIB, a organisations and businesses in which it invests.
Within policies set and overseen by the Board of aims to mitigate their impact through the implementation of Directors, the Manager has been given overall responsibility for the F&Cs Responsible Ownership policy, which encourages investee management of the Companys assets, asset allocation, gearing, companies to focus on ESG matters.
stock and sector selection and risk.
As part of this, they have the flexibility to blend their expertise with those of other fund managers F&Cs statement of compliance with the UK Stewardship by delegating the management of some investment portfolios Code has been reviewed and endorsed by the Board, which externally.
These include the North America publicly listed equities encourages and supports F&C on its voting policy and its stance portfolios and the Private Equity funds of funds portfolios, while a towards ESG issues.
The statement is available on F&Cs website wide range of externally managed investment funds are held within at http: www.
Engagement on environmental, social and governance ESG matters are also undertaken by F&C.
Our ESG policies are aligned towards the delivery of sustainable investment performance over the longer term and are set out on To provide a breadth of sources of return, the individual investment page 13. portfolios are managed on a global or regional basis.
While we invest in equities, we retain complete investment flexibility to invest in other Manager evaluation types of securities or assets depending on the return prospects Investment performance and responsible ownership are and in consideration of the implications for the broader portfolio.
fundamental to delivering sustainable long-term growth in capital Furthermore, as a closed-ended listed investment company we and income for our shareholders and therefore an important are not constrained by asset sales to meet redemptions.
Our share responsibility of the Directors is exercising a robust annual capital structure gives us the flexibility to take a longer term view and evaluation of the Managers performance.
This is an essential stay invested while taking advantage of illiquidity throughout normal part of the strong governance that is carried out by the Board of and volatile market conditions.
Having the ability to borrow to invest Directors, all of whom are independent and non-executive.
gives us a significant advantage over a number of other investment fund structures.
The process for the evaluation of the Manager for 2017 and the basis on which the decision to reappoint them for another year The Board remains responsible for decisions over corporate strategy: are set out on page 38.
FCIBs fee as Manager is based on corporate governance: risk and control assessment: setting policies the market capitalisation of the Company, thus fully aligning their detailed on pages 12 and 13: setting limits on gearing and interests with shareholders through share price performance.
asset allocation: monitoring investment performance: and setting and monitoring marketing budgets.
10 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS ST CHAIRMANS STA ATEMENT TEMENT STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T GOVERNANCE REPOR GOVERNANCE REPORT T AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT Fund Manager and the specialist management teams As Fund Manager on behalf of FCIB, Paul Niven is responsible for developing and implementing the investment strategy with the Board and for the day-to-day management of the total portfolio covering the entire range of individual investment portfolio strategies.
His role covers tactical decisions over the allocation In 2017 F&C engaged with of assets between the different investment portfolios as well as 239 companies held by decisions over levels and timing of gearing within the prescribed range.
He has responsibility for overall portfolio composition but Foreign & Colonial over 35 delegates stock selection decisions.
The underlying specialist portfolio management teams are responsible and accountable to countries and had voted him and ultimately to the Board for their investment performance.
in respect of Foreign & Shareholder communication and marketing Colonials holdings at 356 We foster good working relationships with our key stakeholders: our Manager, as described above, and our shareholders.
With company meetings on a approximately 90% of our shareholder register in the hands of around 100,000 retail investors, and savings or execution-only range of ESG issues.
platforms representing an increasingly significant and growing element of the shareholder base, we remain focused with our Manager on the optimal delivery of the Companys investment proposition.
All available channels are used including the internet and social media as well as the F&C Savings Plans, which remain a cost effective and flexible way to invest in the Company.
Managing risks and opportunities We look to make good use of our corporate structure and the Principal Risks that we face.
The risk of not achieving the investment opportunities that lead to long-term growth in capital Companys objective, or of consistently under-performing the and income for our shareholders.
Like all businesses, these Companys benchmark or competitors, may arise from any or opportunities do not come without risks and uncertainties and all of inappropriate asset allocation, poor market conditions, ineffective or expensive gearing, poor cost control, loss of so the performance of the Manager is monitored at each Board meeting on a number of levels.
In addition to managing the assets and service provider governance issues.
In addition investments, the ancillary functions of administration, secretarial, to continually monitoring the Managers performance, their accounting and marketing services are all carried out by the commitment and available resources and their systems and Manager.
They provide reports on the investment portfolios: controls, the Directors also review the services provided by other the wider portfolio structure: risks: compliance with borrowing principal suppliers.
These include the Custodian and Depositary covenants: income, dividend and expense forecasts: errors: in their duties towards the safeguarding of the assets.
internal control procedures: marketing: shareholder issues, including the Companys share price discount to net asset value: The policies applied in running the Company are set out in detail on the following page, whilst the Fund Managers review and accounting and regulatory updates.
The performance of each individual investment portfolio is reviewed through a series of activity in the year can be found on page 18.
In the light of presentations given by each specialist management team of the Companys strategy, investment processes and control throughout the year.
environment relating to both the oversight of the Companys service providers and the effectiveness of the risk mitigation Shareholders can assess our financial performance from the activities, the Board has set out on page 17 its reasonable Key Performance Indicators that are set out on page 15 and, expectation that the Company will continue in operation for the on page 16, can see what the Directors consider to be the next ten years.
Report and Accounts Report and Accounts 2017 2017 || 11 11
