Report of the Management Engagement Committee Role of the Committee of these businesses and the resources and opportunities for F&C The primary role of the Management Engagement Committee is as part of BMO and their continued support for its investment trust to review the investment management agreement and monitor business.
With regard to performance, the Shareholder return the performance of the Manager for the investment, secretarial, outperformed the benchmark over one, three, five and ten years.
financial, administration, marketing and support services that it The Committee met in closed session following the presentations provides under that agreement.
It also reviews the terms of the and concluded that in their opinion the continuing appointment agreement including the level and structure of fees payable, the of FCIB as Manager on the terms agreed was in the interests of length of notice period and best practice provisions generally.
The Board ratified this recommendation.
of the Committees responsibilities have been carried out over the course of 2017 and 2018 to date.
The Managers fee An important responsibility of the Committee is that relating to Composition of the Committee the management fee.
The Manager receives an annual fee, which All the Directors are members of the Committee.
Its terms of reference for the year under review was equal to 0.365% of the market can be found on the website at foreignandcolonial.
The fee is calculated and paid monthly and is subject to a deduction for amounts earned from Manager evaluation process investments in other investment vehicles managed by F&C.
The The Committee met once during the year and again in January amount paid was 11.8m, an increase of 24% from 9.5m last 2018 for the purpose of the formal evaluation of the Managers year reflecting the increase of the Companys average market performance including the contribution from F&C more widely.
Note 4 on the Accounts provides Its performance is considered by the Board at every meeting, detailed information in relation to the management fee.
with a formal evaluation by the Committee each year.
For the purposes of its ongoing monitoring, the Board receives detailed Whilst the funds held in the Global Multi-Manager portfolio levy reports and views from the Fund Manager on investment management fees, no fees are paid to the Manager for the policy, asset allocation, gearing and risk, together with quarterly selection of the funds.
No additional fees beyond the annual presentations on the F&C managed portfolio strategies.
Quarterly fees detailed above are paid to the Manager for any future updates are received from the US sub-managers.
The Board also commitments made to Private Equity.
The Manager and certain receives comprehensive performance measurement schedules, individuals employed by the Manager are, however, entitled to provided by Thomson Reuters Eikon and F&C.
These enable it participate in a performance fee arrangement in the form of carried to assess: the success or failure of the management of the total interest over secondary or co-investments made within the Private portfolio against the performance objectives set by the Board: Equity programme.
the sources of positive and negative contribution to the portfolio in terms of gearing, asset allocation and stock selection: and the Review of the Managers fee performance of each investment portfolio against its local index, The fee paid to the Manager is reviewed by the Committee every where applicable, and the risk return characteristics.
Portfolio three years and is next due for review in December 2018.
At performance information, which is relevant in monitoring F&C, the last review in December 2015, presentations were given by the sub-managers and the Private Equity managers, is set out on both F&C and an independent consultant, which had provided pages 18 to 22. an in-depth analysis of fees prevailing in the market place and trends both within the investment trust industry and more widely.
Manager reappointment The review also considered the effect of the ad valorem structure The annual evaluation that took place in January 2018 included and hence the impact of exchange rate movements and share presentations from the Fund Manager and F&Cs Head of buybacks.
The findings of the independent consultant were that Investment Trusts.
This focused primarily on the objectives set the existing structure and fee level were both sensible and aligned by the Board and F&Cs contribution towards achieving those in the key areas.
Although market capitalisation as the basis for objectives particularly in regard to investment strategy and the fee calculation was uncommon, this was now appearing more marketing.
As part of the evaluation, the CEO and CIO of BMO and more in new issues and the basis had worked well for Foreign Global Asset Management and the Head of Distribution, BMO & Colonial in terms of its simplicity: clarity: discount tightening: Global Asset Management presented to the Board on the strength and alignment.
This was consistent with F&Cs own assessment.
38 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REPORT In summary, the Company was meeting the key criteria for an Use of the F&C name appropriate management fee structure, which were regarded as: The Company owns the name Foreign & Colonial and F&C owns Competitive the name F&C.
For many years the Company has had rights to Simple use the F&C name in accordance with provisions set out in the Sufficiently incentivised management agreement.
Over the years the Company has not exercised those rights to any meaningful degree but henceforth will The Committee also took into consideration that the Company had increasingly use the F&C name for marketing purposes.
In time, broadened its investment capabilities by allocating additional assets and subject to shareholder approval at the AGM, the Board will also to F&Cs Multi-Manager team at no additional direct management change the corporate name to F&C Investment Trust PLC.
The cost as well as services from other areas within the business.
There Board has therefore reviewed the terms under which it can use the also remained scope to reduce management costs from externally F&C name and on 1 March 2018 entered into a separate trade managed assets by utilising existing resource within F&C under new mark licence agreement with F&C which supersedes the provisions arrangements for the management of private equity investments.
within the management agreement over future use.
The licence agreement is royalty free subject to there being no material change The Committee had concluded that on the basis of the review there to the Companys management arrangements with F&C within the was no immediate need for the Company to change the rate of the next 15 years.
fee payable to the Manager but to continue to monitor developments and made a recommendation to the Board to that effect.
The Board Committee evaluation subsequently endorsed the Committees recommendation.
The activities of the Committee were considered as part of the Board appraisal process completed in accordance with standard Third Party Managers fees governance arrangements as summarised on page 36.
The F&C incurs investment management fees from the sub-managers conclusion from the process was that the Committee was operating appointed to manage the North America portfolio.
The Company effectively, with the right balance of membership and skills.
reimburses F&C for these fees, which in 2017 amounted to 3.3m 2016: 2.7m see note 4 on the accounts.
The fees paid to Private Equity managers in respect of the Private Equity funds of funds amounted to 4.5m for 2017 2016: 4.6m all of which was incurred indirectly through the funds.
Some of the Simon Fraser funds have arrangements whereby these Private Equity managers Management Engagement Committee Chairman share in the profits once certain hurdle rates of return to investors 6 March 2018 have been achieved.
These arrangements are varied and complex, but are on normal commercial terms within the private equity funds of funds industry.
Fees payable by the underlying funds are negotiated by each manager.
The arrangements also vary from fund to fund, but management fees of 2% per annum and a 20% carried interest, once an agreed hurdle rate of return for investors has been achieved, would be normal.
Report and Accounts 2017 | 39 Statement of Directors Responsibilities Londons Smithfield Market opened in November of 1868.
40 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REPORT Statement of Directors Responsibilities Foreign & Colonial was launched in March 1868 and has paid a dividend every year since.
