Dir Directors ectors Report Report The Directors submit the Report and Accounts of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2017.
The Corporate Governance Statement: the Reports of the Management Engagement, Nomination and Audit Committees: and the Remuneration Report all form part of this Directors Report.
Statement regarding Report and Accounts companies domiciled outside the UK are subject to taxation in those The Directors consider that, following advice from the Audit countries in accordance with relevant double taxation treaties.
Committee, the Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information The Company has received approval from HMRC as an investment necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys position and trust under Section 1158 and has since continued to comply with performance, business model and strategy.
The Audit Committee the eligibility conditions and ongoing requirements of that section.
had reviewed the draft Report and Accounts for the purpose of this assessment having also put in place an arms length process to Accounting and going concern provide additional comfort to the Directors in making this statement.
The Financial Statements, starting on page 56, comply with The market outlook for the Company can be found on page 22. current UK Financial Reporting Standards, supplemented by the Principal Risks can be found on page 16 with further information Statement of Recommended Practice Financial Statements of in note 25 to the Accounts.
There are no instances where the Investment Trust Companies and Venture Capital Trusts SORP.
Company is required to make disclosures in respect of Listing Rule The significant accounting policies of the Company are set out in 9.8.
The unqualified auditors opinion on the Financial Statements appears on page 50.
Shareholders will be Results and dividends asked to approve the adoption of the Report and Accounts at the The results for the year are set out in the attached accounts.
The AGM Resolution 1. three interim dividends totalling 7.70 pence per share, together with the final dividend of 2.70 pence per share, which will be paid on As discussed in note 24 on the Accounts, the Directors believe that, 1 May 2018 to shareholders registered on 3 April 2018 subject to in light of the controls and monitoring processes that are in place, approval at the AGM Resolution 3, will bring the total dividend for the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational the year to 10.40 pence per share.
This represents an increase of existence for at least twelve months from the date of approval of 5.6% over the comparable 9.85 pence per share paid in respect of the financial statements.
In considering this, the Directors took the previous year.
into account the diversified portfolio of readily realisable securities which can be used to meet short-term funding commitments, and Company status the ability of the Company to meet all of its liabilities and ongoing The Company is a public limited company and an investment expenses.
Accordingly, it is reasonable for the financial statements to company as defined by section 833 of the Companies Act continue to be prepared on a going concern basis.
The Company is registered in England and Wales with longer term viability is considered in the Ten Year Horizon company registration number 12901 and is subject to the UK Statement on page 17.
Listing Authoritys Listing Rules, UK and European legislation and regulations including company law, financial reporting standards, Statement as to disclosure of information to the auditors taxation law and its own articles of association.
Each of the Directors confirms that, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, there is no information relevant to the Taxation preparation of the Report and Accounts of which Ernst & Young LLP As set out in note 7 on the Accounts, the Company is exempt from EY or the auditors is unaware and he or she has taken all the UK Corporation Tax on its worldwide dividend income and from steps a Director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be UK Corporation Tax on any capital gains arising from the portfolio aware of relevant audit information and to establish that EY is aware of investments, provided it complies at all times with Section 1158 of that information.
of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
Dividends received from investee 30 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REPORT Reappointment of auditors nominee company will vote their shares in proportion to those who EY have indicated their willingness to continue in office as auditors do proportional voting.
Implementation of this arrangement to the Company and a resolution proposing their reappointment and is subject to a minimum threshold of 5% of the shares held in the authorising the Audit Committee to determine their remuneration for savings plans being voted.
A maximum limit of 610,000 shares that the ensuing year will be put to shareholders at the AGM Resolutions any one individual investor can vote, being approximately 5% of the 12 and 13.
Further information in relation to the reappointment can minimum threshold, also applies.
Any shares voted by an investor in be found on page 48. excess of the maximum limit remain valid, but do not form part of the proportional voting basis.
Planholders have the right to exclude their Capital structure shares from the proportional voting arrangement.
At the annual general meeting held on 25 April 2017, shareholders authorised the Board to buy back up to 14.99% of the Companys Borrowings ordinary shares either to be held in treasury or to be cancelled.
A The Company has a number of borrowing facilities and has in issue total of 4,392,150 shares were bought back all of which were placed fixed rate senior unsecured private placement notes.
There is also a in treasury.
The shares bought back represented 0.8% of the shares multi-currency overdraft facility with JPMorgan Chase Bank and the in issue calculated exclusive of any shares held in treasury at 31 Company also has a perpetual debenture stock.
The share buybacks enhanced the NAV per share made on page 20 and in notes 13, 15 and 16 on the accounts.
The purchases were made at prices ranging between 542.3 pence and 647.1 pence and the aggregate consideration Remuneration report paid for the shares, including stamp duty and commissions, was At the annual general meeting held on 25 April 2017, shareholders 25,661,000.
As at 31 December 2017 there were 561,819,016 approved the Directors remuneration policy.
It is intended that this ordinary shares of 25 pence each ordinary shares in issue of policy will continue for the three year period ending at the annual which 19,638,304 were held in treasury.
Therefore the total number general meeting in 2020, when shareholders will next be asked of voting rights in the Company at that date was 542,180,712.
The policy can be found on page 43.
The shares have been bought back between the date of the year end Remuneration Report, which can be found on pages 43 to 44, and 1 March 2018. provides detailed information on the remuneration arrangements for the Directors.
Shareholders will be asked to approve the report at the All ordinary shares rank equally for dividends and distributions and AGM.
Resolution 2. carry one vote each.
There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities in the Company, no special rights with regard to control Director re-elections attached to securities, no agreements between holders of securities The names of the Directors of the Company, along with their regarding their transfer known to the Company and no agreement biographical details, are set out on pages 28 to 29 and are which the Company is party to that affects its control following a incorporated into this report by reference.
All the Directors held takeover bid.
Details of the capital structure can be found in note office throughout the year under review with the exception of Mrs 17 on the accounts.
The revenue profits of the Company including Beatrice Hollond who was appointed to the Board on 1 September accumulated revenue reserves, together with the realised capital 2017.
Mrs Hollond will stand for election by shareholders at the profits of the Company, are available for distribution by way of AGM Resolution 4.
All the other Directors will stand for re-election dividends to the holders of the ordinary shares.
Upon a winding-up, by shareholders at the meeting in accordance with the requirements after meeting the liabilities of the Company, the surplus assets would of the UK Corporate Governance Code Resolutions 5 to 11.
Sir be distributed to shareholders pro rata to their holdings of ordinary Roger Bone has served as a Director for more than nine years.
Full details are set out in the Companys articles of association.
Nomination Committee has considered each Director and the Board has concurred with the Nomination Committees assessment that Voting rights and proportional voting each Director is independent, continues to make a valuable and At 1 March 2018 the Companys 561,819,016 ordinary shares in effective contribution and remains committed in the role.
issue less the 19,638,304 shares held in treasury represented a total of 542,180,712 voting rights.
As at 31 December 2017 and Directors interests and indemnification since that date no notifications of significant voting rights have There were no contracts of significance to which the Company was been received under the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure a party and in which a Director is, or was, materially interested during Guidance and Transparency Rules.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors concerning compensation for loss of office.
Approximately 45% of the Companys share capital is held on behalf of non-discretionary clients through the F&C savings plans.
The Company has granted a deed of indemnity to the Directors For those planholders who do not return their voting directions, the in respect of liabilities that may attach to them in their capacity as Report and Accounts 2017 | 31 Directors of the Company.
This covers any liabilities that may arise will be able to meet the Directors informally over refreshments to a third party for negligence, default or breach of trust or duty.
deed of indemnity is a qualifying third-party provision as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 and has been in force Authority to allot shares and sell shares from treasury throughout the period under review and remains in place as at the Resolutions 14 and 15 date of this report.
It is available for inspection at the Companys By law, directors are not permitted to allot new shares or to grant registered office during normal business hours and at the AGM.
The rights over shares unless authorised to do so by shareholders.
Company also maintains directors and officers liability insurance.
In addition, directors require specific authority from shareholders before allotting new shares or granting rights over shares for cash Safe custody of assets or selling shares out of treasury, without first offering them to existing The Companys listed investments are held in safe custody by shareholders in proportion to their holdings.
JPMorgan Chase Bank the Custodian.
Operational matters Resolution 14 gives the Directors the necessary authority to allot with the Custodian are carried out on the Companys behalf by the Manager via F&C in accordance with the provisions of the investment securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 6.7m, 27.1m management agreement.
The Custodian is paid a variable fee ordinary shares, being equivalent to approximately 5% of the dependent on the number of trades transacted and location of the Companys current issued share capital calculated exclusive of any securities held.
shares held by the Company in treasury as at 1 March 2018, being the latest practicable date before the publication of the notice of Depositary the AGM.
The authority and power expires at the conclusion of the JPMorgan Europe Limited the Depositary acts as the Companys annual general meeting in 2019 or on 30 June 2019, whichever is Depositary in accordance with the Alternative Investment Fund the earlier.
Decreased in Managers Directive AIFMD.
The Depositarys responsibilities, the year under review which are set out in an Investor Disclosure Document on the Resolution 15 empowers the Directors to allot such securities for Companys website, include: cash monitoring: ensuring the proper cash, other than to existing shareholders on a pro rata basis and segregation and safe keeping of the Companys financial instruments also to sell treasury shares without first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings up to an aggregate that are held by the Custodian: and monitoring the Companys compliance with investment and leverage limits requirements.
The nominal amount also of 6.7m representing approximately 5% of Depositary receives for its services a fee of one basis point per the issued ordinary share capital of the Company at 1 March 2018, annum on the first 1 billion of the Companys net assets and 0.25 calculated exclusive of any shares held in treasury.
basis points per annum on net assets in excess of that amount, payable monthly in arrears.
These authorities and powers provide the Directors with a degree of flexibility to increase the assets of the Company by the issue of new Although the Depositary has delegated the safekeeping of all assets shares or the sale of treasury shares, in accordance with the policies held within the Companys investment portfolio to the Custodian, in set out on page 12 or should any other favourable opportunities arise to the advantage of shareholders.
the event of loss of those assets that constitute financial instruments under the AIFMD, the Depositary will be obliged to return to the Company financial instruments of an identical type, or the The Directors anticipate that they will mainly use them to satisfy corresponding amount of money, unless it can demonstrate that the demand from participants in the F&C Savings Plans when they loss has arisen as a result of an external event beyond its reasonable believe it is advantageous to such participants and the Companys control, the consequences of which would have been unavoidable shareholders to do so.
Under no circumstances would the Directors despite all reasonable efforts to the contrary.
use them to issue shares or sell treasury shares at a price which would result in a dilution of NAV per ordinary share.
Management fees Authority for the Company to purchase its own shares Information on the management fees payable by the Company is set out in the Report of the Management Engagement Committee.
Resolution 16 At the annual general meeting held in 2017 the Company was AGM authorised to purchase approximately 14.99% of its own shares for cancellation or to be held in treasury.
The number of shares The AGM will be held at The Brewery, 52 Chiswell Street, London, EC1Y 4SD on Monday, 23 April 2018 at 12 noon.
The Notice of remaining under that authority as at 31 December 2017 was Meeting appears on pages 84 to 87 and includes a map of the 79,332,118 shares or 14.63% of the issued share capital exclusive venue.
The Fund Manager will give a presentation and there will be of the number of shares held in treasury.
Resolution 16 will authorise an opportunity to ask questions during the meeting.
Shareholders the renewal of such authority enabling the Company to purchase 32 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REPORT in the market up to a maximum of 81,270,000 ordinary shares instructions or, alternatively, lodge your proxy vote via the Internet equivalent to approximately 14.99% of the issued share capital or the CREST proxy voting system, whether or not you intend to be exclusive of treasury shares and the minimum and maximum prices present at the AGM.
This will not preclude you from attending and at which they may be bought exclusive of expenses, reflecting voting in person if you so wish.
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and the Listing Rules.
All proxy appointments should in any event be returned or lodged so The Directors will continue to use this authority in accordance as to be received not later than 48 hours before the time appointed with the policy set out on page 12.
Under the Companies Act for holding the AGM.
2006, the Company is allowed to hold its own shares in treasury following a buyback, instead of having to cancel them.
This gives the Form of direction and proportional voting Company the ability to reissue treasury shares quickly and costIf you are an investor in any of the F&C Savings Plans, you will have effectively including pursuant to the authority under Resolution 15, received a form of direction for use at the AGM and you will also see above and provides the Company with additional flexibility in the have the option of lodging your voting directions using the Internet.
management of its capital base.
Such shares may be resold for cash F&C operates a proportional voting arrangement, which is explained but all rights attaching to them, including voting rights and any right on page 31. to receive dividends are suspended whilst they are in the treasury.
If the Board exercises the authority conferred by Resolution 16, All voting directions should be made as soon as possible in the Company will have the option of either holding in treasury or of accordance with the instructions on the form of direction and, in any cancelling any of its shares purchased pursuant to this authority and event, not later than 12 noon on 16 April 2018, so that the nominee will decide at the time of purchase which option to pursue.
Purchases company can submit a form of proxy before the 48 hour period of ordinary shares under the authority will be financed out of realised begins.
revenue and or capital reserves and funded from the Companys own cash resources or, if appropriate, from short-term borrowings.
The Voting recommendation authority to purchase ordinary shares will continue until the annual Your Board considers that the resolutions to be proposed at the general meeting in 2019 or on 30 June 2019, whichever is the earlier.
AGM are in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
The The Board intends to seek a renewal of such authority at subsequent Board therefore recommends that shareholders vote in favour of annual general meetings.
each resolution, as the Directors intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
Change of Company name Resolution 17 The Directors intend to promote the Company increasingly using By order of the Board the abbreviated name, F&C Investment Trust, a name that has long for and on behalf of been synonymous with the name Foreign & Colonial Investment F&C Investment Business Limited Trust.
Resolution 17 will also seek to adopt articles of association in Secretary substitution for the existing articles of association.
New article 107 6 March 2018 will enable the Directors to change the Companys corporate name to F&C Investment Trust PLC in the year ahead.
A copy of the proposed new articles of association will be available for inspection at the Companys registered office during usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and Bank holidays excluded until the date of the AGM and also on the date and at the place of the AGM from 15 minutes before the commencement of the AGM until its conclusion.
Form of proxy for AGM voting If you are a registered shareholder you will find enclosed a form of proxy for use at the AGM.
You will also have the option of lodging your proxy vote using the Internet.
For shares held through CREST, proxy appointments may be submitted via the CREST proxy voting system.
Please either complete, sign and return the form of proxy in the envelope provided as soon as possible in accordance with the Report and Accounts 2017 | 33 We are confident that your Company will remain an appropriate choice for any long-term investor for many years to come.
34 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
