STRATEGIC REPORT KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS A YEAR OF SOLID PERFORMANCE The Groups progress against its corporate scorecard is tracked to assess  strategy.
The scorecard is made up of a collection of key performance In 2017, a decision was taken to introduce a discretionary indicators KPIs which indicate the Groups overall health component to the Group scorecard of 10 per cent.
This was andperformance across a range of operational, financial and introduced to recognise unplanned events or initiatives non-financial measures.
thatrequired significant discretionary effort on the part ofouremployees.
The scorecard is central to Tullows approach to performance management and the 2017 indicators were agreed with the Each objective measured has a percentage weighting, and Board.
Each year, targets within the scorecard may change to financial and operational indicators have trigger, base and reect the most material strategic objectives and associated stretch performance targets.
Asreected in the adjoining table, in2017, Tullows overall performance was 39.7 per cent.
The risks the Group faces, as well as measures to deliver on the relative Total Shareholder Return TSR tracks our performance longer-term strategy of the Company.
Tullows performance over athree-year period.
For 2017 performance, our share against the scorecard is tracked and reviewed at quarterly price during the fourth quarter of 2014 is compared to the performance management meetings, which are attended fourth quarter of 2017, with the intervening period not accounted byExecutive Directors and senior leaders.
For these two periods we remain below the median and ongoingperformance is cascaded quarterly to staff through therefore score nil out of the possible score of 50 per cent.
management briengs and internal communications.
However, the delivery of the majority of remaining targets The Group scorecard is used to determine Executive Directors reects strong performance in maintaining liquidity, sustaining and employees performance-related pay to ensure that all cash ows, operating safely, reducing our costs and overall areas of the business are driving towards the same goals.
Executive Directors and Executive Vice Presidents performance is judged solely on the delivery of the targets setin the Group scorecard, whereas all other permanent employees bonuses are based on acombination of individual Remuneration Report 78 and Group performance.
20 Tullow Oil plc 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 1 FACILITY HEADROOM & STRATEGIC FINANCING 9.5% 10% FREE CASH AT YEAR END Relevance to strategy Performance Supporting our growth strategy with the Refinanced $2.5 billion seven-year RBL facility appropriatefinancing and liquidity to meet our $1.1BN Extended $800 million RCF by one year and capital commitments.
Deleveraging the balance voluntarily reduced commitment by $200 million sheet is critical to achieving our growth strategy.
ahead of amortisation schedule Deleveraged balance sheet through $750 million RightsIssue Generated $543 million of free cash flow, reducing gearing to 2.6x net debt adjusted EBITDAX Debt down by $1.3 billion to $3.5 billion WORKING INTEREST PRODUCTION 4% 4% PRODUCTION Relevance to strategy Performance Production revenues generate high-margin cash flow Group production exceeded the stretch target and which in turn funds exploration and development guidance was revised upwards due to strong 87,300BOEPD investment opportunities, can be re-invested in our performance from the TEN and Jubilee fields portfolio of assets and pays downdebt.
Non-operated West Africa portfolio performed ahead of budget Year-end total, excluding barrels covered bybusiness interruption insurance was 87,300boepd 13 14 15 16 17 CASH OPERATING COST OPERATING EXPENDITURE PER BARREL 1% 1% Relevance to strategy Performance Maintaining competitive operating expenditure helps The Group achieved an operating cost of $11.1 boe, $11.1 BOE deliver higher-margin production revenues.
The cost of significantly exceeding the stretch target producing a single barrel of oil is influenced by industry Increased production due to strong performance costs, inflation, fixed costs and production output.
on Jubilee and TEN fields and the Jubilee shut-down being moved to 2018 contributed toexceeding targets Operating costs also benefited from contract renegotiation, synergies within service providers and synergies with TEN and Jubilee operations 13 14 15 16 17 NET G&A NET GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS 1% 1% Relevance to strategy Performance $95M Maintaining lean running costs for the business Net G&A was managed well during the year influences both the profitability and efficiency of our resulting in a Net G&A for the year of $95 million, business.
Net G&A is the Companys corporate significantly beating our stretch target costs, which are not off-set against licence activity.
13 14 15 16 17 CAPITAL EXPENDITURE CAPITAL EXPENDITURE 1% 1% Relevance to strategy Performance $225M Investing capital expenditure is required to Capex was reduced significantly during the yearto maintainand grow the business and is directed $225 million, excluding the Uganda expenditure.
tothe development costs of major projects and This includes a $69 million accrual reversal exploration campaigns.
We are working to reduce inGhana capital expenditure in order to reduce our current debtlevels.
com 21 1,800 219 16.5 84,200 2,020 192 18.6 75,200 1,720 194 15.1 73,400 857 116 14.3 67,100 225 95 11.1 87.300 STRATEGIC REPORT KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS CONTINUED LOST TIME INJURY, TOTAL SAFETY, SUSTAINABILITY AND OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH 3.4% 5% RECORDABLE INJURY Relevance to strategy Performance 1.00 Protecting our people, communities, facilities and Four Lost Time Injuries have negatively impacted the environment impacted by our activities ensures LTIFperformance 0.80 we work safely and sustainably and maintains our 38 minor process safety events were recorded good reputation.
We measure this KPI through 0.60 12,349 lost man hours due to community process safety events, asset integrity, Lost Time work-related incidents 0.40 InjuryFrequency LTIF, number of malaria cases, No regulatory non-compliance notices received.
resolution of community grievances and spending 0.20 appropriate levels of our goods and services No new malaria cases for 2017 0.00 budgetswith local suppliers.
87 per cent progress against our Asset Integrity Process Safety key performance indicators 2017 Lost time injury frequency Total recordable injury frequency WEST AFRICA 3.5% 5% BACK TO Relevance to strategy Performance Our Ghana business continues to hold our most Government of Ghana approval was secured for DRILLING important and strategic producing assets and the the Greater Jubilee Full Field Development Plan GREATER JUBILEE FULL ITLOS ruling allows us to pursue future exploration FIELD DEVELOPMENT Rig contracted in preparation for return to drilling opportunities whilst returning the Jubilee field to GOVERNMENT APPROVAL on TEN and Jubilee in early 2018 plateau production levels, preparing for exploration Non-operated business growth plan for Gabon drilling and enhancing the value of the West Africa was developed non-operated business.
Decommissioning activities in the Southern North Sea progressed 20 mmbbls of new resources were booked EAST AFRICA 3.5% 5% FARM-DOWN OF UGANDAN ASSETS Relevance to strategy Performance UNDER WAY Commercialising oil in Kenya and Uganda is a key Strong operational performance was maintained objective of our strategy which is being pursued with initiatives being prepared and focus on through appropriate equity holdings in the respective community relations and capacity building to assets.
This KPI measured progress of the Kenya support local content development project for FID: completing the Uganda In Kenya, strategic direction shifted to focusing on farm-down: and progressing the Uganda development a phased development as a preferred value proposition to FID.
A Joint Development Agreement to construct an oil pipeline has been signed with government In Uganda our Partners, Total and CNOOC, have signed the Sales and Purchase Agreement to farm-down our interest and completion is expected in 2018.
We are working towards achieving FID around mid-2018 NEW VENTURES 3.8% 5% HIGHRelevance to strategy Performance GRADED Creating value through new exploration at the right Performance focus was on securing new acreage licence equity levels and securing new acreage and developing prospectivity EXPLORATION PORTFOLIO ensure that we maintain a balanced portfolio to New licences in Cte dIvoire and Peru pursue growth opportunities.
This KPI measured weresecured new acreage secured: managing appropriate equity Equity reductions secured in licences in levels in existing licences: maturing commercially Mauritania, Suriname, Namibia, Jamaica attractive prospects for future drilling campaigns: andPakistan and drilling the Araku well in Suriname safely, The exit from Madagascar and Greenland efficiently and cost-effectively.
wascompleted Progress was made on prospects in Suriname All operations in Jamaica, Uruguay, Guyana, Zambia, Suriname and Mauritania completed safely andunder budget 22 Tullow Oil plc 2017 Annual Report and Accounts LTIF & TRIF per million man hours 1 ORGANISATION 2% 3% 100% Relevance to strategy Performance Our organisation strategy aims to be inclusive and A mini staff survey conducted in Q3 showed that actions STAFF COMPLETION OF engage and motivate employees while ensuring that taken as a result of the feedback from the biennial CODE OF ETHICAL we have robust governance processes in place.
This engagement survey in 2016 were yielding results CONDUCT ONLINE COURSE KPI targeted improvements in staff engagement, A Diversity & Inclusion D&I workshop was held Diversity & Inclusion and Ethics & Compliance.
with the new Executive Team to endorse the forward plan of management and a new Executive Sub-Group was agreed to promote the D&I aims Allemployees completed the Code of Ethical Conduct online course and our administrative Code Certification process.
There were two breaches of compliance regarding the Companys Expenditure related to Public Officials ExPo Standard DISCRETIONARY AWARD 7% 10% Relevance to strategy Performance The discretionary award is effective for specific The following were taken into consideration actions that have resulted in value creation.
This forthe discretionary award: Executive Team element was introduced in 2017 to take account transition: Ghana Cte dIvoire ITLOS preparation: ofunforeseen events: business performance free cash flow generation: exiting Congo and the 7 10 management and leadership: in-year external Netherlands: settling a tax dispute in one of our commentary regarding the business and our share West African host countries: investor sentiment: price: andvalue created through superior performance.
progress on the Kenya development: and financeprocesses TOTAL SHAREHOLDER TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN 0% 50% RETURN Relevance to strategy Performance Our strategy is to build long-term sustainable value We achieved a zero score for TSR because our 500 growth resulting in returns to our shareholders.
share price, including the adjustment for the 400 TheTSR component is based on our performance Rights Issue, performed below the median 300 relative to our European and US E&P peers over a against our industry peer group over a three-year period.
three-yearperiod 200 100 0 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 Tullow FTSE 100 FTSE 250 2018 GROUP SCORECARD Financial, operational and organisational targets areincluded Ensuring funding capacity in a downside environment and in the 2018 scorecard, as well as measures to deliver on the determining a long-term strategic solution to deleverage longer-term growth strategy of the Company.
andrebase the balance sheet: A summary of the targets is listed below, and the KPIs will be Business delivery: operational targets relating to disclosed in the 2018 Annual Report: WestAfrica, East Africa and New Ventures: and Financing the business: ensuring sufficient liquidity through Growing our business: deliver growth activities relating 2018 to deliver the Business Plan and execute our long-term toWest Africa, East Africa and New Ventures.
strategic plan to deleverage and rebase the balance sheet: www.
