STRATEGIC REPORT ORGANISATION & CULTURE EMBEDDING A PERFORMANCEFOCUSED CULTURE The challenges of the last few years have proved an opportunity to create an organisation focusedoncreating value, driving performance and cost management.
This year the Company experienced significant change in the year including improving perceptions of Senior Management: organisations leadership with the appointment of our new providing more career and personal development opportunities: CEOand the introduction of a new eight-member Executive demonstrating our values more visibly and working to build Team, both in April, replacing the previous Executive Team trust in some parts of the business: streamlining our policies and procedures: and providing more regular and open offour Executive Directors.
All appointments were internal communications to the business.
The transition tothis new management structure was smooth with minimal The Executive Team has implemented a series of recommendations disruption to the business.
The new Executive Team has a to address the feedback about Senior Management including mandate todrive performance of the business to a new level and reforms to the management structure, better engagement with position the Company for future growth.
Each Executive Team employees, more visibility, devolved accountability to empower member reviewed their portfolio, made structural changes and managers, and inspiring trust and loyalty through leadership set outtheir business and management plans.
continued the implementation of actions arising Project LEAP has been set up specifically todedicate from our 2016 employee survey bringing many of more time to career and personal development the workstreams to fruition.
This two-year project aims to The new team is diverse with 25 per cent challenge andchange our working female representation and four different environment toallow employees to clearly nationalities: they each bring broad connect their personal development international and industry experience tothe needsof the business.
They are responsible for Our Core Values were revised to better leading the Groups three Business reflect the Company we have evolved Delivery Teams BDTs in West Africa, East intoinrecent years and focus on value, Africa and New Ventures as well as our integrity, collaboration and initiative.
Collectively the Attheend of 2017, they were rolled out by the team is accountable for: Executive Team in a series of town hall developing strategy and future business plans: meetings, along with our 2018 Business Plan.
reviewing Company performance and the efficiency In a focused effort to improve our ways of working a ofthebusiness: dedicated workstream was set up which led to, among other things, the removal of underused financial reports, changing developing people and their careers and creating a more financial reforecasting from monthly to quarterly and the diverse and inclusive Company: and simplification of Contract Review Boards in Ghana and Kenya.
communicating with staff, sharing feedback and the rationale Internal communication increased significantly during this year behind decisions.
through more regular and informal face-to-face communication.
The Executive Committee meets weekly and key discussions CEO-led town hall meetings were broadcast to all of our offices and business decisions are communicated to leadership and provided opportunities for employees to ask questions.
Managers then cascade this information to ensure other Executive Team members increased the number of town employees are kept up to date with the focus of the business.
hall meetings they held and also hosted informal breakfast briefings, and wrote weekly business newsletters.
Employee engagement The Group employee survey, Tullow Pulse, ran in mid-2016 and People the feedback it provided has been used to drive a number of At the end of 2017 Tullow had 922 employees and 108 improvements and changes.
Five key areas of concern were contractors, of whom 47 per cent 486 1,030 were African identified and these have been the focus of attention during this nationals.
Women made up 30 per cent 313 1,030 of our total 50 Tullow Oil plc 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 1 TOTAL WORKFORCE PAY & BONUS GAPS 2,500 Womens Womens hourly rate bonus pay 2,000 Lower mean 44% 53% Lower median 49% 52% 1,500 PAY QUARTILES Total work force: 1,030 1,000 Men Women Top quartile 90% 10% 500 Upper Middle quartile 91% 9% Lower Middle quartile 65% 35% 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Lower quartile 51% 49% workforce 2016: 29 per cent, 336 1,152 : 15 per cent 10 65 of The RISERS Talent Development Programme in Ghana focuses on our senior managers 2016: 13 per cent, 9 68 : and 11 per cent developing high-potential employees into management roles and 1 9 of our Board of Directors 2016: 18 per cent, 2 11. enhancing localisation at senior levels.
Fifteen of our staff are on this two-year programme and so far, five of the participants have We aim to include nationals of the countries in which we work been promoted to larger roles and have replaced expatriate staff.
in our leadership teams in Africa.
However, skills gaps in the countries and the multiple locations of some of our Business Reward Delivery Teams mean this is not always possible.
Tullow offers an attractive reward and benefits package to The agreement for a substantial farm-down of our assets and engageand motivate staff, drive the success of our business and to move to a non-operated position in Uganda resulted in voluntary attract new employees to the Company.
Our reward package is severance of 38 staff.
Twenty-two members of staff left Tullow performance linked and consists of fixed and variable components following a re-organisation of our Kenya business during the year.
including base salary, bonus, share awards, pension, life assurance and a range of other benefits.
All Tullow unexercised Our operations in Ghana are an important and strategic asset and unvested share awards were adjusted by a multiplier factor in our portfolio and, ten years after the discovery of oil, we of1.173 following completion of the Rights Issue in May.
initiated an Operational and Business Excellence Project.
The project will ensure we work in ways that deliver and optimise Gender pay gap reporting production, create long-term stakeholder value and provide a In 2017 the UK Government introduced the requirement for platform for future growth.
companies with over 250 employees to calculate and report their gender pay gaps for salary and bonuses.
The gender pay Diversity and inclusion gap is the difference between the average earnings of men Tullows Diversity & Inclusion Plan is focused on nationalities andwomen, expressed relative to mens earnings.
We recognise the value that a diverse and inclusive reporting this data for all our UK permanent employees to fulfil workforce brings to our business and how it enhances our therequirements of the regulation see table above.
reputation and the employee value proposition.
We aim to have a diverse employee population with a nationality mix that is Tullows UK workforce is 30 per cent female and only 22 per cent representative of the countries where our assets are.
In particular, of managerial positions are filled by women and this gender we want to improve the numbers of Africans and women in imbalance is the principal reason for Tullows gender pay gap.
We monitor and track progress against our There is a national shortage of qualified and experienced aspirations and this year introduced leading and lagging key women in technical roles in the oil and gas sector and this is performance indicators to analyse a series of categories to reflected at Tullow with a higher proportion of men in the senior ensure we are managing staff development and reward fairly.
However, we are focused on improving diversity and are taking action to improve gender equality especially at We introduced an improved approach to ensuring that we senior levels.
For example, our career development and senior consider a wider and diverse talent pool when recruiting.
leadership programmes are helping to support talented Thishas been challenging to implement this year because individuals to progress and this is further underpinned by good ofthe low levels of recruitment but we are extending this employee policies, benefits and recruitment practices.
practice to our internal moves and promotions.
As a part of preparing for the gender pay gap regulation Organisation development reporting, we have significantly improved our employee data This year saw the continuation of our flagship people development management and decision making tools used in making salary schemes the Executive Development Programme EDP and bonus decisions.
Such tools are important to ensure there is no unequal pay or unconscious bias, and when combined andthe Senior Leadership Programme SLP.
All of the new Executive Team members have participated in the EDP with job level frameworks and competency tools provide a more programme.
The SLP had 15 attendees in 2017 bringing total robust approach to managing talent.
numbers to 39employees, all of whom have robust and individually tailored development plans.
