STRATEGIC REPORT Our pr oducts We offer a range of products and services built on our understanding of people and their changing needs throughout life We aim to see things before Investing and Annuities Legal & General Capital others do and create far-sighted Legal & General LGC invests shareholder funds in approaches to better manage Retirement, Institutional direct investments for shareholder our assets and meet our UK and US Pension Risk Transfer: return, to provide longterm assets customers needs.
unlocking solutions for defined to back annuities and to create assets benefit pension scheme trustees for LGIM.
and sponsoring employers to manage Urban regeneration: transforming risk and improve benefit security our towns and cities with new for members.
housing, offices, retail and leisure Legal & General developments, roads and related Retirement, Retail infrastructure to create vibrant living Individual annuities: plans that enable environments for the 21st century.
individuals to turn their pension savings Housing: were committed to investing into a guaranteed income, either in new homes for all ages, social lifelong or fixed term.
These Lifetime mortgages: allows people to include build to rent and build to buy release some of the equity that is tied and range from first homes to later up in their home to fund a better living communities.
SME Finance: providing alternative Retirement solutions: our future debt and equity financing solutions strategic vision is to help people for small and medium sized enhance the total quality of their lives enterprises SMEs.
Clean Energy: helping to increase We provide protection for our supply and drive down the costs of customers homes, families and even energy through investments in their pets.
Helping people achieve longterm clean energy generating financial security also extends to saving for pensions and managing assets, such as solar, onshore wind investments and retirement income.
1.5m People registered for My Accounts to keep track of their products.
com 14 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT ASSOCIATED RISKS Investing and Annuities Investment Management Insurance Taking on the responsibility for The investment risks implicit in Providing protection products pension scheme liabilities and LGIMs funds are borne directly by means we have to make assumptions providing income in retirement its institutional and retail customers, about our customers mortality, exposes us to the risk that people with LGIMs fee income being linked how healthy they will be, how long may live longer than anticipated, to the value of funds held under they will continue with the policy, or that we experience default in management.
Significant falls in and events that could give a higher investments backing our obligations.
the value of investment markets rate of household claims than we As well as pricing for longevity, or fund outflows, resulting in a would normally expect.
We price we use reinsurance to manage material reduction in the overall and underwrite our products to selected risks, with LGIMs credit value of funds under management, take account of these risks, and and property experts assessing may adversely impact fee revenues: use reinsurance to manage and managing default risks.
Our although our diversified product significant exposures.
investments through LGC are portfolio and broad client base act inherently exposed to the risk that to diversify risks.
We are also they dont perform as anticipated, exposed to the operational risk in and we seek to closely manage real the execution of client mandates estate and housing market risks, and set a control environment to including development costs and minimise potential error.
SALE OF MATURE SAVINGS Investment Management Insurance In December 2017 we announced the Legal & General Investment Legal & General Insurance sale of the Mature Savings business Management Individual Protection: life to Swiss Re for 650 million, with the LGIM has a broad and diversified insurance for a fixed term or proceeds being received by the group in January 2018. business.
Investment capabilities whole of life, critical illness Swiss Res ReAssure division include principally: cover and income protection, manages closed and non-core safeguarding the financial health in-force portfolios, focusing on Solutions: including liability of peoples loved ones in the delivering excellent service and driven investment LDI strategies outcomes to policyholders.
event of death or illness.
We are confident that dedication to UK and the US.
customer service will deliver positive Global fixed income: with Group Protection: life, critical results for around one million existing strong active capabilities in the Legal & General customers.
illness cover and longterm UK and the US.
Our future growth in savings product sickness cover for employees areas will be through LGIMs Index: including passive equities, provided by employers.
workplace pension business which factor based investing and more now has 2.7 million customers, in our Legal & General Mortgage recently exchange traded funds.
retail savings business and through Club: the UKs leading our personal investing unit which Real assets: including real estate mortgage wholesaler.
offers ISAs and unit trusts directly and private credit.
Legal & General Surveying The transaction is expected to LGIM clients include: Services: the leading home increase the groups Solvency II ratio surveying business in the UK.
Institutional clients: mainly defined benefit and other pension Fintech: LGI operates the funds, sovereigns and companies groups strategic investments in the UK, US, Asia, Europe and in emerging insurance the Middle East.
technology companies and digital developments, including Corporate Employers: via theidol.
com, a comparison defined contribution mandates and technology supplier and UK workplace savings business.
Salary Finance a financial Individual retail clients: wellbeing platform.
through intermediaries in the UK General Insurance and Europe and through the direct Home Insurance: to cover personal investing business in a homeowners home and the UK.
Internal clients: principally Pet Insurance: to help people LGR, LGC, and the Mature meet vet bills.
OUR PRODUCTS LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 15
