16 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION OUR MARKETPLACE ATTRACTIVE LONG-TERM TRENDS HEALTHY FUNDAMENTALS, SHIFT TOWARDS VALUE BUTCOSTREMAINS AN ISSUE RATHERTHANVOLUME $34 billion According to a study commissioned by the Bill The traditional approach to healthcare provision Smith & Nephews addressable and Melinda Gates Foundation Lancet, April has been symptom and volume fee-for-service 1 segment in medical devices 2017 global healthcare spend, amounting to oriented which in combination with current c. $9 trillion in 2014, is set togrowat a real rate demographic trends has put upward pressure of c. 3% per annum percapita, reaching on healthcare costs.
In response, stakeholders c. $16 trillion in 2030 andc.
$24 trillion in 2040, are increasingly seeking to shift the focus from 4% representing c. 8% of the global economy.
break-fix to a more holistic and value-based Annual growth rate of Smith&Nephews approach focused on disease prevention 1 addressable segment The medical devices and supplies segment and treatment results fee-for-outcome.
of healthcare is today worth approximately $340 billion per annum.
Within that, Healthcare practitioners are no longer the Smith& Nephews addressable segment only decision-makers, but are part of larger isapproximately $34 billion, growing at multi-stakeholder purchasing processes.
Economic stakeholders have increasing influence on the purchase process for The main drivers for healthcare demand medical devices.
New payment models, include demographic shift towards older such as bundled procedure payments, risk populations, increases in lifestyle related sharing, or quality incentives penalties, are ailments such as obesity, advances in shifting the focus from clinical utility and technology leading to increased scope for safety alone to clinical outcomes and health treatment, and economic growth increasing economic performance, which in turn drives the access and demand for healthcare demand for Health Economic and Outcomes especially in the Emerging Markets.
Research HEOR to demonstrate clinical end Additionally, patients increasingly seek to economic value.
influence the choice of care as they become more and more informed about the range As an example, the US Centers for Medicare and nature of treatment options available.
& Medicaid Services CMS aims by 2018 to spend 50% of its Medicare fee-for-service Today healthcare expenditure already payments through alternative payment models constitutes a significant share of the overall and link 90% of its fee-for-service to quality global economy, especially in developed CMS, Jan 2015. markets where populations are ageing rapidly.
As an example, the share of US GDP spent FOCUS ON LOWERING COSTS on healthcare has reached nearly 17% and ANDINCREASING EFFICIENCY is set to continue to rise Lancet, April 2017.
The desire to lower costs and increase As a result, cost and cost control remain efficiency gives rise to several trends including, the dominant issues across the sector and for example: healthcare providers increasingly healthcare systems increasingly shift towards seeking to treat patients in outpatient more efficient and effective value-based care.
orcommunity settings: the increasing use ofdigital technologies to ensure that care is as efficient and effective as possible: the acceptance of good enough products in some circumstances: and the sector increasingly seeing efforts to cooperate across the value chain.
As an example, the UK National Health Service NHS is automating data exchange between its institutions and suppliers and has mandated all suppliers to provide pricing information through the Global Data Synchronization Network GDSN by October 2018 NHS, Feb 2016.
17 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION OUR MARKETPLACE continued which effectively limits length of the supply In the US, out-of-pocket costs for health GOVERNMENTS, REGULATIONS chain thus increasing transparency and insurance plans are tied to medical expenses &COMPLIANCE lowering cost to the end consumer.
Also in in a calendar year.
As a result, households Governments and other public bodies arekey 2017 Chinese regulators initiated a process who have reached their deductible or out-ofstakeholders in our marketplace.
to lower prices on medical devices.
The initial pocket cap may find that accessing care later In the US, where healthcare spending is focus of these efforts is on hip implants, drugin the year comes at a lower cost, which can higher as a percentage of GDP than most eluting stents and implantable  more of them to try and schedule other countries, politicians and regulators defibrillators ICDs.
any required treatments or procedures in the are focused on reducing cost and simplifying final months of any given year.
The major regulatory agencies for Smith the regulatory burden on the industry.
&Nephews products include the Food and Although common ground is hard to find, there COMPETITION Drug Administration FDA in the USA, the is a general consensus that the US healthcare Across our franchises we have a number of Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory system needs to be restructured.
competitors which differ with respect to both Agency MHRA in the UK, the Ministry of product focus, geographic reach and overall In 2017, the European Union reached Health, Labour and Welfare in Japan, the scale.
Whereas our key surgical competitors agreement on a new set of Medical Device China Food and Drug Administration and the are generally larger and more exposed to the Regulations which entered into force on Australian Therapeutic Goods Administration.
US, our key wound competitors are generally 25 May 2017.
These have a three-year Legislation covering corruption and bribery, such not US centric.
transition period: therefore will fully apply as the UK Bribery Act and the US Foreign Corrupt in EU Member States from 26 May 2020.
In Orthopaedic Reconstruction and Trauma Practices Act, applies to all our global operations.
These regulations will impose tougher we are one of four leading players as we We, and other companies in the industry, are requirements of market entry and post compete against Stryker US, Zimmer Biomet subject to regular inspections and audits by market surveillance of medical devices.
US and Johnson & Johnson US.
In Sports regulatory agencies and notified bodies, and in Although healthcare systems are less costly Medicine we hold a leading position behind some cases remediation activities have required, in Europe than in the US, strained government Arthrex, while also competing against the and will continue to require, significant financial budgets and demographic challenges are aforementioned companies.
driving an increased focus on value-based Our Advanced Wound Management business healthcare and requirements to demonstrate SEASONALITY is the second largest in our marketplace.
the value of innovation through evidence.
Orthopaedic reconstruction and sports We lead the somewhat fragmented Advanced Additionally, some uncertainty exists around medicine procedures tend to be higher Wound Care sub-segment alongside the UKs exit from the European Union where in the winter months when accidents Mlnlycke Sweden.
In Advanced Wound the regulatory impact is not yet clear.
and sports related injuries are highest.
Devices we are the primary challenger to In China, which in recent years has focused Elective procedures tend to slow down in US based NWPT incumbent Acelity US.
on, and succeeded with, increasing access the summer months due to holidays.
Due to In Advanced Wound Bioactives our key to healthcare, there is a strong focus on the nature of our product range, there is little products lead their respective categories.
In 2017 the seasonal impact on our Advanced Wound country introduced the two invoices system Management franchises.
1 MARKET SIZE $5.5bn 6% $8.5bn 5% $14.5bn 2% $5.5bn 4% 2 Sports Medicine Advanced Wound Management Hip & Knee Implants Recon Trauma & Extremities A A A E E A E D B E D D B B C B C C D C A SMITH & NEPHEW 22% A SMITH & NEPHEW 15% A SMITH & NEPHEW 11% A SMITH & NEPHEW 9% 3 B ARTHREX 32% B ACELITY 17% B ZIMMER BIOMET 33% B DEPUY SYNTHES 45% 3 3 C DEPUY MITEK 14% C MOLNLYCKE 10% C DEPUY SYNTHES 21% C STRYKER 26% D STRYKER 11% D CONVATEC 7% D STRYKER 20% D ZIMMER BIOMET 11% E OTHERS 21% E OTHERS 51% E OTHERS 15% E OTHERS 9% 1 Data used in 2017 estimates generated by Smith & Nephew is based on publicly available sources and internal analysis and represents an indication of market shares and sizes.
2 Representing access, resection and repair products.
