STRATEGIC REPORT | GROUP CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER Q&A At the halfyear we released 126 million by altering the base mortality assumptions to recognise the higher number of deaths than expected.
At the full year, following the completion of our necessary studies, we have released a further 206 million by reducing the allowance for future improvements in the medium term.
How mortality will develop in future is uncertain and a number of theories have been put forward to explain the change in mortality of the older population, from access to care, to lifestyle and austerity.
The reality is JEFF DAVIES complex, and we continue to analyse Group Chief Financial Officer this as part of our extensive research into mortality ensuring any actions we WATCH THE VIDEO take are prudent.
com media-centre videos Which key performance indicators KPIs particularly stood out when looking at the groups performance?
We are a growth business that is committed to achieving the best Jeff Davies became Group We have strategically aligned our returns for our shareholders.
As such, businesses to a number of key growth Chief Financial Officer in March we are focused on IFRS earnings as drivers, resulting in robust pipelines 2017 and has already helped well as Solvency II SII surplus and strong market positions meaning deliver a successful year of generation.
Management pays keen we remain confident about the attention to margins on new and financial performance.
Jeff talks mediumterm outlook for the business existing business as well as cost as we aim to achieve our 10% annual about what has driven our discipline across the group.
Cash earnings growth ambition over the next performance in 2017 and generation is also important and its few years.
explains why he believes that worth noting that 1.6 billion was paid What were the reasons for this to group from our operating divisions the Groups future prospects years mortality release?
What can in respect of this years financial should continue to be positive investors expect going forward in performance.
Although this includes for investors.
terms of future similar releases?
additional subsidiary dividends arising from mortality releases in the year, Youve had another strong set of The release of some of our mortality it clearly demonstrates the group is results in terms of profit and cash reserves this year reflects the prudent generating good levels of cash to generation.
What does this mean way that we have set our assumptions support our growing external dividend for the mediumterm outlook?
In recent years we have and reinvest in the business.
seen a slowing in the improvement in We are delighted by our 2017 longevity of the older population.
Its Does the strong Solvency II results where profit after tax increased important to understand that overall surplus generation mean that by 50% to 1.9 billion, our earnings per people are still living longer, but just youre well placed in terms of share increased to 31.9 pence a share not quite as long as we allowed for.
and return on equity rose to 25.6%.
While maintaining our cautious This was another very strong year, During the year our net surplus stance we now believe that we demonstrating our robust growth and generation was 1.2 billion, resulting in should start to recognise this income characteristics.
a 6.9 billion SII surplus and headline slowdown in improvement.
Our SII Over the last five years we achieved We think about longevity assumptions model is highly capital efficient average annual earnings growth of over in two parts: the rates of mortality our demonstrated by less than 100 million 10%, and this level of performance has customers are experiencing today of capital strain required to support continued in 2017.
Excluding the impact base mortality and, secondly, how writing new business, including of mortality releases in the year, mortality will improve in future.
All of this operating profit from our continuing assumptions feed into our projection means that we can continue investing operations increased by 12%.
of the number of deaths in our in good growth opportunities in all of reserving models.
our businesses whilst maintaining the groups balance sheet strength.
38 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT How is technology impacting Secondly, providing people with operations?
comfortable incomes in retirement is We are confident a key strategic focus for the group, We are embracing technology and LGIM and LGR Retail are working about the mediumterm across our operations to improve together to provide holistic solutions to speed to market, customer service and outlook for the business, customers across investment products, manage costs.
For example, over 80% annuities and lifetime mortgages.
where over the last of our customers in our UK retail protection business get an immediate Finally, our retail businesses across five years we have online point of sale decision, with no LGR Retail, LGIM, LGI, and General demonstrated our robust human intervention in the process.
Insurance all work closely together to The success of SmartQuote in support My Account which is our growth and income general insurance has helped increase online portal, where customers can characteristics.
direct premiums by 14% year on year.
find all their Legal & General products Additionally, many administrative in one place and take advantage of Jeff Davies processes can be handled efficiently by some other potential product offerings.
Group CFO, Legal & General programmed algorithms sometimes We now have 1.5 million customers referred to as robots, whilst big data signed up to My Account.
provides many advantages in product pricing, design and administration.
1.9bn This allows us to improve the scale IFRS Profit after tax increased 50% and efficiency of our operations.
from 1.3bn in 2016 How do your main business divisions work together to build 189% benefits for the group?
The headline Solvency II ratio has We are fortunate that our increased by 18 percentage points from 2016 collaborative culture provides significant synergies across all of our divisions.
Here are three examples: Firstly our three asset businesses work very closely together.
LGIM works with LGC and LGR to source and manage the direct investments which are important to deliver attractive investment returns.
LGC is able to invest in earlier stage investments and can create or unlock more debtlike investment opportunities for LGR, whilst LGIMs UK pension franchise delivers leads for LGRs pension risk transfer business and operates as the asset manager across the entire group.
UK INFRASTRUCTURE LGC, LGIM and LGR work together on direct investments, benefiting investors, customers and society.
GROUP CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER Q&A LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2017 39
