50 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS A DIVERSE BOARD ROBERTO QUARTA 68 OLIVIER BOHUON 59 GRAHAM BAKER 49 Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Joined the Board in December 2013 and Joined the Board and was appointed Chief Joined the Board as Chief Financial Officer on appointed Chairman following election by Executive Officer in April 2011.
Olivier has 1 March 2017 and elected by shareholders on shareholders at the 2014 Annual General announced his intention to retire by the end 6 April 2017.
He was also appointed Chairman of 2018.
Career and experience ofthe Nomination & Governance Committee Career and experience Graham holds an MA degree in Economics from andaMember of the Remuneration Committee Olivier holds a doctorate in Pharmacy from the Cambridge University and qualified as a Chartered on that day.
University of Paris and an MBA from HEC, Paris.
Accountant and Chartered Tax Adviser with Arthur Career and experience He started his career in Morocco with Roussel Andersen.
In 1995, he joined AstraZeneca PLC Roberto is a graduate and a former Trustee of the Uclaf S. A. and then, with the same company, where he worked for 20 years, holding multiple College of the Holy Cross, Worcester MA, US.
held a number of positions in the Middle East senior roles, including Vice President Finance & He started his career as a manager trainee at with increasing levels of responsibility.
He joined Chief Financial Officer, North America 2008-2010, David Gessner Ltd, before moving on to Worcester Abbott in Chicago as head of their anti-infective Vice President, Global Financial Services 2010-2013 Controls Corporation and then BTR plc, where he franchise with Abbott International before becoming and Vice President, Finance, International 2013- was a divisional Chief Executive.
Between 1985 Pharmaceutical General Manager in Spain.
2015 with responsibility for all emerging markets.
and 1989 he was Executive VP of Hitchiner He subsequently joined GlaxoSmithKline plc, rising Most recently, Graham was Chief Financial Officer Manufacturing Co. Inc.
He returned to BTR plc in to Senior Vice President & Director for European of generic pharmaceuticals company Alvogen.
1989 as Divisional Chief Executive, where he was Commercial Operations.
He then re-joined Abbott Skills and competencies appointed to the main board.
From here he moved as President for Europe, became President of Abbott Graham has deep sector knowledge and has had to BBA Aviation plc, as CEO and then as Chairman, International all countries outside of the US, and extensive exposure to established and emerging until 2007.
He has held several board positions, then President of their Pharmaceutical Division.
markets which is extremely relevant to his role at including NED of Powergen plc, Equant N. V. BAE He joined Smith & Nephew from Pierre Fabre, where Smith & Nephew.
He has a strong track record Systems plc and Foster Wheeler AG.
His previous he was Chief Executive.
of delivering operational excellence and has Chairmanships include Italtel SpA, Rexel S. A. IMI relevant experience across major finance roles Skills and competencies plc and SPIE SA.
He is currently Chairman of WPP and geographic markets, leading large teams Olivier has extensive international healthcare plc.
He is a partner at Clayton Dubilier & Rice and responsible for significant budgets.
leadership experience within a number of significant a former member of the Investment Committee of pharmaceutical and healthcare companies.
Fondo Strategico Italiano S. p. A.
Nationality His global experience provides the skillset required British Skills and competencies to innovate a FTSE 100 company with a deep Robertos career in private equity brings valuable heritage and provide inspiring leadership.
He is experience to Smith & Nephew, particularly a NED of Virbac Group and Shire plc, where he is when evaluating acquisitions and new business also a member of the Remuneration Committee opportunities.
He has an in-depth understanding and the Nomination & Governance Committee and of differing global governance requirements having will be appointed Senior Independent Director on served as a director and chairman of a number 25 April 2018. of UK and international companies.
Since his Nationality appointment as Chairman in April 2014, he has French conducted a comprehensive review into the composition of the Board and its Committees, and conducted the search for new Non-Executive Directors, resulting in the appointment of Vinita Bali in 2014, Erik Engstrom and Robin Freestone in 2015, Angie Risley and Marc Owen during 2017, and Roland Diggelmann so far in 2018.
Nationality American Italian GOVERNANCE 51 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS continued VINITA BALI 62 IAN BARLOW 66 THE RT.
HON BARONESS VIRGINIA BOTTOMLEY OF NETTLESTONE DL 69 Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed Independent Non-Executive Director in Appointed Independent Non-Executive Director December 2014 and Member of the Remuneration in March 2010, Chairman now Member of the Appointed Independent Non-Executive Director Committee and Ethics & Compliance Committee.
Audit Committee in May 2010, Member of the in April 2012 and Member of the Remuneration Ethics & Compliance Committee in October 2014 Committee and Nomination & Governance Career and experience and Senior Independent Director and Member Committee in April 2014.
Vinita holds an MBA from the Jamnalal Bajaj Institute of the Nomination & Governance Committee on of Management Studies, University of Bombay and Career and experience 6 April 2017. a BA in Economics from the University of Delhi.
Virginia gained her MSc in Social Administration She commenced her career in India with a Tata Career and experience from the London School of Economics following her Group Company, and then joined Cadbury India, Ian is a Chartered Accountant with considerable first degree.
She was appointed a Life Peer in 2005 subsequently working with Cadbury Schweppes plc financial experience both internationally and in following her career as a Member of Parliament in the UK, Nigeria and South Africa.
He was a Partner at KPMG, latterly Senior between 1984 and 2005.
She served successively number of senior global positions in marketing and Partner, London, until 2008.
At KPMG, he was as Secretary of State for Health and then Culture, general management at The Coca-Cola Company Head of UK tax and legal operations.
Previously he Media and Sport.
Virginia was formerly a Director of based in the US and South America, becoming was Chairman of WSP Group plc, and is currently Bupa and AkzoNobel NV.
She is currently a Director President of the Andean Division in 1999 and VP, NED and Chairman of the Audit Committees of The of International Resources Group Limited, member Corporate Strategy in 2001.
In 2003, she joined Brunner Investment Trust PLC, Foxtons Group plc of the International Advisory Council of Chugai Zyman Group, LLC, a US based consultancy, as and Urban&Civic plc.
Pharmaceutical Co. Chancellor of University of Hull Managing Principal.
Vinita was MD and CEO of and Sheriff of Hull and Trustee of The Economist Skills and competencies Britannia Industries Limited, a leading Indian publicly Newspaper.
She is the Chair of Board & CEO Ians longstanding financial and auditing career listed food company from 2005 to 2014.
Currently, Practice at Odgers Berndtson.
and extensive board experience add value to his Vinita is NED of Syngene International Limited, role as a member of the Audit Committee.
As a Skills and competencies Titan Company Ltd, Bunge Limited and CRISIL India member of the Ethics & Compliance Committee, Virginias extensive experience within Government, a Standard & Poor Company.
She is also Chair of he has managed to co-ordinate an oversight role particularly as Secretary of State for Health, brings a the board of Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition of both Committees.
This has been invaluable unique insight into the healthcare system both in the and a member of the Advisory Board of PwC India.
when commencing his role as Senior Independent UK and globally, whilst her experience on the board Skills and competencies Director with effect from 6 April 2017.
Ians first of Bupa brings an understanding of the private Vinita has an impressive track record of achievement board evaluation is discussed in the corporate healthcare sector and an insight into the needs of with blue-chip global corporations in multiple governance statement.
Her experience running the board geographies including India, Africa, South America, practice at a search firm gives her a valuable skillset Nationality US and UK, all key markets for Smith & Nephew.
as a member of the Nomination & Governance British Additionally, her strong appreciation of customer Committee and Remuneration Committee.
Her long service and marketing brings deep insight as we association with Hull, the home of many of our UK continue to develop innovative ways to serve our employees, also brings an added perspective.
markets and grow our business.
Nationality Nationality British Indian 52 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS continued ERIK ENGSTROM 54 ROBIN FREESTONE 59 MICHAEL FRIEDMAN 74 Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed Independent Non-Executive Appointed Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed Independent Non-Executive Director Director on 1 January 2015 and Member and Member of the Audit Committee and the in April 2013 and Chairman of the Ethics & of the Audit Committee.
Remuneration Committee on 1 September Compliance Committee in August 2014.
2015 and Chairman of the Audit Committee on Career and experience Career and experience 6 April 2017.
Erik is a graduate of the Stockholm School of Michael graduated with a Bachelor of Arts degree, Economics BSc and of the Royal Institute of Career and experience magna cum laude from Tulane University and a Technology in Stockholm MSc.
In 1988, he Robin graduated with a BA in Economics from The Doctorate in Medicine from the University of Texas graduated with an MBA from Harvard Business University of Manchester and later qualified and Southwestern Medical Center.
He completed School as a Fulbright Scholar.
Erik commenced his commenced his career as a Chartered Accountant postdoctoral training at Stanford University and the career at McKinsey & Company and then worked in at Deloitte.
He has held a number of senior financial National Cancer Institute, and is board certified in publishing, latterly as President and COO of Random positions throughout his career, including at ICI Internal Medicine and Medical Oncology.
In 1983, House Inc. and as President and CEO of Bantam plc, Henkel Ltd and at Amersham plc.
Robin was he joined the Division of Cancer Treatment at the Doubleday Dell, North America.
In 2001, he moved the Deputy CFO and then later the CFO of Pearson National Cancer Institute and went on to become on to be a partner at General Atlantic Partners, plc between 2006 and August 2015, where he the Associate Director of the Cancer Therapy a private equity investment firm.
Between 2004 was heavily involved with the transformation and Evaluation Program.
Michael was most recently and 2009, he was CEO of Elsevier, the division diversification of Pearson.
He was previously NED at CEO of City of Hope in California, and also served specialising in scientific and medical information eChem Ltd, Chairman of the 100 Group and Senior as Director of the institutions cancer centre and and then from 2009 CEO of RELX Group.
Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit held the Irell & Manella Cancer Center Directors Committee of Cable & Wireless Communications Distinguished Chair.
He was formerly Senior VP of Skills and competencies plc.
Robin is a NED and Chairman of the Audit research, medical and public policy for Pharmacia Erik has successfully reshaped RELX Groups Committee at Moneysupermarket.
com Group plc Corporation and also Deputy Commissioner and business in terms of portfolio and geographies.
and Michael Kors Holdings Ltd. Robin became Chair Acting Commissioner at the US Food and Drug He brings a deep understanding of how technology of the ICAEW Corporate Governance Advisory Group Administration FDA.
He has served on a number can be used to transform a business and insight into in 2017. of boards in a non-executive capacity, including the development of new commercial models that Rite Aid Corporation.
Currently, Michael is a NED of deliver attractive economics.
His experience as a Skills and competencies Celgene Corporation, MannKind Corporation and CEO of a global company gives him valuable insights Robin has been a well-regarded FTSE 100 CFO Intuitive Surgical, Inc. as a member of our Audit Committee.
who has not only been heavily involved with transformation and diversification, but also the Skills and competencies Nationality healthcare industry at Amersham, where his Michael understands the fundamental importance Swedish acquisition experience will be of value to Smith of research, which is part of Smith & Nephews & Nephew as it continues to grow globally and in value creation process.
His varied experience in different markets.
He brings financial expertise both the public and private healthcare sectors and insight as Chairman of the Audit Committee have given him a deep insight and a highly and an understanding of how to attract and retain respected career.
In particular his work with the talent in a global business as a member of the FDA and knowledge relating to US compliance Remuneration Committee.
provides the skillset required to Chair the Ethics & Compliance Committee.
Nationality Nationality British American Career and experience JOSEPH PAPA 62 Joe graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree He moved on to hold senior positions at Searle Independent Non-Executive Director in Pharmacy from the University of Connecticut Pharmaceuticals and was later President & COO Appointed Independent Non-Executive and MBA from Northwestern Universitys Kellogg of DuPont Pharmaceuticals and later Watson Director in August 2008 and Chairman of Graduate School of Management.
He was previously Chairman and theRemuneration Committee in April 2011, received an Honorary Doctor of Science degree from CEO of Cardinal Health, Inc. and Chairman and Member of the Audit Committee and Ethics the University of Connecticut School of Pharmacy.
CEO of Perrigo Company plc from 2006 to April & Compliance Committee.
He began his career at Novartis International AG as 2016.
Joe was appointed Chairman and CEO an Assistant Product Manager and eventually rose of Valeant Pharmaceuticals International, Inc. Joe will be retiring from the Board at the to VP, Marketing, having held senior positions in in May 2016.
AnnualGeneral Meeting on 12 April 2018 both Switzerland and US.
andwill not stand for re-election.
Nationality American 53 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION OUR BOARD OF DIRECTORS continued MARC OWEN 58 ANGIE RISLEY 59 ROLAND DIGGELMANN 51 Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed Independent Non-Executive Director To be appointed Non-Executive Director and and Member of the Audit Committee on 1 October and Chairman Elect of the Remuneration Member of the Audit Committee on 1 March 2018.
To be appointed Member of the Ethics & Committee on 18 September 2017.
Careers and experience Compliance Committee on 1 March 2018.
Career and experience Roland studied Business Administration at the Career and experience After graduating from Exeter University, and University of Berne.
In 1995, he joined Sulzer AG Marc graduated from Oxford University with a completing a 1-year personnel management as Manager Strategic Planning and progressed BA and BCL in Law.
In 1984 he was called to the programme, Angie joined the United Biscuits into further senior roles over the years until his Bar, following four years at Corpus Christi College graduate scheme.
After working in various different appointment as Executive Vice President, Sales Cambridge as a fellow and director of studies in law.
HR roles she joined Pizza Hut UK Ltd as Human Europe and Asia Pacific from 2002 to 2004 for He decided upon a corporate career and undertook Resources Director, a joint venture between Sulzer Medica later known as Centerpulse.
an MBA at Stanford University.
Marc commenced PepsiCo and Whitbread plc.
After five years she Roland joined Zimmer Group in 2004, in the role his healthcare and technology career at McKinsey joined Whitbread, becoming Executive Director on of Managing Director of Zimmer Japan and then & Company where he progressed to senior partner the plc board responsible for HR and Corporate later in 2006 as Senior Vice President, EMEA until and eventually a founding partner of McKinseys Social Responsibility in 2004.
Roland joined Roche Diagnostics in 2008 Business Technology Office.
In September 2001, she was the Group HR Director for Lloyds Banking as president of Asia Pacific before his current Marc joined McKesson Corporation and served Group, joining J Sainsbury plc as Group HR Director appointment as the Chief Executive Officer of the as Executive Vice President and member of the in January 2013.
Over the years, Angie has been Diagnostics Division of F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. Executive Committee.
He delivered strategic a member of the Low Pay Commission and has Skills and experience objectives and led over 40 acquisitions and held a number of non-executive directorships with Having spent his whole career in medical devices, divestments over a 10-year period.
In late 2011 he Biffa plc, Arriva plc and Serco Group plc.
She was a with 12 years at Sulzer and Zimmer, Roland brings headed Mckesson Speciality Health, which operates member of the Remuneration Committees at Arriva an in-depth knowledge of the medical device over 130 cancer centres across the US and provides plc and Biffa plc and Chairman of the Remuneration industry and healthcare environment which will services including market intelligence, supply Committee at Serco Group plc.
She is also a NED on be of great value to Smith & Nephew, in particular chain services, patient access to therapy, provider the Sainsburys Bank Board.
following the retirement of Joseph Papa from and patient engagement and clinical trial support.
Skills and competencies the Board at the Annual General Meeting on His final executive role came in 2014 where he was Angie is a well-regarded FTSE 100 Human 12 April 2018. appointed Chairman of the European Management Resources Director, proven NED and Remuneration Board at Celesio AG.
He retired in March 2017 once Nationality Committee Chairman.
She has gained experience he had improved operations, set the strategy and Swiss in a wide range of sectors, including a regulated recruited his successor.
This diversity of experience is Skills and competencies welcomed by the Board and the Remuneration Marc is a proven leader with an astute, strategic Committee.
Angie is also additional resource vision, capable of building significant international and sounding board for our own internal Human healthcare businesses.
He has strong commercial Resources function.
healthcare expertise which the Board values deeply Nationality following the pending retirement of Joseph Papa at British the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
Nationality British Skills and experience Susan has over 30 years experience as a Company Secretary in a wide range of companies including Prudential plc, Amersham plc and RMC Group plc.
Her work has covered board support, corporate governance, corporate transactions, group risk management, share registration, listing obligations, corporate social responsibility, pensions, insurance and employee and executive share plans.
Susan is SUSAN SWABEY 56 a member of the CBI Companies Committee and is Company Secretary a frequent speaker on corporate governance and Appointed Company Secretary in May 2009. related matters.
She is also Chairman of the Board of Trustees of ShareGift, the share donation charity Nationality and a member of the Financial Reporting Council British Lab Steering Group.
