KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS MONITORING PERFORMANCE TO MEASURE THE GROUPS PROGRESS TODAY AND ONGOING PERFORMANCE TOMORROW.
During 2017 we continued to monitor our performance and progress using the consistent range of key performance indicators used in the prior year.
These non-GAAP measures are set out below.
For further details of how these financial Alternative Performance Measures are reconciled to the nearest corresponding statutory measure see note 37 on page 143.
KPI Definition Why we measure this Performance % year on year 2017 commentary Revenue Annual organic growth Measures the ability of the Strong performance 1 growth in sales at like-for-like Company to grow sales in A&F business, driven exchange rates.
by operating in selected by volumes, price and geographies and segments mix.
Product innovation and offering differentiated, and geographic Linked to cost competitive products expansion in hi-tech strategic goal and services.
Performance Materials business, offset by Crafts sales decline in year.
Adjusted Annual organic growth in Measures the underlying Strong volume operating profit operating profit, adjusted for profitability progression growth, productivity 2 growth exceptional and acquisition of the Company.
and non-raw related items, at like-formaterial procurement like exchange rates.
improvements and Linked to cost control have offset strategic goal other inflationary cost pressures with some offset in Crafts.
Adjusted Annual growth in reported Measures the underlying EPS growth in 2017 earnings EPS from continuing activities, progression of the benefits at reported exchange per share excluding exceptional and generated for shareholders.
rates was driven by 3 growth acquisition related items.
higher operating profit a reduction in the underlying tax rate and Linked to lower finance charges.
strategic goal Adjusted free Cash generated from Measures the Companys Generated good 4 cash flow continuing activities less underlying cash generation levels of free cash, capital expenditure, interest, that is available to service higher year-on-year tax, dividends to minority capital demands.
operating profits, along Linked to interests and other items, and with controlled Net strategic goal excluding exceptional and Working Capital whilst discontinued items, acquisitions, increasing organic purchase of own shares by the investment in Capital Employee Benefit Trust and UK Expenditure.
14 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS CONTINUED KPI Description Why we measure this Performance % 2017 commentary Return on Pre-exceptional operating profit Measures the ability of Higher profitability and capital employed from continuing operations the Companys assets controlled asset base, 5 ROCE for the year divided by capital to deliver returns.
offset by increased employed property, plant and capital expenditure and equipment plus net working timing of Patrick Yarns Linked to capital at year end.
strategic goal Recordable Number of work-related injuries Measures the performance Company-wide accident rate and illnesses per 100 Full Time of the Company in campaign on reporting RAR Employees FTEs per year that delivering a safe and healthy incidents and near are considered recordable by working environment misses led to an the US Occupational Safety and for employees.
increased focus in 2017 Linked to Health Administration OSHA.
and a restatement of strategic goal 2016.
2017 rate of 0.55 a small decrease on 2016 0.56 and 83% below the latest US OSHA result 2016 of 3.2 injuries per 100 FTEs per year Employee Annual global survey with Measures the Companys We continued to engagement results benchmarked by IBM performance in delivering benchmark our score Kenexa, a leading specialist an effective and efficient workplace culture, and survey organisation.
work place culture and assess how people feel how proud and willing about working at Coats.
Linked to people are to work towards Actions taken as a result strategic goal achieving common goals.
of the 2016 survey allowed us to maintain our engagement level which is in the top 10% in the global IBM Kenexa survey.
Paying for Performance The incentive plans used to reward the Directors and our senior managers, include Performance Measures linked to certain of our Key Performance Indicators.
For more detail see the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 55 to 67.
Footnotes 1 Revenue growth in 2017 and 2016 excludes contribution from acquisitions made during the period.
Revenue growth in 2016 and 2015 also excludes the discontinued UK Crafts business discontinued in 2016 and EMEA Crafts disposed of in 2015.
2 Adjusted operating profit growth in 2017 and 2016 excludes contribution from acquisitions made during the period.
Adjusted operating profit growth in 2016 and 2015 also excludes the discontinued UK Crafts business discontinued in 2016 and EMEA Crafts disposed of in 2015.
3 Adjusted EPS growth in 2016 and 2015 excludes the discontinued UK Crafts business discontinued in 2016 and EMEA Crafts disposed of in 2015.
4 Adjusted free cash flow in 2016 and 2015 excludes the discontinued UK Crafts business discontinued in 2016 and EMEA Crafts disposed of in 2015.
5 ROCE based on adjusted operating profits.
With effect from 1 January 2017 capital employed used in the definition of ROCE includes intangible assets in relation to recent acquisitions.
ROCE for 2016 has been restated consistent with the current definition.
2015 is as reported, and has not been restated.
