Dir Directors ectors 2 1 2 Simon Fraser Sir Roger Bone KCMG Chairman Senior Independent Director Appointed to the Board in September 2009, Appointed to the Board in March 2008.
He appointed Chairman in May 2010 and is was president of Boeing UK from 2005 to Chairman of the Nomination Committee and 2014.
In earlier years he served as British the Management Engagement Committee.
Ambassador to Brazil from 1999 to 2004 He is also chairman of the Investor Forum, an and to Sweden from 1995 to 1999.
He was investor led organisation established for the an Assistant Under-Secretary of State in the purpose of improving long-term returns from Foreign and Commonwealth Office between investment through collective shareholder 1991 and 1995, head of the Economic engagement.
Most of his career was at Relations Department there from 1989 to Fidelity International, where he started as 1991 and Political Counsellor at the British an analyst and spent a number of years in Embassy in Washington DC from 1985 to Japan, latterly as Chief Investment Officer for 1989.
He was a visiting fellow at Harvard the Asia Pacific region.
He returned to the University in 1984 85 and served as a UK in 1999 to take up the position of Chief private secretary to the Foreign Secretary Investment Officer for Fidelity International, between 1982 and 1984.
He was one of the a position he held until 2005.
He is also Prime Ministers honorary ambassadors for chairman of The Merchants Trust PLC, British business from 2010 to 2015.
He is Fidelity Funds Luxembourg and McInroy and a non-executive director of ITM Power plc, Wood.
and is also chairman of Over-c-ltd, a small Shared directorships with other Directors: high tech company in the telecoms sector.
The Investor Forum with Nicholas Moakes Shared directorships with other Directors: None 1 Sarah Arkle 1 Appointed to the Board in March 2011.
She Beatrice Hollond was Vice Chairman of Threadneedle where Appointed to the Board on 1 September she was Chief Investment Officer for ten years 2017.
Beatrice spent 16 years at Credit Suisse until her retirement at the end of December Asset Management in Global Fixed Income 2010.
She was instrumental in establishing and began her career as an equity analyst at Threadneedles investment process and Morgan Grenfell Asset Management.
She is a recruiting a number of the firms senior member of the Board of Brown Advisory and fund managers.
In 1983 Sarah moved from holds non-executive directorships at Telecoms stockbroker WI Carr to become a Far East Plus PLC, M&G Group Limited and Templeton Equity Manager and subsequently became a Emerging Markets Investment Trust.
Beatrice is Director at Allied Dunbar Asset Management, chairman at Millbank Investment Management which became part of Threadneedle in Limited, chairman at Keystone Investment Trust May 1994.
She is a non-executive director PLC and non-executive director and chairman of Janus Henderson Group PLC and is of the Audit Committee at Henderson Smaller chairman of JPMorgan Emerging Markets Companies Investment Trust PLC.
Shared directorships with other Directors: Shared directorships with other Directors: None None 28 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMATION GOVERNANCE REPORT 2 1 Francesca Ecsery Edward Knapp Joined the Board on 1 August 2013.
Appointed to the Board in July 2016, Francesca has extensive expertise in Edward brings a combination of general marketing, with over 23 years of experience in management and operational experience senior director roles, with both blue chip and worldwide, with expertise in the digital start-up companies.
She has worked across transformation of large scale organisations, a broad range of consumer industries and Risk, Strategy and Cyber Security.
He is previously held the role of Global Business currently a Managing Director at HSBC, Development Director at Cheapflights Media.
where he is a Chief Operating Officer and She also held senior executive roles with STA Global Head of Business Management travel, the Thomas Cook Group and Thorn within the Technology function.
Prior to that, EMI plc and is currently a non-executive he was a Chief Operating Officer and Head director of Share Plc, Marshall Motor Holdings of Business Management at Barclays Bank plc and VISTA Ltd. within the Global Risk Function.
Until 2012 Shared directorships with other Directors: he was at McKinsey & Company, providing None extensive board and executive-level advisory to clients worldwide, focusing on banking operations, strategy, value creation and risk management and technology.
1 Jeffrey Hewitt Shared directorships with other Directors: Chairman of the Audit Committee None Appointed in September 2010 and as Chairman of the Audit Committee in November 2011.
He was the Group 2 Finance Director of Electrocomponents plc Nicholas Moakes from 1996 to 2005 and Deputy Chairman Appointed to the Board In March 2011.
Prior to that, he was is a Managing Partner and Chief Investment the Finance Director of Unitech plc from Officer of the Investment Division at The 1991 to 1996.
Between 1981 and 1991 Wellcome Trust and a non-executive director he held directorships successively with of the Investor Forum.
He was Head of the Carrington Viyella, Vantona Viyella and Asia Pacific investment team and Co-Head of Coats Viyella where he was Group Strategy Emerging Markets at BlackRock Investment Director.
He started his career with Arthur Management until 2007.
He has 25 years Andersen where he qualified as a chartered experience of global equity markets and accountant, following which he spent extensive experience of investing in private seven years with The Boston Consulting equity.
Prior to joining BlackRock in 1997 he Group.
He is also a non-executive director lived in Hong Kong for nine years, and is a of Cenkos Securities plc and chairman of Chinese speaker.
He started his career in the Electrocomponents Pension Trustees.
Diplomatic Service, where he specialised in Shared directorships with other Directors: Hong Kong and China.
He is a non-executive None director of Jupiter Emerging & Frontier Income Trust PLC.
1 Members of the Audit Committee Shared directorships with other Directors: 2 Members of the Nomination Committee The Investor Forum with Simon Fraser All the Directors are members of the Management Engagement Committee Report and Accounts 2017 | 29
