Policy Policy Summary Summary Investment Policy In determining dividend payments, the Board takes account of The Company invests globally.
Risk diversification is achieved timely income forecasts, brought forward distributable reserves, through geographic asset allocation and industry sector and stock prevailing inflation rates, the Companys dividend payment record selection across a wide range of markets.
Within the general policy and Corporation Tax rules governing investment trust status.
Liquidity of maintaining a diversified portfolio, there are no specific geographic is not considered an issue as the Company has sufficient liquid or industry sector exposure limits for the publicly listed equities.
The resources to fund any envisaged level of dividend payment.
Risks to Board has placed a limit of 5% of the value of the total portfolio on the dividend policy include: worldwide financial and political instability unlisted securities, at the time of acquisition and excluding private leading to significant deterioration in the level of income received equity investments.
Any unlisted investment requires specific Board by the Company: and unforeseen and significant changes to the approval with the exception of new private equity investments, Companys regulatory environment.
responsibility for which has been delegated to F&C.
Shareholder approval would be sought in the event that the Board considers that Taxation Policies the long-term exposure to Private Equity investments should exceed The Board is fully committed to complying with applicable legislation a figureof20%.
and statutory guidelines, including the UKs Criminal Finance Act 2017, designed to prevent tax evasion in the jurisdictions in which Under the Companys articles of association, with limited exceptions, the Company operates.
The policy is based upon a risk assessment no single investment may be made by the Company which exceeds undertaken by the Board and professional advice is sought as and 10% of the value of the total portfolio at the time of acquisition.
"the Listing Rules, no more than 10% of the total assets may be invested in other listed closed-ended investment companies, unless The Company complies at all times with Section 1158 of the such investment companies have themselves published investment Corporation Tax Act 2010 ""Section 1158"" such that it does not policies to invest no more than 15% of their total assets in other suffer UK Corporation Tax on capital gains: ensures that it submits closed-ended investment companies, in which case the limit is 15%."
correct taxation returns annually to HMRC and settles promptly any The Board has placed a limit of 5% of the value of the total portfolio taxation due: and ensures that it claims back in a timely manner, where on investment funds managed by F&C at the time of acquisition, and possible, all taxes suffered in excess of taxation treaty rates on non-UK any such investment requires specific Board approval.
The Company will typically remain fully invested in equities, but is Marketing Policy not prohibited from investing in other types of securities or assets.
F&C promotes investment in the Companys shares, which are Derivatives may be used for the purpose of income enhancement suitable for retail distribution in the UK as well as professionally and portfolio management covering tactical asset allocation and risk advised private clients and institutional investors.
The Board works mitigation including protection against currency risks within strict limits.
closely with F&C to ensure optimal delivery of the Companys investment proposition through all available channels including the Borrowing Policy internet and social media.
The F&C Savings Plans remain a cost The Company has the flexibility to borrow over the longer term effective and flexible way to invest in the Company.
and to use short-term borrowings by way of loans and overdrafts.
Borrowings, which can be taken out either in Sterling or foreign Discount Policy currency, would normally be expected to fall within a range of 020% The Board uses buybacks for the benefit of shareholders where they of shareholders funds.
see value and, importantly, in pursuit of a sustainably low deviation between the price and NAV per share in normal market conditions.
Dividend Policy No reference will therefore be made in future to a specific attainment The Companys revenue account is managed with the objective level for the Companys discount.
The policy and the levels within of continuing its record of delivering a rising income stream in real which it operates will continue to be reviewed with the aim of terms for shareholders.
Prudent use of revenue reserves established achieving the long-held aspiration of seeing the Companys shares over many decades is made whenever necessary to help meet any trading at or close to NAV.
In the event that the share price moves to revenue shortfall.
Dividends can also be paid from capital reserves a premium, the Board will utilise its shareholder authority to sell shares although the Board has no current need or intention of doing so.
held in treasury or to issue new shares.
12 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC OVERVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITORS REPORT FINANCIAL REPORT NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT Environmental, Social and Governance ESG Policies In setting the Companys ESG policies, the Board has considered the requirements of Section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 regarding promoting the success of the Company for the benefit of stakeholders and the EU Non-Financial Reporting Directive EU 2014 95.
The Board anticipates that its disclosures on ESG matters will evolve in future years.
Responsible ownership employee of F&C or of any other organisation with which the As an investment vehicle, all the Companys activities are Company conducts business.
The Board also ensures that outsourced to third parties.
As such, it does not have any adequate procedures are in place, and followed, in respect of physical assets, property, employees or operations of its own.
third party appointments, acceptance of gifts and hospitality and Neither does it provide goods nor services in the normal course similar matters.
of business and does not have customers.
In consequence, it does not directly generate any greenhouse gas or other Voting on portfolio investments emissions or pollution and it is not required to make any The Board expects to be informed by the Manager of any statement under the Modern Slavery Act 2015. sensitive voting issues involving the Companys investments.
In the absence of explicit instructions from the Board, the Manager The Board supports F&C in its belief that good governance is empowered to exercise discretion in the use of the Companys creates value.
F&C takes a particular interest in corporate voting rights.
All shareholdings are voted at all listed company governance and sustainable business practices, and continues meetings worldwide where practicable in accordance with F&Cs to work on systematically incorporating environmental, social own corporate governance policy, which is to seek to maximise and governance factors into its investment processes.
This is shareholder value by constructive use of votes at company based on the view that companies with strong management meetings and by endeavouring to use its influence as an investor focus on these areas have the potential to reduce risks facing with a principled approach to corporate governance.
their business and deliver sustainable performance over the longer term.
Engagement with companies on significant In 2017 F&C engaged with 239 companies held by Foreign & regulatory and ESG matters, so as to reduce risk, improve Colonial over 35 countries and had voted in respect of Foreign performance, encourage best practice and underpin long- & Colonials holdings at 356 company meetings on a range of term investor value forms an important part of F&Cs approach issues.
In addition to corporate culture and business ethics, towards responsible investment.
key engagement themes in 2017 focused on management of climate change and natural resource scarcity, as well as on With regard to possible tax evasion by investee companies, labour standards, governance and remuneration the latter the Board believes that it is best in the first instance to engage having been particularly pertinent in the UK where shareholders proactively with companies to ensure high standards of corporate voted on binding resolutions to corporate pay policies.
governance rather than exclude investment opportunities on the basis of tax practices.
F&C will therefore engage with the boards Information on F&Cs engagement and voting at company of investee companies in an effort to ensure that their tax policies meetings and where to find their statement of compliance with are both prudent and sustainable.
Investee company boards The UK Stewardship Code can be found on page 10. are expected to disclose to shareholders that they are providing appropriate oversight over their tax policies.
Board diversity The Board is composed solely of non-executive Directors F&Cs Corporate Governance Guidelines set out expectations and has 37.5% female representation.
The Boards approach of the boards of investee companies in terms of good corporate to the appointment of non-executive directors is based on its governance.
This includes the affirmation of responsibility belief in the benefits of having a diverse range of experience, for reviewing internal business ethics systems, and ensuring skills, length of service and backgrounds, including gender.
that there is an effective mechanism for the internal reporting The Board complies with the UK Corporate Governance of wrongdoing, whether within the investee company itself, Code in appointing appropriately diverse, independent or involving other parties, such as suppliers, customers, non-executive directors who set the operational and moral contractors or business partners.
Under legislation, which standards of the Company.
The Board will always appoint the is developing globally, there will be scope for more rigorous best person for the job and will not discriminate on the grounds of enforcement of anti-corruption and anti-bribery.
gender, race, ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, age or physical ability.
Further details on the operation of this policy are given in In addition to this, the Board applies a strict anti-bribery and the Nomination Committee Report on page 42. anti-corruption policy insofar as it applies to any directors or Report and Accounts 2017 | 13 The 21.0% rise in our total Strategic Report shareholder return over the year significantly exceeded the 13.8% return of our benchmark.
14 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
