STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE & RISK MANAGEMENT CONTINUED BOARD OF DIRECTORS STRONG LEADERSHIP & FOCUSED EXPERIENCE The Board provides strategic oversight and stewardship of the Company and has a particular responsibility for maintaining effective risk management and internal control systems.
ANGUS McCOSS CHAIRMAN CHIEF EXECUTIVE CHIEF FINANCIAL EXPLORATION DIRECTOR Aidan Heavey age 64, Irish is OFFICER OFFICER Angus McCoss age 56, British was the founder of Tullow and was Paul McDade age 54, British Les Wood age 55, British appointed to the Board of Directors Chief Executive Officer for 31 was appointed Chief Executive wasappointed to the Board in December 2006 following 21 years years.
He has played a key role Officer on 26 April 2017, following ofDirectors in June 2017 after of wide-ranging exploration in Tullows development as a Tullows Annual General Meeting, acting as Interim CFO for six experience, working primarily with leading independent oil and and was appointed to the Board months.
Les joined Tullow in Shell in Africa, Europe, China, South gas exploration and production of Directors in March 2006.
2014 and was the Groups Vice America and the Middle East.
Aidan was appointed as Pauljoined Tullow in 2001 and President for Commercial and held anumber of senior positions non-executive Chairman on was appointed Chief Operating Finance.
Before joining Tullow, at Shell, including regional vice 26April 2017 following Tullows Officerfollowing the Energy Les worked for BP plc for president of exploration for the Annual General Meeting for Africa acquisition in 2004, 28years in various positions Americas and general manager a transitional period not havingpreviously managed including regional CFO roles of exploration in Nigeria.
inCanada and the Middle East.
Les has an MSc in Inorganic N An engineer with over 30 years Other directorships andoffices Chemistry from Aberdeen experience, Paul has worked in Angus is a non-executive director University and also a BSc various operational, commercial of Providence Resources plc, inChemistry from Heriot and management roles with anIreland-based oil and gas WattUniversity.
He has exploration company with a portfolio broad international experience of appraisal and exploration assets having worked in the UK North located offshore Ireland and shares Sea, Latin America, Africa and quoted on the AIM in London and Southeast Asia.
Paul holds the ESM in Dublin.
Angus is also degrees in civil engineering a non-executive director of Ikon andpetroleum engineering.
Science Limited and a member ofthe advisory board of the industryN backed Energy and Geoscience Institute of the University of Utah.
EHS 40 Tullow Oil plc 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 1 7.
MIKE DALY NON-EXECUTIVE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR DIRECTOR Steve Lucas age 63, British was Mike Daly age 64, British was appointed as a non-executive appointed asa non-executive Director in March 2012.
Director in June 2014 following AChartered Accountant, Steve a28-year career at BP, where he was finance director at National held a number of senior roles.
Grid plc from 2002 to 2010 and Most recently, he was executive previously worked for 11 years at vice president exploration, and a Royal Dutch Shell and for six member of BPs group executive years at BG Group, latterly as team until January 2014. group treasurer.
Other directorships Other directorships and offices and offices Mike is a visiting professor at Steve is a non-executive director theUniversity of Oxford and 8 9 6 of Acacia Mining plc and asenior advisor at Macro chairman of Ferrexpo plc.
Mike is alsoanon-executive director of A, N CGG, an integrated geoscience company based in France, 5.
ANNE DRINKWATER whichis listed on the Euronext NON-EXECUTIVE NON-EXECUTIVE NON-EXECUTIVE and NewYorkStock Exchanges.
DIRECTOR AND SENIOR DIRECTOR DIRECTOR INDEPENDENT Tutu Agyare age 55, Ghanaian Anne Drinkwater age 62, British EHS, R DIRECTOR was appointed as a non-executive was appointed as a non-executive Jeremy Wilson age 53, British Director in August 2010.
Annes KEVIN MASSIE was appointed as a non-executive currently a managing partner at appointment followed a long COMPANY SECRETARY Director in October 2013 following Nubuke Investments, an asset career at BP, where she held a Kevin Massie was appointed a 26-year career atJ.
P. Morgan, management firm focused solely number of senior business and Company Secretary on 1 January where he held a number of senior on Africa, which he founded in operations positions, including 2016.
Kevin was previously positions, most recently vice 2007.
Previously, he had a 21-year president and chief executive Corporate Counsel and Deputy chairman of the Energy Group.
career with UBS Investment Bank, officer of BP Canada Energy Company Secretary at Tullow.
holding a number of senior Company, president of BP Other directorships positions, most recently as the Indonesia and managing and offices head ofEuropean emerging directorof BPNorway.
Jeremy is a non-executive director markets, and served onthe of JohnWood Group PLC UK Other directorships board of directors.
KEY and a director ofThe Lakeland and offices Committee Chair Other directorships Climbing Centre Ltd and The Anne is a non-executive director A Audit Committee Lakeland Climbing Foundation.
and offices and the non-executive deputy Tutu is a director of the Nubuke EHS EHS Committee chairman of Aker Solutions ASA N, A, R Foundation, a Ghana-based Norway and is an oil and gas N Nominations Committee cultural and educational foundation.
adviser to the Government of R Remuneration Committee theFalklandIslands.
R EHS, A, N Audit Committee 67 Nominations Committee 73 EHS Committee 76 Remuneration Committee 78 www.
