foreign & colonial investment trust plc Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust celebrates its 150th birthday in 2018 The worlds first investment trust, Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust celebrates its 150th birthday in 2018.
Founded in 1868 initially as a trust, Foreign & Colonial was established with the purpose of bringing stock market investing to those of moderate means.
That principle has stood the test of time for 15 decades, through world wars, recessions and financial crises.
Foreign & Colonial represented a step-change in the way individuals could access the stock market, paving the way for the development of pooled savings vehicles like unit trusts and OEICS.
4 | Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC OVER OVERVIEW VIEW CHAIRMANS ST CHAIRMANS STA ATEMENT TEMENT STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T GOVERNANCE REPOR GOVERNANCE REPORT T AUDITORS REPOR AUDITORS REPORT T FINANCIAL REPOR FINANCIAL REPORT T NOTICE OF MEETING NOTICE OF MEETING OTHER INFORMA OTHER INFORMATION TION OVERVIEW Ask The Fund Manager Foreign & Colonials Fund Manager has changed less than a dozen times over its 150 year history.
There have only been three over the past 40 years.
Paul Niven took over from Jeremy Tigue in 2014, who had managed the portfolio for 17 years.
Here he gives some thoughts on Foreign & Colonial.
What do you think is so special about Foreign & Foreign & Colonial was set up in 1868 by young lawyer Colonial?
Philip Rose alongside barrister Samuel Laing, and Samuel The Companys most important attributes include its Laings business partner James Thompson Mackenzie, who 150 year heritage, its scale and the sheer number was also Deputy Chairman of the East Bengal Railway of its underlying investors.
Foreign & Colonial is one of the most widely held investment products With the backing of influential politician Lord Westbury, in the UK, with over 100,000 direct investors.
Foreign & Colonial was launched on Thursday 19 March Because its overwhelmingly held by private 1868 investors, its still fulfilling Philip Roses 150-yearToday, it has total assets of 4.0 billion across a range of old vision of an investment product for the globally diversified holdings investor of moderate means.
Foreign & Colonial has paid a dividend every year over How has Foreign & Colonial managed to stay its 150-year history, and has grown its payout ahead of relevant over the past 150 years?
inflation every year without fail since 1970 Foreign & Colonial started out with a focus on emerging market bonds with investments spanning Europe, the Middle East, New Zealand, South America and North America at a time when Canada and the US were still considered emerging markets.
Over time, the portfolio has evolved and expanded to include, at certain points in its history, corporate bonds, equities and private equity.
We have always cast our nets widely to look for new investment opportunities.
Weve gone from investing in the Amazon 150 years ago to investing in Amazon.
The Company has continued to evolvehow do you see its future development?
to fulfil his vision, by providing a diversified investment vehicle It is more global than at any point in recent history.
About 95% with a global focus that meets the needs of the smaller investor.
of the portfolio is invested overseas.
We have the flexibility While our approach and underlying investments have changed over and resource to scan the entire global market across a whole the years Foreign & Colonial has remained focused on shareholder range of opportunities, spanning regions, market capitalisations, returns and has evolved to meet investor needs over generations.
investment styles and asset classes.
Inevitably we face challenges today that are very similar to those faced by our predecessors, from world conflicts to financial crises.
Were certainly not uniquely placed in history with regard to Paul Niven, uncertainty, our longevity though helps us put these challenges Fund Manager into perspective.
Looking ahead, I believe that the best growth prospects lie in equities for the foreseeable future.
If you could meet the founder, Philip Rose, what would you want to ask him?
Visit our anniversary website at: Looking at his original vision, it would be interesting to know how he would feel about Foreign & Colonial today compared to fcit150.
I think he would agree that we are continuing Report and Accounts 2017 | 5
