OUR STRATEGIC GOALS Our three strategic goals help and support us in achieving our vision of becoming the world leader in value adding engineered yarns and threads for industrial and consumer use.
They are closely aligned to the elements of our investment case and business model to ensure delivery of value for all our stakeholders.
Strategic goals Profitable sales growth Performance in 2017 Key metric For Apparel and Footwear this means: Leading product portfolios and relationships 5% A&F revenue growth with leading brands Ensuring we constantly develop our leading brands, 13% Industrial adjusted strong market positions and customer relationships.
Digital sales model deeper integration operating profit growth of eComm in our main markets, c. 19,000 Responding to customer demands to make us Industrial adjusted operating customers, over 80% of total orders.
easier, simpler and faster to do business with.
margin increase of 70bps Ongoing capital expenditure to ensure Being able to offer operational excellence tools, safe, respectful and inclusive workplaces, software and advice that is relevant to the global minimising environmental impact, achieving Relevant principal risk A&F industry.
Customer and end Having strong corporate responsibility credentials user expectations that are aligned to requirements of major Priorities for 2018 include global brands.
Economic risk Meet customer needs for speed, productivity, quality and peace of mind Environmental Further strengthen operational non-performance capabilities and capacities in growth geographies and markets Build sustainable innovation pipelines For Performance Materials this means: Gotex post acquisition sales growth of 12% revenue growth c. 30% following global revenue synergies Focusing on hi-tech sectors and new technology 18% organic revenue growth with the wider Group.
sectors where we have ability to build scale through in hi-tech sectors technology, innovation and acquisition.
FlamePro branded products in Personal 20% of organic sales in 2017 protection sector growth of 46%.
Securing global specifications and build deeper in relation to products that relationships with global customers and brands.
Acquisition of Patrick Yarn Mill for a maximum didnt exist 5 years ago consideration of $25m providing specific Unlocking revenue and innovation synergies technological innovation skills.
with acquired companies to achieve market Relevant principal risk leadership in new sectors.
Priorities for 2018 include Customer and end Developing transformational new products Globalise and build scale in user expectations in emerging new technologies like composites hi-tech sectors and conductive.
Economic risk Explore new frontier of composite and conductive technologies Appropriate capability Build new innovation ecosystem development and culture Product and services liability For Crafts this means: Successful disaster recovery procedures 1% Latin America implemented following the tornado that hit our revenue growth Having consumer brands that are relevant to Georgia distribution facility in January 2017 the consumer and retain strong market positions.
15% decline in Our Red Heart, Coats thread and Cisne brands On-going integration of the Latin America North America Crafts are #1 or #2 in their respective handknitting business into Industrial.
Relevant principal Risk and needlecrafting categories.
Customer and end Priorities for 2018 include Ensuring we have deep customer relationships user expectations Focus on consumer centric, innovation based around focused channel and product led strategy to grow sales Economic risk portfolios.
Finalisation of LatAm integration Appropriate capability Complete sale of non-core lifestyle development fabrics business 12 OUR STRATEGIC GOALS CONTINUED Increased productivity Performance in 2017 Key metric For us as a Group this means: Delivered improved operating margins ROCE of 35% of 11.5% 2016: 10.8%.
Continually looking at initiatives to make savings Adjusted FCF of $87m in the areas of productivity, procurement and Track record of delivering manufacturing Pre-exceptional operating SD&A.
These include expanding our network productivity and non-raw material sourcing profit margin increase of of Lean and Six Sigma experts, reducing electricity, gains: $1020m pa 201317.
70bps fossil fuel and water consumption and increasing Energy consumption down 3% and sales and productivity per employee.
These initiatives Adjusted EPS increase of water usage down 6%.
help to offset factors such as ongoing structural 30% to 6.4 US cents labour, energy and raw material inflation and Maintained ROCE at 35% including planned support operating margins.
Relevant principal risk: Meeting managements commitment to generate consistent and strong free cash flow every year.
Connecting for Priorities for 2018 include This is required to meet intended uses such as Growth programme Deliver savings and growth through funding organic growth, pension recovery Environmental Connecting for Growth programme.
payments, bolt on acquisitions and shareholder non-performance Achieving net operating cost savings, dividends.
after reinvestments of $5 million in 2018 Value delivery Performance in 2017 Key metric For us as a Group this means: Customers delivered share gain and Market share gains new market growth across all aspects We will add superior value to our customers Total Shareholder Return of our offer for example, 9% growth through our offer of unique product, services including share price increase in sports footwear thread.
and digital solutions: in last 12 months of 64% Shareholders earnings and cash growth, We will drive shareholder value through Employee Engagement and shareholder dividend growth of 15% the successful implementation of our strategy -- - score of 83% in line with our progressive policy.
balancing our growth and efficiency agenda: Employees benchmark workplace culture We will deliver a value proposition to our and our employee engagement score in employees where people can develop to their 2017 of 83% retains our place in the top full potential within a safe, respectful and inclusive 10% of all global companies surveyed by workplace.
Health and safety remains a key priority Coats Relevant principal risk has seen a reduction in its recordable accident Connecting for rate in the year, and remains significantly better Growth programme than industry benchmarks in this area.
Customer and end user expectations Priorities for 2018 include Meet customer needs for speed, Appropriate capability productivity, quality and peace of mind development Maintain progressive dividend policy Pensions scheme Further strengthen H&S management deficit funding programme Indicates Key Performance Indicator measure -- - see page 14 for more details 13
