CORPORATE GOVERNANCE EHS COMMITTEE REPORT The Committee monitors the performance and keyrisks that the Company faces in relation to occupational and process safety, security, health andenvironmental management.
Anne Drinkwater Chair of the EHS Committee Committee members Meetings attended Committees role The Committee has been established by the Board to monitor Anne Drinkwater 3 3 the performance and key risks that the Company faces in Mike Daly 3 3 relation to occupational and process safety, security, health Angus McCoss part year 2 2 andenvironmental management, with a particular ongoing Paul McDade 1 1 focus on process safety.
The Committee oversees the processes and systems put in place by the Company to meet Simon Thompson 1 1 our stated objectives of protecting employees, the communities Denotes Directors who were no longer members of the Committee as in which we operate, and the natural environment.
Additionally at 31December 2017. it monitors the effectiveness of operational organisations across the Company in delivering continuous improvement 2017 highlights inEHS through reviewing a wide range of EHS leading and Overseeing EHS arrangements for the Jubilee Turret lagging indicators to gain an insight into how EHS policies, Remediation Project.
standards and practices are being implemented.
In particular, the Committee reviews high-potential incidents, especially Reviewing how lessons learnt from Jubilee are being factored where they have occurred repeatedly in one location or activity into TEN production operations.
also see Responsible Operations, pages 36 and 37.
It also Conducting environmental riskreview.
scrutinises the outcome of audits and investigations.
Committees main responsibilities DEAR SHAREHOLDER The Committees main responsibilities are: The Committee works to enhance the Boards engagement to review and provide advice regarding the environmental, withEHS through appropriate in-depth reviews of strategically health, security and asset protection, and safety policies important EHS issues for the Group.
The Committee has a ofthe Company: forward-looking agenda, and considers emerging risks that thebusiness might face in its operations.
to monitor the performance, including regulatory compliance, of the Company in the progressive implementation of its Process safety is a key focus area for the Committee.
In addition environmental, health, security and asset protection, and to monitoring process safety risk management across the safety policies, including process safety management: Group the Committee reviewed progress on the Jubilee Asset Integrity Plan and findings from the 2017 process safety audits to receive reports covering matters relating to material of Jubilee and TEN.
environmental, health, security and asset protection, and safety risks: and As the Jubilee Turret Remediation Project progresses towardsapermanent solution, the Committee had an in-depth to consider material regulatory and technical developments review of the assurance processes used to support safe in the fields of environmental, health, security and asset execution operation.
A particular focus in the Committees environmental review in The Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually 2017 was the Kenya Waste Management Infrastructure Study, andare available on the corporate website.
The Committees which will inform development planning on waste management membership changed during the year.
Angus McCoss joined options as the project progresses.
the Committee, while Paul McDade and Simon Thompson relinquished their roles as part of the Companys Board The Committee monitors implementation of Tullows Human re-organisation.
The Committee currently comprises two Rights policy: the Kenya National Police Service MOU, which was non-executive Directors and one Executive Director.
Sandy Stash, signed in July 2017, is a solid step forward in fully operationalising EVP Safety & Sustainability, Operations & Engineering and the UN Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights.
External Affairs SOEEA, has executive responsibility for EHS Anne Drinkwater across the Group.
Anne Drinkwater is Chair of the Committee Chair of the EHS Committee and chaired all meetings throughout the year.
Collectively, the Committee members have considerable operational EHS 6 February 2018 experience gained from diverse operating environments across the extractive industries.
76 Tullow Oil plc 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 2 Meetings Tullows East Africa developments require a significant In addition to the core Committee members, functional heads onshore presence involving the future construction and and senior managers from across the Group were invited to installation of pipelines in a complex social and geopolitical meetings to provide additional details and insights on specific setting.
In order to understand the EHS challenges and agenda items.
They also provide guidance on EHS issues and lessons learnt from a recent similar project, the Committee support discussions about how EHS can be embedded across invited the Vice President of BPs Southern Gas Project to their parts of the business.
In 2017 those attending the meetings present on its EHS risks and mitigation approach.
This included Senior Management from Tullows operations and presentation provided valuable insights into the challenges management team members from the Safety, Sustainability faced and techniques employed to address EHS risks in &External Affairs and Operations & Engineering functions.
The Committee reviewed process safety risk management Committee activities in 2017 including plant, process, people and performance management In 2017, the Committee reviewed the EHS elements of the to assess priorities, progress and challenges in 2017 and Safety & Sustainability Plan.
The plan sets out milestones 2018.
The Committee also reviewed risk management in that need to be reached to meet Safety & Sustainabilitys drilling and completion operations including processes, multi-year objectives and covers all aspects of EHS.
Examples of these milestones include: Tullows environmental performance and key environmental assuring that Company and Business Unit plans are risks were reviewed together with the mitigation and inalignment with the EHS and non-technical risk management techniques employed to minimise their impact.
standards incorporated in Tullows Integrated ManagementSystem IMS : Looking forward to 2018 supporting Business Delivery Teams in the implementation The Committee will have a continuing emphasis on process of the Human Rights Policy including compliance with the safety, and will monitor close-out of the 2017 process safety Modern Slavery Act: management audits of Jubilee and TEN.
conducting process safety and asset integrity audits of the The Committee will provide ongoing oversight of appropriate Jubilee and TEN FPSOs: and EHS risk management of the Jubilee Turret Remediation Project as a permanent solution is implemented.
operationalising the new socio-economic investment strategy and governance process.
The Committee will review assurance work focused on land transport safety and the application of business continuity The Committee reviewed EHS aspects of the Jubilee plans implemented by the business.
TurretRemediation Project with a deep dive of the controls established to support safe operations as the project moves The Committee will continue to review the EHS elements of towards installing a permanent technical solution.
the East Africa development project plans.
Following commissioning of the TEN FPSO in 2017, the Committee reviewed how the TEN project team had learnt and applied the lessons from early Jubilee production operations.
Effective application of these lessons was akeyfactor in delivering the TEN project safely, on time andwithin budget.
At each meeting the Committee tracked performance against EHS key performance indicators KPIs, which include both leading and lagging indicators.
In addition to providing a snapshot of Tullows progress, EHS KPIs were used to identify areas where more focus may be required, such as asset integrity, occupational safety and land transport safety.
Anumber of the EHS KPIs are part of the corporate scorecard and are linked to remuneration: these are overseen by the Committee.
Assurance activity on key EHS risk areas was reviewed during 2017.
Such assurance included the review of results from audits of malaria management processes across our Ghana, Kenya and Uganda operations.
Committee assurance also included review of the process safety and asset integrity audits of Ghana production operations, including an assessment of the delivery of the Jubilee Asset Integrity Management Plan.
