STRATEGIC REPORT CREATING VALUE CREATING SUSTAINABLE BENEFITS The oil we find and sell has the potential to create sustainable value and shared prosperity in ourcountries of operation.
Over the course of the oil and gas life cycle, we prioritise cost consciousness, paying fair and appropriate amounts of tax, being transparent in the payments wemake to governments and identifying opportunities for local businesses within our supply chainto share the benefits from our operations.
VALUE CREATION Exploration Appraisal Development Production Decommissioning Government take Oil company take Government net cash flow Appraisal proves commerciality of field Exploration success Seismic survey First exploration well Oil company cost First Oil Oil company opex Government investment 210 year period 310 year period 2050 year period INVESTMENT 24 Tullow Oil plc 2017 Annual Report and Accounts 1 Exploration & Appraisal Development of discovery Production Decommissioning Tullow shareholders We invest the capital raised from This phase involves investment in Once a field is producing, investment Funds need shareholders and our banks in drilling wells required for oil production will focus on sustaining and extending tobe set aside acquiring licences, seismic data and and building the infrastructure required plateau production.
to extract and develop resources.
facilities and Minimisation of operating costs becomes Wemaydilute our equity in return remediate We bring in Joint Venture industry a focus in this phase, as does the economic fordevelopment costs being carried locations at the partners at this stage to spread our optimisation of production from the byJointVenture Partners.
exposure to risk and often carry the subsurface and through the infrastructure.
host governments share of costs For onshore projects, this includes through to First Oil.
transport infrastructure, processing facilities and pipelines.
We assess the best monetisation options of our commercial For offshore projects, Floating Production discoveries and decide whether Storage and Offloading FPSO vessels tosell the oil in the ground or and subsea equipment are fabricated, proceed to development.
Tullow employees and local employment Our expert technical teams We share our expertise and know-how Tullow will work with international Our employees identify acreage, basins, plays and by employing local subcontractors and and local contractors and expertise and contractors will prospects for our portfolio, which suppliers and the development phase fromthe local workforce is required to be able to use their we rejuvenate in learning cycles.
presents a material opportunity to do this.
run operations, maintain the field and experiences and facilities, protect the integrity of the field lessons learnt in The capital we invest at this stage is and plan for additional infill or near-field future developments.
fide-risked through research and exploration drilling.
analysis of the geology by our teams ahead of any drilling commitments.
Governments Tullow pays the host government land leases and various taxes, including The main economic value to host The remediated withholding tax on goods and services imported into the country, PAYE and governments is from production revenues land will be handed National Insurance on personnel employed, licence fees, infrastructure and income taxes on Tullows profits.
back to the host improvement payments, customs duties and training allowances.
Typically, the oil companys share of government.
An agreement between Tullow and the government determines how and when production or revenue is higher in the Tullow and its Joint Venture Partners can recover the significant investment that earlier years of production as costs are has been made during the exploration, appraisal and development phases.
recovered in the form of allowable deductions against income tax or as an allocation of production, commonly known as cost oil.
The arrangement then significantly benefits the Government throughout the longer term, after the initial costs are recovered by the oil company.
Local supply chain In the early stages of a project This phase represents the greatest Goods and services from local New skills Tullow creates benefits for local opportunities for local businesses businesses are required at this stage that the local communities by investing in social andindividuals.
and Tullow continues to invest in capacity communities have projects and employing local building and training to grow levels of developed as a Opportunities in the supply chain range subcontractors in E&A programmes, local employment and business result of our from providing engineering expertise and where possible.
Other benefits can participation in the supply chain.
operations can manpower to logistics and catering.
include improved infrastructure and beused in other Tullow undertakes capacity building access to amenities and social industries.
programmes including skills, knowledge investment in local communities.
and technology transfer to maximise local business and workforce participation in the industry.
Community Building a robust social licence is fundamental to our ability to operate.
Without the engaged support of our host communities, we would be unable to undertake the technical, infrastructural and logistical work associated with exploration, development and production of hydrocarbons onshore and offshore.
Focal areas of our social performance therefore include stakeholder engagement, management of community grievances and land sea access all led by focused stakeholder engagement teams with emphasis dependent on project context and proposed activities.
In 2017, the focus has been on embedding our new socio-economic investment SEI strategy and governance process, which is based on the implementation of rigorous project selection criteria and performance measurement to ensure that SEI projects create measurable value for both Tullow and host communities.
