66 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION NOMINATION & GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE REPORT ACCOUNTABILITY DEAR SHAREHOLDER, NOMINATION & I am pleased to present the 2017 report of the Nomination &Governance Committee.
GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE ROLE OF THE NOMINATION & GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE Our work falls into the following two areas: Board Composition Reviewing the size and composition of the Board.
Recommending the appointment of Directors.
Corporate Governance Overseeing governance aspects of the Board and its Committees.
Overseeing the review into the effectiveness of the Board.
Considering and updating the Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board and the terms of reference of the Board Committees.
Monitoring external corporate governance activities and keeping the Membership Board updated.
Member Meetings Overseeing the Board Development Programme and the induction since attended process for new Directors.
Roberto Quarta Chairman April 2014 8 8 Identifying and monitoring any conflict of interests of the Board.
Virginia Bottomley April 2014 8 8 1 Ian Barlow April 2017 6 6 The terms of reference of the Nomination & Governance Committee 1 describe our role and responsibilities more fully and can be found on Brian Larcombe April 2011 2 2 our website www.
com 1 Ian Barlow joined the Committee following the Annual General Meeting on 6 April 2017 on his appointment as Senior Independent Director.
Ian replaced Brian Larcombe, who retired from the Board and the Nomination & Governance Committee following the Annual General Meeting on ACTIVITIES OF THE NOMINATION & GOVERNANCE 6 April 2017.
COMMITTEE IN 2017 AND SINCE THE YEAR END In 2017, we held five physical meetings and three via teleconference.
2018 focus Each meeting was attended by all members of the Committee.
Appointment of new Chief Executive Officer to succeed The Company Secretary, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Human Olivier Bohuon.
Resources Officer also attended all or some of the meetings by invitation Consider how best to ensure that the Board has considered and other Non-Executive Directors were invited to join the meetings different stakeholders in accordance with the proposals from to discuss the search for a new Chief Executive Officer.
In between theGovernment and the Financial Reporting Council.
each meeting, various discussions were held between members of the Nomination & Governance Committee and the external search agent.
Our programme of work in 2017 was as follows: Early February Activities related to the year end Considered and approved the re-appointment of Directors who had completed three or six years service and the annual appointment of Directors serving in excess of nine years.
Recommended the appointment of Ian Barlow as Senior Independent Director to the Board following the retirement of Brian Larcombe and the appointment of Robin Freestone to replace Ian Barlow as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Reviewed and approved the Schedule of Matters Reserved to the Board and the terms of reference of the Board Committees.
Discussed the search for two additional Non-Executive Directors.
67 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION NOMINATION & GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE REPORT continued ACCOUNTABILITY In the light of the departure of Brian Larcombe and Joseph Papa, April the Nomination & Governance Committee analysed the skills and Activities related to the appointment of Non-Executive Directors experiences required by the Board going forward to provide the Considered candidates for the roles of Chairman Elect of the necessary support and challenge to the executive team to execute Remuneration Committee and a Non-Executive Director with against our Strategic Priorities.
We used a matrix see page 57 to Healthcare Medical Devices experience.
compare these required skills and experiences against those already held by members of the Board and determined that we need to August focus on: Appointment of new Non-Executive Director Increasing the diversity at Board level.
Recommended to the Board that Marc Owen be appointed an Finding a replacement for Joseph Papa as Chairman of the additional Non-Executive Director.
Early September by teleconference Replacing the investment knowledge and experience of Update on search for additional Non-Executive Director Brian Larcombe.
Received an update on potential Non-Executive Director candidates Reinforcing the Board with specific healthcare and Medical with Medical Devices experience.
During the year, we were advised by Zygos, who prepared a longlist November 2 meetings of candidates for us and then worked with us to select a shortlist of Update on search for new Chief Executive Officer candidates, who were interviewed by me and a number of other NonReceived an update on the search for a new Chief Executive Officer.
As a result of this process, we recommended to the Board that Angie Risley be appointed Non-Executive Director and December 2 meetings by teleconference Chairman Elect of the Remuneration Committee on 18 September 2017 Update on search for new Chief Executive Officer and Marc Owen be appointed Non-Executive Director and member of Discussed potential candidates for the role of Chief Executive Officer.
the Audit Committee on 1 October 2017.
Further matters were resolved by written resolution including noting the Angie Risley is a well-regarded FTSE 100 Human Resources Director and retirement of Olivier Bohuon as Chief Executive Officer.
proven Non-Executive Director and Remuneration Committee Chairman with experience across a wide range of sectors, including a regulated Since the year end, we have also discussed the future structure of the environment.
She will bring to the Board valuable experience of leading Board and completed our year end governance processes.
Weve also a Remuneration Committee as well as providing additional resource and appointed Roland Diggelmann to the Board as an additional Nonsounding for our Human Resources function.
Executive Director, who also has strong Medical Devices experience.
Marc Owen is a proven leader with an astute strategic vision, and The key areas of focus for us in 2017 were: experience of building significant international healthcare businesses.
He has strong commercial healthcare expertise and general business NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS experience, which will be of great value to the Company.
Brian Larcombe retired as Senior Independent Director at the 2017 Annual General Meeting and Ian Barlow was appointed in his The appointment of Roland Diggelmann on 1 March 2018 will bring place.
Ian Barlow has served on our Board as Chairman of the Audit additional Medical Devices experience to our Board.
He knows the Company well and has a sound understanding of the governance and regulatory requirements of the CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Board.
He has also met some of our shareholders in his previous role as In September 2017, Olivier Bohuon announced his intention to retire by Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He chose to give us notice of this in order to give us time to find his successor.
The Nomination & Governance Committee Robin Freestone took over the role of Chairman of the Audit Committee initiated a search in September 2017 advised by both Zygos and from Ian Barlow with effect from 1 March 2017.
Robin had served Russell Reynolds.
Zygos does no other work for the Company other as a Non-Executive Director of the Board and member of the Audit than advising on recruitment of Board members.
Russell Reynolds also Committee and the Remuneration Committee for a period of 18 months.
advises the Company on executive recruitment and appointments.
Prior to his appointment to the Board, he was a well-regarded FTSE 100 This process is ongoing.
Chief Financial Officer who has brought relevant expertise and insight to the Audit Committee.
His appointment as Chairman of the Audit Committee was designed to coincide with the appointment of Graham Baker to enable the Chief Financial Officer and Chairman of the Audit Committee to build a constructive working relationship together.
As we announced in the 2016 Annual Report, Joseph Papa will be retiring from the Board at the 2018 Annual General Meeting after more than nine years service, seven of which as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
68 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION NOMINATION & GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE REPORT continued ACCOUNTABILITY DIVERSITY GOVERNANCE We aim to have a Board which represents a wide range of backgrounds, During the year, the Nomination & Governance Committee also skills and experiences.
We also value a diversity of outlook, approach addressed a number of governance matters.
We received updates from and style in our Board members.
We believe that a balanced Board the Company Secretary on new developments in corporate governance is better equipped to consider matters from a broader perspective, and reporting in the UK and Europe.
We reviewed the independence understanding the views of our stakeholders as well as our of our Non-Executive Directors, considered potential conflicts of interest shareholders and therefore come to decisions that have considered and the diversity of the Board and made recommendations concerning a wider range of issues and perspectives than would be the case in a these matters to the Board.
Diversity is not simply a matter of gender, We have reviewed the proposals in the Governments Green Paper ethnicity or other easily measurable characteristics.
Diversity of outlook on corporate governance particularly in relation to enhancing the and approach is harder to measure than gender or ethnicity but is stakeholder voice.
As a Board, we have identified our key stakeholders equally important.
A Board needs a range of skills from technical and during the course of 2018, we will be considering the best ways of adherence to governance or regulatory matters to understand the ensuring that the voices of these different stakeholders are heard within business in which we operate.
It needs some members with a long the Boardroom.
corporate memory and others who bring new insights from other fields.
There needs to be both support and challenge on the Board as SMITH & NEPHEWS BROAD STAKEHOLDERS well as a balance of gender and commercial and international INVESTORS EMPLOYEES CUSTOMERS GOVERNMENTS experience.
When selecting new members for the Board, we take these considerations into account, as well as professional background.
PAST PAST PATIENTS REIMBURSEMENT A new Board member needs to fit in with their fellow Board members, but also needs to provide a new way of looking at things.
SUPPLIERS INSURERS PRESENT PRESENT In 2012, we stated that our expectation would be that by 2015, 25% of our Board would be female and at the beginning and the end of SURGEONS FUTURE FUTURE COMMUNITIES 2017, we met this expectation, although the various Board changes NURSES during the year meant that this percentage fluctuated throughout the year.
Looking forward, we shall work towards a Board with 33% female PROCUREMENT PUBLIC representation in-line with the Hampton-Alexander Review.
We will also look to increase ethnic diversity on the Board following the Parker NGOS Review as appropriate.
We will continue to appoint our Directors on merit, valuing the unique contribution that they will bring to the Board, regardless of gender, ethnicity or any other diversity measure.
In order to ensure that our Board remains diverse, we analyse the skills and experiences we require against the skills and experiences on our Board using the matrix on page 57.
We review this matrix regularly to ensure that it is refreshed to meet the changing needs of the Company.
Roberto Quarta Chairman of the Nomination & Governance Committee
