18 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION OUR PRODUCTS THE PRODUCTS WE TAKE TO MARKET Our knee systems utilise our VISIONAIRE Smith & Nephew has nine KNEE Patient-Matched Instrumentation, whereby global product franchises apatients MRI and X-Rays are used to create IMPLANTS customised cutting guides that allow the I H 2017 revenue A surgeon to achieve optimal alignment of the new implant.
G 6% 5% 1 $984m Reported Underlying In 2017 we expanded the geographic scope of the ANTHEM Total Knee System, which, B F alongside the ORTHOMATCH Universal Smith & Nephew offers an innovative range Instrumentation Platform, has been designed of products for specialised knee replacement E C to provide a wider market access to affordable procedures.
Knee replacement surgery D knee treatment.
ANTHEM is tailored to meet involves replacing the worn, damaged or the anatomical needs of patients from Asia, diseased portion of a knee with an artificial A KNEE IMPLANTS $984m the Middle East, Africa and Latin America and joint.
Every year more than two million B HIP IMPLANTS $599m the ORTHOMATCH instrumentation platform patients receive total, partial or revision knee C TRAUMA & EXTREMITIES $495m reduces weight, footprint and unnecessary replacements worldwide.
D SPORTS MEDICINE JOINT REPAIR $627m cost without compromising on quality or E ARTHROSCOPIC ENABLING TECHNOLOGIES $615m Smith & Nephews knee systems include clinical outcomes.
In 2017 we expanded the F OTHER SURGICAL BUSINESSES $189m the LEGION GENESIS II Total Knee System, geographic scope of the system which is now G ADVANCED WOUND CARE $720m a comprehensive system designed to allow available in many markets including India, H ADVANCED WOUND BIOACTIVES $342m surgeons to address a wide range of knee South Africa, Mexico, Colombia, Chile, Russia I ADVANCED WOUND DEVICES $194m procedures, and our JOURNEY II family of and the Middle East.
We began the limited Active Knees.
The anatomical shape of market release of a cruciate retaining version the JOURNEY II is designed to reproduce in 2017. normal knee kinematics and thereby delivers In early 2017 we launched the NAVIO Total improved functional outcomes and high Knee Arthroplasty TKA system, adding to patient satisfaction.
the indications offered on our leading robotics In 2017 we progressed the limited market platform.
In the fourth quarter, we initiated release of our JOURNEY II XR, an innovative the limited market release for the NAVIO bi-cruciate retaining knee implant, which XR system, which we believe will be a key is designed to retain the anterior and technology enabler for the JOURNEY II XR posterior cruciate ligaments ACL PCL and knee.
The robotics team continues to expand deliver normal perception of movement and to major geographies such as India, South 2 muscle control.
For more information onNAVIO see page 22.
These systems also feature VERILAST Technology, our advanced bearing surface.
In 2017 performance in this franchise was The LEGION Primary Knee with VERILAST driven by strong demand for the JOURNEY Technology has been laboratory-tested to II Total Knee System supported by growth 30 years of simulated wear.
While lab testing from the LEGION Revision Knee System and is not the same as clinical performance, the ANTHEM Total Knee System.
tests showed significant reduction in wear 1 These non-IFRS financial measures are explained and reconciled compared to conventional technologies.
to the most directly comparable financial measure prepared in accordance with IFRS on pages 178181.
2 Moro-Oka, Taka-Aki, Marc Muenchinger, Jean Pierre Canciani, and Scott A Banks.
Comparing in Vivo Kinematics of Anterior Cruciate-retaining and Posterior Cruciate-retaining Total Knee Arthroplasty.
Knee Surgery, Sports Traumatology, Arthroscopy 15.1.
OPERATIONAL REVIEW 19 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION OUR PRODUCTS continued JOURNEY II BCS JOURNEY II CR JOURNEY II XR JOURNEY PFJ JOURNEY UNI Traditional knee replacement options dont JOURNEY II is a seamless, next generation RENEWING meet the need for higher functionality, family of partial and primary knee designs, 2,3, 4,5 improved motion or long-term durability.
including a new bi-cruciate retaining ACTIVE LIFESTYLE Most significantly, these systems fall short JOURNEY II XR.
JOURNEY II is intended to in providing a return to anormal pattern of restore patients to an unmatched level of Todays fastest growing segment motion meaning less satisfaction for patients.
of knee replacement patients For orthopaedic surgeons seeking is seeking a return to a more treatment solutions beyond traditional knee 1 replacements, JOURNEY II Active Knee active lifestyle Solutions have been engineered to empower patients toreturn to an active lifestyle.
We also market the BIRMINGHAM HIP In 2017 we introduced a number of REDAPT HIP Resurfacing BHR System, an important option Augments to be used in conjunction with the for surgeons treating suitable patients.
fully porous shell which will allow surgeons to IMPLANTS treat more difficult acetabular revisions.
Smith & Nephews portfolio also includes the 2017 revenue REDAPT Revision Femoral System.
In 2017 performance in this franchise was better in the second half of the year, driven 0% 0% The need to perform a revision can occur 1 $599m Reported Underlying by new REDAPT Revision and POLARSTEM for a variety of reasons including infection, Cementless Stem systems.
dislocation, or failure of the implants to Smith & Nephews Hip Implants franchise 1 These non-IFRS financial measures are explained and reconciled achieve biologic fixation.
REDAPT is designed to the most directly comparable financial measure prepared in offers a range of specialist products for to turn such complex hip revisions into accordance with IFRS on pages 178181. reconstruction of the hip joint.
This may be efficient, reproducible surgeries, allowing RENEWING ACTIVE LIFESTYLE necessary due to conditions such as arthritis surgeons to effectively recreate a patients 1 US Department of Health and Human Services Agency HHSA for causing persistent pain and or as a result of Healthcare Research and Quality AHRQ Knee Replacements Up unique functionality, while quickly and easily Dramatically Among Adults 45 to 64 Years Old.
AHRQ News and hip fracture.
Every year more than two million addressing issues such as poor bone quality.
Agency for Healthcare Research patients worldwide undergo total, resurfacing and Quality, Rockville, MD.
The REDAPT Revision Femoral System 2 Phil Noble et al: Does total knee replacement restore normal knee and revision hip replacement procedures.
431 : 157-65. comprises a monolithic stem and a Fully 3 Huch K, Mller KA, Strmer T, Brenner H, Puhl W, Gnther KP.
For Hip Implants, Smith & Nephew has Porous Shell.
A Fully Porous Acetabular Cup Sports activities 5 years after total knee or hip arthroplasty: the Ulm developed a range of primary hip systems.
with CONCELOC Technology was introduced Osteoarthritis Study.
Core systems include the ANTHOLOGY 4 Comparing patient outcomes after THA and TKA: is there a in 2016.
To allow ingrowth, an additive, or 3D difference?
Bourne RB, Chesworth B, Davis A, Mahomed N, Hip System, SYNERGY Hip System, the printing, manufacturing process is used to Charron K. Clin Orthop Relat Res.
Epub POLARSTEM Femoral Hip System, the R3 produce an entirely porous implant that mimics 2009 Sep 4.
5 Functional comparison of posterior cruciate-retained versus Acetabular System and the POLARCUP Dual the structure of cancellous bone.
The 3D cruciate-sacrificed total knee arthroplasty.
Dorr LD, Ochsner JL, Mobility Hip System.
This diversity exemplifies printing method allows for complex design Gronley J, Perry J. Clin Orthop Relat Res.
1988 Nov: 236 :36. our commitment to providing surgeons with geometries that would be difficult, expensive implant and instrumentation options that meet or impossible to achieve with traditional the specific demands of their patients and manufacturing methods.
For example, solid preferred surgical approach, most notably the reinforcements can be built directly into the direct anterior or posterolateral approach.
porous structure to provide extra strength in precise locations.
20 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION OUR PRODUCTS continued utilisation.
This new system features more TRAUMA & SPORTS MEDICINE points of fixation and greater breadth of plate options.
EVOS Small takes an evolutionary EXTREMITIES JOINT REPAIR approach to simplifying and unifying small 2017 revenue 2017 revenue fragment plating systems.
For extremities and limb restoration, weoffer 4% 4% 7% 6% 1 1 $495m Reported Underlying $627m Reported Underlying the TAYLOR SPATIAL FRAME Circular Fixation System as well as a range of plates, screws, arthroscopes, instrumentation, resection Our Trauma & Extremities franchise supports Our Sports Medicine Joint Repair franchise and suture anchor products including foot healthcare professionals by pioneering offers surgeons a broad array of instruments, and ankle and hand and wrist specialists.
solutions for surgeons to stabilise severe technologies and implants necessary to In addition, we introduced INVISIKNOT, fractures, correct bone deformities, treat perform minimally invasive surgery of the a unique syndesmotic fixation device for arthritis, and heal soft tissue complications.
joints, including the repair of soft tissue injuries the ankle.
and degenerative conditions of the knee, For Trauma, the principal internal fixation hip and shoulder.
Our franchise operates 2017 saw the global launch of the ATLAS Hip products are the TRIGEN family of in a large, growing market where unmet Fracture Nail in South Africa and India.
It is the intramedullary IM nails TRIGEN META-NAIL clinical needs lend room for procedural and first Smith & Nephew nail specifically designed System, TRIGEN Humeral Nail System and technological innovation.
Smith & Nephew is for the Emerging Markets.
TRIGEN INTERTAN, EVOS Plating System well positioned both to innovate and to reach and the PERI-LOC Plating System.
In 2016 In 2017 performance in this franchise customers globally.
we unveiled new evidence showing that the was driven by growth from our TRIGEN TRIGEN INTERTAN hip fracture system allows Key products for knee repair include the INTERTAN hip fracture system where new patients to experience lower risk of implant FAST-FIX family of meniscal repair systems, clinical evidence continued to support failure and re-operation: faster time to fracture the ENDOBUTTON and ULTRABUTTON fixed increased uptake.
2 union: and a high return to pre-fracture status.
and adjustable loop devices for knee ligament 1 These non-IFRS financial measures are explained and reconciled reconstruction, BIOSURE interference screws to the most directly comparable financial measure prepared in The EVOS Mini Fragment Plate and Screw accordance with IFRS on pages 178181. for ligament procedures, and CARGEL for the System is a dedicated Trauma mini fragment 2 Smith & Nephew INTERTAN claims brochure The evidence is in... repair of articular cartilage.
This is a stainless steel highly versatile system with a multitude of plate geometries and longer screw lengths than standard mini fragment systems.
In 2017, we introduced the EVOS Small Fragment system for lower extremity fractures and general trauma FIRST AND ONLY First and only bi-cruciate retaining robotics application 2017 saw the worlds first robotics-assisted bi-cruciate retaining total knee replacement procedures, utilising our NAVIO roboticsassisted surgical system and the JOURNEY II XR bi-cruciate retaining total knee system.
The JOURNEY II XR has the potential to deliver the best possible outcome for the surgeon and patient through the preservation of important anatomical structures such as the Anterior Cruciate Ligament ACL.
The NAVIO robotics-assisted surgical system enables accurate tibial implant placement to deliver a more reproducible surgical technique.
We are proud to be the only company to offer the unique combination of NAVIO robotics-assistance and the JOURNEY NAVIO The power of robotics II XR Knee System.
21 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION OUR PRODUCTS continued For shoulder, Smith & Nephew markets a Smith & Nephew supports specific joint repair DYONICS Shaver blades provide superior suite of products for Rotator Cuff Repair RCR, procedures for shoulder, knee and hip with resection due to their sharpness and one of the most common sports medicine aline of instruments, positioners and holders, reduce clogging with their debris evacuation procedures.
These include ULTRATAPE, a including SPIDER2 T-MAX , GoFLO and Double Pump suture that provides greater tendon-to-bone enabling limb positioning systems and RF fluid management consoles expand the contact when compared to traditional #2 ACUFEX Hand Held Instruments.
joint space while providing haemostasis and 2 suture and may enhance repair, FIRSTPASS maintaining the saline environment necessary In 2017 performance in this franchise was ST, a sterile-packaged retrograde suture to perform arthroscopic procedures.
driven by strong demand for our leading passer that eliminates the steps of loading and shoulder repair portfolio.
Within an operating room, our AET products unloading needles and cartridges: MULTIFIX are typically kept together in an arthroscopic S, an all-PEEK knotless screw-in anchor: tower, often comprising a visualisation or and HEALICOIL, a family of suture anchors camera system, COBLATION or energy based featuring open architecture that allows new ARTHROSCOPIC resection controllers, mechanical resection bone to fill the fenestrations between screw or blade controllers and fluid management ENABLING TECHNOLOGY threads.
All these products can be used or pump components.
Because of the together or in conjunction with other existing 2017 revenue strong link between the arthroscopic tower products from the Smith & Nephew portfolio in and consumables, we will showcase our a single procedure, significantly expanding the -3% -3% industry leading tower components, such 1 breadth of our RCR Solutions.
$615m Reported Underlying as LENS, COBLATION and DYONICS shaver In 2017 we acquired Rotation Medical, Inc. blades, when selling the broader Sports Our Arthroscopic Enabling Technologies AET the developer of a novel tissue regeneration Medicine portfolio.
franchise includes high definition imaging technology for RCR, for an initial cash In 2017 performance in this franchise was solutions, industry leading energy based and consideration of $125 million and up to impacted by continued softness in mechanical mechanical resection platforms, and fluid $85 million over the next five years, contingent resection and the legacy RF technology during management and access portfolios.
Our new LENS visualisation system Medical Rotator Cuff System incorporates AET platforms work in concert to facilitate and WEREWOLF COBLATION system are a breakthrough technology and technique access to various joint spaces, visualise the growing in share within our portfolio and we that balances biomechanics and biology to patients anatomy, resect degenerated or expect a gradual improvement in 2018. enhance the bodys natural healing response, damaged tissue and prepare the joint for a 1 These non-IFRS financial measures are explained and reconciled helping tendons heal by inducing growth of soft tissue repair.
Products in this franchise are to the most directly comparable financial measure prepared in 4,5, 6 new tendon-like tissue.
Rotation Medical is accordance with IFRS on pages 178181. often used in conjunction with products from 2 Shive, M. MD, et al.
BST-CarGel Treatment Maintains Cartilage highly complementary to our Sports Medicine our Sports Medicine Joint Repair franchise.
Repair Superiority over Microfracture at 5 Years in a Multicenter portfolio, serving an unmet clinical need and Randomized Controlled Trial.
Key AET products include the LENS Integrated providing a compelling new treatment option 3 Potter L, Moore C. Increased contact area utilizing the ULTRATAPE visualisation system which provides Suture for rotator cuff repair.
Bone&JointScience: Our Innovation for our customers.
Lit no: 02056. outstanding image quality and functionality 4 Preliminary investigation of a biological augmentation of rotator The Smith & Nephew joint repair portfolio in a simple three-in-one Console CCU, LED cuff repairs using a collagen implant: a 2-year MRI follow-up Bokor, includes two next-generation anchors made Sonnabend, Deady, Cass, Young, Van Kampen, Arnoczky published Light Source and Image Management System, of soft, all-suture material Q-FIX and in Muscles, Ligaments and Tendons Journal 5 3 :144-150 2015.
Camera Head and iPad application.
5 Histologic Evaluation of Biopsy Specimens Obtained After Rotator SUTUREFIX.
The Q-FIX All-Suture Anchor is Cuff Repair Augmented With a Highly Porous Collagen Implant We also offer the WEREWOLF and QUANTUM ideal for a variety of arthroscopic shoulder Arnoczky, D. V. M. Shariff K. Bishai, D. O. M. S. F. A. O.
A. O. Brian 2 COBLATION controllers and a wide range Schofield, M. D. Scott Sigman, M. D. Brad D. Bushnell, M. D. and hip repairs, offering fixation performance M. B.
A. Jan Pieter Hommen, M. D. and Craig Van Kampen, Ph.
D. of high performance COBLATION Technology superior to commonly used all-suture anchors Arthroscopy: The Journal of Arthroscopic and Related Surgery, 7,8 radio frequency RF wands to precisely ablate, and traditional anchors.
6 Evidence of healing of partial-thickness rotator cuff tears following resect and coagulate soft tissue and enable anchor is an attractive option for procedures in arthroscopic augmentation with a collagen implant: a 2-year MRI 9 haemostasis of blood vessels.
which anatomic space is very limited while still follow-up.
Bokor, Sonnabend, Deady, Cass, Young, Van Kampen, 10,11,12 delivering high fixation strength.
Muscles, Ligaments and Tendons Journal 6 1 :16-25 2016.
The WEREWOLF COBLATION System is 7 ArthroCare Report #P N 54231-01 Rev.
A: ArthroCare Report the latest innovation in our market-leading #P N 49193-01 Rev.
A. Smith & Nephew offers joint repair implants 8 Douglass NP, Behn AW, Safran MR. Cyclic and Load to Failure COBLATION technology.
Featuring an all made from REGENESORB, including versions Properties of All-Suture Anchors in Synthetic Acetabular and new controller and designed to support a of the HEALICOIL suture anchors for shoulder Glenoid Cancellous Bone.
9 Smith & Nephew Evaluation Reports 15002113, 15002112, 15002117. broad variety of wands, WEREWOLF delivers repair and BIOSURE interference screws for 10 Smith & Nephew 2011.
Validation REPORT ULTRABRAID II SUTURE an unparalleled range of performance knee repair.
REGENESORB is an advanced BIOCOMPATIBILITY 15001076. capabilities and advanced safety features biocomposite material shown to be absorbed 11 Smith & Nephew 2013.
WEREWOLF carries broad indications across and completely replaced by bone within 12 Smith & Nephew 2013.
Validation REPORT, Hip Suturefix XL 13,14 Sports Medicine.
13 Data on File, Smith & Nephew report 15000897.
14 Results of in vivo simulation have not been shown to quantitatively predict clinical performance.
22 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION OUR PRODUCTS continued In 2017 we successfully expanded the NAVIO Silver and iodine drive our infection OTHER SURGICAL platform into total knees, which comprise 80% management portfolio.
of all knee replacement surgeries globally.
BUSINESSES Our silver-based products ACTICOAT, The total knee arthroplasty TKA application DURAFIBER Ag and ALLEVYN Ag provide 2017 revenue supports Smith & Nephews JOURNEYII, clinicians with a range of solutions to address LEGION Primary and GENESIS II Total individual patient needs in managing wound -11% 7% Knee Systems.
ACTICOAT is well positioned Also during 2017 surgeons completed the to address the need for highly effective, worlds first robotics-assisted bi-cruciate fast-acting local antimicrobials in the care The Other Surgical Businesses franchise retaining total knee replacement procedures.
of serious infection on a wide range of includes our Ear, Nose & Throat ENT business With this launch, NAVIO now offers both partial wounds, including surgical incisions and and the NAVIO robotic surgical business, and total knee options that include the first chronic wounds.
acquired at the start of 2016. and only robotics-assisted bi-cruciate retaining Our cadexomer iodine based product, In ENT we offer surgeons a wide variety of knee procedure, commercially available today.
IODOSORB, has a unique mode of action market leading technologies to address In 2017 performance in this franchise was to deliver low level, slow release elemental some of the most common pathologies in driven by the Ear, Nose & Throat business and iodine without cytotoxic effects and effectively otolaryngology.
Our COBLATION technology continued demand for our hand-held robotics eradicates biofilms.
A recent expert consensus has been used to remove tonsils and adenoids NAVIO Surgical System including the new Total showed biofilms contribute to the delay in for over 15 years and is preferred by surgeons 4 Knee Application.
The decline in reported healing of chronic wounds.
and patients for its ability to remove tissue revenues reflects the impact of the disposal at low temperatures with minimal damage to Smith & Nephews cornerstone range offers of the Gynaecology business in 2016. surrounding tissue.
a wide selection of wound care products, which means we have one of the most With its ease of use and strong clinical history, comprehensive ranges of wound care COBLATION Technology is also marketed for solutions in the industry.
These products use in turbinate and laryngeal procedures.
ADVANCED include our film and post-operative dressings, WOUND CARE Our RAPID RHINO  skincare products and gels.
CMC Technology is featured in both 2017 revenue OPSITE is one of our most pioneering dissolvable and removable nasal and sinus products and has become the global standard dressings and epistaxis treatment products.
0% 0% of care in post-operative dressings.
IV3000, When mixed with water, CMC forms a 1 $720m Reported Underlying a specialist premium dressing for intravenous cushioning gel that naturally drains from the lines, continues to perform well.
PROSHIELD body after several days and supports healing The Advanced Wound Care AWC franchise & SECURA are proven preventative skin care by maintaining a moist physical environment.
consists of several groups of brands, including products which help maintain and protect The NAVIO Surgical System is a next exudate management, infection management skin integrity.
generation handheld robotics platform and our cornerstone range of products.
In 2017 performance in this franchise was designed to aid surgeons with implant Exudate management products focus on impacted by softer market conditions in alignment, ligament balancing and bone providing appropriate wound fluid absorption Europe, which offset strong growth in the US.
Furthermore, the NAVIO and evaporation properties to promote an 1 These non-IFRS financial measures are explained and reconciled robotics-assisted system does not require optimal wound healing environment.
This will to the most directly comparable financial measure prepared in a preoperative image, such as a CT scan.
accordance with IFRS on pages 178181. reduce the burden a wound has on the This allows patients to receive the benefits of 2 Reflects reduction in revenue following sale of Gynaecology patients and help them to get on with their business in 2016 2016 Gynaecology revenue: $37m.
robotics-assistance without the extra steps, lives and at the same time diminish costs for 3 Forni C. DAlessandro F. Gallerani P. Genco R. Bolzon A, costs and radiation associated with additional Bombino C. Mini S. Rocchegiani L. Notarnicola T. Vitullia A. materials and nursing time.
Amodeo A. Celli G. Effectiveness of Using a New Polyurethane Foam Multi-layer Dressing in the Sacral Area to Prevent the Our key growth brand in this space is ALLEVYN Onset of Pressure Ulcer in the Elderly with Hip Fractures.
Poster LIFE, an innovative dressing designed to presented at EPUAP 2017.
4 Schultz G. Bjarnsholt T. James G. A. Leaper D. J. McBain A. J. improve the quality of life for patients with Malone M. Stoodley P. Swanson T. Tachi M. Wolcott R. D. for chronic wounds, as well as helping healthcare the Global Wound Biofilm Expert Panel.
Consensus guidelines for professionals reduce the costs of frequent the identification and treatment of biofilms in chronic non-healing wounds International Journal of Tissue Repair and Regeneration dressing changes.
Further research was in press.
published in 2017, with a Randomised Controlled Trial RCT showing how the use of ALLEVYN LIFE, when combined with standard care, reduced the rate of pressure ulcers in the 3 sacrum by 71%.
23 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION OUR PRODUCTS continued LEAF MOLECULIGHT i:X However, despite the best efforts, Clinical data from wound assessments OWN THE DISEASE maintaining these schedules with a demonstrates that incorporating the consistent execution is often difficult.
MolecuLight i:X into standard of care Helping customers In particular, turning regimes for patients at facilitated more objective medical decision getcloserto zero... high risk can be difficult to adhere to, going making and led to up to nine times faster 6 against the latest best practice guidance.
wound healing and 54% more accurate Smith & Nephew supports healthcare 11 The Leaf Patient monitoring system is swabbing.
MolecuLight i:X is not yet professionals in reducing the human and a patient worn wireless sensor which available in the US.
economic cost of wounds through pioneering monitors the patients position.
17:763-771. solutions that improve outcomes and at the processing of the positional data facilitates 2 Reddy et al.
Preventing Pressure Ulcers: A Systematic Review.
same time conserve resources for health JAMA, August 23 30 2006 Vol 296, No 8 Reprinted.
real time alerts to patient needs and turning 3 Russo et al.
Hospitalizations Related to Pressure Ulcers, 2006. systems.
Our aim is to help our customers schedules.
This data can help reduce the HCUP Statistical Brief #64.
December 2008. get closer to zero surgical site complications, Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, Rockville, MD.
incidence of hospital-acquired pressure pressure ulcer incidence, delay in wound http: www.
injuries and help improve operational 4 Pickham D. et al.
Effect of a wearable patient sensor on healing, diabetic foot amputations, and efficiency as part of a full protocol of care.
care delivery for preventing pressure injuries in acutely ill waste of healthcare.
Customer insights adults: A pragmatic randomized clinical trial LS-HAPI study.
4 have confirmed the need to augment our In an independently conducted RCT International Journal of Nursing Studies 80 2018 1219.
Pilot clinical evaluation of surgical site treatment offering with solutions that support evaluating optimal patient turning, Leaf infections with a novel handheld fluorescence imaging device.
the clinician in making informed decisions induced a 43% relative increase in turning Proceedings of the Annual Military Health System Research Symposium MHSRS : 2014 Aug 1821: Fort Lauderdale, FL.
and achieving consistency of practice.
protocol compliance in high-risk patients.
Point-of-care autofluorescence imaging for Patients treated with Leaf were 73% less likely real-time sampling and treatment guidance of bioburden in In 2017 we entered two distribution to develop a pressure injury.
2015 Mar relationships for innovative products in the 19:10 3.
MOLECULIGHT i:X Pressure Ulcer Prevention and Infection 7 MolecuLight Inc. PN 1189 MolecuLight i:X User Manual.
8 MolecuLight Inc. Case Study 0051 Track Wound Size and Currently wound assessments are made with Management categories Leaf and Bacterial Presence with the MolecuLight i:X.
2016. the naked eye which can lack the accuracy MolecuLight i:X which extended 9 Raizman R. Point-of-care fluorescence imaging device guides required to most effectively guide clinical care and patient education in obese patients with surgical our solutions beyond treatment options.
Proceedings of the decision making.
Using fluorescence, LEAF Annual Canadian Association of Wound Care Conference MolecuLight i:X quickly, safely, and easily CAWC : 2016 Nov 3-6, Niagara Falls, ON.
An estimated 2.5 million pressure ulcers 6,7, 8 10 Raizman R. Fluorescence imaging positively predicts bacterial visualises potentially harmful bacteria injuries are treated each year in US acute presence and guides wound cleaning and patient education in in wounds which may otherwise lack signs 1 a series of pilonidal sinus patients.
Proceedings of the Annual care facilities alone, with the cost to treat a or symptoms of infection.
It enhances Wounds UK Conference: 2016 Nov 14-16: Harrogate, UK.
single full thickness pressure ulcer injury as 11 Ottolino-Perry K et al.
Improved detection of wound bacteria a clinicians ability to choose the right 2 high as $70,000 and an estimated annual using fluorescence image guided wound sampling in diabetic 6,7 therapy, at the right time for their patient 3 foot ulcers.
Proven prevention and can help to guide wound sampling strategies focus on protecting vulnerable 6,9, 10 and debridement, monitor wound areas, maintaining skin integrity and 7,8 5,9 progression, improve patient engagement consistent offloading through patient turning.
24 SMITH & NEPHEW ANNUAL REPORT 2017 OVERVIEW OUR BUSINESS OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL RISK GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS GROUP AND OTHER & MARKETPLACE REVIEW REVIEW INFORMATION OUR PRODUCTS continued We continue to focus on further establishing In 2017 the evidence base supporting PICO ADVANCED the value of SANTYL Ointment in treating in our target surgical indications continued patients.
We are also working to lower overall to build.
A Level 1 meta-analysis containing WOUND BIOACTIVES treatment costs, improve outcomes and patient 10 Randomised Controlled Trials and 1,863 2017 revenue satisfaction, and further educate physicians, patients demonstrated significant reduction patients, and payers on the critical role that in surgical site infections 58% reduction, 0% 0% SANTYL Ointment plays in moving patients p 0.0001, significant reduction in dehiscence 1 $342m Reported Underlying forward through the healing process.
26% reduction, p 0.01 and significant reduction in length of stay 0.47 days The wound bioactives market growth 3 Our Advanced Wound Bioactives AWB reduction, p 0.0001.
This summation of the continues to be impacted by changes in the franchise focuses on the commercialisation evidence demonstrates the positive impact reimbursement landscape that are driving of novel, topical biologic and skin substitute PICO is having on patient outcomes and increases in out-of-pocket expenses for products that provide a unique approach system costs.
patients and access in general across all sites to debridement, dermal repair and of care.
For our traditional NPWT system, RENASYS, tissue regeneration.
evidence was published demonstrating the The US is the largest market and represents Currently, our AWB portfolio includes effectiveness in the treatment of challenging the current focus for our AWB franchise.
Collagenase SANTYL Ointment the only wounds and its compatibility with ACTICOAT, SANTYL Ointment is also available in Canada.
FDA-approved biologic enzymatic debriding where high bacterial burden is impacting OASIS is accessible in a number of other 4 agent for chronic dermal ulcers and severe wound progression.
burns, OASIS Wound Matrix and Ultra TriThis franchise also includes the VERSAJET Layer Matrix naturally-derived, extracellular In 2017 performance in this franchise reflected Hydrosurgery system, a surgical debridement matrix replacement products indicated for the SANTYL returning to growth in the second half device used by surgeons toexcise and management of both chronic and traumatic of the year as it benefited from new analysis of evacuate non-viable tissue, bacteria and wounds and REGRANEX becaplermin Gel its effectiveness in advancing pressure ulcers contaminants from wounds, burns and soft 0.01% an FDA-approved platelet-derived through the healing process offset by the tissue injuries.
growth factor for the treatment of lower reimbursement environment for OASIS which extremity diabetic neuropathic ulcers.
In 2017 performance in this franchise was led by PICO, which continued to perform strongly Our most significant product by sales is across the year.
SANTYL Ointment, which plays an integral role in removing necrotic or dead tissue in 1 These non-IFRS financial measures are explained and reconciled ADVANCED to the most directly comparable financial measure prepared in chronic dermal ulcers such as pressure accordance with IFRS on pages 178181. ulcers, diabetic ulcers, and venous ulcers WOUND DEVICES 2 Hurd, T. et al.
Use of a portable, single use, negative pressure wound therapy device in home care patients with low to and severely burned patients.
SANTYL Ointment is often considered as the 3 V. Strugala & R. Martin, Meta-analysis of comparative trials reference debridement product, especially 13% 13% evaluating a prophylactic single-use negative pressure wound 1 $194m Reported Underlying in the hospital and nursing home markets.
therapy system for the prevention of surgical site complications.
Additionally, in 2017 we continued to see 4 Hurd, T. et al.
A Retrospective Comparison of the Performance growth in the use of SANTYL Ointment by Our Advanced Wound Devices AWD of Two Negative Pressure Wound Therapy Systems in the Management of Wounds of Mixed Etiology.
Adv Wound Care office-based physicians and have been able franchise is comprised of our Negative New Rochelle.
2017 Jan 1:6 1 :3337. tostabilise the nursing home market.
Pressure Wound Therapy NPWT and surgical debridement businesses.
The PICO system, our pioneering singleuse, canister-free NPWT solution brings the effectiveness of traditional NPWT in a modern, 2 small portable system.
It is designed for both open wounds such as pressure ulcers and closed incisions and leverages our leading dressing technology.
