Marketplace Despite global economic, political and social challenges, the pharmaceutical industry is expected to enjoy long-term growth.
This is due to favourable demographic trends and significant unmet medical needs.
Pricing and The global context reimbursement Global cyclical economic upswing continues, however: Political and economic uncertainty resulting from the UK Brexit vote remain and US election of Donald Trump persists Global recovery vulnerable and may not be sustainable challenging in many The October 2017 World Economic Outlook However, both political and economic of the International Monetary Fund IMF uncertainty continues following the Brexit markets.
highlighted that the global cyclical upswing vote in the UK and the election of Donald that had begun during 2016 was continuing Trump to president of the US.
The IMF goes to gather strength, with accelerating growth on to suggest that the global recovery might in Europe, Japan, China and the United States.
not be sustainable and is also vulnerable to serious risks.
The pharmaceutical sector Demand for healthcare continues to increase, but challenges remain US is the largest global market, with 45% of global sales Strong growth in 2017, primarily from emerging markets Emerging market growth predicted to remain strong to 2021 Against this uncertain background, however, Looking ahead, and as shown on the page the demand for healthcare continues to opposite, expanding patient populations and increase.
While this is a favourable trend continuing unmet medical need are expected for long-term industry growth, challenges to contribute to growth in pharmaceutical remain.
These include expiring patents, sales.
The table on estimated pharmaceutical competition from and growing use of generic sales and market growth to 2021 overleaf medicines, obtaining regulatory approval, also illustrates that we expect the developing securing reimbursement for new medicines, markets, including Africa, Middle East, CIS, improving R&D productivity, and attaining Indian subcontinent, South East and East pricing and sales sufficient to generate Asia, and Latin America, to continue to fuel revenue and sustain the cycle of innovation.
As shown in the table overleaf, global pharmaceutical sales grew by 2.9% in 2017.
Established Markets saw average revenue decline of 2.7% and Emerging Markets revenue grew at 7.7%.
The US, Japan, China, Germany and France are the worlds top five pharmaceutical markets.
8 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Expanding patient populations 80% Estimated world Estimated population population UN, bn over the age of 60 WHO, bn By 2050, 80% of all older people will live in lowand 2100 11.2 2050 2.0 middle-income countries.
2050 9.8 2015 0.9 2030 8.6 2017 7.6 Unmet medical need Prevalence of NCDs The prevalence of non-communicable diseases NCDs, such as cancer and cardiovascular, metabolic and respiratory diseases, is increasing 40m worldwide.
NCDs are often associated with ageing populations and lifestyle choices, including smoking, diet and lack of exercise.
The WHO estimates that NCDs kill 40 million people each year and disproportionately affect lowand middle-income countries where nearly three quarters of these deaths occur.
Oncology Estimated annual 8.8m 70% cancer cases m Cancer is a leading cause of Approximately 70% of the worlds death worldwide and accounted cancer deaths occur in lowand 2032 22 for 8.8 million deaths in 2015. middle-income countries.
2012 14 CVMD 17.5m $3.76tn $2.5tn New approaches in the More than 17.5 million From 2011 to 2025, the cumulative The total economic burden treatment of asthma people worldwide die from economic losses in lowand of CV disease in upper AstraZeneca is developing cardiovascular CV disease middle-income countries middle-income countries a therapy aimed at producing long-term benefit in asthma by every year.
from CV disease are projected through 2025 is estimated addressing imbalances in the to be $3.76 trillion.
immune system that may be an underlying cause of the disease.
Rather than simply treating Respiratory symptoms by relaxing airway constriction and dampening 315m 329m inflammation in the lung, this therapy aims to target toll-like Some 315 million adults in Globally, some 329 million receptor 9 in dendritic cells the world have asthma, with people have chronic obstructive in the lung.
pulmonary disease COPD, and This could potentially It causes some 346,000 deaths this number is expected to rise.
change the way immune cells annually.
Severe asthma accounts At initial diagnosis, 31% of communicate with each other for 10% of patients but 50% of COPD patients have severe or and restore a healthy balance to the immune system.
the economic burden of asthma.
very severe forms of this disease.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Marketplace 9 Marketplace continued Global pharmaceutical sales World $bn US $bn Europe $bn 2017 996 2017 453 2017 214 2016 968 2016 444 2016 209 2015 906 2015 416 2015 197 $996bn 2.9% $453bn 2.2% $214bn 2.8% Established ROW $bn Emerging Markets $bn 2017 112 2017 216 Data based on world market sales using AstraZeneca market definitions as set out 2016 115 2016 201 in the Market definitions on page 235.
Source: 2015 109 2015 183 IQVIA, IQVIA Midas Quantum Q3 2017 including US data.
Reported values and growth are based at CER.
Value figures are $112bn -2.7% $216bn 7.7% rounded to the nearest billion and growth percentages are rounded to the nearest tenth.
Estimated pharmaceutical sales and market growth 2021 North America EU Other Europe Non-EU countries $596bn $237bn $23bn 4.3% 2.8% 8.5% Japan Oceania South East Asia and East Asia $80bn $16bn $207bn -1.4% 0.9% 6.0% Latin America Africa CIS $83bn $26bn $28bn 6.2% 6.4% 8.0% Estimated pharmaceutical sales 2021.
Data is based on ex-manufacturer prices Middle East Indian subcontinent at CER.
$25bn $41bn Data is based on the compound annual 4.2% 10.1% growth rate from 2016 to 2021.
10 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report The pharmaceutical sector: Regulatory environment Increased transparency of data used for opportunities and challenges The publics expectation of safe, effective regulatory decision-making continues to be Advances in science and technology and high-quality medicines is reflected in a an area of interest to regulatory authorities Scientific innovation is critical to addressing highly regulated biopharmaceutical industry.
We believe that unmet medical need and the delivery of At the same time, we are seeing instances transparency enhances the scientific new medicines will rely on a more advanced of government policy and regulation being understanding of how our medicines work understanding of disease and the use of new introduced to stimulate innovation in drug and is in the medical interest of our patients.
These include development, and of regulatory health F or more information about biosimilars, please see precision medicines, genomics and digital authorities implementing programmes Loss of exclusivity and genericisation on page 12. healthcare.
Scientific and technological intended to speed up patient access to breakthroughs in small molecules and in transformative medicines.
In the US, for biologics are also helping accelerate example, the 21st Century Cures Act of 2016 Our strategic response innovation.
Innovation might also be and the FDA Reauthorization Act of 2017 Engage in responsible testing, manufacturing accelerated through the use of large volumes focus on accelerating the discovery, and marketing in compliance with regulations.
of biological data from disease biology and development and delivery of innovative new Maintain effective working relationships genomics.
Such advances have resulted in treatments for patients, and modernising the with health authorities worldwide, including increased numbers of FDA Priority Reviews US regulatory environment.
the FDA in the US, the EMA in the EU, and Breakthrough Designations.
the PMDA in Japan, and the CFDA in China.
In Japan, the PMDA has adopted a new Continue to monitor the situation in the EU, The cost of developing new medicines conditional early approval system to speed as well as the broader global regulatory continues to rise with global R&D investment patient access to medicines addressing landscape, to ensure that we meet current expected to reach more than $160 billion in unmet medical needs requiring the conduct and future drug approval requirements.
Regulators and payers are demanding of confirmatory clinical studies.
In China, Consistent with a long-standing commitment greater evidence of the comparative recent proposed changes in regulations focus to making information about our clinical effectiveness of medicines.
On the other on improving the ability of pharmaceutical research publicly available, we continue to hand, a greater emphasis on Proof of Concept companies to deliver innovative medicines to work with regulators and other stakeholders is helping to improve productivity and reduce the marketplace in a more timely manner and to ensure the appropriate level of data costs by showing the potential efficacy of providing treatments for diseases where there transparency.
drugs earlier in the development process.
Continue to collaborate with industry, Against this background, the FDA approved academia and government bodies to 46 novel drugs in 2017 compared with 22 in Furthermore, international harmonisation of drive innovation, streamline regulatory 2016 and 45 in 2015.
Nevertheless, the risk regulatory requirements is being advanced in processes, and define and clarify approval of any products failing at the development many areas through organisations such as the requirements for innovative drug and or launch stages, or not securing regulatory International Council for Harmonization ICH, biologic products.
the Pharmaceutical Inspection Cooperation Scheme PIC S, the Pan American Network Our strategic response for Drug Regulatory Harmonization PANDRH, Continue to focus on innovative science and the International Conference of Drug in our chosen therapy areas secured Regulatory Authorities ICDRA.
19 approvals of NMEs or major LCM projects in major markets in 2017.
In Europe, Work to develop a diverse range of they include how the UK will work with the drug modalities such as modified RNA, EU regulatory system following its exit from antisense oligonucleotides and bi-specific the EU, and the relocation of the EMA from monoclonal antibodies mAbs.
London to Amsterdam in the Netherlands Maintain scientific work on pioneering and the likely disruption this will cause to technologies including genome editing regulatory processes.
The impact of the with CRISPR Cas9, and machine learning implementation of the EU Clinical Trials and artificial intelligence.
Regulation on UK-based clinical trials needs Our Precision Medicine and Genomics to be assessed in the context of Brexit team is strengthening our ability to match outcomes.
The EMA has just over a year to targeted medicines to patients who need prepare for the move and take up operations them most.
in Amsterdam on 30 March 2019 at the latest.
Partner with academia, governments, industry and scientific organisations to In the area of biosimilar development, regulatory allow us to access the best and most requirements for the registration of biosimilar advanced science and technology.
products continue to evolve and become better Commitment to science is reflected in defined.
However, significant areas of regulatory our co-location near bio-science clusters policy are still evolving.
Among these are in Cambridge, UK: Gaithersburg, MD, US: transparency of data regarding level of evidence and Gothenburg, Sweden.
to support approval of claims for biosimilarity Keep up our track record of high-impact in labelling, standards for interchangeability and publications with 82 in 2017 compared pharmaceutical substitution, and traceability with 75 in 2016. of pharmacovigilance reports through naming conventions that permit differentiation F or more information, please see Risk from page 210 of products.
and Achieve Scientific Leadership from page 23.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Marketplace 11 Marketplace continued Pricing of medicines We are also experiencing pressure on Loss of exclusivity and genericisation Pricing and reimbursement remain pricing in the US from a number of quarters.
Patent protection for pharmaceutical products challenging in many markets.
We continue For example, political leadership is is finite and, after protection expires, payers, to see examples where healthcare services considering drug pricing controls and physicians and patients gain greater access including pharmaceuticals are highly transparency measures at the national and to generic alternatives both substitutable and regulated by governments, insurers and other local levels.
Changes to the Affordable Care analogue in many important drug classes.
private payers through various controls on Act ACA and ongoing efforts to reform These generic alternatives are primarily lower pricing and reimbursement.
Implementation of the healthcare system continue to create priced because generic manufacturers are cost containment reforms and shifting market uncertainty in the market.
While policymakers largely spared the costs of R&D and market dynamics are further constraining healthcare in the US have advocated for repeal and development.
As a result, demand for providers, while difficult economic conditions replacement of the ACA, full repeal appears generics is high.
For prescriptions dispensed burden patients who have out-of-pocket unlikely.
Thus, the administration has taken in the US in 2017, generics constituted 84.9% expenses relating to their medicines.
steps to significantly change ACA regulations, of the market by volume 2016: 84.4%.
Pharmaceutical companies are now expending including repealing the individual mandate significant resources to demonstrate the provision of the ACA which requires citizens Generic competition can also result from economic as well as the therapeutic value to have insurance or pay a penalty.
Changes patent disputes or challenges before patent of their medicines.
to ACA regulations may have downstream expiry.
Increasingly, generics companies implications for coverage and access.
are launching products at risk, for example, These efforts are all the more relevant given With respect to healthcare reform more before resolution of the relevant patent the shift in the industry over the last decade broadly, modifications to Medicare and other litigation.
This trend, which is likely to continue, from primary care to a specialty care focus.
government programmes including changes creates significant market presence for the Specialty drugs are used for the treatment aimed at reducing drug prices, such as generic version while the litigation remains of complex, chronic, or rare conditions such importation schemes, are possible.
Given the unpredictable nature as cancers and hepatitis C. Pricing for these the healthcare industry may be used as of patent litigation, some companies have products reflects the higher value they bring a means to offset government spending.
settled such challenges on terms acceptable to patients and payers, as well as the smaller US federal agencies continue to propose to the innovator and generic manufacturer.
patient numbers as a result of targeted and implement policies and programmes with While competition authorities generally accept treatment options.
These higher drug costs the goal of expanding access and coverage, such agreements as a legitimate way to settle have heightened the desire and need for payers reducing costs, increasing transparency, these disputes, they have questioned some to manage their expenditure and drug utilisation.
transforming the delivery system, and settlements as being anti-competitive.
improving quality and patient outcomes.
Pricing controls and transparency measures Biologics typically retain exclusivity for longer F or more information about pricing and price controls remain a priority in key markets such as China, than traditional small molecule pharmaceuticals, in the US and other major markets, please see Return where the National Reimbursement Drug with less generic competition.
With limited to Growth from page 26 and Risk from page 210.
In Europe, experience to date, the substitution of governments continue to implement and biosimilars for the original branded product Our strategic response expand price control measures for medicines has not followed the same pattern as generic Internal pricing policy based on and, in other markets, there has been a trend substitution in small molecule products and, four principles: value, sustainability, towards rigorous and consistent application as a result, erosion of the original biologics access and flexibility.
of pricing regulations, including reference branded market share has not been as rapid.
Aim to enable our Emerging Markets to pricing.
For example, in Saudi Arabia prices This is due to biologics complex manufacturing deliver better and broader patient access are set according to the lowest of a basket of processes and the inherent difficulties in through innovative and targeted equitable reference market prices.
producing a biosimilar, which could require pricing strategies and practices.
However, with regulatory Partner with industry, government and authorities in Europe and the US continuing to academia to find ways to bring new implement abbreviated approval pathways for medicines to market more quickly biosimilar versions, innovative biologics are and efficiently, as well as foster an likely to face increased competition.
Similar to environment that facilitates medical biologics, some small molecule pharmaceutical and scientific innovation.
products are in complex formulations and or Engage with policymakers to support require technically challenging manufacturing improvements in access, coverage, and thus may not follow the pattern of care delivery, quality of care and patient generic market erosion seen with traditional, care outcomes.
For those products, Consider innovative outcomes contracts the introduction of generic alternatives both with payers as a mechanism to pay for value.
substitutable and analogue can be slower.
Evaluate the use of real-world evidence to F or more information, please see Intellectual Property further bolster the evidence base around from page 32. therapeutic and economic value.
Our strategic response Investment in innovative research and development, both internally and with partners, to advance novel therapeutics through the pipeline.
A strong patent strategy from building robust patent estates that protect our pipeline and products to defending and enforcing our patent rights.
12 AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Strategic Report Strategic Report Trust Competition The pharmaceutical industry faces challenges Our competitors include large, researchScientific in building and maintaining its reputation based pharmaceutical companies similar and the trust of its stakeholders.
This reflects to AstraZeneca that discover, develop and innovation past sales and marketing practices, pricing sell innovative, patent-protected prescription practices by some, as well as legal disputes medicines and vaccines, smaller biotechnology is critical to between pharmaceutical companies and and vaccine businesses, and companies governmental and regulatory authorities.
However, addressing unmet To address these challenges, companies are the pharmaceutical market is highly seeking to strengthen a culture of ethics and competitive.
For example, our Diabetes and medical need.
integrity, adopt higher governance standards Respiratory franchises continue to see pricing and improve relationships with employees, pressure.
In immuno-oncology, the large shareholders and other stakeholders.
number of clinical trials being carried out highlight the competitive nature of this area.
Numerous companies, including those in the pharmaceutical industry, have been While our peers face similar challenges, investigated by the China Public Security they tackle them in different ways.
Some Bureau following allegations of bribery, companies have pursued a strategy focused and criminal and financial penalties have on branded prescription pharmaceuticals.
In the US, investigations by Others have diversified by acquiring or the DOJ and SEC under the Foreign Corrupt building branded generics businesses Practices Act are continuing across the or consumer portfolios, or have looked to industry, as are investigations by the geographic expansion, especially in Emerging UK Serious Fraud Office under the UK Markets.
Companies are also focused on Bribery Act.
During 2017, there were also improving R&D productivity and operational Congressional hearings in the US related efficiency.
Across the industry, business to pricing while, in the UK, the Competition development deals including licensing and and Markets Authority has been investigating collaborations and competition for business allegations of excessive charging.
Sustainability programmes, particularly The speed of technological change, focused on access to healthcare, seek to including digital health, and the development build trust in pharmaceutical companies of artificial intelligence also threatens to as providers of medicines for the long term.
disrupt existing technologies and undermine current business models.
More generally, if we want to be trusted by our stakeholders, we need to operate in a way that Our strategic response meets their expectations, thereby maintaining To be a pure-play, global, science-led and building our reputation with them.
biopharmaceutical company that focuses on the discovery, development and The reputation of the sector can be commercialisation of prescription undermined by counterfeit medicines which medicines, primarily for the treatment of can fail to provide effective treatment and unmet medical need in three therapy areas.
sometimes cause direct harm to patients.
Establishing priorities that reflect our focus They represent a global challenge and on innovative science, emerging drug companies work with health authorities, platforms and new technologies.
industry bodies and law enforcement F or more information, please see Strategy and agencies to bring those involved to justice.
Key Performance Indicators from page 17 and Risk from page 210.
Our strategic response Furthering ethics and transparency, and broadening access to healthcare are two of our sustainability priorities.
Launched an updated Code of Ethics built on a refusal to tolerate bribery or any other form of corruption.
Enhanced programme to protect patients from dangers of illegally traded medicines.
F or more information about ethics, please see Ethical sales and marketing from page 40.
AstraZeneca Annual Report & Form 20-F Information 2017 Marketplace 13
