Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements BUSINESS MODEL How it works Sharing value with our Using our inputs trusted brands, data stakeholders ACHIEVING SAVINGS driven aggregation, provider relationships and talent, we: Our customers in a few simple steps, customers can use any of our trusted FOR CUSTOMERS AND identify products and services which are brands to help them save time and money relevant to customers and where they on their household bills.
can make meaningful savings on their household expenditure including motor, PRODUCT PROVIDERS Fact: Our customers are estimated home and life insurance, utilities, credit to have saved over 2.0bn in 2017 cards, loans and package holidays: and We operate through three leading brands, MoneySuperMarket, 2016: 1.8bn attract customers and providers through Page 6 read more in Chief Executives MoneySavingExpert and TravelSupermarket, providing price and product our trusted brands and services.
review comparison and editorial based websites.
Whilst each business has a slightly Details of our customer journey is set out different business model, we set out in this section the overarching business Our providers we offer providers on pages 2 to 3. access to millions of informed customers model for the Group this is a simple, success-based revenue model which is thereby giving providers a targeted, flexible, How we create value highly scalable.
For the majority of our services, we receive a fixed marketing fee efficient and cost effective success-based We create value through: marketing solution.
from the product provider for customers who have taken out a product through our trusted brands customers have us.
Revenue is driven by the number of products taken out through us and fee Fact: we worked with 989 providers the reassurance of using a family of well-known and trusted brands and in 2017 2016: 980 rates payable by product providers for each product taken out.
we help customers to find us through Page 8 read more in Our existing strategy TV and radio advertising, editorial comment in the press and on television Our people we offer a great place to programmes, and through work, rewarding and stimulating career search engines: paths, with learning and development Trusted brands data driven aggregation we combine, opportunities, attractive range of benefits process and aggregate data using our and the opportunity to help households Data driven aggregation Enterprise Data Warehouse which is a save money.
single, modern, flexible and secure platform, enabling us to personalise Provider relationships Fact: we spent 550,000 on customer experience, helping customers employee training in 2017 make informed choices about which Talent 2016: 410,000 products they wish to take out in a straightforward and convenient way: Page 34 read more in the Corporate our provider relationships, ensuring Responsibility Report Customer data Efficient acquisition our commercial teams build strong Data driven relationships with providers to identify Our community we seek to make a opportunities to help our customers, positive difference by being an active marketplace including market-leading exclusive contributor to the communities we products and new products: operate in.
our talent, ensuring we hire the most talented people with appropriate Fact: we donated more than industry, technology, data, product and 138,000 to charitable causes in marketing expertise who are responsible 2017 2016: 135,000 for innovating, designing, implementing, Page 36 read more in the Corporate maintaining, supporting and promoting Responsibility Report our websites and apps, and by investing Customer Provider in our talented people through management development and Our shareholders by delivering savings profitability mentoring programmes: value to our customers and providers, we our scalable platform our websites ultimately drive long-term financial value and apps are robust, flexible, secure and to our shareholders through the delivery Personalised quotes Personalised quotes scalable across our different channels of consistent revenue and earnings growth ensuring we can adapt and meet the together with the payment of dividends needs of our customers and product in accordance with our progressive providers: and dividend policy.
Operational leverage Scalable platform operational leverage our revenue is driven by the number of customers who Fact: we returned 94m to take out a product through us and the shareholders in 2017 through fee rates payable to us by product Shareholder returns and stakeholder value dividends and the share purchase providers for each product taken out.
programme 2016: 51m Therefore an increase in either the Page 24 read more in the Financial Review number of products purchased or the fee rates will have a positive impact on revenue.
com Group PLC 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements STRATEGY IN ACTION MONEYSUPERMARKET APP INFORMING OUR CUSTOMERS Intuitive, convenient and on my phone, the MoneySuperMarket App saves time and money With an increasing number of customers using their phones, the MoneySuperMarket App makes it easy to find the right deal for Behind the scenes The MoneySuperMarket App provides this them.
It then keeps their policies in one easy service for free to our customers, and it has ALWAYS had a positive impact on business performance too.
Conversion metrics for WORKING to access place and reminds them when it's car insurance those customers who click out to providers are significantly higher HARD TO SAVE when an insurance policy has been added time to save again.
Some early signs CUSTOMERS that in doing more for our customers, the MoneySuperMarket App is also delivering MONEY, EASILY value for the Group.
The customer demand for convenience on With the same comprehensive panel of The App not only helps ensure that customers pay the right price for their the device of their choice means that insurers as the main site, the App makes it insurance, but that it stays valid throughout MoneySuperMarkets App is catering for a incredibly easy to switch.
Providing bigger audience each year, giving the Group additional services such as saving insurance the year.
And the resulting business benefits were a welcome surprise to the a competitive advantage in the fast-paced policy details, the App makes it simple to switching market.
find and contact your insurer, access your product team.
renewal date and see last years price.
Product development at Utilising the unique features of the phone, MoneySuperMarket involves the team stepping into the customers shoes in the such as push notifications, the App delivers personalised messaging and provides a free form of live testing.
It was during a test of the new MOT reminder service that one of reminder service for your tax and MOT, the team discovered his MOT was about making it easy for drivers to understand whats needed to stay insured.
automatically saved for you when an insurance policy is added, taking the effort away from the customer and making it as simple and intuitive as ever to save time My wife had renewed our and money.
insurance more than a month earlier, but it was only when adding our insurance policy to the App that I saw a marker against the MOT status.
We hadnt needed an MOT before as the car was less than 3 years old - had we missed the 3rd anniversary our insurance would have become invalid without an MOT.
Safe to say I was straight on the phone to get booked in!
com Group PLC 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 06
