Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The Company has entered into one significant agreement which Their biographical details with the exception of Peter Plumb and Authority to purchase own shares Equal opportunities would be terminable upon a change of control: the credit facility The Company was authorised at the 2017 AGM to purchase up to Rob Rowley are set out on pages 40 to 41.
Further details relating The Group is committed to providing equality of opportunity agreement entered into with Barclays Bank PLC and Lloyds Bank to Board and Committee composition are disclosed in the 54,760,000 of its own shares in the market.
No shares were to all employees without discrimination and applies fair and PLC in December 2015.
The facility was extended to December Corporate Governance Report and Committee Reports on pages purchased under the 2017 AGM authority although the Company equitable employment policies which seek to promote entry 2019 in October 2016 and again to December 2020 in November utilised the authority granted at the 2016 AGM to undertake a 42 to 72. into and progression within the Group.
Appointments are 2017. share repurchase programme in 2017, during which the Group determined solely by application of job criteria, personal ability, returned a surplus of capital to shareholders of 40 million.
The Articles of Association provide that a Director may be behaviour and competency.
appointed by an ordinary resolution of shareholders or by the Directors will seek authority from shareholders at the forthcoming Restrictions on the transfer of securities existing Directors, either to fill a vacancy or as an additional Whilst the Board has the power under the Articles of Association AGM for the Company to purchase, in the market, up to Disabled persons 53,600,000 shares.
The Directors have no present intention of Director.
All Directors will retire and offer themselves for reto refuse to register a transfer of shares, there are no restrictions Disabled persons have equal opportunities when applying for election at the 2018 AGM in accordance with the UK Corporate on the transfer of shares other than: conducting further purchases of the Companys shares but vacancies, with due regard to their skills and abilities.
Procedures consider it prudent to obtain the flexibility this authority provides.
certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws ensure that disabled employees are fairly treated in respect of The Directors will only use this power after careful consideration, and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and training and career development.
For those employees becoming The Executive Directors serve under rolling contracts that are pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority taking into account the financial resources of the Company, the disabled during the course of their employment, the Group is Companys share price and future funding opportunities.
The terminable upon 12 months notice from either party.
The whereby certain Directors, officers and employees of the supportive so as to provide an opportunity for them to remain Non-Executive Directors serve under letters of appointment.
Group require the approval of the Company to deal in ordinary Directors will only purchase such shares after taking into account with the Group, wherever reasonably practicable.
the effects on earnings per share and the interests of Copies of service contracts and letters of appointment are shares of the Company.
available for inspection at the Companys registered office during shareholders generally.
In the opinion of the Directors, all employee policies are deemed normal business hours and will be available for inspection at the The Company is not aware of any agreements between to be effective and in accordance with their intended aims.
shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
Borrowings The Directors Remuneration Report, which includes the Directors In November 2017, the Group exercised its option to extend by a interests in the Companys shares, is set out on pages 59 to 72. further year to December 2020 the three-year revolving credit Substantial shareholders During the year, no Director had any material interest in any facility for 100m.
The Group also has an accordian option to apply As at 31 December 2017, the Company had been notified of the following holdings of voting rights in its shares under Rule 5 of The contract of significance to the Groups business.
to the banks for an additional 100m of committed funds during Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority: the facility.
As at 31 December 2017, the Group had cash of 35.1m Percentage of Directors powers with nil drawn down under the facility.
of ordinary ordinary share The Board of Directors may exercise all the powers of the shares voting capital voting Company subject to the provisions of relevant legislation, the Shareholder rights notified rights notified Political donations Companys Articles of Association and any directions given by the During the financial year ended 31 December 2017, the Group did The Capital Group Companies, Inc 54,006,797 9.86 Company in general meeting.
not make any political donations 2016: nil.
Aviva plc 39,339,618 7.34 Ameriprise Financial, Inc and its group 27,061,089 4.94 Directors indemnities Post balance sheet events Standard Life Investments Holdings Limited 25,417,919 4.60 During the financial year ended 31 December 2017 and up to the There have been no balance sheet events that either require FIL Limited 24,758,460 4.52 date of this Directors Report, the Company has maintained adjustment to the Financial Statements or are important in the State Street Nominees Limited 20,581,165 3.76 appropriate liability insurance for its Directors and officers.
understanding of the Companys current position.
Blackrock, Inc 19,099,983 3.55 The Company has granted indemnities to each of its Directors and Research & development the Company Secretary to the extent permitted by law and its Innovation is important to the future success of the Group and As at 7 February 2018, the Company had not received any further notifications of holdings of voting rights.
These indemnities were in force to the delivery of long-term value to shareholders.
The Groups throughout the year ended 31 December 2017 and remain in force research and development expenditure is predominantly Directors as at the date of this Report in relation to certain losses and associated with computer and internet software systems.
The Directors who served during the financial year were as follows: liabilities which the Directors or Company Secretary may incur in Successfully developed software is used to develop new products the course of acting as Directors, Company Secretary or Director Position Service in the year ended 31 December 2016 and to improve and extend the functionality and scope of the employees of the Company or of any associated company.
Bruce Carnegie-Brown Chairman Served throughout year Andrew Fisher Independent Non-Executive Director Served throughout year Employees Directors responsibilities statement Robin Freestone Independent Non-Executive Director Served throughout year The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Sally James Independent Non-Executive Director Served throughout year employees and uses a number of ways to engage with employees the Group and Company Financial Statements in accordance with on matters that impact them and the performance of the Group.
Mark Lewis Chief Executive Officer Appointed 13 March 2017 applicable law and regulations.
These include formal business performance updates by members Peter Plumb Chief Executive Officer Resigned 4 May 2017 of executive management for all employees, regular update Matthew Price Chief Financial Officer Served throughout year Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and briefings for all employees, regular team meetings, the Groups Rob Rowley Independent Non-Executive Director Resigned 4 May 2017 Company Financial Statements for each financial year.
Under that intranet site which enables easy access to the latest Group Genevieve Shore Independent Non-Executive Director Served throughout year law they are required to prepare the Group Financial Statements information as well as Group policies, and the circulation to in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law employees of results announcements and other corporate and have elected to prepare the Company Financial Statements Mark Lewis joined the Board on 13 March 2017 and, after a period of handover, was appointed Chief Executive Officer on 10 April 2017. announcements.
This also helps to achieve a common awareness Peter Plumb stepped down as Chief Executive Officer on 10 April 2017 and from the Board on 4 May 2017. in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, including FRS102- amongst employees of the financial and economic factors The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and affecting the performance of the Group.
A robust employee engagement survey process is also in place to ensure that employees are given a voice in the organisation and that the Group can take action based on employee feedback.
All employees are able to participate in the Companys Share Incentive Plan and Save As You Earn Scheme which gives employees the opportunity to purchase ordinary shares in the Company.
This helps to encourage employee interest in the performance of the Group.
com Group PLC 74 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 75 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Under company law the Directors must not approve the Financial Each of the Directors whose names and functions are set out on Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair pages 40 and 41 confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of their the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with the Reporting requirements profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view The following sets out the location of additional information forming part of the Directors Report: Company Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of Reporting requirement Location select suitable accounting policies and then apply the Company and the undertakings included in the them consistently: consolidation taken as a whole: and Strategic Report Companies Act 2006 s414A-D Strategic Report on pages 1 to 37 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: the management report, which comprises the Directors Report DTR4.1.
8R Management Report the Directors Report and Directors Report on pages 73 to 77 and the Strategic Report on for the Group Financial Statements, state whether they have and the Strategic Report, includes a fair review of the Strategic Report comprise the management report pages 1 to 37 been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: development and performance of the business and the for the Company Financial Statements, state whether position of the Company and the undertakings included in the Likely future developments of the business and Group Strategic Report on pages 1 to 37 applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties that they face.
Statement on corporate governance Corporate Governance Report, Audit Committee Report, Risk the Company Financial Statements: and Committee Report, Nomination Committee Report and Directors prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis In addition, the Directors consider that the Annual Report and Remuneration Report on pages 38 to 72 unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Financial Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and Company will continue in business.
understandable and provides the information necessary for Details of use of financial instruments & specific policies for Note 17 to Group Financial Statements on page 101 shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, managing financial risk The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting business model and strategy.
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and the Boards assessment of the Groups internal control systems Corporate Governance Report on pages 46 to 47, the Audit Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at Committee Report on page 52 and Risk Committee Report on Auditor and disclosure of information any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to pages 57 and 58 The Directors who held office at the date of this Report confirm ensure that its Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit Greenhouse gas emissions Corporate Responsibility Report on page 37 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and such Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have Directors remuneration including disclosures required by Schedule Directors Remuneration Report on pages 59 to 72 to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any 5 and Schedule 8 of SI2008 410 Large and Medium-sized relevant audit information, and to establish that the Companys Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also auditor is aware of that information.
responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors interests Directors Remuneration Report on page 68 Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Auditor Report that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Board approved the Audit Committees recommendation to The Strategic Report comprising the inside cover and pages 1 to 37 and this Directors Report comprising pages 73 to 77 have been put a resolution to shareholders recommending the The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of approved by the Board and are signed on its behalf by: re-appointment of KPMG LLP as the Companys auditors, and the corporate and financial information included on the KPMG LLP have indicated their willingness to accept reCompanys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the appointment as auditors of the Company.
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ Darren Drabble from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company Secretary The Audit Committee, in its recommendation, confirmed that 1 21 February 2018 the recommendation was free from influence by a third party and 2 no contractual term of the kind mentioned in Article 16 6 of Registered office: Moneysupermarket House, St. Davids Park, Ewloe, Chester CH5 3UZ the EU Regulation 537 2014 has been imposed on the Company.
A resolution proposing the re-appointment of KPMG is contained in the notice of the forthcoming AGM and will be proposed to shareholders at that meeting.
com Group PLC 76 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 77 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
