Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements OUR STRATEGY Efficiently growing this group of active users balance online, for example, may New KPIs - definitions and helping them save in new ways is core welcome the offer of a better broadband OUR NEW STRATEGIC to our business model and we are updating deal.
We will be leveraging our Estimated customer savings our strategic KPIs to ensure we are focused technology platform, customer and Calculated by multiplying sales volume on this goal.
provider reach with the skills and against the average saving per product platforms of partners.
PRIORITIES for core channels, the balance of the Technology platform calculation is a Company estimation.
Mortgage price comparison customers Our replatforming has delivered critical are already looking to us for help with assets for the business.
We now operate a 17 2.0bn mortgages, with 16m annual visits to We have revised our strategic priorities to fulfil our modern cloud based technology platform our mortgages site and 25% of mortgage offering security, stability and scalability.
16 1.8bn purpose to Help households save money through a search traffic.
In the past, we offered a We have built API service layers to power very limited service and, in return, combination of reaccelerating our core growth and our own sites and to enable commercial earned little from providers.
Significantly we now have a unlocking new market growth.
Net promoter score develop a new user experience to find single view of our users across their key the most appropriate mortgage online.
Twelve monthly rolling average 1 Jan 2017 interactions with us which will allow us to - 31 Dec 2017 inclusive measured by This enhances our service to customers serve them better.
and moves us deeper into the value YouGov Brand Index service Recommend Reinvent Growth Strategy: Reaccelerate Core and New Market Growth chain earning greater share of Score weighted by revenue Work over the last three years on to create a Group-wide NPS.
completing the replatforming has restricted the customer experience innovation.
Reaccelerate Core Growth New Market Growth We will now be focused on the customer New KPIs 17 69% experience optimisation and new The Board has revised the KPIs that will be 16 65% proposition development.
used to monitor the delivery of these strategic priorities.
Leading Reaccelerate core growth Trusted Estimated customer savings we have Our first priority for reaccelerating core Active users Brands retained the same measure we currently growth is the focus on rapid optimisation The number of unique accounts running use to ensure we are focussed on the of our customer journeys, particularly for enquiries in our core seven channels outcome for customers.
those on their mobile phone.
We have seen Car insurance, Home insurance, Life early successes in conversion and insurance, Travel insurance, Credit Cards, Net promoter score we are adopting marketing efficiency following actions taken Loans and Energy in the prior an externally measured benchmark to in the second half of 2017 from producing twelve month period.
create a Group-wide metric, as well as an easier, faster and simpler experience.
In 1 2 3 individual brand level metrics, enabling 2018, we will invest an additional 5m to 17 13.2m us to use a consistent and external build out our product engineering hub in Customer Take Price Mortgage Leading benchmark across all of our brands.
Personalised Manchester to scale this customer Experience Comparison to Price Provider MSM experience focus across our core Optimisation the user Comparison Offer Active users our Enterprise Data categories.
Adding this capability will Revenue per active user Warehouse allows us to store enquires complement the existing strengths of our This is the revenue for the core seven across our core seven channels, an brands and provider relationships MoneySuperMarket channels divided by enquiry is a completed search on the strengthening our performance.
the number of active users.
This allows us to introduce active users, a more New market growth 17 14.81 robust measure of customer The second strand of the Reinvent strategy engagement.
This will help measure uses the new technology platform to enable customer relevance and brand strength.
the Group to lead the evolution of price comparison to unlock new market growth: Marketing margin Revenue per active user the key The inverse relationship between revenue drivers of this metric are conversion Personalised MoneySuperMarket we and total marketing spend represented Help households save money and loyalty.
The revenue per active user are improving our single customer view as a percentage.
does not cover all of the Groups across multiple product categories, so revenue.
It is the revenue directly customers are shown new ways to save 17 65% attributed to the enquires described based on information they have shared above.
These are enquires made on the 16 64% Growing markets Strong differentiated model with us and open data.
com website for Car Our strategy review has confirmed that we The fundamentals in the core business are hassle free service for users to save on insurance, Home insurance, Life operate in growing markets, with forecast strong and differentiated.
We have leading key bills in one place and remind our insurance, Travel insurance, Credit volume growth of 6-7% for the next three brands with customer satisfaction scores customers, for example, when a better Cards, Loans and Energy.
We believe we already help customers well above the industry average.
Within the energy or insurance deal has been found represents c. 60% of Group revenues save money in the broadest set of categories Group we benefit from an efficient mix of for them.
and we expect to increase this as more in the market with significant revenue marketing and publishing business models channels transition into the Warehouse.
generated through switching across at least to attract users.
On the back of our Take price comparison to the user we 14 categories.
Nevertheless, we also believe investments in data analytics, we can now are tapping into the opportunity to take Marketing margin we have retained that there are opportunities to unlock further track our users across the multiple price comparison to the sites people are the same measure as it is an effective growth in the market, by making it ever easier interactions they have with us.
already visiting regularly on their mobile measure of our ability to create leverage for users to save and by developing new phones.
Someone checking their bank as we grow.
com Group PLC 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
