Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements STRATEGY IN ACTION CHEAP ENERGY CLUB LISTENING TO OURCUSTOMERS Love Cheap Energy Club!
Got an email to say I could get a better deal, now Behind the scenes new filters which allow users to personalise their results and email alerts, excluding A PROCESS companies with poor service, or opting only for deals from big names.
In addition, our WITH unique editorial highlights the results from the customer service poll we run twice a CUSTOMER year, as well as warnings about service or issues where we spot them, going much a year better off....
FEEDBACK further than most comparison sites do.
475 ATITS HEART Feedback from users has also shown us that often they would be happy staying with their existing provider, but what many people... on my gas and electricity bills in 2017. switching is complicated and a hassle.
The energy market has been flooded with dont know is that their current provider small, new providers in the last few years.
Should have done it ages ago, it was so So, users inspired us to build a tool that probably has a cheaper tariff.
So our existing While this should be good for competition, simple.
Many thanks and keep up the takes the effort out of switching energy.
provider filter allows users to find the good work.
Users just sign up to Cheap Energy Club, tell we know consumers are fearful of switching cheapest deal with their existing provider, to an unknown, a nervousness heightened us what their current energy tariff is and we and often we are able to give them cashback We receive numerous stories from users just tell them if they are overpaying.
Then, as when small company GB Energy went bust for switching too.
like the one quoted above.
We set up Cheap many tariffs are only cheap in the short Energy Club for a very simple reason whilst term, we monitor the market and email This gives our users the confidence to switch MoneySavingExpert has been promoting users if they can save.
So to help our users navigate this new world while still saving money.
and avoid decision paralysis, weve focused when to switch energy and when not to for over ten years, through our cheap gas and our product development on helping them choose the right provider for them, far more electricity guide, users still considered that easily.
This year we introduced a number of Weve focused our product development on helping users choose the right provider for them, far more easily.
Users just sign up to Cheap Energy Club, tell us what their current energy tariff is and we tell them if they are overpaying.
com Group PLC 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 1,035 38 875 995 43 905 965 40 880 938 35 1,016 1,003 39 1,246 OUR BRANDS: MONEYSUPERMARKET There are a number of ways we will achieve Money products many households rely Motor insurance premium this: on credit cards to manage their budgets, mean price quoted Device We will provide the same great so we will continue to showcase the best Annual average insurance customer experience, whether customers possible deals on balance transfer and premium want to access us on their phone, laptop, purchase cards.
We will also continue to tablet or desktop.
encourage current account holders to Journey Our website will be consistent, take advantage of switching deals that intuitive and easy to use with an improved offer cash payments, cashback on customer experience.
Tools We will provide a range of tools to Energy bills a typical household spends help customers find the right products well over 800 a year on gas and for them.
electricity bills, and the cost of energy Personalisation We will use the has become a deeply political issue, with information our customers give us to calls for a price cap and the phasing-out help them find what they are looking for.
of standard variable rate tariffs.
13 14 15 16 17 This includes pre-populating quote forms MoneySuperMarket believes bigger to help them save time when looking for Source: MoneySuperMarket motor savings can be achieved by households insurance enquiry data a product.
Communication The better we know our Accordingly, we will continue to promote Longest 0% balance transfer customers, the more targeted, relevant the savings that are already available period for credit card and valuable our communications and to reassure customers that the Headline balance transfer period become.
So we will use what we know switching process itself is swift and months about our customers to send them emails hassle-free.
about products we know they will be Political and regulatory focus interested to hear about.
regulators are increasingly looking to remove the advantages of being the incumbent supplier and to encourage Market trends and opportunities customers to switch to make savings.
MoneySuperMarket offers consumers Examples of this include both energy many opportunities to save money, from A LEADING DESTINATION FOR and current accounts.
This trend the big spends such as insurance and facilitates competition and consumers energy bills to high value and rewarding propensity to switch and save.
CUSTOMERS TO SAVE MONEY financial products.
Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec In addition to the broad economic trends ON THEIR HOUSEHOLD BILLS 13 14 15 16 17 Source: MoneySuperMarket data affecting household budgets, there are various factors impacting our key Average energy quote markets including: MoneySuperMarket user Motor insurance premiums with average Average annual energy price premiums for comprehensive cover oneySuperMarkets aim is Reinventing what we do approaching 1,035 a year, car insurance is to help households save We will continue to invest in our brands Looking ahead a major expense for UK households.
This ambition is whilst at the same time working obsessively During 2018, we will: past year, three factors have influenced perfectly suited to the to improve the customer experience.
This prices: changes to the way personal injury invest further in the times in which we live, will include investments in our product compensation payments are calculated: MoneySuperMarket brand, Mg iven the political development teams as we focus on new an increase in insurance premium tax enhancing its status as a leading uncertainty that exists at home and abroad, opportunities to innovate and help IPT : and sustained levels of fraud arising destination for households and the financial unease which customers save money on household bills from exaggerated and fabricated whiplash wanting to save money: accompanies it.
The first of these, a reduction in the discount rate applied to lump sum work obsessively to optimise and There are many challenges faced by our Best price, best experience 13 14 15 16 17 awards, triggered large price increases.
Inflation has risen to levels not If we want to help households save money, Source: MoneySuperMarket enquiry data But the government has responded with experience when they visit seen for several years, and wages have mediancheapest price dual fuel customers we have to offer them consistently a consultation aimed at overhauling the only energy enquiries MoneySuperMarket, whichever failed to keep pace.
That means households competitive prices.
That means negotiating way the rate is calculated, reducing the device they use: have reduced spending power, putting market-leading and exclusive deals with impact on insurer balance sheets and pressure on budgets and making saving continue to develop the providers for our customers.
hopefully removing a source of money on bills a necessity.
MoneySuperMarket App, inflationary pressure on premiums.
But winning on price and product quality is ensuring it reflects best practice Secondly IPT rose from 10% to 12% in There are also high levels of personal not our only objective.
We have to deliver a and provides customers with the June 2017.
Further increases in 2018 and indebtedness - a cause for concern given great visitor experience, so that customers innovative services they want: beyond will directly impact what people the likelihood that interest rates will find what they want, and think of us first for and pay for personal insurances, apart from continue to rise.
At the same time, savers their future needs.
life and income replacement cover.
are still struggling to find a decent return on begin to focus on new Finally, fraud is estimated to add 40 to their cash deposits.
opportunities to help customers every car insurance policy.
Changes to save money on their household small claims court procedures and rules, Against this backdrop, the markets in which bills such as mortgages.
expected in October 2018, are designed we operate are changing.
New companies to reduce this figure.
Beyond these are emerging with different customer factors, it remains the case that drivers propositions whilst our traditional can often beat their renewal quote from competitors continue to develop.
their existing insurer by shopping around at MoneySuperMarket.
com Group PLC 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 13,000 12,000 10,800 9,900 9,000 OUR BRANDS: MONEYSAVINGEXPERT We also significantly grew our social media Market trends and opportunities Subscribers channels with a greater variety and amount We have seen a number of trends in the Number 000s to weekly email of content.
As a result, engagement on our markets in which we operate where Facebook page jumped by over 400% last consumers could save money by actively year and we trebled the number of people managing their household bills including: clicking from it to our site.
Financial services savings rates have risen in 2017 and may rise further in To help engage with a younger audience and 2018 if the base rate rises this has make our content more dynamic we also increased engagement from users to invested in our video proposition, producing take control of their savings, and will more than 200 new videos in 2017. only grow further if the base rate does indeed rise again.
The appetite for bank And building on our core money saving switching is dependent upon the 13 14 15 16 17 content we published more than 40 new quality of the offers from banks and guides to help users save even more when some banks launched huge money, covering new subjects such as incentives in the final quarter of 2017, app-only banking products, robo-investing the appetite to switch grew.
Loan rates and the hugely popular tip on how to get have remained fairly steady following into an airport lounge for free.
the base rate rise in November so there is still demand for what are close to the cheapest ever loans.
Any increase in Easy to use Almost 13 million people have the quality of financial products We have invested considerable technological now signed up to receive our enables MoneySavingExpert to provide and editorial resources to start our journey to weekly email, which is packed expert editorial comment and engage becoming a fully responsive, multiplatform with consumers on the best savings, full of deals, tips and money publishing site.
Accessible, unique and easy to loans and credit cards available in understand editorial content is at the heart of saving guides.
what MoneySavingExpert does, so ensuring Energy the cost of energy has our content and tools are responsive and become a deeply political issue, with optimised for a mobile or tablet device is key.
calls for a price cap and the phasingThis has significantly improved user out of standard variable rate tariffs.
We will continue to develop our MoneySavingExpert believes that user experience by enhancing our site CUTTING USERS COSTS, bigger savings can be achieved by navigation and empowering users through households switching to fixed-rate our content and tools.
MoneySavingExperts Cheap Energy Club, which alerts consumers if We have a massive forum community.
energy tariffs change and savings can With 1.7 million users and almost 3.3 million be made, helps to ensure it is well threads, our forum is an active and placed to benefit from consumers passionate community that helps users to people with severe mental impairments can oneySavingExpert is seeking to reduce their energy costs.
get out of debt, find better oneof the UKs biggest pay lower council tax and raising awareness Looking ahead Political and regulatory focus deals and find ways to save money.
that millions need to hurry to beat the PPI consumer finance During 2018, we will: Regulators are increasingly looking to reclaiming deadline.
Were proud of our websites and is remove the advantages of being the continue our strategy of campaigning stance its us fighting dedicated to cutting incumbent supplier.
Examples of this educating and fighting for the your corner.
Musers costs and fighting include both energy and current user investing in our editorial their corner with journalistic research, accounts.
This trend facilitates and campaigning teams to help cutting edge tools and a massive Improving the user proposition competition and consumers spread our message even community all focused on finding deals, in2017 propensity to switch and further.
Campaigning will saving costs and campaigning for financial Almost 13 million people have now signed up MoneySavingExpert is well placed to continue to be at the heart of justice.
It was the highest rated brand for to receive our weekly email, which is packed benefit from this through its editorial advocacy in 2017 YouGov Advocacy what MoneySavingExpert does: full of deals, tips and money saving guides.
Rating 2017. continue to increase our In 2017, we added the ground-breaking presence on multiple channels to Putting the user first Broadband Unbundled tool to our attract new audiences via video MoneySavingExpert operates with full comprehensive suite of money saving tools and social media: editorial independence and integrity and and calculators.
It shows you the cheapest always focuses on whats best for the broadband, phone and TV deals available in develop and enhance our clubs user, in line with its editorial code.
your area, and whether its best to get them and tools including Cheap Energy from one or multiple providers.
Club and Broadband Unbundled Fighting consumers corner to help users cut their bills: and MoneySavingExpert has successfully We did that while growing our Credit Club, invest in technology to enhance helped millions of consumers to get which helps users manage and boost their our site, tools and guides so they redress for mis-sold payment protection credit chances, and our Cheap Energy Club, are easier to use on a mobile insurance PPI and bank charges, to which shows if you are overpaying for ortablet and to improve tighten regulation of payday loans, to get your gas and electricity and monitors financial education in schools and much this position.
In 2017, we continued to fight injustice including a damning report to Government on the Ombudsman system, highlighting how tens of thousands of Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 31,060 forecast 26,738 estimate 25,933 24,407 23,366 OUR BRANDS: TRAVELSUPERMARKET Holidays packaged and independent Total value m 13 14 15 16 17 Source: Package vs Independent Holidays - April 2017 - Market Size and Forecast, Mintel, based on ONS SIMPLY COMPARE TO SAVE MONEY TravelSupermarket continues to focus on building leading comparison services for consumers to help them find the best deal for their holiday.
uying a holiday is a huge outlay Looking ahead Focus on holidays Despite 2017 being for the average British family, In order to focus on our core offering and During 2018, we will: and although planning a break continue to build upon our heritage as one challenging for the UK continue to develop our should ultimately be fun, the of the UKs leading price comparison sites in service through investment in financial aspect can often add the sector, we have outsourced our flight economy, the demand for technology in order to help Bunnecessary stress to the and hotel channels to partners who we our customers find the right booking process.
TravelSupermarkets goal believe can offer our customers the best holidays remains strong holiday for them: is to give customers a range of options so level of service and range of choice in these they can book with confidence and save areas.
By doing this, we are able to focus work with trusted travel with research from ABTA on their holiday.
our technology resource on our package brands to ensure that the holiday and car hire channels, developing showing that British people breadth of deals we show our an easy-to-use tool which customers can Compare and save, securely customers offers choice and The key to TravelSupermarkets offering is use to search and compare their holidays.
are taking more holidays value: and its simplicity.
Users only need to enter their requirements, then hit search: the range focus on customer Market trends and opportunities than at any time since 2011. of results that is returned can then be experience, data capabilities A sluggish UK economy and weak pound compared and fine-tuned allowing and optimisation of our site are likely to make holidays more expensive TravelSupermarket exists to customers to find the right holiday, car, in 2018, so its more important than ever for customers and providers.
flight or hotel room for their needs.
that TravelSupermarket provides its help a new breed of savvy customers with a wide selection of holiday Once a decision is made, the customers deals.
TravelSupermarket continues to British holidaymakers get are transferred to one of our partners focus on building leading comparison websites, where they can check everything services for consumers to help them find away without paying a over and finalise their booking.
As we work the best deal for their holiday and to benefit with the industrys most reputable brands, from this increasing consumer demand to penny too much.
which provide consumer protection on get more holiday for their money.
package holidays through the ATOL scheme, customers are ensured of peace of mind while making one of their biggest purchases of the year.
com Group PLC 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2017 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2017
