Directors Report Substantial share interests Statutory Information As at 31 December 2017, the Company had not been notified The directors present the Annual Report of the Group for the of any substantial interests in the Companys voting rights.
There have not been any new holdings notified between the Activities and business review year end and the date of this Report.
A review of the business is given in the Chairmans and Chief Executives reports on pages 4 to 7 and in the Strategic Report Assets on pages 8 to 20.
The directors are required by the Companies At 31 December 2017 the total net assets of the Group were Act to prepare a Strategic Report for each financial year, 1,980.5m 2016: 1,726.6m.
At this date the net asset value which contains a fair review of the business of the Group per ordinary share was 1 109.8 p 2016: 952.8p.
during the financial year ended 31 December 2017 and of the position of the Group at the end of the year and a description Revenue and dividend of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
This information can be found within the Strategic Report on pages The total profit for the year was 317m 2016: 327m.
A profit 17 to 19. of 43m is attributable to revenue 2016: 42m.
The profit for the year attributable to revenue has been applied as follows: The Corporate Governance Statement on pages 32 to 40 forms 000 part of this Directors Report.
Distributed as dividends: Investment policy First interim of 4.75p per ordinary share 8,509 The Companys investment policy is set out on the inside front paid on 16 June 2017 cover.
Second interim of 4.75p per ordinary share 8,485 paid on 18 September 2017 Status Third interim of 4.75p per ordinary share 8,478 Witan Investment Trust plc the Company is incorporated paid on 18 December 2017 in the United Kingdom and registered in England and Wales Fourth interim of 6.75p per ordinary share 12,0 38 and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
It is an investment payable on 29 March 2018 company as defined in section 833 of the Companies Act Added to the Companys revenue reserve 5, 51 5 2006 and operates as an investment trust in accordance with 43,025 section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
The Company has received confirmation from HM Revenue and Customs that it has been accepted as an approved investment trust The directors have declared a fourth interim dividend instead with effect from 1 January 2012, provided it continues to meet of a final dividend in order to ensure that, as in previous years, the eligibility conditions of section 1158 and of the ongoing the distribution is made to shareholders before 5 April.
requirements for approved companies in the Investment Trust Approved Company Tax Regulations 2011.
Directors The current directors of the Company are shown on pages 26 Subsidiary company and 27.
The Company has one subsidiary company, Witan Investment Services Limited, which provides marketing services All the directors held office throughout the year under review.
and investment products to the Company and executive Mr Bell and Ms Neubert will retire in accordance with the management and marketing services to third party investment Companys Articles of Association and, being eligible, will seek trust clients.
Witan Investment Services Limited is authorised re-election by shareholders.
Mr Henderson and Mr Watson and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority to act as the will also retire and stand for re-election, as each of them has Companys AIFM, provide investment advice to professional served as a director for more than nine years and is eligible investors and manage savings schemes for investors.
The Board considers them to be independent despite their length of service.
This is explained ISAs in more detail in sections 1 and 2 of the Corporate Governance The Company intends to continue to manage its affairs so that Statement on page 33.
Mr Boyle and Mrs Claydon will retire at its shares fully qualify for the stocks and shares component of the Annual General Meeting AGM on 2 May 201 8 and will not an ISA and Junior ISA.
28 Witan Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 The Board has reviewed the performance and commitment of be approved by the Board and added to the register, which the directors standing for re-election and considers that each is reviewed annually by the Board.
It has also been agreed of them should continue to serve on the Board as they bring that directors will advise the Chairman and the Company wide, current and relevant experience that allows them to Secretary in advance of any proposed external appointment contribute effectively to the leadership of the Company.
and new directors will be asked to submit a list of potential situations falling within the conflicts of interest provisions of The Boards policy on the frequency of the re-election of the Act in advance of joining the Board.
The Chairman will directors is set out on page 33 in the Corporate Governance then determine whether the relevant appointment causes a Statement.
conflict or potential conflict of interest and should therefore be considered by the Board.
Only directors who have no interest During the year the membership of the Audit Committee in the matter being considered would be able to participate in comprised Mr Boyle Chairman, Mrs Claydon, Mr Perry the Board approval process.
In deciding whether to approve and Mr Watson.
During the year the membership of the a conflict of interest, directors will also act in a way they Remuneration and Nomination Committee comprised Mrs consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Claydon Chairman, Mr Henderson and Mr Oldfield.
Companys success in taking such a decision.
The Board can impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if the directors consider this to be appropriate.
No director was a party to, or had an interest in, any contract or arrangement with the Company at any time during the year The Board believes that its arrangements for the authorisation or to the date of this report.
With the exception of Mr Bell, no of conflicts operate effectively.
The Boar d also confirms that director has or had a service contract with the Company.
its procedures for the approval of conflicts of interest have been followed by all the directors and that there are currently Directors interests no conflicts of interest.
The interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report Directors indemnity on page 46.
The Companys Articles of Association allow the Company, subject to the provisions of UK legislation, to: Directors conflicts of interest Directors have a duty to avoid situations where they have, a indemnify any person who is or was a director, or a or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or director of any associated company, directly or indirectly possibly could conflict, with the Companys interests.
The against any loss or liability, whether in connection with Companies Act 2006 the Act allows directors of public any proven or alleged negligence, default, breach of duty companies to authorise such conflicts and potential conflicts, or breach of trust by him or her, or otherwise, in relation where appropriate, but only if the Articles of Association to the Company or any associated company: and contain a provision to this effect.
The Act also allows the Articles of Association to contain other provisions for dealing b purchase and maintain insurance for any person who is or with directors conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
was a director, or a director of any associated company, There are two circumstances in which a potential conflict against any loss or liability or any expenditure he or she of interest can be permitted: either the situation cannot may incur, whether in connection with any proven or reasonably be regarded as likely to give rise to a conflict of alleged negligence, default, breach of duty or breach interest or the matter has been authorised in advance by the of trust by him or her, or otherwise, in relation to the directors.
The Companys Articles of Association, which were Company or any associated company.
adopted by shareholders on 27 April 2010, give the directors the relevant authority required to deal with conflicts of Directors and officers liability insurance cover is in place in interest.
respect of the directors and was in place throughout the year under review.
Each of the directors has provided a statement of all conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest, if any, applicable to the Company.
A register of conflicts of interest has been compiled and approved by the Board.
The directors have also undertaken to notify the Chairman as soon as they become aware of any new potential conflicts of interest that need to Annual Report 2017 Witan Investment Trust PLC 29 Other Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Directors Report Strategic Report Directors Report continued The Company is also seeking to renew shareholder approval Directors fees to issue shares, up to 10% of the starting total, provided that The report on the directors remuneration is set out on pages such shares are issued at or at a premium to net asset value.
43 to 55. b 2.7% preference shares of 1 nominal value each Investment managers 2.7% preference shares It is the opinion of the directors that the continuing The 2.7% preference shareholders have no rights to attend appointment of the investment managers listed on page 11 and vote at general meetings.
At 31 December 2017 there is in the interests of the Companys shareholders as a whole were 500,000 2.7% preference shares in issue.
Further details and that the terms of engagement negotiated with them are on the preference shares are given in note 17 on page 90. competitive and appropriate to the investment mandates.
The Board and the Companys AIFM review the appointments c 3.4% preference shares of 1 nominal value each of the investment managers on a regular basis and make 3.4% preference shares changes as appropriate.
The 3.4% preference shareholders have no rights to attend and vote at general meetings.
At 31 December 2017 there Share capital were 2,055,000 3.4% preference shares in issue.
Further The Companys share capital comprises: details on the preference shares are given in note 17 on page 90. a ordinary shares of 25p nominal value each At the AGM in April 2017 a special resolution was passed shares giving the Company authority, until the conclusion of the The voting rights of the shares on a poll are one vote for AGM in 2018, to make market purchases for cancellation every four shares held one vote per 1 of nominal value.
At of the Companys own 2.7% preference shares and 3.4% 31 December 2016 there were 200,071,000 shares in issue.
preference shares up to a maximum of all those in issue.
This During the year, 2,761,150 shares were bought back and authority has not been used.
Accordingly, as at 31 December are held in treasury and at 31 December 2017 there were 2017 the Company had valid authority, outstanding until the 21,621,411 shares held in treasury.
These shares do not carry conclusion of the AGM in 2018, to make market purchases voting rights or the right to receive dividends and thus the for cancellation of 500,000 2.7% preference shares and number of voting rights was 44,612,397 on a poll.
No preference shares were year end, 161,134 shares have been bought back and at the bought back between the year end and the date of this report.
date of this report there were 200,071,000 shares in issue of Accordingly, the Company has valid authority to make market which 21,782,545 were held in treasury.
purchases for cancellation of 500,000 2.7% preference shares The Companys Articles of Association permit the Company to and 2,055,000 3.4% preference shares.
The directors intend to purchase its own shares and to fund such purchases from its seek a fresh authority at the AGM in May 2018. accumulated realised capital profits.
At the AGM in April 2017 a special resolution was passed giving the Company authority, There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities until the conclusion of the AGM in 2018, to make market in the Company: no special rights with regard to control purchases to be held in treasury of the Companys ordinary attached to securities: no agreements between holders shares up to a maximum of 26,860,811 shares being 14.99% of securities regarding their transfer which are known to of the issued ordinary share capital as at 27 April 2017.
The the Company: and no agreements to which the Company Company has bought back 903,085 shares since the date of is party that might affect its control following a successful the last AGM.
The Board is seeking to renew its powers at the forthcoming Independent auditor AGM to buy shares into treasury, for possible reissuance when Resolutions to reappoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as the the shares trade at a premium.
The Company makes use of Companys auditor and to authorise the Audit Committee share buybacks, purchasing shares to be held in treasury to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the with the objective of achieving a sustainable low discount or forthcoming AGM.
Further details are included in the Report a premium to net asset value.
Shares are not bought back of the Audit Committee on pages 41 and 42. unless the result is an increase in the net asset value per ordinary share.
Shares will only be re-sold from treasury at, or at a premium to, the net asset value per ordinary share.
30 Witan Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 requires the Company to provide certain additional details Directors statement as to the disclosure of to HMRC in relation to certain shareholders.
The reporting information to the auditor obligation began in 2016 and is an annual requirement.
The Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report Companys registrar, Computershare, has been engaged to confirms that: collate such information and file the reports with HMRC on behalf of the Company.
1 so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and Modern Slavery Act 2015 As an investment vehicle, the Company does not provide 2 the director has taken all the steps that he she ought to goods or services in the normal course of business and does have taken as a director to make himself herself aware not have customers.
Accordingly, the directors consider that of any relevant audit information and to establish that the the Company is not required to make any slavery or human Companys auditor is aware of that information.
trafficking statement under the Modern Slavery Act 2015.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted Securities Financing Transactions in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the As the Company undertakes securities lending, it is required Companies Act 2006. to report on Securities Financing Transactions as defined in Article 3 of Regulation EU 2015 2365, securities financing Listing Rule 9.8.
4 transactions include repurchase transactions, securities Listing Rule 9.8.
4 requires the Company to include certain or commodities lending and securities or commodities information in a single identifiable section of the Annual borrowing, buy-sell back transactions or sell-buy back Report.
Details of Mr Bells LongTerm Bonus are included in transactions and margin lending transactions.
In accordance the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 52 and 53.
The with Article 13 of the Regulation, the Companys involvement directors confirm that there are no other disclosures to be in and exposures related to securities lending as at made in respect of Rule 9.8.
31 December 2017 are detailed on pages 94 and 95.
Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy Greenhouse gas emissions The Board has adopted a zero-tolerance approach to The Company has a staff of seven employees, operating from instances of bribery and corruption.
Accordingly, it expressly small serviced office premises.
Accordingly it does not have prohibits any Director or associated persons when acting on any significant greenhouse gas emissions to report from its behalf of the Company, from accepting, soliciting, paying, own operations, nor does it have responsibility for any other offering or promising to pay or authorise any payment, public emission producing sources under the Companies Act 2006 or private in the UK or abroad to secure any improper benefit Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013, for themselves or for the Company.
The Board applies the including those within its underlying investment portfolio.
same standards to its service providers in their activities for the Company.
A copy of the Companys Anti-Bribery and Annual General Meeting Corruption Policy can be found on its website at www.
The AGM will be held at 2.30 pm on Wednesday 2 May 2018 The policy is reviewed regularly by the Audit Committee.
at Merchant Taylors Hall, 30 Threadneedle Street, London EC2R 8JB.
The formal notice of the AGM is set out in the Prevention of the Facilitation of Tax Evasion accompanying circular to shareholders, together with During the year and in response to the implementation explanations of the resolutions.
of the Criminal Finances Act 2017, the Board adopted a zero-tolerance approach to the criminal facilitation of tax By order of the Board evasion.
A copy of the Companys policy on preventing the facilitation of tax evasion can be found on the Companys Frostrow Capital LLP website www.
The policy is reviewed annually by Secretary the Audit Committee.
12 March 2018 Common Reporting Standard CRS CRS is a global standard for the automatic exchange of information commissioned by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and incorporated into UK law by the International Tax Compliance Regulations 2015.
CRS Annual Report 2017 Witan Investment Trust PLC 31 Other Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Directors Report Strategic Report
