Strategic report TECHNOLOGY EMPOWERED At the forefront of quantitative innovation Machine learning Data We go out of our way Simply defined, machine learning is a process At Man we use data in a comprehensive way to create an excellent in which a range of applied algorithms identify across all of our investment engines.
Within environment for the repeatable patterns and relationships within Man AHL, we use hundreds of data sources observed data.
The combined fields of to develop and improve our strategies, with very best technologists computer science, information engineering and each dataset bringing a unique insight into mathematics all contribute to machine learning how markets trade.
We have dedicated teams, Robyn Grew making it a hybrid discipline that encompasses such as the Data Innovation team in Man AHL, Chief Administrative Officer many schools of thought.
We do not generally which seek out exciting new datasets and view it as a replacement for human ability, but bring them into our investing strategies.
We as a tool to enable investors to benefit from recognise that to transform data into knowledge, areas where the amount of data or subtlety we need market acumen, technology and of patterns are best handled by a machine.
We rely on our thirty years of trading experience to provide us with business Machine learning techniques have been intuition and invest in a sophisticated data researched at Man for over 6 years and it is a infrastructure and in advanced machine part of what we do.
At the Oxford Man Institute learning techniques to utilise data both of Quantitative Finance OMI, we have moved within Man AHL and across the Group.
away from researching techniques in general quantitative finance and have focused our Infrastructure efforts in on the autonomous machine learning process.
We have already implemented these Investing in our infrastructure is key to staying autonomous algorithms in both our quantitative ahead of the curve.
We have worked hard to and discretionary investment engines as well enhance our operating systems to meet MiFID as in execution, and we expect it to play a II requirements and our changing regulatory role in everything we do in the next decade.
We have appointed a Director of Trading and are implementing advanced trading systems in order to build a centre of excellence across trading in all areas of the Group.
This year we have delivered a new Client Relationship Management system in sales and we use technology to help our clients understand their portfolios through the Clarus platform.
We also intend to upgrade our Finance and HR software in order to maintain our competitive advantage and to continue attracting top people across the industry.
20 Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Quantitative investment At Man, we use innovative financial technology and management experience quantitative techniques across our business, and believe this enables us to deliver results for clients.
We are 30 Man AHL was established in committed to being a leader in this area, and continually 1987 and Man Numeric was established in 1989 invest in talent, technology and research as we strive to be at the forefront of the industry.
We have a unique Quants and technologists partnership with the University of Oxford, the Oxford Man Institute, conducting field-leading research into machine 458 In Man Group at 31 December 2017 learning and data analytics, which can be applied to investment management across our investment engines.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 21
