Iconic destinations We create outstanding, architecturally significant destinations where brands want flagship stores and shoppers want to spend time all connected by seamless, experience-enhancing technology and convenient transport links.
With the continued structural change in retail, our venues and retail space are being designed to maximise flexibility to more easily respond to the changing needs of both our tenants and customers.
What weve done Fully opened in early 2017, Westquay South created an exceptional regional leisure destination for the South Coast, set against the exquisite backdrop of Southamptons historic city walls.
This major extension to Westquay attracted over 20 restaurants, many of which opened outside London for the first time, alongside a ten screen cinema and bowling alley.
The distinctive location has enabled us to create an esplanade within the development, delivering a dedicated programme of events which has increased the number of early evening shoppers and overall footfall to Westquay.
The success of Westquay South has provided further inspiration to the development teams at Brent Cross and Croydon and clearly demonstrates how valuable well curated event space is to the shopper experience.
Image: Festival of Light at Westquay, Southampton 20 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Iconic destinations HAMMERSON.
COM 21 Retail specialism Retail is at the heart of what we do.
We build strong relationships with our retailers and support them in their multichannel journey.
For example, by providing flexible space for retailers changing needs and considering future retail challenges such as logistics.
As developers of new space, we work together with our retailers on these opportunities.
We focus on inspiring customers to shop and enjoy unique experiences in our centres, together with ensuring that we have the right offer across numerous categories and price points, from established retailers to exciting brand showcases and new concepts.
What weve done Our destinations continue to be a gateway for both new and expanding brands, as consumer brands continue to market direct to shoppers, our space is increasingly relevant.
At Victoria, Leeds brands such as Dyson, Nespresso and John Lewis Smart Home have all utilised our space to maximum effect during 2017.
Bullring was selected as the destination for the first ever UK VW brand showcase.
A new experiential format, it aimed to engage a wider customer base providing VW with brand exposure to customers that might not be actively looking to buy a new car.
The VW store has seen strong engagement, with more than 25,000 customer visits in December 2017 alone.
Image: Victoria Gate, Leeds 22 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Retail specialism HAMMERSON.
COM 23 Experience led Shopping remains an experience-led activity and its popularity in our physical destinations continues, demonstrated by our annual footfall growth.
Customers are looking for exciting ways to spend their ever precious free time.
Shared experiences in our centres through leisure, events and dining offer original and engaging ways to socialise with friends and family.
What weve done Our impressive and diverse programme of events saw a 50% increase in the number of event days delivered in our centres during 2017.
Engaging with customers and creating a sense of theatre was fundamental to their success.
Highlights included the Festival of Light and SKATE at Westquay, the Garden of Pure Imagination at Dundrum, as well as our ongoing programme of fashion, food, student and family related events.
During the Riverside relaunch at The Oracle, a Las Vegas style light and fountain show spectacular delivered a footfall increase of 14% compared to the previous week.
Targeting our key customer profiles, these events attract hundreds of thousands of customers and offer compelling reasons to keep visiting our venues.
Image: River of Light at The Oracle, Reading 24 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Experience led HAMMERSON.
COM 25 Customer first The success of our retail destinations relies on first class customer service and providing reasons for shoppers to visit.
A refreshing line-up of brands and world-class entertainment encourages shoppers to spend time at our venues and make the most of our varied offer.
From the moment our shoppers check stores and centre opening times on our App, to their arrival in the car park to enjoy our varied retailer offer, every step of the journey aims to deliver a seamless, supported and enjoyable experience.
What weve done In 2017, we launched a range of exciting new initiatives to improve the service we provide to our customers.
A sector leading chatbot at Bullring, the latest in AI technology, updated shoppers on Black Friday offers and provided transport updates during the snow.
Over 120,000 parcels were handled through our customer service desks and click & collect services during the year.
Comfortable and engaging family rooms are now common place in our centres, and our handsfree shopping service, which allows shoppers to drop their bags while they carry on enjoying everything our malls have to offer, delivered a significant increase in average dwell time.
We continue to transform our customers experience and deliver these initiatives across the UK, Ireland and France.
Image: Customer services at Les Terrasses du Port, Marseille 26 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 Customer first HAMMERSON.
