Strategic report KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Our financial KPIs illustrate and measure the effective operations, which together drive returns moderate, and FRM fund of funds.
We achieved relationship between the investment experience to shareholders.
Our alternative performance record net inflows, largely driven by strong asset ofour clients, our financial performance and the measures are discussed on pages 147-150. raising intotal return and multi-manager solutions creation of shareholder value over time.
Management fee revenue and indicated in the Directors Remuneration report on The results of our KPIs this year reflect the profitability increased in 2017, despite margin page 70 our KPIs are a key determinant of the increase in our FUM base as a result of strong compression as a result of growth in lower margin remuneration of the executive directors and are organic growth due to good performance and strategies, due to higher average FUM and a used to regularly evaluate progress against our flows.
We had strong outperformance for Numeric reduction in our fixed costs base.
key strategic priorities of research and innovation, and GLG, and good relative performance for AHL, strong client relationships, and efficient and although absolute performance was more 1 Investment performance Target: Fund vs Benchmark Actual Benchmark The performance of the key strategies compared to the benchmarks gives an indication of the 2017 2016 competitiveness of our investment performance against similar alternative investment styles met met AHL offered by other investment managers.
The investment performance KPI measures the net 5.0 -7.6 investment performance for our managers AHL, Numeric, GLG and FRM, excluding GPM which 7.9 -3.0 was established as a result of the acquisition of Aalto during the year.
For AHL, GLG and FRM, 2 5.0 -9.2 investment performance is represented by key strategies against relevant external benchmarks 1.8 -11.0 reference indices.
For Numeric, investment performance ismonitored by the net asset weighted 3 outperformance or underperformance alpha based on a predetermined benchmark by strategy.
3 met met Numeric The target for the investment performance KPI is to exceed the relevant benchmarks.
2.1 1.4 The key strategies and the relevant benchmarks are AHL Diversified versus three key peer asset 0.0 0.0 managers for AHL the target being to beat two of the three peers, the GLG Alternative Strategies Dollar-Weighted Composite versus HFRX for GLG and FRM Diversified II versus HFRI Fund of Funds Conservative Index for FRM.
For Numeric, net asset met not met GLG weighted outperformance is based on a benchmark against reference indices by Numeric strategy.
8.3 0.3 Comments We achieved all four of the performance targets, 6.0 2.5 with the performance of AHLs diversified strategy exceeding two out of three of the relevant peer benchmarks, GLG and FRMs metrics exceeding their relevant benchmarks, and Numeric achieving met not met FRM positive net alpha in 2017.
Further investment performance information is provided on page 11.
6.2 -3.8 From 2018, in order to ensure the relative investment performance KPI reflects the continued 4.0 1.9 diversification of our business, this KPI willchange to a measure of asset weighted outperformance of strategies versus benchmark.
This will provide a Link to strategy more complete and balanced view across Mans product base as it will include all strategies against which relevant peer benchmarks are available, as opposed to certain identified key strategies as outlined above, and be weighted based on FUM.
This measure will be more dynamic as this will change as the business continues to evolve, in line with Mans strategic priorities.
1 Where funds have a formal benchmark, performance is compared to this.
Where no formal benchmark has been set, benchmark should be taken to refer to a relative index.
2 On an unrounded basis the AHL Diversified performance was above the benchmark.
3 Numerics net asset weighted alpha for the periods stated is calculated using the asset weighted average of the performance relative to the benchmark for all strategy composites available net of the highest rate of management fees charged and, as applicable, performance fees that can be charged.
22 Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements We have made some changes to our KPIs which Measure against our strategy We clearly link each of our KPIs to our four strategic priorities will be effective from the 2018 financial year.
These changes have been made in order to ensure our KPIs continue to reflect best practice in alignment with the Groups business strategy and delivery of shareholder value, which also aligns with proposed changes to the Directors Innovative Strong client Efficient and Returns to Remuneration Policy see page 67.
The investment relationships effective shareholders strategies operations changes are outlined in the sections below.
This KPI measures net FUM flows for the period Comments Net flows % as a percentage of opening FUM, with net flows Net flows of 15.8% in 2017 were at record levels defined as gross sales less gross redemptions.
and above the target range, which is indicative Target met Net flows are the measure of our ability to attract of the strong net inflows into our total return and 0%10% and retain investor capital.
FUM drives our multi-manager solutions strategies, as well as financial performance in terms of our ability inflows into discretionary long only and absolute 2016 2.4 to earn management fees.
return strategies, partially offset by smaller net outflows from systematic long only strategies 2017 15.8 and guaranteed products.
Link to strategy This KPI measures adjusted management fee Dollar to Sterling rate and continued efforts on Adjusted management EBITDA as a percentage of net revenues gross achieving efficiencies within our cost base.
fee EBITDA margin % management fee revenue and income from For further information see page 27. associates less cash distribution costs.
Our Target Effective from the 2018 financial year, the adjusted management fee EBITDA margin is met 25%40% adjusted management fee EBITDA margin a measure of our underlying profitability.
Profit margin and overall 2016 26.1 Comments profitability remain key priorities for the Board.
The adjusted management fee EBITDA margin These are reflected in adjusted profit before 2017 27.7 of 27.7% was within the target range for the year tax which has been added as a new KPI.
ended 31 December 2017, compared to 26.1% Adjusted profit before tax is a measure of Link to strategy for the year ended 31 December 2016.
The overall profitability and also reflects the fact that margin increased in 2017, reflecting the lower performance fees, although volatile in nature, are compensation ratio and a reduction in fixed a key revenue stream for Man and a significant costs due to a more favourable hedged US component of value creation for shareholders.
This KPI measures our adjusted management fee Comments Adjusted management EPS growth, where adjusted management fee The adjusted management fee EPS growth fee EPS growth EPS is calculated using post-tax profits excluding of20.0%, from 9.0 cents to 10.8 cents, was net performance fees and adjusting items, within the target range for 2017.
Adjusted Target met divided by the weighted average diluted number management fee EPS growth is largely 0%20% RPI of 4.1% of shares.
Adjusted management fee EPS growth driven bythe higher net management fee measures the overall effectiveness of our revenues, a reduction in our fixed costs base 2016 -11.8 business model, and drives both our dividend despite growth in the business, a slightly policy and the value generated for shareholders.
lower tax rate and higher profits per share 2017 20.0 due to the impact of share repurchases which reduce the number of shares.
For Link to strategy further information on EPS, see page 149.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 23
