OUR BUSINESS MODEL Creating long-term stakeholder value Our vision is to create desirability for consumers, brands, commercial partners and communities.
We utilise Through clear operational activities key resources These are the operational activities that we undertake to deliver our strategy.
The success of our business depends on a number of principal inputs.
Focus on growing consumer markets Investment management We employ market expertise to recycle our portfolio, taking advantage of acquisition opportunities in growing consumer markets which enhance the quality of our portfolio and future returns and disposing of lower growth assets at the right time.
High-quality Talented property people Create differentiated destinations Developing venues We have a proven track record in creating sustainable retail and leisure destinations which anticipate future consumer needs and ensure that retailers will thrive for years to come.
Asset management Retail Financial We skilfully manage our portfolio in a sustainable way to insight capital generate income growth and to attract tenants and shoppers.
Promote financial efficiency and partnerships Financing and capital providers We manage and control our costs, both operational and financial, and optimise our capital base to support the delivery of our strategy.
Our relationships enable us to source capital, to access growth markets, to create a larger operational platform, and generate income growth.
For information on our talented people, see page 46.
For information on our strategy, see pages 14 and 15.
For information on our financial capital, see page 53.
For information on our high-quality property portfolio, see page 49 and visit our website: hammerson.
For information on our retail insight, see pages 13 to 15.
6 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS MODEL Uniquely differentiated by our To deliver value Product Experience Framework for our stakeholders Our Product Experience Framework is embedded By successfully employing our business model across everything we do providing a unique point we aim to deliver a positive result for all our of differentiation and sustainability.
Iconic Shareholders Retailers Shoppers Retail destinations specialism Customer Experience People Communities Partners first led For information on our Product Experience Overleaf David Atkins describes how Framework, see pages 20 to 27. we have delivered for our stakeholders.
Positive Places: For information on the Groups sustainability strategy see pages 41 to 45.
