OUR STRATEGY Designed to make more happen Our strategy is designed in response to the evolving trends in the retail property landscape.
We seek to realise our vision by putting our three strategic priorities to work through the skill and expertise of our people.
Westquay, Southampton Focus on growing Strategic priority consumer markets Our portfolio is concentrated around retail property, aligned to consumer requirements in a multichannel world: large high quality shopping centres: convenient retail parks: and luxury brand premium outlets.
We choose locations by identifying significant, growing cities in selected European countries where we can gain market share.
We specialise in retail property because it offers attractive and Why its important sustainable long-term returns, with lower volatility than other commercial property due to a granular and diverse tenant mix.
The value of retail property is further underpinned by its contribution to the surrounding community.
Extended and enhanced leading shopping centres, What we did in 2017 2 including full opening of 17,000 m dining and leisure extension at Westquay, Southampton Increased investment in Premium outlets by 130million, now 21% of portfolio Focused on largest assets in France sold 295 million to reinvest into Les 3 Fontaines, Cergy, and Italie Deux extensions Delivered project milestones of Brent Cross development Delivered high-yield retail park extensions and reconfigurations Complete acquisition and integration of intu portfolio Our near-term priorities Continue with capital recycling at similar run-rate to 2017, targeting 500 million in 2018, as part of 2 billion disposals from enlarged group over the short to medium term Invest to extend our leading shopping centres in UK, France and Ireland Advance major London developments, start on-site at Read more about our strategy Brent Cross Our market: trends influencing our strategy pages 13 to 15.
Support Premium outlets extensions and assess Our progress: KPIs on pages 18 and 19. opportunities to increase exposure Our performance: Business Review on pages 28 to 40.
16 HAMMERSON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2017 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR STRATEGY The Riverside, The Oracle Batavia Stad, Amsterdam Create differentiated Promote financial efficiency destinations and partnerships Our talented people apply insight and market expertise to Our singular retail focus, strong and efficient capital create and operate destinations which offer exceptional structure and operational excellence attracts valuable experiences to attract retailers and shoppers and which have partners.
These include global capital providers, a positive impact socially and environmentally.
The Product international joint venture partners and expert operating Experience Framework purposefully guides asset and collaborators who help us broaden our market reach, development management to consistently enhance our increase scale and strengthen our business.
destinations and realise their income potential.
Our strategy is to proactively manage the portfolio to drive Prudent capital management ensures our risk profile consistent rental growth.
Attractive income returns are a remains conservative.
We set conservative internal key part of our investment case.
Skilful retail property guidelines which provide headroom to comfortably grow the operators are increasingly valuable to global investment portfolio.
We diversify our sources of capital.
source of debt is Group-level, unsecured funding and we have a platform of successful JV partners.
Leased to popular consumer categories including auto Extended our partnership in Value Retail and VIA brands, sports fashion and leisure: introduced innovative Outlets with APG.
Expanded VIA Outlets platform to new retailers and restaurants over 1 billion Enlarged and broadened the range of our events programme Reduced our cost:income ratio by 100 basis points Developed digital customer tools with our partners: Continued active approach to refinancing with early Style Seeker, Chat-bot, Plus app redemption of 2020 bond and new financing secured on Dundrum Enhanced our customer services and facilities for children and families Extended JSE register, now 14% of shares in issue Added more catering, focusing on innovative brands or Introduced Responsible Procurement Policy committing those with a proven track-record that our suppliers comply with applicable laws Launched our Net Positive sustainability initiative Introduce popular retail and leisure categories and Maintain financial leverage in line with 40% loan to value brands responding to consumer preferences guidance and strong investment-grade credit ratings Enhance our events programme, further exploring Support our joint venture partners: monitor our total inventive opportunities for all our public spaces joint venture exposure Partner with technology providers or provide Enhance the operating structure of VIA Outlets to match seed-investment to develop new digital innovations its enlarged size Introduce more flexibility into our retail and leisure spaces Evaluate refinancing opportunities in combined balance to respond and adapt to dynamic retailer demands sheet with intu Leverage our brand relationships and tourism insights across Premium outlets portfolio HAMMERSON.
