Investment Managers UK UK 8.3% 6.2% Artemis Investment Management LLP Heronbridge Investment Management LLP Established in 1997, Artemis Investment Management Limited Heronbridge is a long-only, value-biased equity investment manages 27.8bn.
Derek Stuart and Andy Gray manage a UK Special management boutique.
Founded in 2005, the firm remains small, Situations mandate for Witan, a contrarian strategy that aims to achieve focused, and independent, currently managing 1.8bn for institutional superior long-term growth by looking for undervalued opportunities.
and charity clients in the UK, the US and elsewhere.
To maximise the This philosophy leads to a focus on stocks that are out of favour, have alignment of interests, Heronbridges partners have capped the size of turnaround potential or are special situations, identifying companies the investment programme and have a considerable proportion of their where much of the return is driven by internal change.
own assets co-invested alongside those of clients.
Benchmark Investment style Inception date Benchmark Investment style Inception date FTSE All-share Recovery 06.05.2008 FTSE All-share Intrinsic 17.06.2013 special value growth situations UK GLOBAL 7.9% 14.9% Lindsell Train Limited Lansdowne Partners UK LLP Lansdowne Partners manages over 15bn across multiple equity Lindsell Train was established in 2000 by Michael Lindsell and Nick investment strategies each with its own dedicated team of portfolio Train and focuses on managing UK, Global and Japanese equity managers and analysts.
Central to Lansdowne Partners investment mandates, based on their shared investment philosophy.
The founders philosophy is a rigorous process of fundamental bottom-up research.
aim was to provide a working environment that would give them the The Developed Markets Strategy is managed by Peter Davies and best opportunity to achieve strong investment results for clients and Jonathan Regis, who have worked together for over 20 years.
The this is reflected in the small and simple organisational structure.
Developed Markets Long-Only Fund leverages the fundamental stock At 31 December 2017, assets under management totalled 13.1bn.
analysis of the team, investing in $10bn market cap companies in developed markets.
Benchmark Investment style Inception date Benchmark Investment style Inception date DJ Global Concentrated, 14.12.2012 FTSE All-share Long-term 01.09.2010 Titans benchmarkgrowth from independent undervalued investment in brands developed markets Information is as at 31 December 2017.
At that date, 9.1% was managed by Witans Executive team, as described on page 11.
Annual Report 2017 Witan Investment Trust PLC 21 Other Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Directors Report Strategic Report Investment Managers continued GLOBAL GLOBAL 14.2% 14.0% Pzena Investment Management LLC Veritas Asset Management LLP Pzena is a New York-based asset manager with a strict focus on longVeritas is an affiliate of AMG Group, managing approximately 17bn term, classic value investing.
Pzena began managing assets in 1996 of assets, with the key objective of delivering long-term real returns and, by the end of 2017, managed $38.5 bn for clients around the world.
Veritas aligns its interests with clients objectives and is Today Pzena employs 105 people, including 26 on the investment team.
Veritas manages both segregated portfolios Headquartered in New York, Pzena also has marketing and sales offices and funds, with either long-only or long-short real return mandates.
in Melbourne, Australia and in London, United Kingdom.
Their clients are largely institutions, charities and trusts.
The strategy in which the Witan Investment Trust is invested is currently closed to new investors.
Benchmark Investment style Inception date Benchmark Investment style Inception date FTSE AllWorld Systematic 02.12.2013 FTSE AllWorld Fundamental 11.11.2010 value value, real return objective EUROPE EX-UK EUROPE EX-UK 4.5% 4.4% CRUX Asset Management S. W. Mitchell Capital LLP CRUX Asset Management is a specialist active asset management S. W. Mitchell Capital is a specialist investment management boutique house specialising in European equities.
The investment approach is focused exclusively on European equities.
Founded in 2005, the firm defined by an unwavering bottom-up philosophy which aims to deliver is based in London and manages $2.2 bn in assets on behalf of global superior returns over the long-term by identifying and investing in the institutional clients.
Stuart Mitchells bottom up investment philosophy best stock ideas within its universe.
Independent and privately-owned, is designed to uncover unrecognised value, with a process centred on the interests of the business are closely aligned with those of its clients company meetings.
Portfolios are unconstrained and concentrated, as all members of the team invest significant amounts of their own including only the investment teams highest conviction ideas.
Benchmark Investment style Inception date Benchmark Investment style Inception date FTSE Sound 26.10.2017 FTSE High conviction 26.10.2017 Europe businesses Europe portfolio of ex-UK with quality ex-UK companies which management at offer unrecognised attractive valuations value 22 Witan Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2017 ASIA MARKETS EMERGING MARKETS 11.7% 4.2% GQG Partners LLC Matthews International Capital GQG Partners is a majority employee owned boutique investment Management Matthews Asia management firm focused on global and emerging markets equities.
Based in San Francisco, Matthews Asia is an independent, privately The Fort Lauderdale, Florida-based investment team is led by Rajiv owned firm, and the largest dedicated Asia investment specialist in Jain, who brings over 24 years of equity investment experience.
Matthews believes in the long-term growth of Asia portfolios are long-only, high conviction and benchmark-agnostic, and employ a bottom-up fundamental investment philosophy with a with an investment process focused on high-quality companies focus on long-term investment performance.
As of 31 December 2017, with sustainable long-term growth prospects that are available at a Matthews Asia had US$33.9 bn in assets under management.
Benchmark Investment style Inception date Benchmark Investment style Inception date MSCI Asia Quality 20.02.2013 MSCI High quality 16.02.2017 Pacific Free Companies Emerging companies with with dividend Markets attractively-priced growth growth prospects Annual Report 2017 Witan Investment Trust PLC 23 Other Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Directors Report Strategic Report
