Strategic report DIVERSE INVESTMENT STRATEGIES Independent yet collaborative investment teams Our teams invest across a diverse range of Man Numeric Our different investment strategies with highly specialised approaches, from quantitative to discretionary and alternative Man Numeric is a quantitative equity manager styles have significant to long-only, accessing a broad spectrum of invested in almost every equity market in the synergies asset classes.
Within their specialist areas, world.
The investment engine employs portfolio managers operate with a high degree disciplined and systematic investment Sandy Rattray of autonomy over their investment decisions processes, underpinned by a robust Chief Investment Officer and strategy.
Man AHL Man FRM Man AHL employs diversified quantitative Man FRM is an alternatives investment People by investment engine techniques to offer a range of strategies specialist, deploying investment and advisory which encompass traditional momentum, services within institutional portfolios.
Man FRM non-traditional momentum, multi-strategy and provides a full service offering to clients, ranging sector-based approaches.
Man AHL applies from advisory work to customised and scientific rigour and cutting-edge technology commingled portfolio solutions, as well as a and execution to a diverse range of data in order leading, technologically innovative managed to build systematic investment strategies, trading account platform.
continuously over hundreds of global markets.
Man GLG Man GPM Man GLG is a discretionary investment Man GPM focuses on investments in private engine, offering a diverse range of alternative markets, including real and corporate assets and long only investment strategies across across the capital structure.
Launched with the Man AHL 167 equities, credit and multi-asset approaches.
acquisition of Aalto Invest in 2017, Man GPM is Man GLG 160 Man GLGs investment teams are encouraged focused on sourcing investment opportunities Man Numeric 91 Man FRM 55 to think independently, while sharing offering attractive risk adjusted returns.
The Man GPM 36 and debating ideas, unconstrained by a investment engine aims to broaden Man house view.
They are supported by robust Groups offering into illiquid assets such as real infrastructure, technology and research to estate, private credit and infrastructure, further ensure that fund managers can focus on diversifying the Group and offering our clients generating attractive performance for clients.
14 Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Worldwide markets Our business has five specialist investment units, orengines, which represent our capabilities: 650 Man AHL, Man Numeric, Man GLG, Man FRM different markets that Man AHL operates in at 31 December 2017 and Man GPM.
These engines house numerous investment teams, working both independently and Investment strategies collaboratively within the framework of Man Group.
Each team benefits from the strength and resources 72 of the firms single operating platform, enabling their different investment strategies and solutions run across the Group at focus to be on delivering outperformance for clients.
December 2017 Man Group plc Annual Report 2017 15
